Turn with me this morning to First Samuel chapter fifteen. Continue the pilgrimage through this book. First Samuel chapter fifteen, beginning at verse twenty-four to the end of the chapter. And Saul, that is King Saul, said unto Samuel the prophet, I have sinned, for I have transgressed the commandment of the Lord and thy words. Because I feared the people and obeyed their voice. Now therefore I pray thee, pardon my sin, and turn again with me that I may worship the Lord. And Samuel said unto Saul, I will not return with thee, for thou hast rejected the word of the Lord, and the Lord rejected thee from being king over Israel. And as Samuel turned about to go away, he that is King Saul laid hold upon the skirt of his mantle, and it rent or tore. And Samuel said unto him, The Lord hath rent or tore thy kingdom of Israel from thee this day, and hath given it to the neighbor of thine that is better than thou. And also the strength of Israel will not lie. That's the title for God, the strength of Israel. God will not lie or repent, for he is not a man that he should repent. And then he said, again, King Saul speaking, I have sinned, yet honor me now, I pray thee, before the elders of my people, and before Israel, and turn again with me that I may worship the Lord thy God. So Samuel turned again after Saul, and Saul worshiped the Lord. And then said Samuel, bring ye hither to me Agag, the king of the Amalekites. And Agag came unto him delicately or cautiously. And Agag said, Surely the bitterness of death is past. And Samuel said, As thy sword hath made women childless, so shall thy mother be childless among women. And Samuel hewed Agag in pieces before the Lord in Gilgal. And then Samuel went to Ramah. And Saul went up to his house in Gibeah of Saul. And Samuel came no more to see Saul until the day of Samuel's death. Nevertheless, Samuel mourned for Saul, and the Lord repented that he had made Saul king over Israel. Title of the message this morning, Hope. Verse 24: Saul said unto Samuel, I have sinned. I have sinned. You know, there's hope for someone who acknowledges they have sinned. I hope everyone here has acknowledged that you have sinned before God. There's hope for someone like that. John the Beloved, the disciple of the Lord Jesus Christ, wrote: If we confess our sins He is faithful and just to forgive us our sins. What better reason for confessing them that God will forgive our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness? 1 John 1:9. So soul here has a what I would it's a good profession. I have sinned. And he says it before Samuel a prophet. Yet Saul made an excuse for his sin. At verse 24, he said, I sinned. Because I feared the people and I obeyed their voice rather than fear God and obey his commandments and his voice So sometimes we admit we've sinned, but we got an excuse, right? We're not requesting pardon if we got an excuse. We're just explaining it away. We don't need the blood of Christ that we're going to explain our sins away with an excuse. And Saul made this excuse. He feared the people. Saul didn't fear the people, by the way. He adds one sin to another because now he's lying to Samuel. He didn't fear the people. You go back just two chapters or so and you find that he ordered the people to come out and help him to fight against the Philistines and the enemies of God. And he said, What any man that doesn't come forward and join me, I'll hew him in pieces Now does that sign a king that's afraid of the people? No. Chapter 11 and verse 7 of 1 Samuel. Oh few of you in Jesus if you don't follow me And then in 1 Samuel 14, 24, King Saul again said, Cursed be the man that eateth any food until evening. And back later on he goes as if the man that eats before evening, as we're pursuing the enemies, he shall be put to death as well. Samuel's not afraid of the people. Or rather, Sauls are afraid of people. He's lying to Samuel. In his profession, I have sinned, he lies to Samuel and says he has he has sinned because he's afraid of people. He's lying. He's just pouring on one sin on top of another. It sounds so good at first when he says I've sinned, and sometimes we we our hearts grow warm and glow inside when one of our children or a relative says or a friend, I've sinned. And then they make an excuse for it. What excuses have you heard? Or what excuses have you made for your sins? Maybe some of these will sound familiar to you. It's the woman who gave us me. She gave me the tree to eat. It wasn't Adam's fault. It was God's fault. He had a reason. Oh, I sinned, but you know, it was your fault he gave this woman. And then he, you know Yeah, I sinned, but the the serpent tricked me, beguiled me. Or how about this one? Someone says, Yeah, you bet I swore, but man, I hit my finger with that hammer And it really hurt bad. That's an excuse for taking the Lord's name in vain. The pain was unbearable. Sure, I stole the cell phone. It was just to get even. Oh, he had an excuse. I lied because she lied about me. Ah, another excuse. Blaming others. Making excuses for sins. That's not a good sign spiritually. Okay. I mean if you're making excuses for your sins, it's just not a good Science spiritually. It's not the moving of the Holy Spirit either. It's not covered in the blood of Christ. And it's not overlooked by the Heavenly Father who make excuses for sins. We may do some sins that we'll say, well, everybody's doing it. Or It's the cool thing to do, or it's the bomb. And I don't know what the words kids use today, but there's also some excuse for why they do it. Or, hey, it's legal now Be filled with the Holy Spirit, right? Not with food and drink and drugs, unless you live in Colorado or Washington State. Marijuana, it's all legal, it's okay. So it's not sin to be filled with marijuana and not drugs. But the Bible says be filled with food, not with food and drink, but with the Holy Spirit. But it's legal. Excuse for sin. Abortion, it's legal. Gay marriage, it's legal Samuel does not overlook Saul's sin When Saul continues in verse 25 and 26, says, I pray. Oh, that's good. You know, when someone tells you they're praying, That gives me hope. I mean if they say I've sinned, I got some hope. I pray, I got some more hope. He says, Pardon my sin. Wow, there's there's another reason for hope. I mean it really you start to think that maybe Saul Is turning his life around. And to this day, theologians they debate whether Saul was ever saved or not. And we're not going to settle that today, but I mean we see some good signs here. I've sinned. I pray, pardon me. That I may go and worship the Lord, oh wow, this all sounds so good. And if someone came to me and said, I've sinned, pray for me, I want to be pardoned, I want to go and worship, I said, Oh, praise God, let's go. But what does Samuel do? In verse 25 and 26. Samuel said, Thou hast rejected the word of the Lord. And the Lord has rejected thee from being the king of Israel. Whoa. We were just about ready to hug King Saul and welcome into the church and sign him up as a member, aren't we? We're so eager to do that. We're so eager to place the stamp of salvation on someone. Sometimes especially if Elder Tim was talking about their baseball player, a movie star, or something like that, or a football player. We're so quick to make them. Oh, he's saved. He's born again. Saul Couldn't I convince Samuel that, although he said, I pray and I want pardon, I want to worship, and I've sinned He said, you've rejected the word of the Lord, and the Lord has rejected you from being the king of Israel. Now, some people think it's a small thing to, and maybe you do, do you think it's a small thing to neglect the Word of God once in a while? Think it's a small thing to neglect the Word of God some weeks? Do you think it's a small thing to object to a certain portion of the scriptures? A certain verse in the scriptures. I just object to that one piece. I don't think it belongs there. I think it's scribal error. It's not in all the manuscripts. Well, it's in the majority of manuscripts, but it's not in all the manuscripts. I mean, do you think it's do you think it's wrong not to neglect the Word of God? And then later, if you neglect the word of God, you start to object to some of the word of God. You know what happens to people who neglect the word of God? You know what happens to people who object to certain portions of the Word of God? They eventually become those who reject the word as the word of God. Samuel's attuned to all of this. He says you've rejected the word of God and God has rejected you from ruling over the kingdom of Israel. He's losing his position in the kingdom of Israel. That upsets people That upsets people. He's losing his position in the kingdom. You know, until that point, maybe Samuel couldn't have gotten his attention, but now that he's losing his position. In the kingdom. He's upset with that. And when you go through the reading, we just read these verses, but when you go through it, listen to what he does. He professes his sin twice. I'm a sinner. I have sinned, verse 24. I've sinned verse 30. He requests the pardon in verse 25. He declares a desire to worship the Lord twice in verse 25 and again in verse 30 I mean he's really pouring it on. I've sinned, I've sinned, I want to pardon, I want to worship God, I want to worship God. I don't want to lose my kingdom, I don't want to lose Position, he's really poor to get out of here All these are signs of hope for Saul's soul. I mean we we look at things like this and we not only question was Saul, King Saul, saved, but we we think the same thing about, you know, was Job's wife saved, you know, curse God and die. You know, we wonder about her Uh we wonder about Solomon. Was he saved because of all the concubines and the wives he had? But then he writes Ecclesiastes and the Song of Solomon. You know, it we're wondering about you know all these different people in the Bible. Were they saved or not saved? It's talk back and forth. But you know what the most important thing to know is Are you saved? Doesn't matter if Saul's saved, as much as it matters whether you are saved. Whether Saul is saved has been settled, or Job's wife has been settled. been settled or lotswipe or wherever you want to go with this. But it hasn't been settled yet because you're still breathing. Are you saved? There's signs here. There's hope here for Saul's soul. Because if I've sinned is from his heart, if I want to be pardoned, it's from his heart, if I want to worship God, it's from his heart, it's a done deal. But there seems to be some questions here, by the way, he lives his life there on. That any of it came from his heart. And furthermore, when he asks for pardon, he said to Samuel, Oh, pardon me, pardon me. Let me break that down into modern day Fernacula. Samuel is from the tribe of Levi. Samuel is A priest. He is trained under Eli the high priest. And so Saul wants to be pardoned of his sins and he goes to a priest. People in all the United States do that, don't they? They go to their church, they got a priest, they sit over there in a confessional booth, and they ask for pardon from a priest. And what does the scripture tell us? No one can forgive sin but God A Roman Catholic priest cannot pardon you. The high priest cannot pardon you. Samuel, the priest and prophet, cannot pardon you. Pardon Saul. He has gone to the wrong person for pardon. He should have dropped to his knees and cried out to God the Father to pardon him of his sins. So we see a little kink here in his theology or his hope of whether he is saved or not. In fact, even the prodigal son. Oh well we we have a whole chapter always talking about the prodigal son and and the sins he committed, no wasting his his substance and his money and and with harlots in foreign foreign cities and strange women and It's just it's horrible. And he comes back and his father's running down the road to greet him, throws his arm around him. And what does his son say? Does he say, Oh, Dad, forgive me? No. Go back and read it. He says, Oh Lord, he says, Oh Father, I have sinned before heaven. Prodigal son had it right. He wasn't asking his father to forgive him, or the family, or his brother, who certainly didn't want to. He knew who he had sinned against And Saul doesn't seem to get it here. He's rejected the Word of God and he asked Samuel the prophet to pardon him. He's rejected the Word of God. He ought to ask God to forgive him. Now verses 27-28, as Samuel turns to go, he lays hold on the skirt of his mantle like a uh He would reach out to grab someone by the back shoulder. And he reaches and Samuel's moving so quickly it rips the mantle. Rips the cloth He laid hold on the skirt of his mantle and it rent or torn. And Samuel said to the Lord, hath rent the kingdom from thee. He's probably still holding the torn. Cloth. I mean can you imagine you you you go to grab someone you want to talk to them? You know, maybe you're at a a dinner party somewhere and you reach over to grab someone by the shoulder and you rip the sleeve off his nice shirt And there he's standing with the ripped cloth to his hand, and Samuel says, God has torn the kingdom from you points as torn garments. Usually, what he says here, he says, take the kingdom from you, he says, Give it to a neighbor better than thou. Well, that's one thing to say. And you're going to be replaced by someone better than you. The new king of a country was usually the son of the previous king. Usually when the king died, his son took over. That's what happens over in England, right? When the queen dies, it's going to be one of the princes uh her sons or or or her daughter may become the queen of England, something like that. It's just passed down to the bloodline. And that's the way it was here in Israel. That's the way it was expected to be. It was the way it was in all the countries Uh when the king dies, that's what happens over in China. When their leader of China dies, his son takes over, you know. Um It's just the way it that's it's been throughout all of history. And so he sh it should have passed on to his son. If he has sinned, then let it pass on to my son. But he says, No, it's not going to pass on to your son, it's going to go to one of your neighbors. That is Uh here he told us uh at least let it go to someone in the tribe of Benjamin, one of my cousins and my nephews or some relative in the tribe of Benjamin. He says, No, it's gonna go to one of your neighbors The tribe of Judah, what was it was the neighboring tribe of Benjamin? And not the tribe of Judah, as we well know, the next king was David, King David, the man after God's own heart. We read about that in Acts 13. You know, we question it sometimes. Some of you think, was David saved? Look what David did. He killed Uriah. He committed adultery in Bathsheba. I mean he always terrible but he wrote all the songs. Well Psalm wrote Ecclesiastic. Look at Saul you you question sometimes, is someone saved or not saved? And and that debate ends. You can debate whether King David was saved from the day that King David dies In the first book of Kings, all the way through to Malachi, we just don't know. Matthew, Mark, Luke, John, the debate continues. But in Acts we read in Acts 13 that David was a man After God's heart. That settles it. David's heart loved the heart of God. We don't have that information on everyone in the scriptures, but we know that David was a saved man. He was better than Saul And so Samuel gives not King Saul hope. We're talking about hope this morning, but what he has given as a nation of Israel hope. He said, You've got a ruler who is not good. You've got a ruler who does not love God. You've got a ruler that has rejected the word of God. And I want you to know this Israel. Someone better is coming. I'm giving you hope, Israel. And I hope we have the same hope today that though we have a man running this country who does not love God, does not love God's word, that God will give us someone better. That's my hope. He will give us someone. In fact, I think it's hard to find someone worse. But that was Israel's hope that God said, I'm going to give you not from your tribe, not from your neighbor, not from your loinsol, but I'm going to give us a king who is better. God knows that Israel needs a king who is better, and the Lord knows today that America needs a leader who's better as well. Are you looking today for some hope? I mean you listen to talk shows and watch the news at night, it doesn't seem like there's much hope. Are you looking for some hope today? Let me give you some hope Just as he told King Saul, here's your hope. Another king. is coming. Another King is coming. Amen. The King of the Jews, Christ Jesus, the King of the Jews, Matthew 27, 37 Another king is coming, a king who is risen, a king who lives, a king who is coming, and a king whom there is none better. Not just better than Saul or better than David. There's a king coming who is better, none better. That's our hope. Behold, he cometh with clouds, and every eye shall see him, and they also would pierce him Makes you know who that that one is, isn't it? Who else was pierced in all of history? And then it says the Lamb, the King of Kings, Revelations 1. 7 and 17, 14. That's our hope. That the King is coming. No better king. Can you grasp that? Because that's hope Some would have said, maybe I've repeated it already, that people say, are we in the last days? Some of the preachers say we're in the last hours. Maybe it's so. Those who rule like kings today are going to be replaced by the King of Kings. King Jesus Christ. Christ. Saul didn't seem to grasp this, or at least he wasn't happy with it, for he continues in verse 30, I have sinned. Almost a bizarre statement. Listen what he says here in verse 30. I have sinned, yet honor me. Is that a bizarre request I have sinned, yet honor me before the elders and the people, and turn again with me, that I may worship the Lord thy God. And there it is again, the Lord thy God, not the Lord my God. He always admits it's not his God. That's a man without hope. I have sinned, yet honor me before the elders. I have sinned, but honor me Honor me before the elders of my people and worship that I may worship the Lord thy God. Saul's hope is that Samuel will join him in the worship service. His hope is that that will preserve Saul's reputation before the people and before the elders But Samuel knows that if he honors Saul with his presence at a worship service, the people will think that God just winks at sin. He just closes his eyes. It's all right. I don't see it. It doesn't bother me. You know how sometimes when we see sin, it's like, hmm, we just kind of close our eyes. Oh man, what did he just say or do? You know, God winks at it too. He just kind of closes his eyes to it and he gets over it. God winks at Samuel. Samuel says, if I go into a worship server with Saul, the people are going to think that God just winks at Saul, who rejects the word of God I mean it's forget about some of the other sins he's already committed in the previous chapters. He is a man who has rejected the word of God in any one Sabbath People, some of you are too young to remember this, but we've had pres we had a president not that not not long ago that was impeached And what came up in that impeachment trial was his adulterous affair with another woman. And you know what you saw of that man running this country? The pr this president. And some of you remember it And as I say it, raise your hands and remember, every Sunday while he was under impeachment for ro for the adultery of this woman and some other things he'd done, they showed him coming out of church with his wife and a big Bible in his hand. Remember that It wasn't the this I don't think anyone here's got a Bible as big as the one that President Clinton carried. It was about this size. You know, all of a sudden Church is good. Jesus was fine. Worshiping God. Sunday, Sabbath. It was all wonderful. I mean, he came out of there and you'd see. How many saw him come out with a Bible? Some of the older folks. Sure he did. Okay. All right. Now, how many have seen him lately with a Bible in his hand? No. How many see them come out of church somewhere? No. God does not wink at sin. God does not wink at sin even if it's the sin committed by a king. And that's what Samuel was was saying here to Saul. You rejected the word of God. God doesn't wink at sin. And I'm not going to give it Give the impression that he does by going to church with you. God does not even wink at the sins of kings. God is not a respecter of persons. Acts ten and verse thirty-five. God doesn't wink at sin. I know your cousin winks at sin. I know the courts wink at sin. I know that Congress winks at sin. I know that this country is winking at sin. But the Lord Jesus Christ does not wink at sin, and he is the judge of all the earth. And yes, he is coming. judge. And for me that's a hope. But for some in the courts and the Congress, they hope it's not true. They're betting their life on it. They're betting their soul on it that it's not true. God is no respecter of persons. We read in verse 31 that Samuel turned, and you have to read it over several times and look at Samuel does not turn to worship. With King Saul. He turns, but if you read that in verse 21, Samuel turns and Saul worshiped the Lord. Doesn't say Saul or Samuel worshiped the Lord with Saul Just that Saul worship. He if you look at it closely and read it several times over, Samuel turned, but it appears that Saul worshiped the Lord alone Samuel would not give him the appearance of God is winking at his sin or rejecting the word of God. Samuel turns, and the only reason that says he turns, you have to tie it with verse 32. He turned and he said Bring me Agag the king. So here so if you can visit this, Saul is saying to Samuel, please this he's got him by he's torn his garment and he's looking back at him. He says, Please you gotta come and and worship with me. And he says he turned And he says, bring me Agag the king. He doesn't go and worship with Saul. Bring me Agag the king of the Amalekites In verse 32, and Agag came and he said, and it says there he that he came delicately or cautiously. You know, all of a sudden he wasn't this big boasting fellow. He he came kind of like uh I'm in your presence for what what is the cause, you know. He and he says, Surely as he comes to the presence, surely the bitterness path I've killed a lot of Israelites. We've been in a lot of battles, you've lost a lot of soldiers, my sword is wet with the blood of your women. But surely it's been now uh some time, hours or maybe some days, and the blood may be dry on the sword of the women of Israel, but surely the Surely he says the uh the time is past. Is it past? The bitterness Of death. We've lost loved ones. It's bitter. How fast does it go away? This this ungodly Amalekite king, he mustn't have thought much about anyone. He just thinks when they're dead, oh the bitterness goes away in 24 hours Surely the bitterness of death is past. Agag, the king who had never shown any mercy Making women childless, the scripture says here. This man hopes for mercy. From an old prophet. Old people tend to be more easier to get along with. Old people tend to be more laid back. Old people tend not to be as vindictive. So he says to this old, old prophet Samuel Surely the bitterness of death is past. And Samuel said, as thy sword made women childless, so shall thy mother Be childless. An eye for an eye and a tooth for a tooth. And Samuel hewed Agag in pieces. Took a big broad sword, sliced him down the slender, dismembered his arms, his legs, hewed him in pieces. Sounds like something a doctor does in an abortion clinic to get the baby out of the womb, doesn't it? They hew them in pieces. And that's the preacher doing this. I mean Samuel is the prophet of God. He's the one that preaches the sermons of the people. I mean he He takes out a sword. He doesn't command someone else to do it. He gets the sword out himself and he cuts this guy, Agag, right in front of all the people of Israel and Saul. Just he doesn't hand the sword to Saul and say, do what you're told to do It says that Samuel does it himself. He doesn't assign the job to anyone else. He hews them in pieces. Sometimes people think I'm Pretty hard up here. Talking about hell and the wrath of God and the wailing and the gnashing of teeth for those who are not saved, and they go into the pit for all eternity and where the flame dieth not. But you know what This Samuel, I think he he he certainly overshadows me. I mean I've never done that. Felt like it sometimes How about John the Baptist? He's out there in the wilderness. You forget about John. Oh, John the Baptist is great. He's one of the greatest Baptist preachers ever, and he was, and no one ever uh greater than he had born among women. But you ever listen to his sermons? He does, you vipers, you serpents, who has warned you of the wrath to come? Whoa, what a message, you know And how about Christ coming to the temple and friends in the temple, making a whip and driving everybody out? And how about Jonathan Edwards? Sinners in the hands of an angry God. What a message that awakened the whole colonies Back in the 1700s, and John Knox's preaching was so fiery and blustery, it's that the Queen of Scots Mary, she ran from the castle and locked the door, she just shuddered, was scared to death of him My messages are harsh. Well, I tell you, we need a refresher course. I went to preachers Of bygone days were like Billy Sunday, oh my goodness, Ian Faye, who died recently. Fiery preaching of Whitfield. George Whitfield And now we see Samuel. He sets the bar pretty high, doesn't he, for the rest of us. What God had commanded Saul failed to do. God had commanded Agag be killed. All the Amalekites be killed. And Saul didn't do that. And so what God had commanded Saul would fail to do, Samuel now does it, and he does it in the presence of Saul. As he said Chopping away and hacking away at this gate, this King Agag, he can say, This is what you're supposed to do, Saul. This is what you're supposed to do, Saul. You didn't do it. No, I've got to do it. And he's hacking away, hewing this man in pieces. God's word is not to be neglected Objected to, judged, determined what is God's word, what isn't God's word, it is to be bowed to We're to stand in awe of it. We read in scriptures that we're to stand in awe of God, Psalm 53, 33 rather, in verse 8. We're to stand in awe of his word, Psalm 119 and 167. Verse 162. And so I asked you this morning, do you ever stand in awe of God? Do you ever stand in awe of His Word while standing in the presence of those who don't stand in awe of God? Because that's what Samuel was doing. Saul did not stand in awe of his God. Samuel did not stand in awe of the Word of God. He had rejected the word of God. And so here comes Saul's rejecting the Word of God. Saul's rejecting God. And so Samuel standing in the presence of a man who's rejected the word, rejected as God, Samuel stands in awe. In the presence of one who doesn't stand in awe. Do you ever do that? People out there in the world, they don't stand in awe of the Word of God. Do you ever stand in awe in the presence of those who don't stand in awe? In the presence of the Word When it's spoken, when God is mentioned. Agag God, he's dying on us right now. But Agag is the example man who Christ spoke of in Matthew 26 and 52 That's right, we're talking Old Testament. Oh, what this is the New Testament. That's the Old Testament. We don't do this stuff in the New Testament. That's Old Testament stuff. No, no. Christ said in Matthew 26, 52, all they that take the sword shall perish with the sword. Whoa That's New Testament. In fact, he said, He that killeth the sword must be killed with the sword. Revelation 13, 10. I mean this is capital punishment, friends. And you know why there's lots of preachers out there and churches out there and they they get out there in front of the these the penitentiaries where they're gonna execute somebody for a mass murder. He's he's been killing women left and right up and down the country, you know, raping, pillaging, and killing women. And now he's been put to death and you got these churches and these priests that come out there and they're they're having a a some sort of candle vigil, you know. Oh please don't put him to death You know, that's that's that is barbaric. It's lowering yourselves to their level, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah. But Christ says, put them to death. They are rejecting the Word of God. They are objecting to the Word of God. They have neglected the Word of God that says if a man killeth with a sword, he must be killed with the sword. Now I'll tell you this morning, when I think about women made childless by ag I think of this. I I have no doubt That the doctors who abort babies all across the land and the politicians that support and fund the abortion of these doctors, making women childless, they're just like a gag God's sword is poised over the top of them, and he will strike surely and shortly. I believe that with all my heart Because God doesn't wink at sin. They're without excuse. Those who make women childless. They're without excuse and they're without hope unless they flee to the Lord Jesus Christ and beg for forgiveness. The most prolific abortion doctor in all of history, Bernard Nathansen. He repented of his sins of aborting babies up in New York for years. He had the largest abortion clinic in the country. He's not going to pay for those sins. He asked God to forgive him But not many do. This chapter concludes in verses thirty-four and thirty-five with, Then Samuel went and came no more to see Saul. until the day of his death. He talks about the one went down to Gibeah, the other one up to Rama. They're about ten miles apart. And yet ten miles apart it says that Samuel, the prophet Samuel, never again went to see King Saul. That speaks volumes. You know what it's saying? The ten miles apart wasn't very far apart, really. Even in that day, you could walk in three or four hours. They weren't ten miles apart, really. They were miles apart spiritually. And Samuel would not go and see Saul ever, ever again to the day he died. Saul would go to see Samuel one time. So apparently it didn't really bother him. You know, apparently he was content with not ever seeing Samuel again because he only goes to see him one time. And so they're separated by ten miles and a great spiritual barrier, as great as the barrier between the rich man and Abraham. That abyss. There's a great abyss between these two men while they're still alive. And some believe, and I'm one of them, that there was that great abyss remained between Samuel and Saul after they both died. But it's striking verses here, the last verse of the chapter in verse 35. Look at the latter half of 35. Ten miles apart, never saw him again. Nevertheless, Samuel mourned for Saul. So someone here today, your spiritual condition is so bad that you need someone to mourn over you Is there some here today and you are mourning over the spiritual condition of somebody else? Well then there's hope If Samuel was mourning over Saul, maybe there's hope that he'll repent of his sins and turn to Christ There is hope for the effectual prayer of a righteous man availeth much. James 5 and 16. Don't leave here today without some hope for a soul you love or a country you love. Because there is a king, Jesus, and if you love him, Him there is hope. Lots of hope. Abundant hope. Let's pray. Father, we turn you this day. And though we're not requesting preachers like Samuel go out and hack people up today, we do have they'd use the sword of the word to chop them up. To cut them open, to do surgery upon their heart with the word of God that they might be saved, that they might repent of their sins, request pardon from God, and delight in worshiping. Our God. May our God be their God. Oh Lord, in the name of our great God and Savior and King Jesus Christ, King of Kings, we pray. Fill us with some hope. Answer some of our prayers. And we ask this in Christ's name. Amen.