Turn with me this morning to Second Samuel chapter fifteen. As you recall last week, Absalom Is leading a rebellion to overthrow the Israeli kingdom, to have his father remove this king. In fact, he'd like to bury his father, the king. if you can. In 2 Samuel 15, beginning verse 13 through 23, if you'll follow with me. And there came a messenger to David saying, The hearts of the men of Israel are after Absalom. And David said unto all his servants that were with him at Jerusalem, Arise and let us flee, for we shall not else escape from Absalom. Make speed to depart, lest he overtake us suddenly. and bring evil upon us, and smite the city with the edge of the sword. And the king's servants said unto the king, Behold, thy servants are ready to do whatsoever my lord the king shall appoint And the king went forth, and all his household after him. And the king left ten women, which were concubines, to keep the house. And the king went forth, and all the people after him, and tarried in a place that was far off. And all the servants passed on beside him, and all the Karahites, and all the Pelothites, and all the Gittites, six hundred men which came after him from Gath passed on before the king. And then said the king to Ittai the Gittite, Wherefore goest thou also with us? Return to thy place, and abide with the king. That's with Absalom. He's going to be the king now. For thou art a stranger and also an exile. Whereas thou cameest but yesterday, shouldst thou now this day make thee go up and down with us Apparently he hadn't been with King David that long. Seeing I go whither I may, return thou and take back thy brethren with thee. Mercy and truth be with thee. And Ittai answered the king and said, As the Lord liveth, and that Lord Lord is capitalized, so it's as Jehovah liveth, or as Yahweh liveth. And as my Lord the King liveth, surely in what place that my Lord the King shall be, whether in death or life, even there also will thy servant be. And David said to Ittai, Go and pass over. They were at the Brook Kidron. And Ittai the Gittite passed over and all his men and all the little ones that were with him And all the country wept with a loud voice, and all the people passed over. The king also himself passed over the brook Kidron, and all the people passed over toward the way of the wilderness. When you're fleeing from From uh Jerusalem, you go down this deep valley and there's the Brook Kidron, you cross over that, and then back up and out into the wilderness. And apparently David had stopped uh Ittai, the Gittite And so, what are you doing down here? Don't bother crossing the Kiritan. Don't go with us. Just go back into Jerusalem. You've got a new king coming in. And you've been with us so just a short period of time. Um, so David was trying to discourage him And only those who have been with him a long time is who he wanted with him. Titled this message this morning, Hope in the Darkest Hour. In verses 13 and 15 it says the hearts of the men are Israel are af are after Absalom. It seems like everyone's for Absalom Uh you listen to the polls here in the United States right now with the elections coming up and and you find that what the majority of the polls tell you who they're who they like and who they don't like and And these were poles that had come in, and everyone was after Absalom to be their new king. They didn't want David to be their king anymore. And if you really look about this, and I say it's David in his darkest hour, because David was in his 60s then. No reflection on anybody here. But David was in his sixties. His favorite son Absalom was trying to overthrow and kill him. Now that might add some dimension to the darkness of your life if you're one of your children's trying to kill you. David's health and strength were diminishing as it does in your 60s. His chief counselor, we've talked about him last week, Ahithophel His chief consular, Ahithophel, had joined with Absalom. And we thought, why would the chief consular leave? And we discussed that last week. That Ahithophel, the chief consular of David, for so long He was the grandfather of Bathsheba. And what David had done to Bathsheba. And what David had done to Bathsheba's husband, he had Uriah killed. And he gotten Bathsheba with child, and it was a mess. And Ahithophel, his his primary counselor, and a man of wisdom. In fact, we read in 2 Samuel 16 and 23. We'll come across that In a week or two. Ahithophel wasn't just a great counselor, but he was considered a prophet of God in his day. So he not only was losing a great counselor, but a man that had the ear of God And why would Ahithophel e? Because Ahithophel was a grandfather of Bashee, but you shamed my granddaughter, you shamed me, and I've got an opportunity to make up for it and he joins with Absalon in all of this. So here we've got it. He's in the sixties. The sun wants them dead. Ahithophel, a prophet of God, has joined with his son His strength is diminished. And then not only that, his only hope is Solomon. You know, David's got Solomon, but Solomon's only about ten years old at this time So it's a dark hour for him. It's not good. And furthermore, for those of you who follow this story closely, where's David's Jonathan at a time like this? He's dead too. This is David in his darkest hour. It's his darkest hour, and such times are often worse than we really anticipate. I want To note that first. You can understand David being down, perhaps depressed. He thinks it's nothing can get any worse than this. It's in his darkest hour, and the word has come to all are following after Absalom. Well, that wasn't true, but that's what he was being told He didn't have a Jonathan, he lost a hithophel. It it's a pretty bad scene for him. And so David says on older servants, let us flee This is these are tough times. Let us flee from Absalom. And the king's servant said unto the king, Behold, thy servants, we're ready to do whatever my king appoints us to do. First question for this morning, pilgrims. Are you going through some dark times? Are you going through some difficult times? Are you willing to follow the king of Israel? Even In this case, Christ is your king. He's the king of kings. He's the king of Israel. And if you're going through some dark times Of tough times, are you willing, as these servants were here? They said that the servant said unto the king, Behold, my servants, we're ready to do whatsoever the king appoints. We're ready to go through it. And so I asked you this morning, are you willing to follow your king, the king of Israel, the king of kings, Christ? Because the truth of the matter is the situation we're in, he has appointed it And these servants said to David, Behold, thy servants are ready to do whatsoever thy king appoint. And so are you ready to follow Christ in your darkest hours? Because those darkest hours had been appointed by the King of Kings. King of Israel. Situation. King David, his decisions had placed his people in a difficult situation. And the Lord Jesus Christ, his decisions, sovereign God that he is has placed you in some dark hours and some difficult places. Are you ready and willing to follow whatever He has appointed in your life? Can you say, in your darkest hours, and that might be today for some of you, can you say, whatsoever my king shall appoint? Whatsoever my king shall appoint. In the darkest of the moments, perhaps these people were familiar with the Psalms. Jehu is a sweet psalmist of Israel. And in the darkest moments, perhaps they're familiar with that Psalm 71 in verse 14. Hope continually. Hope continually. Things may look bleak out there today in America. They may look bleak in your household. bleak in your community, oblique when you go to see your doctors. But the fact is, Psalm 71, 14 says, hope continually. And so the results were here for David. He knew that psalm, and the hope continued. Lord does. In verses sixteen through eighteen, the king went forth, and all the Karahites and the Pelothites and the Gittites from Gath. Gittites? Gittites went with David? Gittites. As in 2 Samuel 21, 19, as in Goliath was a Gittite. The Gittites are going with David? Why would the people of Goliath go with David? Goliath the giant, the one that David had killed. And then you go on further and it says that the Gittites from Gath. From Gath? What are these Giftites from Gath? Gath. I mean Gath? As in Goliath of Gath, 1 Samuel 17 and 4? This is the most unusual bunch. Out of Goliath's hometown, out of Goliath's community, his neighborhood, his relatives most likely. These are Gittites from Gath, and they're crossing, they're leaving, they're coming out of Jerusalem What were they doing in Jerusalem? And they're joining with David. They ought to be cheering that David's going to finally die at the hands of his son. Instead, they're heading down the valley Crossing the Kidron, they want to go, and David says, no, you're not going with me. Maybe he doesn't trust the Gittites from Gath, Goliath's community, Goliath's bloodline. Why are they there? These are converted Philistines Who are sticking closer to David than many an Israelite. You ever in a situation where you think you don't have a friend in the world, there's no one there that really cares? You're in the darkest of hours, and God brings someone alongside you you never, never expected, an old, long-lost friend you didn't even know he was saved? Or maybe you knew you say, but you didn't know if some of the things were between you, uh you know, some bad blood wasn't gonna b wasn't gonna make that a good situation in your dark And that's what David's got here. These are converted Philistines. You remember when David was fleeing from Saul, he went down to the city of Gath, he spent time among the Philistines And they must have watched him, some of them, and they must have heard him sing in his Psalms, read some of his Psalms, and some of them were converted. And we were never told about it until now. But some of them had left when when David was in Hebron and he left Hebron and went to Jerusalem and set up his kingdom. They started trickling into Jerusalem. We didn't even know about it until this time. And David saw some of them. He probably recognized them and knew them by name, but he probably wasn't all that sure. They claimed to be converted. They claimed to love the God, Jehovah, Yahweh And well, maybe they do, and they're not troublemakers. Okay, we we we we vet them, we check them out to see if they're okay to live in this country. And they had stayed there for a number of years Converted Philistines. And I want to say this to you: some of the soundest followers of Christ come from the most spiritually groundless families. And when you get someone from a spiritually groundless family converted to Christ, boy, you've got something. You've got someone that's on fire for the Lord. You've got someone that die for the Lord. And not about saying people born in a household of faith two and three generations, you'll find that there also. But don't be surprised when God not only fills a says a Nebuchadnezzar Not only saves a tax collector like Matthew, not only saves someone like uh these uh the uh Karahites and the Pelotites, but Gittites from Gad, Goliath's heritage, Goliath's family. And when you've got that, boy, you've got someone that you really see is a product of the grace of a merciful God. Boy, make them a friend fast. And that's what he had here. Converted Philistines. Conspiratively groundless families. And I would just say this morning, Pilgrim, if you find yourself Your country entering what you think is the darkest of hours you can ever remember. I want you to have hope David's he finds himself in his country in the darkest of hours and does he have hope? Well Psalm 7114 says hope continually. So he has a reason for that. But Psalm 119 and 116 says now that we are to hope continually. But let me not be ashamed of my hope. God says if you hope in the Lord, if you hope in Christ, if you hope in the Word of God, if you hope in the promises of God You will not be ashamed that you put your hope in God's Word. You will not be ashamed if you put your hope in the Lord Jesus Christ. You will not be ashamed if you put your hope in the Christ who can raise the dead If Christ can raise the dead and if he can raise up Getites, he can even raise up Ghittites today in America. I really believe that That's what we're waiting for for God. If he can't raise up Methodists and Presbyterians and Baptists with enough of them to do what's right in this country, he can raise up those from the Gittite neighborhoods And maybe he will give us a revival, and it'll come from the Gittites of Gath in this nation. That's my hope. It says hope continually, and God says if we hope, we'll not be ashamed. We hope in His Word. So here we have David leaving, going out of Jerusalem, fleeing from the Son. With Philistines, basically. The Karahites and the Pelotites were also Philistines, and the Gittites from Gath were Philistines, about 600 of them You know, you flee a fairly protected city, and now you're out in this valley with surrounded by 600 Philistines, and you wonder, is this a good thing to do? I mean, can I trust these guys? And so at the children, David's a little concerned about it. And he should be, because when we look at that passage of scripture, I wonder, where are David's thirty-seven mighty men? 2 Samuel 23, verses 34 and 39, we hear that David had 37 mighty men. Oh, we're going to get to that chapter, and that is an exciting chapter. Daphne. Describes the exploits of one of the one of the thirty seven men taking an old lion in the wintertime and and killing him practically with his bare hands and And taking on some of Goliath's relatives and John. I mean, these are the thirty-seven mighty men. And that's who I'd expect to see. Leave in Jerusalem and David surrounded by it. But we don't read about them. If they're there, they're very low-key Where are the thirty-seven mighty men that's listed in 2 Samuel 23? Well, one of the twenty thirty-seven was Uriah. We know where he is. That was Bathsheba's husband. And he's dead. David had it set up and he was murdered. And there's another one, his name is mentioned, his name is Iliam. Iliam. Well, where's Iliam? In fact, if we read about it and you read the thirty-seven of the list of the thirty-seven mighty means, Iliam was a very, very good friend of Uriah. Oh, close friend. How close? Well, according to scriptures, he was very close. He was Uriah's father-in-law. Eliahim one of the 37 mighty men was the father of Bathsheba. Uh-oh And I wonder how many other friends Uriah and Eliam had of the thirty-seven. I mean, we're in a real not the darkest hour. David might say, Where are my thirty-seven mighty men? Well, you know Uriah well yeah. Well Eliam, well Eliam. Well yeah and then as if Oh, ouch. It was a bad time for David. Little wonder his mighty men aren't mentioned here. There may have been some there, but Maybe not many m were coming over to his side at that time. And so he got to just trust the ones that have come. And those that have come, are they trustworthy? They're young in the faith. Do I trust them? Well, Paul had a deal with Timothy in 1 Timothy 4 and 12. He said, Let no man despise you for your youth. You're a young Christian, but you're solid, you're growing, and I trust you, and others should trust you as well. And in Acts fifteen and thirty-seven, Paul had trouble trusting another young Christian named John Mark. But you know, sometimes that's all we got are the babes in Christ. Sometimes we got young Christians but they're on fire. And yeah, they've come out of the pits and they've come out of sin and they've come out of situations, groundless spiritual situations, their families And sometimes that's what God sent us, and we ought to recognize that. But are these Philistine Gittites from Gath trustworthy? So David says in 19 and 20, the king says to Ittai, the Gittite It was kind of a test for him. You return. You don't cross the kidron with us. You and you take your men back with you. You just go back there and you abide with the king. Absalom's a new king I mean after all he says you're a stranger, meaning you're not really an Israelite. I mean you're an alien really. You're you're not even from the you're not even from one of the tribes of Israel. You're not you're not even from Benjamin or Judah, you know. You you're just you're an alien. You you you've you've Come from the Philistine land of Gath, you're a Gittite. And he's giving them all these reasons. And then he says, by the way, not only were you born a Philistine, and I know you made a recent profession of faith But take your brother back with you also. David's, you know, he's down in this valley surrounded by 600 of these Philistine Gittites and And they've made a profession of faith. Recently they've come, he says, you've come recently with me, but it's often difficult, isn't it, to conclude whether a person's Conversion initially is genuine. These Gittites would prove the exception. And there are exceptions. Don't brush away A young convert. Say, oh, he's not saved. You know where he came from? Do you know what his previous life was like? He was down in Gath. His family's the Goliaths. Who can't trust that conversion? Well, David was a little leery, but they're the exception. And they were eager to prove that they were far better than the Israelites Especially like Absalom and those that were following Absalom. Wow. It's hard to accept sometimes. that people have really changed. You got that going on in your life? Someone out there that's really changed, but you know all the dirt about it. You know all if you were God and you could save that guy you wouldn't have. And you can tell me you're not like that, but I'm like that. If I was God I got a whole list of people I would never save And right now most of them aren't saved, and some of them I won't pray for, and some have gotten saved since I felt that way, and I'm thrilled to death that they're saved. Well, there was a time when I wouldn't have saved them. I wouldn't save a bunch of Gittites. From death? Joseph must have felt the way about his brothers when they came to Egypt for corn. I can't believe these guys are saved. And Joseph sets out some tests, doesn't he? grabs the one brother and imprisons him, says you gotta send your younger brother here or you don't get any more according. He that sh he he can hear them talk in the Hebrew and he's talking in in the in the Egyptian language so they don't know it. And it it starts to sound like they've gotten saved. It's not It sounds like they've they've repented, but you know, he's got a few, he's got some questions and some things that's got to get settled before he really believes these guys are saved. How about Moses? Moses, you know, he's he's living with the pharaoh, and the pharaoh's daughter is he's he's rich, he's on easy street. And all of a sudden he comes to the Jews and he says, hey, I'm one of you. And they go, Yeah, right. They don't buy that right away. Takes 40 years out in the wilderness before they finally accept Moses. And how about Rahab the harlot? You go down to Jericho and you're trying to find a place to hide and the only place you can find says a woman named Rahab the Harvest and and she lets you come in and you and y and you wonder And she starts talking about she's heard about the crossing of the Red Sea and she's heard about the Pharaoh and and they say, What's with her? She's saved or something? What's going on? And there's a bang on the door. She says, Oh, oh, that's they're gonna that's the men in the city. They're gonna wanna they're gonna wanna kill you. They're gonna they know you're spies and and I'll I tell you where I'll hide you. She says you want to bury them under barley, right? Or under flax, I forget which it was, it was under a grain. Well, that is gonna immobilize you and you're gonna be you know, if she says, well when they break in, you have to fight your way out, but instead she'll bury you under the grain on the roof of my house Well, you're buried in a grade and you are totally helpless. You can't see what they're doing. They might be all surrounding you with spheres, get ready to jab. You know, you don't know what she's doing. How do you trust this girl? Rahab the harlot. But sometimes you have to trust a young convert You ask a couple questions and you try to read their heart. Saul of Tarsus? I mean when Saul got saved. Who wants to trust Saul? Saul and sending you back. And he tells the man of along the straight and narrow that Saul of Tarsus is coming and he's a saved man and you God be kidding not Saul of Tarsus. And that's the way David is. He's in the valley of Kidra with these people and and they're and they're They've had a profession that's been noised about in the city of Jerusalem, but my life never depended on it before. And so in verse 21, he's telling Attai, you go back, you're not crossing the kid, and you're not going with me, and take your guys, take your brethren back with you. And the tie answers the king and he says And in the in the Hebrew it would be as Yahweh liveth That's not just as God, it's as it's Yahweh as Yahweh liveth. And as my king liveth. He uses a double oath. I don't know how much more I can venture. He says, as Yahweh liveth, and as my King David liveth Surely in what place my king shall be, whether in death or in life, there also will thy servant be. I'm going to die with you or live with you. There's going to be doom or death or glory. But we don't want to leave you, and we don't want to go back to Jerusalem. They believe it's it's better. It's I and his brethren. They believe it's better. To be with a handful of believers and David, better be the handful of believers than with a nation that runs after the likes of Absalom You ever feel that way sometimes? You look around and there's just a handful of really committed Christians. There's just a handful of really Bible believers out there. People that really believe the Bible and everything that says that the Bible from the flood to the Jonah and the whale and the Six-day cream I mean how many people do you run to you you start talking to people they say they're Christians, you start asking them questions, you know, boy, they don't believe this, they don't believe that. But I mean it seemed like there's just a handful of us, and then the rest of the world is running after Goldilocks or the pretty haired Absalom and the GQ magazine cover guys and and uh the Entertainment Tonight women and all this stuff And then we we find here that Ittai, a Gittite, he says, I'd rather leave a handful of believers than run with the Absaloms of the world. Have you come to that yet? Is it so important to be just with the pretty people? Or what the world calls the pretty people I I've watched the movie and I do get a kick out of the character, Johnny Depp in Pirates of the Caribbean. But is he a pretty people? I mean, what the world calls pretty today is pretty bizarre, isn't it? Dice I didn't watch much of the Olympics at all. I don't know why, but you know something I noticed and now m for you who would watch a lot of it, maybe it would have come to me after, oh boy, are you wrong. But you know I noticed uh the girls on the uneven parallel bars and the the the the the the mat thing where they they run across the mat and and so forth. I didn't see anything You know why? Because even the world is smart enough to know you're gonna be out there being judged not just by your gracefulness and your abilities, but people they just they just look at you and they just question something sometimes, you know, whether they really want you to represent their country. And I know it's all the the broadcasters and sportscasters there, the women dress like ladies, the men dress like like men. They look like they just stepped out of this church. 'Cause most of us we wear nice shirt and or a tie, you know, and laser skirts usually or or at least a nice blouse and we look Look you know, we don't look like the world. And they those those people out they want to keep their jobs, so they all dress, you know, in a way that's uh that speaks well for the company So the question I ask you this morning, do you like being with a handful of believers, or would you rather run with the Absalons Pilgrim? I would ask you, would Christ bless your choice of friends today? Or would he begin to pronounce woe unto you, unto your friends? Think of what friends you got. If Christ would appear right in the midst of you right now, you say, Well I'm saved, I know I'm saved My friends say they're seeking, they're searching. I don't know. If Christ came right now, would he bless you for your choice of friends, or would he say, excuse me, and pronounce, woe unto you, woe unto you, woe unto you? What kind of friends you run with Friends like Absalom, popular. Truly these Philistine Gittites were one to the Lord. By this double oath. As Yahweh liveth, as a king liveth, he wanted to know that they were really saved and really sold out to the God of Israel and to the God that David worshiped, to the God that David wrote about in the Psalms To the king of Israel. I wonder, Billgrim, if you'd been there that day, standing at the Brook Kidron If you had said, As the Lord liveth, as my king liveth, with Absalom and all of the armies behind him coming to Jerusalem and down to that kindred. And you've got you've got some you've got to put some miles between you and Absalom. I mean he's coming to kill David and anybody that's with him. If you were in that group in the bottom of the Kidron Valley and you don't know where Absalom's people are right now But you know you've got to make some fast tracks. We really don't want to stand here arguing too much, and yet if we don't if we if we don't get out of there soon we're gonna be dead. Would you have stood and said the Lord liveth as the king liveth? Surely in what place my King David shall be, whether in death or life. There also will my servant be. Could you could you have said that? Today, the more Christ's name is maligned. His reign is King of Israel. King of kings is maligned. Christ's name is maligned. Christ's word is malign. His followers are smeared. The louder the voice of all this is that's coming against our King of Kings, our Christ, the voice of loyalty ought to be louder for Christ. When this is going on against the Lord Jesus Christ, our voice needs to get louder so that nobody ever questions which king we serve. And it's coming, it's coming to all of us. Every week I could tell you stories. This week, a major, now a major is not like a Uh a second lieutenant, he's higher. First lieutenant, he's higher than that. Captain he's higher than that. Uh a major. You you've been in you've been in the military for probably fifteen years, maybe seventeen years if you're a major A major in the Air Force out in Colorado Springs this week. They saw a Bible on his desk. This guy's been around a long time. And they told him to get rid of it or they'll get rid of him. This guy served us, probably been in combat and everything else over in Afghanistan, Iraq, probably flowing missions for us, and they've told him, get rid of the Bible or you're out of here And he doesn't want to get rid of the Bible, so hey that's going to court now. But I'm going to tell you how different it was. When I went in the Marine Corps in boot camp They issued us a Bible. They issued us a Bible. And I could carry it in my pocket and I could read out of the channel hall. I could take it everywhere I want on a base. We got military guys. Anybody else can issue the Bible in Boot Jim, you got issued a Bible in boot camp? Uh Keith, did you get one? Issued a Bible in Boot Camp? Um who who else? Grape Side where we're s uh deal So now you take something that it's government issued. Oh by the way, we had to pay for all that stuff. They took it out of our first paycheck But now you can't have it on the desk. Don't tell me this country hasn't changed. Wow The larger the enemy force, and it's getting large, the more conspicuous we as Christians need to be. This major in the Air Force, you pray for him. Because he's taking quite a hit right now. May lose his pension, may go to jail for a while, like the missionaries that Pastor Coma We've had people in the Bible present church go to prison for Christ. It seemed like it's coming back that way again The larger the enemy for us, the more conspicuous we need to be. For we through comfort. Here's a verse I like Romans 15:4. For we through comfort of the scriptures have hope. This major, he's going to fight it because through the comfort of the scriptures He has hope. Romans 15 and 4. They have said of this major that his having a Bible on the desk is repulsive They said that Bible is offensive. That Bible is outrageous. And they said, in fact, 33 Air Force people complained about. They said that that Bible sitting on the major's desk, it scared them Well, you can put them in combat then if they're scared of a book. Toss them out of the Air Force, not the major with the Bible. They're scared of the Bible. They want it removed Wow. We are to be if we call ourselves Christians, we're Think like Christ, love like Christ, live as Christ lived, even saying what Christ said, not my will, but thine be done. Lord Luke 22 And verse 42. We've got our marching orders. It's right here in this book. As Christians, we have our marching orders from God's Holy Word alone. And we don't have to worry about the contrary lips of fallible, arrogant, saturated Christians. Creatures, rather, I'm sorry, I said Christians. Don't worry about those contrary lips of the fallible, arrogant, sin-saturated creatures. We'll have to give up some worldly pleasures. We know that. But the last I checked, all the worldly pleasures I've ever given up in life, I was better off without them. So Attai, he's speaking here And he's speaking with great emotion to David and with great devotion for his God, and he's speaking for his men. And basically he says to David, true, he to David, the truth is, he said, I'm going to follow the anointed king of Israel. You're the anointed king. Absalom hasn't been anointed. Samuel anointed you. And we want to follow our anointed king. Christ, the Christos means the anointed one. King of Kings, and we're going to follow our anointed king. And these Gittites from Gath, these Philistines, they said, We're going to follow the anointed king of Israel. We're not going back to Jerusalem where King Absalom is. We want to follow the anointed King. Wherever you go, wherever you say, and whatever you need, we're going to be there with you. We're going to die together, row after row after row, at your feet, King David, if that's what it takes. That's the word. Thomas said something like that in the New Testament before the disciples of Christ and before Christ. He said, Let us go to Jerusalem that we may die with him. John 11, 16. You know, after a while you start to hear that Christian speak, they all kind of sound alike. We're ready to die for something. And what is it? For our king. For our anointed king. We'll die for our anointed king. So Ittai, this battle-hardened Gittite, this Philistine, he pleads with David, the king of Israel, for the Lord, he pleads with him. But let us say, this hardened, battle-hardened Gittite, what has happened to him? He is this old rock-hard Philistine heart has been struck by the Word of God. He's been changed. He's been struck by the Word of God. Romans 10:17, faith cometh by hearing, and hearing by the Word of God. The Word of God has struck this rock hard, flinty, hard heart of this Philistine from Gath, and he wants to stay with the anointed king of Israel. What do you say, faith comes by hearing What word had this Etai, what word did he hear that would have struck his heart? Well, first off, he would have heard some of David's Psalms, wouldn't he? David probably playing And uh Maybe he'd even read the book of Ruth. Why not? Ruth is David's great-grandmother. That was written by What does Ruth, the great grandmother, say? Ruth said, Entreat me, Naomi, not to leave thee, for whither thou goest, I will go, and where thou lodgest, I will lodge, and where thou diest, I will die. Sound familiar? What is it that Ittai says to David, where you go, I will go. Where you die, I will die. He's quoting his great-grandmother, basically, paraphrasing it. I think David likes hearing that. Ittai, you haven't only been in the Psalms, you've been in the Book of Ruth, you've been reading my great grandmother. I don't like that. You know what? You can cross the kidney with me. I believe your conversion because you know some scripture that many people don't even fold or think Think about. That's where the confidence came in David. He sounded just like his great-grandmother. Has the Lord's word ever struck your heart that you would wish to abide with and even die for the anointed king of Israel? You ready to die for Christ? That's a question you would ask the young people in the 50s and 60s and go, oh yeah. Well, get ready. Because maybe I won't see it in my lifetime, but some of you young people we fear for you young people that you will be facing those choices of going to jail and prison. And I hope as it's a regular class reunion in some prison in Maryland someday that and our people are in it for the faith of Jesus Christ. I'd be ashamed that some of us aren't in it. Hope there's enough evidence to convict you of being a Christian that you would have to serve like that. The history of such fearless faithfulness for Christ, and that's what these Gittites are. The history of such fearless faithlessness for Christ. for Christ for the anointed king has always overshadowed the heroics of the fallen world. I know. There's some great stories out there Audie Murphy and Sergeant York and so forth. Some great stories out there of heroics in battle and war, but there's none that aren't overshadowed by the heroics of the Samsons in the Bible and the Giddings in the Bible, and the Jeffers in the Bible, and Ittai the Gittite. We always have greater stories of fearless faith than the world could ever pass on to us. And so David in 22 and 23, he says to Ittai, pass over, join us, you can cross the kindred. And Ittai passed over and all his men. And all the little ones that were with him? This king was out in the Kidron, not just with his men, but with his children and his babies. He said, I'll go with you where you go, I'll go where you die. My kids will die. My little ones, my babies will die. I'm giving him my all, David, trust me. Even the little ones were with him, and the king passed over the brook children as well. It and his men were holding back nothing, even their children would share the deliverance or the doom. That would follow in following the king of Israel. Pilgrim, are your children following you into eternity today? Are your children following you into eternity? Are your nephews and nieces following you into eternity today? Are your cousins following you into eternity? Should they follow you into eternity? Might be a bigger question. David was worth following. Are you worth following? If there's a hope for us as we lose this country, we lose love. Is there a hope for us when we lose a loved one? Is there a hope for us if we lose this country? Is there a hope for us if we lose loved ones? Yes, there is. We can lose this country. David had lost Jerusalem. He'd basically lost Israel, but there was still hope. Lost a loved one. David had lost Jonathan. He'd lost his first wife. Isn't it amazing? David had hope. He continually hoped. And God said he'd give him the hope that he would not be ashamed in the Psalms. And so he's without Jonathan. But God has just given him a die. He's replaced his Jonathan. Adam and Eve, they've lost Abel. But God gave them Seth. Ruth has lost her husband. And God gave her Boaz. We're losing the Lord Jesus Christ. He's ascending up. But Christ gave us the Holy Spirit Spirit, he sent the comforter. How can we not have hope in whether we lose a country or a loved one or a lost? How can there not be hope for us? I can go through the scripture. People lost someone The darkest of hours, the darkest of hours at noon, the day they crucified Christ. He said, We've lost our Messiah. And he sent him the comforter And shortly Peter would write, God, according to his abundant mercy, hath begotten us onto a lively hope. By the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead. Our lively hope is that God by His abundant mercy has given us a resurrected Christ. It gives us hope that we'll never be departed from our loved ones. In eternity, we'll be with that we'll be with our loved ones in eternity longer than we'll bend with them down here. And guess what? The loved ones that are going to meet up in heaven, they're saying We're going to get along with them better. We're going to love them more. It's going to be great. Christ. God gave us a resurrected Christ. Out of his abundant mercy, a lively hope. He gave us his resurrected Christ. Christ is our eternal hope. Christ is our hope in our darkest hours. Here's a verse that blessed me so much this week. I want to say it to you real slow, and I hope you get it. I hope it does to you what it did for me. Psalm 147, 11. Write it down or I'll give it to you later if you love it. This is the verse that carries me through this week with some struggles. The Lord taketh pleasure in those. The Lord taketh pleasure in those. Who? Who are the those? The Lord taketh pleasure in those That hope in his mercy. I am hoping for God's mercy. Anybody else want some of God's mercy Hope for God's mercy. The Lord, He takes pleasure in those that hope in His mercy. He takes pleasure in that. Wow, that God takes pleasure in my hoping. For mercy. I love that. There's a reason to hope in your darkest hours because God takes pleasure in those that hope for His mercy. Don't let these dark hours get you down. We've got to continually We've got to continually hope. We will not be ashamed for our hope. And God, who takes great pleasure in things He takes great pleasure in, He's going to do, God takes great pleasure in those that hope. Let's pray. Father, we thank you this day. Oh, it's a bad story to say the least. David being run out of Jerusalem, abandoned by his friends. assaulted by his favorite son. Oh, that would kill him. Without his Jonathan, without his mighty men, such a dark, dreary, depressing, despondent time Were they not the God of hope? Oh Lord, wherever we are today can't be any worse than that. And if it is, God is better than our worst and darkest hours. Oh Lord, bless us. Day. Give us the hope that you promised us that we be not ashamed. May that hope find mercy in your loving kindness. We ask this for In the name of our great God and Savior, our anointed King, our King of Kings, our Elphorn, our Omega, the Lord Jesus Christ. We pray in his name. Amen.