We're going to talk a little bit about a house. So I'm going to read, and if you'd like to follow along, either in the insert of your bulletin or in your Bible, either one is encouraged. We're going to look at Hebrews 3 and verses 2 to 6. I'd hoped to get to verse 2 last week, but didn't quite do it, and I didn't feel like rushing it, and so I said, that's fine. We'll just push it off till this week We're going to read Hebrews 2, and I'm going to start actually in verse 1. Wherefore, holy brethren, partakers of the heavenly calling. Consider the apostle and high priest of our profession, Christ Jesus, who was faithful to him that appointed him, as also Moses was faithful in all his house. For this man was counted worthy of more glory than Moses, inasmuch as he who hath builded the house has more honor than the house. For every house is built by some man, but he that built all things is God. And Moses verily was faithful in all his house. as a servant, for a testimony of those things which were to be spoken after, but Christ as a son over his own house, whose house we are, if we hold fast the confidence and rejoicing of the hope, firm unto the end. House. I never thought I'd be really so blessed and intrigued by that simple word house, and also by another word in our text, build, or built. And so we'll look at those. But those are two keywords in our study today. And today is really not deep. I don't have any place for you to really take notes. This is we're not using complex terms here like propitiation. We're not using heavily technical theological terms. We're just going to stop and think a little bit. about a house. Because we happen to be in. We're a house church. What a great New Testament example we have Now I mentioned that word build was very interesting. Did you see the use of it in here? Like if you just scan back and look, for instance, verse 3. He who builded the house has more honor than the house. Verse 4, every house is builded by some man, but he that built all things is of God. It uses that word build quite a lot. Of course I'm familiar with building. I've made a career out of it. More technical IT type things. A little bit of time with uh brick and mortar and and lumber But that word build is very curious. You know, this is one of these insights that was gleaned by me saying, no, your study's not ready. I know you've printed it. I know you think it's ready, but go back and look some more. Go back and look some more. Go back and look some more. I'm glad I did, because it turns out It turns out that this word build is a very different word. It's not the normal words, for instance, that the Apostle Paul uses when he talks a lot about being built up in the faith. Or he uses it to discuss about being edification being edified, being built on the foundation of the apostles and prophets. He uses the word That is very different. His his word is really kind of related, if I were to give it my own translations. I'm not a Greek scholar But it's really kind of more the word domicile. You get the word domestic from it, domestic duties. We understand what that means. If you're in a domicile, sometimes I think there's uh words where you've been domiciled. The implication is that you're in some physical structure. This word is not that word. It's really more of a word that has much more richness to it. It's not necessarily tied to a physical building. It was specifically chosen by the penman of Hebrews to illustrate more of the spiritual house. It really is more of the idea of a construct It's for instance, it's no the Apostle Paul never uses this word, this particular word, build. But it is word used in, for instance, Matthew, Mark, and Luke, where in the opening chapters it says That John the Baptist came and said, Prepare ye the way of the Lord. That's that same word, build here. So it's really more of a preparation of both servants as well as materials, a construct. We talk about construction sites, but this is we also talk about what is the construct of your thesis. What's the construct, you know, the kind of the outline you're going to build a paper, you're going to construct uh a term paper, a thesis paper. That's this word here. It's specifically chosen to convey the idea that we're not just talking bricks and mortar and stones. It's a very very very eloquently chosen word that is really getting at the idea that this is the spiritual house he's talking about. He's very much talking about that. Let's kind of walk our way through that and see how he's building up to this. So in verse 2, I'm just going to give an outline. We're going to look at Christ being faithful to his appointment. There's a Comparison between Moses and Jesus, we're going to explore that because that's interesting. The Jews obviously would be very excited about Moses, right? I mean he's We know that God spoke to Moses, but as for this fellow, we don't know. That's one of the things they would say. He's compared to here the different types of houses, the testimony of the house, house builder. I know something about building houses, and I like that part. This is he who built the house has more honor than the house. Yeah, that's that's that's true. And then the house of Jesus, and some things to explore there. Faithful to his appointment So I have a question. How do you believe that Christ demonstrated his faithfulness to the Father? How did he demonstrate that? Just from what you know as a Christian. Came to do what he was sent to do. Yes. He came to do what he was sent to do. That's good, and we'll explore that some. No, I always do the will of him that sent me. Okay In general, that's kind of what faithful implies, that you're uh you're you're you're sticking close to some set of expectations Jesus spoke a lot about this, actually, that he was not just out here on an interesting mission. He was not heaven's rogue that decided to go off on a tangent. think I'll go visit this sin-cursed place called earth. No, he was actually here on a specific mission. He often spoke about that. For instance, look at in your handout to John 6. 38. He often spoke of his father's will, his father's commandment, to do what he was sent to do. John 6. 38, for I came down from heaven not to do mine own will, but the will of him that sent me Pastor Keith alluded to that. Verse thirty nine. And this is the Father's will which he hath sent me, that of all which he hath given me I should lose nothing, but should raise it up at the last day And this is the will of him that sent me. He's going to repeat this. There's another aspect to it as well. That everyone which seeth the Son and believeth on him may have everlasting life. He describes the Father's will. I don't know if you caught that in verse 39 and 40, but Jesus right there has just put the horns of the dilemma in one statement. What's the dilemma? Well, is it God's election or is it me turning to Christ? I mean which one is it? And the answer is, well, it's both Right there in 39 and 40, verse 39 talks about predestination. This is the Father's will, all which he has given me. God the Father gave God the Son a people to redeem. That's God's choice. That's God's election. You had nothing to do with that And I have no idea who those people are. However, verse 40, this is the will of him that sent me. Everyone which seeth the Son and believes on him may have everlasting life. That's also the Father's will. You've got to see the Son, you've got to hear on Him, you've got to believe. And you'll have everlasting life. You say, well, there's a contradiction. No, Jesus doesn't seem to think there's a contradiction. That's the Father's will. And so it must be a Misunderstanding on our part if we think there's a contradiction. Because Jesus said this is the Father's will. And he puts them both right there in the same sentence. Isn't that interesting? They're both right there. He was faithful to these commands You see it again in John 12, 49. I'm going to walk through these quickly. They're all in your handout. I wanted to move fairly quickly through that. John 12, 49 through 50. I have not spoken of myself, but the Father which sent me And he gave me a commandment what I should say and what I should speak, and I know his commandment is life everlasting. Whatsoever I speak, therefore, even as the Father said unto me There was a discussion in the Godhead where the father turns to the son and says, This is what you will say. And the son says, Well, absolutely. I love that plan. Send me. John fourteen, thirty-one, as the Father gave me commandment, even so I do. John seventeen, just before he he goes to the cross, his high priestly prayer, he says I have glorified thee on the earth, I have finished the work which thou gavest me to do. He was faithful to all that God commanded him. So we have a glimpse. some glimpse, some insights into this commandment of what God told the Son to do. And so, writing to the Hebrews, The penman makes it clear. He was faithful to everything God commanded him to do. And he's going to then compare him to Moses. This is our next section of verse 2. Christ was faithful to what God commanded. And he says, just like Moses. Of course, Moses would resonate with the Jews. He's big stuff. He's mighty Moses. He's the lawgiver. He was the one who laid out the whole foundation for the nation. Yet though he himself never got to see it, yet he took them through the wilderness. He brought them out of Egypt. Great and mighty were the works. And the and the wonders of Moses, the prophet, the lawgiver. He was indeed a mighty one. You know, Moses, like Jesus, was also a priest, and he was a Apostle, which is the equivalent of a prophet. We read that, for instance, in Exodus 2, verse 1. His very introduction into Holy Writ, when the children of Israel find themselves in Egypt It says in Exodus 2, there went a man to the house of Levi and took a wife, took to wife a daughter of Levi. Moses' parents. Anybody remember the name of Moses' parents? This is a real tough Bible quiz here. Amram and Jacobed, yeah, yeah, those are the two parents of Moses. I forget where they're specifically called out, but not in this particular passage. Amram and Jacobed, those are interesting names. So he was a Levite. Moses was a Levite. Aaron was his brother, also of the tribe of Levi. And then in Deuteronomy 34, verse 10, it says, There arose not a prophet. Sense in Israel, like unto Moses. So Moses was a prophet. Obviously, we know that. He gave the word of God. God spoke to him directly. God's message can't so just like Jesus is the apostle, the high priest, he also, Moses was a priest. and an apostle. So there's reason to compare the two. They both had the same office and role. They're both mighty figures. However, it says here in all his house, Moses was faithful in all his house. And it turns out that that's actually a quote from the Old Testament. And I was struck by this. When you read it here in Hebrews When it says his, who's he referring to? Spaithful, his house. In Hebrews, who's it referring to? Is it referring to Jesus or referring to Moses? Moses was faithful in Moses. It sounds like it's referring to Moses. Right. It's faithful in Moses' house. I mean that seems to be the context. But it's a quote from the book of Numbers. And it's in Numbers 12. 7 where it says, My servant Moses is not so, who is faithful in all my house. Isn't that interesting? So Numbers holds it out as the house of God, and Hebrews holds it out as the house of Moses. I submit to you both are true. There's no contradiction, and we'll see why It's see why? Because there's different types of houses here. And this is starting to now unpack a little bit in verse 3. It says that verse 3, this man was counted worthy of more glory than Moses. He who built the house has more honor than the house. I can tell you we're going to talk a lot about houses today. Now when I mention house this morning, it obviously came to your mind I'm talking about these four walls But when the Bible talks about house, well what what might come to your mind, and I'm opening up to the whole Bible, not just our context here, when you hear the word house in the Bible or you see it, in the various contexts in which you've read it, what are some ways in which it's used? Oh you're the scholar, I know you know. Yes that it Oh, family. Okay, give me an example that might come to your mind. Joshua says for me in my house. Okay, very good. Okay, Joshua says for me in my house, and he's referring to The families obviously not referring to sticks and stones or sheepskins or badgers, whatever you use is to dwell in. Yeah, Penny, you had you you're mentioning family. Uh I just I can't think of anything specific to I'm just thinking that it often does refer to the household. Okay, like a household. A household of believers sometimes. Yeah, absolutely. Yeah, believers, people, okay. What are some other ideas that you might hear when the Bible mentions the word house? There's quite a few I can think of at least four. Tell them about the contests, the furniture, the Well that is a physical, a physical building, sure. And and he rose up and rejoiced saying, Jeff, you can sit over here. We got plenty of room out here today. We got all kinds of elbows. We don't have to jam up and be a back row Baptist here. Yeah, uh he arose and went to his house, we would hear of A man being healed, that meant he went back to his building. He'd go home. Get out of the hospital. It's a wonderful thing. Leave the hospital. Go home. That's what everybody wants to do. They want to go home. That's everybody's ultimate destination. What's another use of the word house? How about a nation? Is a nation referred to as a house Yeah, O house of Israel. Israel. Yeah, yeah, there's one that's used quite a lot. The prophets would often bemoan, O house of Israel, O House of Judah. He would refer to a whole nation. As a house. Isn't that interesting? It's a different construct. Yeah. So yeah, there's um uh a couple of uh interesting uses. The nation, physical building, a man's family, the church. Those are the four I thought of. Ruth 4. 11 is an interesting use of that word here. It says this. The Lord make the woman that has come into thine house. This is talking about Ruth the Mole by Tess after she marries Boaz. Their blessing Boaz. The Lord make the woman that has come into thine house like Rachel and like Leah, which too, those are the two wives of Jacob, which two did build the house of Israel It's interesting. So here it's referring to mothers through their bearing of children as being a house builder. Ladies, have you ever thought of yourselves as a house builder? That when you bear children, you're building a house. That's your house. That's your kids are part of your house Isn't that interesting? But they can grow to such a state where they can become a whole nation. Have you ever thought about that? That as the woman bears seed and she raises them up because I tell you, moms have exquisite influence. There's an old saying, and maybe Penny can help me with it, or mom, because I may mangle it some, the hand that rocks the cradle Rules the world. Rules the world, yes. I was gonna say guides the nation or something like this. Yeah. There's an old Roman Catholic saying, Give me your kids for the first seven years and I'll never lose them. Those first seven years of life are the most critical years. That's when you're dumping all your values, all your all their expectations. Everything is a tremendous influence. Moms do not underestimate your influence on children at an early age. Grandparents don't underestimate your influence on your grandbabies at an early age because all of that is building your house. Carl Mark said, give me your kids in deliver five. Yeah. Yep, and the government has a plan for your children too if you get it to them. Yeah. Especially these days. Especially these days, yes, it's the devil's attack. He's after the children. So we can't outsource the job. We have to do what is inconvenient. We have to go out of the way to say, I will educate my children I will educate my grandchildren. I will see to their education. I will oversee that. They have to own that job. They have to fight for that job. They may have to pay more than you might normally expect to pay to do that job. But that's what it is to build the house. You're investing. You're taking out loans. You're going to do whatever it takes. To say, no, I'm going to rob the devil from having my children. I'm not going to let him have them. House testimony. How was Moses faithful in his house? We looked at how Jesus was faithful. I'm skipping ahead to verse 5. We'll get back to 4 in a minute. How was Moses faithful in his house? First of all, what was the house of Moses? He was uh because he was uh soul to he was given to the to the Egyptians. And then when he allowed he came back to his house and so Well he wasn't sold. Wasn't sold he was given, whatever What what I'm I'm not sure I'm following. Oh I see. Okay. Yeah, was wasn't given to him put in the river and then the Yeah. But when he came he came back to his house. Okay. Raised in the house of the Pharaoh, but More faithful to the home. To his own people. His own people, to Israel. Okay. All right. Yep, that was certainly one way. He was he was committed, even though he was raised in Pharaoh's house Uh and learned it in all the wisdom of the Egyptians, yet he remained faithful to the people of God. It's a good point. I hadn't thought about that. Thank you. That's kind of why my head was spinning. in building the house of God, you know, the curtains, the badlier scans and I mean, he was a faithful builder That's true. When it came time to build that wilderness tabernacle, he carried out every detail. He found men to do it and they every little piece of it. When God said he would smite Israel and build of Moses a new house, he said, no, smite me with these people, but don't smite them. Yeah, he was really committed to them. He even stood between God and the people at times. It's interesting when you study Moses in the Old Testament, he very much comes across as a savior. In the New Testament, however, he is presented as the law of sin and death. He's presented as one in a negative light. It's an interesting exchange, but no, in the Old Testament, he's big stuff He is the savior of that nation in many ways. Now let's make a uh let's take a little moment to stop and pause here and just think about this. We've looked at how Christ was Faithful, faithful to the Father, and how Moses was faithful, faithful in his house. Just some examples. Well, we're talking about a house. And I think I heard it from a sermon, Pastor, you gave years ago at a prior church, where the word husband has to do with house. It's like a house man. That's kind of where the word the husk in husband has to do with the word house. He's the man of the house. There comes from the word meaning economy. Yeah, ocoimos, yep, is that word for house, yeah? Yeah, the household economy. Economics begins at the very core central part, which is right here in your own little house, what individual households are doing. So men, let me ask you this. We asked about how Moses was faithful in his house. Men, how does this relate to us today? To men and husbands. How are we faithful in our own houses? What does that look like? This is for the men. Jeffrey, you're smiling. I mean we stand at the door and we guard our house. We guard it, protect it. Mm-hmm Yeah, it was the same thought I was having we s yeah, just as Moses stood between the wrath of God and the people. Yep. The husband is in that position That's such a that's such a good male first answer. Stand there with a shotgun. Okay, well we didn't kind of get into Moses and the shotgun aspect too much, but what's another way to be faithful in the house? Israel as we're to nurture our children on the Word of God and give them direction, point them towards eternity and faithfulness. He did that with the people of Israel Israel. Mm-hmm. He's a nurturer. And in our own household we know how unpopular that may be. Just going back to that Ruth, it says that of her she'd be like Rachel Leah and that that would be worthy in effort uh And Bethlehem. And she's the great great great grandmother of David, and out of the lines of David comes the baby Jesus in Africa. That's quite a prophecy. Yeah, it is. There's more than one effort in Israel, but this effort in Bethlehem, I mean, that's huge. Wow. Yeah, that's an amazing prophecy. Husbands, how about being faithful to your wives? Ah. Yeah. And committed to her and her alone. That's another place where our shotgun isn't quite so a a physical shotgun isn't as effective, right? You can't shoot your computer screen or your monitor or the the scantily clad woman at the grocery stores You know, when I was a brand new Christian, coming uh out of old worldly ways, and as a single man I told Brother Bernie, I said, and I'm in Southern California. I had not yet relocated out of Pacific Beach into a, you know, a different place. I told Brother Bernie, I said, you know, I have a hard time grocery shopping. He says, Why is that? I said, 'cause I can't stand the way the women are dressed, so when I shop I take my glasses off. So I'm walking around, I can't see where things are It was the best solution I could come up with, to be honest, because, you know, Pacific Beach and Southern California, they're unashamed to address as Wicked and lawless as it could possibly be. You miss all the sales that way. I'd missed a lot of sales that way. I missed a lot of things, yeah So there's a lot of ways husbands can be faithful, and I just put it out there for you to think about as that as we build our own house, what it means to be faithful, to be aligned to, to protect. You know, Moses was faithful in his house. Was his house always faithful to Moses? And of course you think about all the grumbling and the murmuring and the complaining and all the griping and the whining they did and how many times they gave them a lot of problems Well, husbands in our own houses, we can have a lot of griping and a lot of whining and complaining and a lot of little issues and problems. That doesn't mean you chuck it away. You better find some solution to that. And so it's a lot more difficult and a lot more penetrating when you think of it that way, that there's a broader range to house than just I can handle this. This is easy. I like this 'cause it doesn't talk back. I don't like what it's doing I'll just take a sledgehammer Joey and fix it. I'll put a new one in there and I don't care what it looks like after it's done. That tastes good. It doesn't work that way with people, does it, Mom? You can't sledgehammer people. It doesn't work that way. It doesn't work very well. You know, what is an example of a dishonorable house? Well, look at Jeremiah 32, 34, because there can be honor in a house and there can be dishonor in a house. On a national level, it looked like this. God said through Jeremiah, they set their abominations in the house, which is called by my name, to defile it. Do we have abominations that we tolerate in our house? Do we allow certain things to come in? We overlook it. We conveniently just let it slide by. You know, it's very difficult when the parents are not exercising discipline, biblical discipline on themselves, because when they find their children caught in the same sin, they see that their kids are doing it and they go Yeah, I should reprove them for that, but if I reprove them, they're going to tell me, but Dad, you do the same thing. And I'll be tempted to say, do what I say, not what I do. That doesn't work. If we're not walking lawfully, faithfully to the Lord and following him in his house, how can we ask or expect our children to do the same? And so there's different ways that we can allow abominations to creep in. You know, when Nehemiah went back in, there was Sandbalat, and I think it was Tobiah was the other fellow's name, uh, who were the Horonites and they uh were Canaanites who were not supposed to come into the temple. They'd set up an apartment in there and he was livid. It just happened over time. It just slowly but surely creeps in. One of the most effective ways for an abomination to come into your house, unfortunately, these days, is through these means right here. Through the phone. There's a lot of power in this phone, both for good and for bad And if you're a grandparent or a parent with young children, I would strongly recommend you not give your child that weapon until they're 18. Until they have come to some or some years of discretion, maybe twenty-one, I don't know what it is. But you know, they don't need that all that that kind of of of temptation All right, well we continue on here, and I told you I'd get back to verse 4 because uh 3 and 4 is talking about building a house. In our text here in verses 3 and 4, what proof is given that Jesus built the house of Israel? Because it says he's the builder of the house. What proof is given? Hint, it may be earlier in Hebrews. That's a pretty big leap. He's the cornerstone. Well, Paul tells us he's the cornerstone. That's true. He's not appealing to Paul just yet. Paul's apostle to the Gentiles, which is why we love him so much. This is to Hebrews. This is to Jews. Where in Hebrews does he start to build up the proof that Jesus built the house? It is kind of there in verse 4. Where's the proof? What proof? That word 4 is a proof statement. What did God make? All things. He made all things. Look at that. In verse chapter 1, verse 4, it says he made the worlds. That's pretty big. And in verse 8 it says, The Son is God, but unto the Son he saith, Thy throne, O God, is forever. And so by the Son, who is God, he made all things. Hebrews 2. 10 says, By whom are all things? For it became him for whom are all things, and by whom are all things. So those big blanket statements have already been made, and if they continue to read further, they've already accepted the fact That Jesus built all things. No, he's going to make an application of that. He built everything. Well, that includes the house of Israel. God built that. And you can make an application of that to a great many other things as well. God built your house. God brought you and Miss Livy together God built your house, brought you two together. He is that house builder. He's the one that sets that foundation. He lays it out. And then there's an expectation that you're going to be faithful to it and carry it out. So yeah, that's the proof given. Now let's keep going with that. Does that mean that Jesus built America? Not in that sense. Not in that sense. Um So he didn't build all things. He well no Not in the sense of a house. He builds nations and destroys nations. He sets up kings and destroys kings. Nations are called houses. They are. But uh they're called but what Israel is called a house, it's a spiritual house, not the physical structure. Uh he built the spiritual house of Israel as a theocracy. But God doesn't build democracy Did he build Mexico? He did. Did he build Iran? How about how about in the book of Daniel we have Alexander the Great typified in there? Did he build the Greek Empire? Did God build that? You have to say yes, he prophesied it through Daniel. How about the Roman Empire? Did God know anything? Did God have anything to do with that? Babylon, Hamas, and Gaza, he built them all. Yeah. Yeah, God built all these nations. In fact, the nations are counted as a drop of the bucket. So see, we can make application here. Now, what brother what Pastor is getting into is that where is his name placed? Where is he chosen to place his name? There is a, I'll use a different word, a metaphysical use of the word house. Nations are referred to as houses. There's the house of America. There's the house of Canada, House of Mexico, House of Iran. There's these different groupings. Yeah, God Directed all that. He's ordained all that. That's not a surprise. You just go to the book of Daniel and it just lays out human history and a few prophetic utterances. Alexander the Great his his house, as it were, started language throughout a whole known world at the time that the gospel hit the floor. So God was involved with that Greek nation because everybody was everyone spoke Greek. they could communicate the gospel. Rome built the roads throughout the world so that the gospel could travel the roads. Exactly. So yeah, he's he's he is involved in building these other things for his purposes. Yeah. Now now let me introduce a word in what you just said because that's a perfect segue. Prepare. Prepare either way. And that's the word that's being used here. Built. He's preparing. So all of these nations that all that he's doing, look, Greece was was not hot a bastion of moral superiority, right? The Spartans, the city-states, the the the those that were worthy, the unworthy kids cast into the ocean. I mean it was horrible what they did. The Romans They they these are people that lit people on fire, you know, threw them to the lions and the beasts. God raised them up to do ex to prepare They were preparatory for the gospel. The Apostle Paul didn't have the internet, but he did have legs. And he did have means of transportation through mules or donkeys or horses and whatnot. Well, do you need a road? Guess who's a really good road-building nation? The Romans. Their roads still exist today. But you need a common language. Where do you get that? The Greeks. Alexander the Great was a young man who never ever lost a battle in his life. Until he met his very last battle with a mosquito on the shore of a lake where he was vacationing. And that's what killed him Mosquito. God used this man to overthrow armies that were far more powerful than him. He led his troops into battle excuse me into battle. He was a brilliant tactician and a brilliant strategist And that was all God's plan because he says, I want you to spread the Greek culture. I want you to spread the Greek language. I like your language. I've given you that language because it's precise. That's the only thing I like about you You know, one of the things I was struck with in building this apartment for mom is how much waste there is. You're buying all this lumber, and then they put a big dumpster to the side where all the waste is going. And Gable and I are in there, man, this is a good piece of lumber. We're harvesting all kinds of lumber. It's like, man, I'm paying for this stuff. But you can't use it It's just waste. It's got a purpose. So it was with these nations. There's a lot of waste in it. There's a lot of junk in there, but God had a purpose for one part And for Greece, there's a language. For Rome, the Rhodes. And a little bit of a trial for Paul. Brothers and sisters, he built all things. Now let me take this a little further How many of you have heard of Ryan Holmes? Ryan Holmes. You bought a Ryan Home. So when Ryan Holmes goes into a community, they'll buy a piece of ground, they'll build a bunch of houses, okay? Now the man who built that house Where does he go home at night? Where does he go sleep at night? In a long way home. Well, I can see you really love your house. Um He goes back to his own house. Even so the Lord Jesus Christ builds many houses, but where he dwells is special. At the time, his name was placed in Israel. He dwelt between the cherubim. He dwelt with national Israel. There was terms and conditions. If you refuse and disobey, I will leave. God built America. Does he dwell here? Nationally? Oh no. We cannot in any good conscience call this a Christian nation. It may be a Christian nation in the sense that there were significant individuals who were Christians who greatly influenced the course of this nation. Yeah, that we can agree with, and that there was a tremendous Christian testimony compared to other nations, relatively speaking, greater than elsewhere. Yes But God never said he'd placed his name here. Not that I'm aware of. And so just like Ryan Holmes has a builder that goes in and he builds many houses, but at the end of the day he comes and he dwells someplace Even so the Lord our God has his own dwelling place. And we read in John 8. 35, there's a difference between a builder and a servant. The servant abides not in the house forever. That was Moses. He was just a servant. The son abides forever. But there is a house called the house of Jesus. Christ is a son over his own house. Moses was faithful in his house, Christ as a son over his. The house Moses served was the nation of Israel. But the house that Jesus owns, the house that Jesus is building, and the house that Jesus lives in is called the church. That's where he places his name. That's where he puts down his hat. That's where he sits. That's where he rests. That's where he sleeps. That's where he lives and breathes and moves. That's where he's at, the house of God, the church. That's his place. And this is where the Apostle Paul speaks so very clearly to that in 1 Corinthians 3. Know you not that ye are the temple of God and the Spirit of God dwells in you. 2 Corinthians 6, notice this domicile domestic language here. What agreement hath the temple of God with idols? You're the temple of the living God. As God has said, I will what? Dwell in them. And I will walk in them. I dwell in this house. I walk in this house. I will be their God. They shall be my people. Ephesians 2, in whom all the building fitly framed together groweth unto a holy temple in the Lord, in whom ye also are builded together for what? A habitation of God He's going to be pleased to dwell in and with and among his people. That's his house. Oh, he's a great house builder, and he's built a lot of other stuff, but he doesn't live there. He ain't living there. And you know, where you live out, you care for. You clean it, you care for it, you mend it, you repair it, you You watch over it. You guard it. That's your house. The man's house is his what? His castle. That's what we call it. That's his castle. God's going to defend it. Peter says, ye also as lively stones are built up a spiritual house, a holy priesthood, to offer up spiritual sacrifices acceptable to God by Jesus Christ. So how is that different than the house that he built in Moses' day? Well, in Moses' day, one was external. It was a visible nation. Jesus is building a nation that is spiritual. It's currently invisible. One was temporary. The nation of Israel was not intended to be permanent forever. It was, there are terms and conditions. If you're willing and obey, I'll bless. But in Deuteronomy 28, 16 to the end of the chapter, but if you refuse and rebel, if you, or this is, I will walk contrary to you I will do this, I will do that, I will send plagues, I will horrible list of things that God says He'll do. But the other house is eternal. The house that he's building is us, and he's an eternal God, and so the conclusion is we're gonna last forever. God's not sleeping out in the woods, folks. He's going to be with his people and in his people. It's an eternal house he's building. We know the kingdom of God is spiritual. Jesus said it in Matthew twelve, twenty eight, If I cast out devils by the Spirit of God, then the kingdom of God has come unto you. See my God's house is so big it's a whole kingdom. Luke 17, 21. Neither shall they say, Lo here or lo there, for behold, the kingdom of God is within you. It's within you, because that's where the king is. Colossians 1, 13. He's delivered us in the power of darkness and translated us into the kingdom of his dear son. So I hope you've Got your brain cells thinking about this business of house for a moment. That our God is a great God and does build all things, but at the end of the day, he only comes home to one house. And that's where he's living and that's where he blesses. What a marvelous privilege we have. What a marvelous privilege. Pastor Burr, would you close us and prayer? Father, we thank you as we stretch our minds and cause us to dig deep into Scripture and to appreciate what God has given us. It's not the nation we should appreciate as much as the sun. It's not our history. It's not our material thing. It's not the gifts we get at Christmas. But as someone said recently, it's not the presence, but the presence of Christ. And we want to be there with him in the home that he is building. And we thank you for this instruction this morning. In Christ's name. Amen. Amen. Amen. Thank you. Thank you