And I praise God that there are chapters in my life that would be as probably as embarrassing. And for most of you there's a chapter you could have God to write of you that would uh you're so glad it's not in the national inquiry tomorrow morning or in the scriptures for everybody to read for the next three thousand years. But uh if I could remove it But the Holy Spirit has put it there. If I could jump over it, but we're going chapter by chapter. I love King David, as we all should. He's a sweet psalmist of Israel. But this will give us some pause this morning. How we must love sometimes those that seem unlovable. So, 2 Samuel chapter 11, beginning at verse 1. And it came to pass after the year was expired, at the time when kings go forth to battle, that David sent Joab, that's his captain of the forces, and his servants with him, and all Israel. And they destroyed the children of Ammon and besieged Rabbat. But David tarried still at Jerusalem. And it came to pass in an evening tide that David arose from off his bed and walked upon the roof of the king's house. The roofs were flat back then. And from the roof he saw a woman washing herself, and the woman was very beautiful to look upon. And David sent and inquired after the woman, and one said, Is not this Bathsheba, the daughter of Eliam, the wife of Uriah the Hittite? And David sent messengers and took her, and she came in unto him, and he lay with her, for she was purified from her uncleanness, and she returned unto her house. And the woman conceived and sent and told David and said, I am with child. And David sent to Joab, saying, Send me Uriah the Hittite. And Joab sent Uriah to David. And when Uriah was come unto him, David demanded of him how Joab did, and how the people did, and how the war prospered. And David said to Uriah, go now down to thy house and wash thy feet. And Uriah departed out of the king's house, and there followed him a mess of meat from the king. But Uriah slept at the door of the king's house with all the servants of the Lord, and went not down to his house. Which wasn't far away, because King David could see Bathsheba from his house, so it wasn't that far to go. Verse 10. And when they had told David, saying Uriah went not down unto his house, David said unto Uriah, Camest thou not from thy journey? Why then dost thou not go down unto thine house? And Uriah said unto David, The Ark and Israel and Judah abide in tents of my Lord Joab, and the servants of my Lord are encamped in the open fields. Shall I then go into mine house? To eat and to drink and to lie with my wife, as thou livest, and as thy soul liveth, I will not do this thing. And David said to Uriah, Tarry here today also, and tomorrow I will let thee depart So Uriah abode in Jerusalem that day and the morrow. And when David had called him, he did eat and drink before him, and he made him drunk. And at evening he went out to lie on his bed with the servants of the Lord, but again went not down to his house. And it came to pass in the morning that David wrote a letter to Joab, and he sent it by the hand of Uriah. And he wrote in the letter saying, Set ye Uriah in the forefront of the hottest battle, and retire ye from him. That is, once you're up there in the hottest of battle, then pull them in back, but don't tell him you're going to do it. That he may be smitten and die. Boy. With a ruler like that, you don't need enemies, do you And it came to pass when Joab observed the city, he assigned Uriah unto a place where he knew that valiant men were. And the men of the city went out and fought with Joab, and that is in that city of Rabbat. They came out of the city, out of the city gates, and they fought with Joab's men, and there fell some of the people of the servants of David and Uriah the Hittite. Died also. And Joab said and told David all the things concerning the war, and charged the messenger, saying, When thou hast made an end of telling the matters of war unto the king. If so be that the king's wrath arise, and he say unto thee, Wherefore approach ye so nigh unto the city? When ye did fight, knew ye not that they would shoot from the wall? Who smote Abimelech, the son of Jerobasith? Did not a woman cast a piece of millstone upon him from the wall that he died in the Baz? Then why went ye nigh the wall? Then say thou thy servant Uriah the Hittite is dead also. So the messenger went and came and showed David all that Joab had sent him for, and the messenger said unto David, Surely the men prevailed against us and came out unto us onto the field. And we were upon them even under the entering of the gate. We almost made it through the gate, he said. We almost we almost got the victory. And the shooter shot from off the wall upon thy servants, and some of the king's servants be dead And thy servant Uriah the Hittite is dead also. And David said unto the messenger, Thou shalt thou shalt Thus thou shalt say unto Joab, let not this thing displease thee. For the sword devoureth one as well as another. Make thy battle the more strong against the city, and overthrow it. And encouraged thou him. And when the wife of Uriah heard that Uriah, her husband, was dead, she mourned. For her husband. And when the morning was past, David sent and fetched her to his house, and she became his wife, and bare him a son. But the thing that David had done displeased the Lord. The more one reads this passage, and I've read it umpteen times Umpteen, that's like seventeen or eighteen, umpteen. And the more I read it, the sadder these verses Make me and the harder they strike me. I titled the message How the Mighty Have Fallen, and Uriah was a mighty soldier of valor. And King David has also fallen into sin, so my have the mighty have fallen. We read in verses 1 through 3 when kings go forth to battle David tarried at Jerusalem. The kings, the soldiers, the men, Judah, and Yah, they're all gone to battle. And one stays behind The king, at a time when kings go forth to war, King David stayed behind, and while he stayed behind, he saw a woman washing herself, the name of Bathsheba, very beautiful, and the wife of Uriah the Hittite. Now, unless you let Hollywood drag your imagination one direction or another, let me just say to you, she was not taking a bath. Her name is Bath Sheba, it's a way to remember. She's not taking a bath. She is washing herself in the evening. Common custom as the Lord washed with a labor and washed the feet of the disciples. And we find here that in that word washing it actually comes from the word labor or to wash from a labor. So she had a basin a pan of water and she was probably washing her face and her hands and her feet and preparing uh for the evening Had David gone to war as kings did, he had not been so tempted by the sight of this woman. His eyes would have been locked on the foe rather than on the female. You have to envision David as he's out there on that rooftop and maybe he's walking and maybe he's pacing, he's worried about how the war is going, and he sees a light below and through a window, because it doesn't say that Bathsheba is on her rooftop. So I assumed that she was inside her house with the labor and washing, but the candles lights were there and he looked and he saw a woman She looked attractive. Got a little closer. Oh yeah. And a little closer. To the edge of his roof. And then he leaned out as far as he could to look as best he could. He could have fallen off that roof He inched his way to the roof's edge, tearing and staring. Pilgrim, how close to the roof's edge have you come? in your life, close to some sin. Maybe close enough to fall off the roof. Or to fall for another man's wife What harm can a look do? Right Someday in heaven, God's going to give us the statistics of the number of car accidents from guys driving down Harford Road or Bel Air Road and watching some girl, you know What what harm can a look do? Well if you're driving you can drop into a deep dirty ditch real fast and that's just for starters or into a tree or into another car And it said in Scripture, Christ taught, Whosoever looketh on a woman to lust after her hath committed adultery already. Matthew 5 and 28. How often it is that we pray, as Christ taught his disciples, to pray, lead us not into temptation. And then we tarry, as David tarry in Jerusalem, we tarry at the boob tube, or we tarry at the entertainment center, or we we tarry in the malls, or we tarry on the beaches. Looking harmlessly, we tell our spouses At some Bathsheba on the beach, until we fall as David did Who is that woman? David asked. And they said, Bathsheba. Now if you're familiar with the term Benjamin, Ben means son of, and Bath means daughter of, alright? She's the daughter of. Bathsheba, she's the daughter of the covenant. The daughter of the oath. She is the daughter of the sacred. That's what Bathsheba means. And right then and there, David should have said, the daughter of the sacred? Oh But that didn't stop him because she was so very beautiful. And then it said, she's the wife of Uriah. Oh, she's married. Wow. That should have stopped him Oh, and she's married to Uriah. Uriah, if you look through 2 Samuel 23, Uriah was one of the mighty thirty of David's men. He knew who Uriah was. He'd probably served a number of occasions as his security guard there in the palace. He knew Uriah. He knew how brave he was. He knew what a godly he knew what a what a a a righteous patriot he was. He was he was He was not ignorant of who Uriah was, so it's not just the woman uh the the the the daughter of the sacred. It's not just that she's married She's married to one of his own personal bodyguards that he knew and he appreciated. And he labels him in Psalm 23 as one of the mighty. And she's married. Oh, did I mention to you that David's married also? We always forget that part of it. Oh, David coveted somebody was married. He was married. Not once, not twice. He had about eight wives by that time. There was just no reason for him to need to collect another one. It just sounds worse and worse when you look at it that way, doesn't it? He covets, then he steals her, commits adultery with her. We go through it. He breaks eight of the Ten Commandments Maybe nine. He might have done it on the Sabbath day, we don't know. Verse 4, David took her and he lay with her, for she was purified for uncleanliness. Wow. He must have had a conversation with her, or her reputation must have been well known that this was a woman who kept the Mosaic Law. We read about that in Leviticus fifteen, especially in verse 19, that there was a purification that was monthly done by the women of Israel, if they really followed the scriptures, if they were re-devoted to the Word of God. If they were devoted and saved ladies, they kept the ceremonial law every month. And she was that kind of a woman. This was a saved girl. This this truly was the daughter of the sacred And he goes after her. A married man chasing a married woman, one of his dearest bodyguards, one of the mighty men Are there Christians so heavily bound that that certain sins will never tempt you? Is that what you think, Christian? Oh, that's one sin I wouldn't commit. Boy, when someone says that to me, I just jump out of the way. I'm so There isn't. If King David, the sweet psalmist of Israel, will lie, covet, cheat, commit adultery, murder a man. You really think there's some sin that you wouldn't commit? Are you so heavily bound that there are certain sins you would never commit? It just isn't so If God's restraint be removed from a professing believer, they can be persuaded by religious leaders of the land, they can be persuaded by the rulers of a nation. That even abortion's okay under some circumstances. That's murder. And there's many a theologian that will make excuses for, well, you know, if under this or that circumstance. The nation that overlooks sin will be overrun with sin. The nation that overlooks sin will be overrun with the consequences of sin. Christ taught us. He was right in particular verses in Matthew 23 talking about the lawgivers or the ones who write the laws. Scribes, he said, Woe unto you scribes, you writers of the law, you law givers. Woe unto you Hypocrites full of uncleanliness and iniquities, ye serpents, how can you escape the damnation of hell? Matthew 23, 27 through 33. There are consequences for our sins, whether you are a king or the kindred of the king, no matter who you are, there will be consequences when you sin. And you can be a saved lady like Bathsheba, but there will be consequences. And the first consequence we find is when she comes to David and she says, I've conceived, I am with child. And then verse six through eleven, David sent for Uriah one of the mighty. One of the thirty mighties. And David said to Uriah, go down to thy house. You know, Uriah spends the night with Bashim, but then he finds out a month or so later she's pregnant. It's mine. You can see what David's doing here. He's being deceptive. But Uriah slept at the door of the king's house, and David said unto Uriah, Why dost thou not go down out of the house? And Uriah said, The Ark of the Covenant is in the field, and Israel's in the field, and Judah's in the field, and the men are in the field, and Joab's in the field And they're out there sleeping in tents and out among uh you know in combat and the enemies all around the ark. He said, I can't do that. And I want you to pick up on the ark. The ark means something to him He is married to Bathsheba, the daughter of the sacred, and the ark means something to him, and though he's called Uriah the Hittite, I believe he's a convert. He is also a saved man. David's not just betraying one of the mighty of his men, one of the 30 mighty men. He's not just betraying a man who's been a security guard. He is betraying another man who loves the Lord How do you do that? And everyone here Could do that if God repulls his restraining grace off of our souls for just a second. There's nothing you won't do. Salvation will not keep any of us unscathed in the sin cursed world Uriah was one of the mighty men, he'd been in many a battle, and he hadn't been he hadn't been struck down by a sword or a spear or a rock or a stone or I mean God had protected him because I'm a man of the God. I'm a I appreciate the Ark. Maybe his job was protecting the Ark in the battlefield. I don't know, but he knew the Ark was there And God had been good to him. And because he's a saved man and loves the Lord, and I believe that Uriah did, because of all that, I will just I'm just going unscathed battle after battle for my King David Christian, you're not going to go through this world unscathed, no matter how sanctified you are and how saved you are. And how many verses you got memorized and how much you love the Lord and you love the Word of God. There's a devil out there and he's just as real as a person sitting next to you in this church this morning And he won't allow you to go unscathed. Job wasn't unscathed. He won't allow you to go unscathed either. And he'll raise up your enemies, and they could be in your own household, they could be the rulers of your own government. Yes, it could be. They can be your closest friend. As Judas sopped bread with the Lord Jesus Christ, who was one of his disciples and betrayed him Here it comes, Uriah. You don't see it coming, but here it comes. It's from an unexpected source. The king that you admire, the king that you would die for while you're about to die for him. He plans to cover a sin. Regardless of how noble you are, Uriah, you will die. To cover his sins. You're standing in his way. It's not my fault, David could say, I tried to send you down with your wife, Besheba. I tried several times. I even got you drunk. Wasn't that nice that he got him drunk, that's a sin in itself. And you just you just wouldn't buckle, you just wouldn't do it. So you know Wash my hands of it. Uriah, you're you're the you're responsible for your own death. I suppose he might have thought that way. We make excuses for things that we do, don't we? We tried everything else Uriah wouldn't break Uriah had made a vow in verse eleven. The arks in the field, the men are in the field, I will not go down. As thou livest, as surely as I livest, I will not He made a vow He made a covenant. Uriah will not break his covenant. Did you ever make a marriage covenant? If you swore to honor and obey and love and cherish and sickness and health, richer for poor, and you put a ring on his or her finger, the ring is a sign of a Covenant. You made a covenant. And here Uriah made a covenant. And he won't break his covenant. He won't break his vow. But King David has just broke his vow with his wife. And his second wife and his third wife. He's broken eight vows already. But Uriah won't break his vow. The ark is in the field, he said, in the battlefield. I can't go down and enjoy myself for the night. Well I gotta tell ya, if I've been out in the field for months and got called back We had that happen sometimes in Vietnam a guy get called back, his father died, or his mother died, and he'd be called back to the funeral and he'd get a chance to spend a little time with his wife before they brought him back to Vietnam And do you think he said, Oh honey, you look so beautiful and I miss you. It's been a couple of months I've been in the field, but my men are out there in Vietnam and Denang somewhere and not tonight, honey. I've got to go back with my men. Not on your life. But Uriah, he's married to the daughter of the sacred. The ark is in the field. He is one noble, gallant, valiant, priceless soldier for the king of Israel. And David plots his murder. And it gets worse. David writes a poison pen letter. Wow, you ever get one of those? We used to get some of them. I won't say who they came from, but we just throw them in the trash can. We didn't even respond to them. Here's the poison pen letter. David writes this letter to Joab and sends it by the hand of Uriah. David knows Uriah as such a noble of standing guy. He's got his death warrant in his hand. Maybe it's sealed with the king's signature ring, but you know, he could just kind of pop it open a little bit and See what it has to say? But David knows it. He knows Uriah is such a noble, trustworthy individual. If he doesn't seal it, he knows Uriah won't read it. And you betray a man like that? You lie with his wife, and now you're gonna kill him also? Do you know what the In the scriptures, if you were committing adultery as David had and Bathsheba had, the law required they both be put to death But instead, if you kill the husband, then you know you kill one that the other two might live, right? And the letter to Joab says, this poison pen letter says, set your ri in the forefront of the hottest battle that he die. What an unusual request from the king to the captain of the hosts of Israel, Joab. He's one of my best men. I don't want him to die. You're asking me to put one of the best men out, and there were times when David said things and Joab said, I'm not going to do that. He said, Joab, I want to number the people of Israel. No, no, you don't want to do that. And there are times when Joab told the king, I'm not going to do that. He said, Joab, why don't you bring Absalom into the house? We're going to forgive Absalom myself. We're going to put him back here in Jerusalem. No, no, no, you shouldn't do that. But he gets this letter and Joe says, I can do that. Doesn't even ask why. Was he a traitor? Did he get caught smuggling secrets into the the tri into the nation of uh the Ammonites or the Hittites? I mean what is he a b is he a traitor? He was a Hittite at one time. He must deserve it, I guess Here is a David. This David who writes a letter to kill Uriah, to let him die in the battle. By Hittites. I mean if you're gonna die, can't you die in a different manner than to let the enemy kill you? David, this is King David, the sweet psalmist of Israel, who wrote psalms, who writes a letter, let him die. Yikes! This is David, the sweet soul is Israel. This is David who had a heart that when he cut off a part of the skirt of King Saul in the cave, remember that? It smote David's heart. He regretted that he had done it. How could I have done this to the terrible what I've done? But now he orders the death of the noble trusting Uriah Shamefully, David knowing the bravery of Uriah, one of the mighty men, 2 Samuel 23. Verse eight and then again in verse thirty nine you see your Uriah's name is mentioned. David uses Yeah, I gotta get this guy's gotta die. I g some I gotta See that he dies. How do you do that? David knows the sterling qualities of gallantry and valiant the valiant soldier he was, the man who would obey any order there was. He knows. He takes the sterling qualities of Uriah and he uses that to plot his demise He knows if he's ordered to go in the hottest part of the battle to go right to the wall, right to the gates of the city of Rabbas, he'll go There are some people who might question that's not very sane, that's not a very good idea. The last time that was done, some woman threw a millstone off the wall and and and killed and with even the women could kill us if we go right after a wall like that. But Uriah will do it. He was once a Hittite. He's going to prove that he's an Israelite, a spiritual Israelite of the spiritual seed of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. He's going to prove he's no longer a Hittite because people still call him Uriah the Hittite. He'll do it. And he takes the sterling qualities of this man Uriah to use it against to plot his death. Oh, and that's been done before. Read the book of Daniel. They want Daniel dead. There's a decree you can't pray to any other God. And they all know that Daniel goes to his window three times a day and prays for the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. They know they can catch him They use the sterling qualities of Daniel to catch him praying, and he ends up being tossed in the lion's den How about Judas? You want to betray the Lord Jesus Christ. And you know what Judas knew about Christ? He knew the sterling qualities of Christ that he loved to go up to Gethsemane in the evenings and pray And he knew where he'd be and when he'd be there and who he'd be there with and what he'd be doing. It was a perfect time. And Judas betrayed Christ. He took the sperling qualities of the Savior of our sins and used it against Christ. That he might die. How about you, Christian? Pilgrim? Are you really saved? You really love the Lord. Really you really love the scriptures? Do you love them so much? It's so obvious to the world, the people out there that That if if need be, they would know where to find you, when to find you, who you'd be with, because of the qualities, the serving qualities of your salvation are so apparent and your habits are so clear That describes Uriah and Daniel and the Lord Jesus Christ. Does it describe you? I think the most insulting thing that's happened to me in years is while I was preaching one Sunday morning, my phone rang. Didn't have it off And that who on earth does not know where I am Sunday morning at 1130? I was insulted. So I opened up the phone and laid on the pulpit and I let them hear the rest of the message. I figured they needed to hear it. Uriah was where the valiant men were. That's what it says here. And there fell some of the servants of David, and Uriah died also. David sinned and Uriah dies Uriah, he is ready to die for his king's honor. Instead, he dies by the hand of his king. And worse than all of that, it says that not just Uriah died. But they said they were on the wall and a number of men, several men died with Uriah. David just wasn't responsible for the death of Uriah. He was responsible for maybe a dozen or more men The bodies are just piling up here what David has done and how horrendous it is. Johab said in verses 18 through 24. He told David, some of the king's servants be dead, and Uriah's dead also. I mean, this was a costly way to cover your sin, not just the death of Uriah. But other soldiers thinking they're dying for Israel, they're dying for a lying, coveting, wife-stealing, adulterous king And we're not done yet. Have you ever heard this is a lie we hear sometimes? You ever heard this one? Intimacy between two consenting adults is a victimless crime. You know, if you're out there and you and you you some men will go out there and they'll they'll pick up a prostitute or a harlot, you know, something like that, it's a victimless crime Who gets hurt? It's two consenting adults. Or among the gays today. It's two consenting adults. Who gets hurt? Friend, there are always people that get hurt and there are always consequences My brother showed up one day with his gay wife. I don't know if my mother ever stopped weeping. It hurt my mom. My dad became silent, never talked about my brother's gay lifestyle. Two consenting adults Nobody gets hurt. It's a victimless sin, a victimless crime. That's just not true. If you think that's a victimless crime, tell that to Uriah. If you think it's a victimless crime, tell us to the soldiers and their wives that have died. Tell that to the 56 million plus aborted babies that have died. That what transpired, somebody got pregnant, they didn't want the baby, they killed the baby. You know, what goes on between two consenting adults, it's a victimless crime 56 million dead. That's enough people to elect a president of the United States. Maybe that's why Satan wanted him dead. Because I know how those 56 plus million babies would vote today. Hmm? Boy, they'd clean out the House and the Senate so fast. So I said we weren't through yet. Look at verse 25. The word comes that Uriah is dead. And King David's response is unbelievable. His response is unbelievably callous and casual. Oh the sword devoureth one as well as another That's abhorrence. He knows why he's dead. He knows why several of the men are dead. And he says, oh, the sword devours one as well as another. That is despicable. And Joab knew that was despicable because he knew he was ordered that man to die. And maybe the messenger is a little a little uh Aware of something weird here. If David seems mad, tell him that Uriah is dead also. That'll calm him down. And then Mesh, though, why would that calm King David down? What's going on here? Several valiant patriot Israelites died, and all David says is, oh, the sword devours one as well as another. How is it that a man after God's own heart? 1 Samuel 13, 14, a man after God's own heart, who has such a wonderful heart that he garners Mephibosheth The crippled brings into his house and sets him at his table to eat day and day and night forever. At David's table. What a heart he's got for this crippled who cannot walk. The son of that's the heart of David, a man of God's own heart, and he loves him ashabbath, and he brings him into his house, and he feeds him every day. What a wonderful thing! And yet he plots the premeditated murder of Uriah. How can that same heart do such inconsistent things, we ask ourselves, don't we, when we sin? Aren't you glad that what you've done is not recorded in the Holy Scriptures? Aren't you glad that what you did maybe this week or last night or in the past year is not recorded in the Holy Scripture? And if I was the one writing the Samuel, the book of Samuel, and I would know what a what a wonderful hero David was and what a wonderful guy he was, a man for God's own heart, I wouldn't put this stuff in the Bible about David I would leave it out. But holy men of old, as they were moved by the Holy Spirit, they recorded what God said they would, and they didn't change a word You read some of these translations and can imagine how they could change us. You know, they could just say that Dave looked out the window and he saw a pretty girl and he married her. Wow, that's true. I mean the reader's digest Bible version. Remember that point? They clear all kinds of chapters and verses. They condensed the Bible. What God writes we should read every word of it, not erase, not add to or take from, right? So it's all here. We wouldn't have put it in there, would we? But the Holy Spirit did for our learning that we might know that we too can do horrendous things, that we too can be forgiven of horrendous things, including murder and adultery. And it's not that you might go out and do it and say, Well, I'd be forgiven, because wait until you find out the consequences of what David has done You wouldn't want one one hundredth of the consequences that are going to befall David. What he has done here. Wonder if David ever told Bathsheba what he did I mean you read this casually say, oh, I guess he and Bathsheba fought at this. No, I don't think Bathsheba knew a thing about it. Her conscience probably struck her that what she had done came back to harm her because now her husband is dead. I don't know that she ever had a clue what David had done. And you know, you're married and and now you're raising little Solomon, Bathsheba's son, and you say, Oh, by the way, you know, I know you're enjoying you know, it looks great so I got rid of you Ryan and had him killed so we could have those And Sal Solomon would be the king next king. I don't think he ever shared that with anyone. And I venture to say that as we sit here this morning, there are sins that none of us have ever shared with anybody else, including our wife or our children, or a mother, or a father. Because we know deep down in our hearts that sin is despicable. I don't think he ever told her. Are there sins you've never told another? Oh, I'm sure there are Christ said that there is nothing covered that shall not be revealed, neither hidden that should not be made known. Luke 12 and 2. Christ said that all these things They will be uncovered unless they're covered in the blood of Christ. They're moved as far as the east is from the west. They move so far that God says, I I do not remember them no more. But if you haven't repented of your sins, if you haven't asked God to cleanse you of your sins Wash them in the blood of Christ, blot out your sins. They will be revealed at judgment day to all the embarrassing moments of your life. That you wish nobody would ever know. And the only way nobody will ever know is if you repent and ask God to forgive you and mean it. Or everybody will know Sin blinds the eyes and hardens the heart. and it destroys all sense of judgment. David, what are you doing? This is the daughter of the sacred The wife, yes, she's married, and you're married, and this is Uriah, one of your 30 mighty men. What are you doing? Have you lost all sense and all judgment? What is wrong with you? Same thing that's wrong with the sinners in our Senate today. The same thing that's wrong with the criminals who are running our court system today. The same thing is wrong with some of the past reprobate presidents of this country that we've had. Yes, I think Bill Clinton's a reprobate. Did he not do the same thing? He was married Took a young intern in the White House Lawbreakers today are writing our laws in Congress, and you wonder what's wrong, sinners are now running the United States. In books about any department you can look at, from the legislative to the judicial. They have no judgment. They are blinded by their sins, and David here is blinded by his sins. Is there a sin you still think you will never do? Psalm 146, put not your trust in princesses, not in man, not in yourself. You are not safe trusting in man. One isn't even safe under the reign of King David. You're not safe You can't even trust King David. All you can trust, Paul says in Ephesians 1:12, you can trust in Christ. That's all we can trust in to be safe and to be sure. Now, when Bathsheba heard Uriah was dead, verse 26, she mourned for her husband. And I think she did I think she felt God was getting her for cheating on him. I think she felt that God was, you know, she didn't have any children yet, she would never have children of Uriah. I think she really loved him. She must have Special guy, a Hittite, who revered the Ark of the Covenant. What a catch! What a cat and this guy's not just a great catch because he he reveres the Ark of the Covenant, but he's he's a warrior He's a soldier. He's a patriot. He's noble. He serves on the security guard of the King of Israel. And he's on the list of the 30 mighty men. Oh, what a man I've got! And I cheated on him and now he's dead. And it says she mourned for her husband. But then Verse 27. Verse 26, she mourned for her husband. Verse 27. And when the mourning was past. No, this is after the the press releases about the battle and the heroes that died up there in the battle. This is after the press releases and after wonderful eulogies of the men that died and the eulogies of Uriah who had died, and of a special state funeral with all the pomp and the purple hearts, and perhaps a pension for the widows after all of this. When the morning was past, David fetched her and she became his wife. Oh Do you think somebody might catch on? Look at chapter eleven, verse twenty-six. And when the wife of Uriah heard that Uriah, her husband, was dead, she mourned for her husband. Verse 27. And when the morning was past. The first word of verse 27, just three letters. And A N D. And separates the mourning from the marriage. Three letters. Boy, it didn't take long, did it? Just one little word, and from the morning to the marriage, three letters. Yikes. That was kind of fast, wasn't it? Well you've got to do that. There's a baby coming. You don't want anybody to under to suspect anything David's about 50 when all this takes place. He has several wives already. He has children old enough to be suspicious enough about what has just happened. What kind of an example is he setting for his sons? Do you suppose that little Solomon someday might run off and do some crazy things like his father? Well, what happens to two consenting adults? What does it matter? Because your children are watching. And your grandchildren. And there are consequences. And even though it's between two consenting adults, other people get hurt. But David is a king. And rulers do get by with murder, right? How many murderers rulers get by with with murder? I mean, isn't that the bottom line? I mean, if you rule, you get by with murder. And so here's David. He's the king, he's the rule, he gets by with murder. That's the bottom line. No, it isn't. Look at verse 27 again and read the bottom line. I mean the very bottom line of verse 27. But the thing that David had done Displease the Lord. That's the bottom line. And the consequences for David's actions, they are coming. Just because initially the Lord is silent in the face of your sins does not mean that he or Christ approves of your sin. For God has promised the saints that sin, and we as saints, we as as saved individuals, when we sin, God has promised us, I will bring seven times more plagues upon you according to your sins. Leviticus 26 Saints, save people, we don't get by with the stuff the world gets by with. God's going to bring consequences down. Seven times the plagues that He bring down On a Canaanite or a Philistine. So a pilgrim, as you leave here today, be suspicious. Of the temptations in your life. Be fervent in prayer because nothing will prepare you. Nothing will prepare you for the bottom line if you sin. And David's about to discover that in every one of the remaining chapters of Samuel. He pays, he pays, he pays. Consequences for our sins. Oh friend, may the temptations of this life keep you keep you from sin and its consequences Let's pray. Father, we note this morning how all the mighty have fallen. And Lord, we have men among us that we know of throughout the congregation, throughout the nation. Great speakers, those who stand for the Word of God, mighty men. And sometimes we hear of one of them falling. Oh Lord, keep us from falling. We pray, Lord, keep us from temptation. Deliver us not Hunt of evil. Oh Lord, bless this congregation. May this message this morning find an open ear in every chair, an open heart in every chair. May we never have to hear someday or read somewhere that another of your saints has found Fallen in a s a shameful, shameful way. We ask this in Christ's name, our great God and Savior, Jesus Christ. Amen.