Turn with me to the book of Mark, chapter one. Title is the Message In the Beginning. Uh we're not going back to Genesis 1-1. But this is the beginning of the ministry of the Lord Jesus Christ. And so we're going to look at just how it starts out this morning. So if you turn with me, Mark chapter 1 verses 14 through 22. And the responsive reading has a little bit to do with this, as you'll see right shortly. Mark chapter 1, beginning at verse 14. And to verse 22. Now, after that John was put in prison, Jesus came into Galilee, preaching the gospel of the kingdom of God. And saying, the time is fulfilled, and the kingdom of God is at hand. Repent ye and believe the gospel. Now, as he walked by the Sea of Galilee, he saw Simon, that's named Peter, of course, and Andrew his brother, casting a net into the sea. And they were fishers. And Jesus said unto them, Come ye after me, and I will make you to become fishers of men. And straightway, Matthew says, immediately they forsook their nets and followed him. And when he gone a little further fence, he saw James, the son of Zibedee, and John his brother, who also were in the ship, mending their nets. And straightway he called them, and they left their father Zibedee in the ship, and with the hired servants, and went after him. And they went into Calpurnium, and straightway on the Sabbath day, he entered in the synagogue and taught. And they were astonished at his doctrine, for he taught them as one that had authority, and not as the scribes We read here that John the Baptist was put in prison in verse 14. And in our responsive reading, we read who put him in prison and why he was put in prison. He'd been reproving Herod for his marrying Herodias, his brother's wife, which was like incest according to the book of Leviticus, and adultery as well. He had divorced his wife and married his brother's wife. And his brother had divorced his wife in order to do it. He was afraid of his brother. So he was willing to give his wife up to her. And so it says here that he reproved Herod for marrying Herodias, his brother's wife This is in Luke chapter 3 and verse 19. And for all the evils which Herod had done. So he'd done a lot of other bad things And historians will tell you some of the horrible things that this Herod had done. But John the Baptist was put in prison, uh not just for Herodias's uh irritation of him and for marrying uh his brother's wife, but also for all the evils which Herod had done and John had been preaching against him too. We read in Luke 3 and 19 Now previously, which we'll find out in Mark 6 and 20, Herod had heard him gladly. Herod had been uh drawn in by the large crowds that were going to hear John the Baptist and the baptizing. And that says that Herod did many things. He he he kind of uh he didn't really he do he wasn't converted, but he turned over a new leaf a little bit. He started trying to clean up his act a little bit Uh but then he got a hold of Herodias and things just went from there further south. But for a while Herod in Mark chapter 6 and verse 20 had heard him gladly, we read And that's how we find some people. They'll hear the gospel gladly for a while. They'll turn over a leaf, they'll make some changes, and then after a while they really go hard and fast against the gospel. And that's what was happening here with Herod. And we see that oftentime with politicians, and Herod is a politician. We find that often our politicians, we observe them, changing over time, and sometimes changing rather rapidly. They'll be out there campaigning and and first they'll they'll tell us they're going to protect our borders and they're going to protect the unborn and they're going to be standing behind biblical principles and then they flip-flop How often we see that. And Herod does a flip-flop. John, I think, must have thought he had him coming for a while, and he was coming for a while. And he was changing some things. But then he flip-flops as well and puts John in jail, according to verse 14 here. A double-minded man is unstable in all his ways. James writes us in chapter one and verse eight And then again we find in Luke 3, 19 and 20, it records that uh that Herod was a double-minded man, that Herod had flip-flopped as it were. And he added yet above all this of and that says above all this it means all the evils that Herod had done, eventually he was doing all these evil things. But above all this it says in Luke 3, verse 20, he shut up John in prison. So now we're back to uh Mark one, chapter one or verse fourteen, where he has shut him up in prison, and when we read Matthew and Luke, we find that of all the terrible things Herod did, and he did a lot of them Including taking his brother's wife. But then it says, of all these things, the thing that was most horrible above all It was that they shut up John the Baptist in prison. That was even worse than taking his brother's wife, according to Luke chapter 3 and verse 20. This was Herod's most revolting and loathsome sin he had committed to that point, according to Luke Putting John in prison. Why was it so loathsome? Why was it so revolting? Why was why was it recorded this way of of Herod that putting John in prison was so revolting and so loathsome Well, because he was shutting down the voice crying in the wilderness, preparing the way of the Lord had been prophesied, and he is not just putting anyone in prison. Not just any minister, not just any disciple, not just any follower of the Lord, but he's putting John the Baptist, a voice crying in the wilderness, and he's putting in jail the man who is to prepare the way for the Messiah You can't do anything any worse than that. And that's what he had done. He had put away the voice crying in the wilderness. It was also an assault on the gospel of Christ. by putting John in prison because he was preaching of the coming Messiah. And behold the Lamb of God that takes away the sin of the world. He was putting in jail the man who was promoting the Lamb of God, the Lord Jesus Christ and the gospel. And then finally by putting him in jail He was endangering the souls of people still in need of salvation. So no wonder Luke says, besides all this, he put John in prison, which was the worst thing he'd done until that date Herod would eventually go much further than putting John in jail. To appease his wife Herodias He would behead John. You'll remember the story, we'll come across that in the chapters that lie ahead of us, where his wife was not happy. John Harry could put up with oh you took your brother's wife and this is incest and this is adultery. And Herod would kind of put up with that because he liked some of his preaching and and he was he was just mesmerized by John the Baptist. But his wife kept hammering him and hammering him. And finally at a birthday party And I know there's some people that think they shouldn't have birthday parties because the birthday parties in the Bible usually end up pretty bad, but at the birthday party John's wife Herodias sends out her daughter to dance before him and to entice him. And he says, I'll give you anything you want. Half my kingdom. What do you want? And the mother had said to her daughter, When you're through dancing, if he says something like that, give him you ask him for the head of John on a charger or on a platter. And uh there she was, Herodias. Uh Herod's helpmeet, as it were. We all if we're married, we have a helpmeet. I know we often think of a helpmeet as being the wife, but ladies, your husbands are also uh your helpmeet And so we have her asking for John's head on a flatter. You know, our spouses are to be our helpmeet, Genesis two verse eighteen. And our spouses, whether it's we're talking about the wives here, uh Herodias or our men itself, we are to provoke one another onto love. As a helpmate, we're to provoke one another onto love. Herodias wasn't doing that. She should have been promoting John's interest in the gospel and interest in John the Baptist. And we're to promote each other onto love and unto good works. Hebrews 10 and verse 24. That's what we're supposed to be doing. Ladies, your job is to fine-tune your husbands. Your jobs are to housebreak your husbands. Your jobs are to tweak us And make us more lovely to help grow the fruits of the s of the Spirit that we read of in Galatians 5 and 22. A good wife, a good helpmate, she will make us gentle. That's one of the fruits. of the Spirit. She will make us gentlemen, as it were. She will make us meek. Another one of the fruits of the Spirit. She will make us meek like Moses. She will, she's a good helpmate. She will help us be long-suffering. As Saul of Tarsus, or we know Miss Paul today was, long suffering. And she will make us lovable and and lovely like John the beloved. This is the job, ladies. By the time you've been married five or ten years We ought to have some of the rough edges off us. You know, you ought you ought to have s sanded us down a little bit and smoothed out some of our our our rough the roughness that men have as young men and as they grow up they tend to they need uh a woman's touch. They need a good helpmate. And have that love, the love that you see in the writings of Luke, and the joy that you see in the writings of John. We need good helpmeet. So I would ask you this morning, ladies, are you a good helpmeet? Like Jacobed, the wife or rather the mother of Moses, but the wife of Abraham. And she was she was a good helpmate. When the Pharaoh was out there killing the babies and drowning the the the boy uh Jewish babies or Israelite babies uh and he was beside himself they had this new young baby and what are you gonna do and she says we'll hide him oh jachabed I don't know if we can get by with it yes we can and she encouraged her husband she said good help me and they hid the baby Moses for several months She's a good helpmate. And you read of Priscilla, the wife of Aquila in the New Testament, and how they're out there helping Apollo. Apollos who was preaching and he didn't he didn't understand some of the finer points of the gospel of Christ and and and she Aquila and Priscilla sat down and they talked with him and And they worked with the Apostle Paul and she encouraged her husband. It's going to cost us a little bit. We're only tent makers, but Paul's a tent maker as well. Let's work with him. Let's come alongside. Let's encourage him. And she encouraged her husband to encourage Paul She says, good helpmeet. And we ought to be encouraging our husbands, ladies, to to to come to church and to pray and to read the word of God and and vice versa. Husbands are to be good helpmates and do all the same for your wives But Herod did not have a good helpmate. She did none of this at all. Now he's in jail, and that ought to have made the Jewish religious leaders very happy, like the Pharisees. They were very jealous of John. John was bringing all the attention. He was drawing all the crowds. People were following him. They they professed people that he was a prophet of God. They hadn't seen a prophet for 400 years And now they got a prophet in their midst and the jealous Pharisees, they just uh were just grinding their teeth at the whole thing. They didn't like it. So when John was put in prison, ah good The large crowds will dissipate now. He's getting his come up because he had been calling them in Matthew 3. 7. He'd been calling these Pharisees who were jealous of his large ministry. He'd been calling them generation of vipers That doesn't usually endure you to a Pharisee. And that's what he'd been doing. And now they'd be rejoicing that he was in prison and they wouldn't have to hear the likes of John the Baptist anymore. However, verse 14, by the time we get to verse 15, in fact halfway through verse 14, we find that the Pharisees rejoicing will be short-lived. Jesus, it said the last half of 14, came into Galilee after he heard that John the Baptist was imprisoned. Jesus came into Galilee preaching the gospel of the kingdom of God. And Christ began to draw even bigger crowds. And furthermore, he began healing and doing miracles. And he called the Pharisees blind leaders of the blind, Matthew 15 and 14. He called them hypocrites and white as sepulchres and full of dead men's bones and filled with uncleanness. Matthew 23 and 27. He was hitting them harder than John was And getting larger crowds, the content of Christ's preaching incorporated much of what John had already been preaching. John's words, John had talked about, behold the Lamb of God, that the Messiah was coming. And now in verse 15, we read the time is fulfilled and the kingdom of God is at hand. This is what Christ was preaching. When he say the time is fulfilled, that is the time is fulfilled and the Messiah will now come. The kingdom of God is at hand God's supernatural kingdom with the Messiah's presence. They will see. Makes us think a little bit about today. Well, Christ is talking about the time is fulfilled. We're waiting for the time of the Gentiles to be filled. And what will happen if the time of the Gentiles is fulfilled? Then shall they see the Son of Man, the Messiah, coming in a cloud. Luke 21 24. It was an exciting time for them to hear that the kingdom of God was coming. There's a time of fulfillment of the Messiah coming. And we ought to be just as excited today. Because it's been 2,000 years since we've been told At the fulfilling of the Gentiles, the Son of Man will come in a cloud. We've got to be really close. I mean a thousand years ago, they thought they were pretty close, you know. Five hundred years ago, that was fifteen hundred years there. But we're two thousand years and and you know I talked to a lot of people, we have all have different eschatologies, we're pre-trib, mid-trib, post-trib, aw-mill, post-mill. But you know what they all say? They think Christ is coming soon. They do they they do believe that, right? Regardless of what your your uh eschatology is. Everybody thinks that it's gotta be about time. It's been two thousand years since it said, when the time of the Gentiles fulfilled, the Son of Man shall be coming in a cloud. So do you not feel the appearance of Christ is approaching as you look around this world? Wow You know, this stuff going on in America, in our military, and in the world that you don't even read about in the scriptures. Stuff so bad. And I I I can't get up here and talk that much about it. But you know the scriptures do say uh a s one little verse says that it isn't appropriate for for uh Men to be wearing women's clothing and women to be wearing you know and that's all it says, but boy oh boy, what our Congress and Senate and the military is doing today. Wow, they've expanded upon that verse, haven't they? Horrible stuff. How can we not be close to the time of the Son of Man coming in a cloud? And if you feel the appearance of Christ is coming soon and is approaching, it's not a waste of your time and it's not a waste of your breath to say what Christ says here. He says, Repent. Believe the gospel. Repent and believe the gospel. Sometimes we're looking for an open door and sometimes we get the open door and we don't take it and we regret we didn't take it and say something to somebody. Oh it'll just be a worse than my breath, a worse than my time anyway. No, it's not Because the Son of Man shall come in a cloud. It's gotta be getting close. It's gotta be getting close. Not a waste of time to tell people that. Well, I could talk to that person, but he would never accept it. I've seen other people witness to him. I've seen him throw tracks down, tear tracks up. He just wouldn't do it. Well he didn't then, but how about today? Maybe today he will. Many of you sitting here we were witnessed to several times. Uh how many people were ever witnessed to before they ever got saved? No. How many people got witness to more than once before he got saved Twice, three times, four, probably have a dozen times. You hated it every time. Right? You just hated it But Psalm 110 verse 3 says, Thy people shall be willing in the day of thy power. There came a day when a particular track particular radio show, some preacher on TV, somebody quoting your verses or walking down a grocery out or maybe humming, Jesus loves me, something happened, it just struck you like it never had before. And that's why you're here, I hope, this morning. If that hasn't struck somebody, it's here this morning. I don't know how much time you got left. Repent. Repent. Turn to God. That's what Christ was preaching, that's what John was preaching, that their m their messages hadn't changed that much. They were both saying repent and believe the gospel. And I know you can't repent unless the Holy Spirit comes on you in power and changes your heart. But I'm responsible to tell you to repent. And you're responsible to pray that God will send His Holy Spirit to touch you? Then will sin repulse you. When you if you ever say, I wonder if I'm saved, does sin repulse you? I know we still got some little sins we hang on to when we're saved, and they're not as repulsive, but the longer we're saved, and the more we pray, and the more we read our Bibles, the more we hear preaching, the more we find that sin repulses us. There are sins out there that Paul said he loved his sins. He loved his life. And there are sins out there, all of us that at one time we loved them, and now we find them repulsive. Uh for someone that doesn't understand how repulsive we find them, we re we find them as repulsive as dog breath in the morning. You ever heard a dog come up to you? We we we find them as as repulsive as as a rotting deer on the highway. You ever drive by in the summertime, your windows rolled down, and you roll down the window, look at that dead deer, whoo, he's been dead a couple days, right? Repulsive odor, right? Repulsive strike. Have you ever gone out in the middle of August sometime to put some garbage in your garbage can, you lift the lid off? Try to hold your breath, slam the lid on, you run back to the house, and that odor comes with you. Repulsive. Sin is repulsive as garbage. It's as repulsive as the rotting flesh of a deer on a highway. Is sin repulsive to you? If it's not repulsive to you, question your salvation. You have to question your salvation. Repent means to turn from, to turn away, turn about. And that's what you do with the garbage can. Whoo, you turn away. The rotting deer, roll, roll the winter down, get away, drive on, drive on. You turn away from it. That's what repent means to turn away, to turn about, to change direction. Sin should be repulsive to you. It says or to bring forth fruits, meat Or obvious bring forth fruits. Meat are obvious of repentance. It's not just to say I repented, I got saved, I did the sinner's prayer, walked the aisle, signed the card, raised my hand, got clapped on the back, and the pastor prayed with me If you've done all of that, but have you really repented? Do you you know how you think you've repented? It's just not that sin is repulsive to you, but you bring forth fruits that are obvious of repentance. What's fruits like you start reading your Bible every day more than that magazine that you pick up at the counter in the grocery store. You find yourself praying at some of the oddest times over the simplest things. That's a fruit. You find that you like being around others who have repented. You like fellowship. You like the brethren. Those are fruits of repentance. Now, if you think that Christians are boring or dull or bland, you probably don't have any fruits. I'll tell you, I I think Christians are some of the most exciting people in the world. And they got some of the most exciting stories. I love to come in here on Sunday morning and hear what happened at their place of work, you know? What someone did to them. I'm not in construction anymore, but I can remember them filling my hat full of soap and filling it full of water with my hard hat. You come in the morning, come on everybody, get out, we gotta go. And you grab your hard hat and throw it on your head and you know And someone shout out in the name of the Father, Son, the Holy Ghost, and all laugh at me. I got baptized. Great stories. I look forward to talking and fellowshipping with Christians. Radical change. We ask you to repent. We ask you To turn your life over to Christ, to believe the gospel. You know what believe the gospel means? It means believing the good news. You know what the good news is? It's from Genesis to Revelation. That's the good news. It's all in there. You should have an appetite. And when I first got saved, the first thing I want to do is be able to say, I'd read the whole New Testament Did it in a couple of weeks. And then I thought, no, I gotta read the whole Old Testament too. And I did that in a couple of months. And I said, wow, I've read the whole book. I was dating my wife at the time, and she'd seen a change in my life. She'd seen the fruits of of repentance. You know, I was no longer swearing and I I was showing up on time. I quit drinking and um she just saw lots of changes in my life, you know. And she liked the changes, but when I got through reading the Bible, she said I think that book has changed you. I like the changes, but but now that you've read it, what are you going to do? And I said, Well, I I read the King James. I said, I think I'm gonna go out and read the the Catholic Bible because you're Catholic. And I read the Catholic Bible. And she s she still saw the changes had not left me. I share with us some things in the Bible. You know what's interesting about the Catholic Bible? It never says repent. It says do penance. That means beat yourself with a uh a branch or a rod and it means uh get a wool itchy shirt on and be miserable and and crawl on your knees and and you know it's just uh it always replaces with penance I shared her there was no purgatory and and and she said, I I like the changes in you when you read the Bible. I said, well, I'm going to read it again. Only this time I got the Living Bible. What a waste of time. But I read it. Even the swear words that are in it, yeah, the swear words of the living Bible. I'm not going to repeat them up here for you, but there are. And she said, you finished you've read the Bible three times. I said, yeah, so I like what it's done to you, but now what what are you gonna do? Read the rest of your life I'd never been asked that question. I said, Yeah, I guess so. And that's what I've been doing for forty almost forty years. Forty three years. Haven't added it up. It didn't write it down in my notes. That's the fruits of the Spirit. You want to read His Word. Not until you finish the book and set it down and go and find something else. You want to read it again and again and again and again. That's a fruit of repentance. It's a hunger for the gospel of Christ like you've never had before. Does anybody remember that change? Maybe you were raised in church in Sunday school and you had Christian parents and you you read your daily devotionals and and you come to church every Sunday and maybe on Sunday you do devotionals twice that day And you you say, I've I've always done this, I've always been a Christian. And then one day you have a hunger for the scriptures like you've never had before. And you go, wow, I don't think I was ever saved before. And you're on fire and you're hungry and you're thirsty for the Word of God. And something is really different. You've never had that before. And verses strike you like they never struck you before. You know, you read a verse, love one another. Yeah, okay, that's good. But all of a sudden you want to love one another. You want to reach out. It just changes you. There's a radical change within you. Sin has lost its appeal, and there's an appetite and a hunger for the gospel of Christ Like you never had before. Well, I'm not asking for a raise of hands there, but I I'm just telling you right now, as you sit here, has there ever been a time when you can think in your life whether your appetite for the Word of God, it just skyrocketed? That's true, repentance. That's re regeneration, being born again. A real appetite. Not, well it's nine o'clock this morning, gotta do my devotionals. Oh, seven o'clock at night, got to do Oh, I missed last night's devotional. That's okay. It's not okay if there isn't a radical change in your life. It's not okay if you don't have a hunger like you never had before for God's word. You are missing something really, really big. You are missing something really, really important. You you can miss a lot of things in your life, but you don't want to miss being born again of repenting and being saved. You don't want to miss that because you will miss something for all eternity. First off, a cold glass of water in hell. You will miss that for a long time. Your friends. The ones you depend on. You didn't like them that much, but they were Christians, they were dependable, so I could lean on them. You're not going to see them for a long time. Look, you're not going to ever see them again. Well you'll s you'll miss them long in that cold glass of water and you'll never get that either But these men, as Christ comes alone beside them, and he says to them in verse sixteen, now as Christ walked by the Sea of Galilee, he saw Simeon and or Peter of course and Andrew his brother uh casting a net in the sea, for they were fishers. And the Jesus said unto them, Come ye after me. I'll make you fishers of men. And straightway immediately they forsook the nets and they followed him I took a Bible quiz that we did let me get these little Bible quiz games you can play 'em. And they had a question. Name the two fishermen in the Bible. And I said, James and John. And they said, wrong. I said, well James and John are too, and I we're playing with a bunch of unsaved people. They wouldn't let me go to the Bible and show them as you're about to fight that James and John were a fisherman too. They wouldn't give me credit for that one I think their answer was Peter and John. Well, John's Brother James. Well you'll see that in a moment. But anyway, so much for games you play out there and books you read are not always accurate. The Bible's accurate They he said, Come and follow me, and they forsook their nets, they followed him. They didn't even complete the job they were working on. It was immediately, it was straight away. They left everything and followed him. Christ's words were obviously effectual. We talk about the effectual calling of the Holy Spirit, the effectual calling of the Lord Jesus Christ. The effectual calling of God the Father, that when God touches us, when God calls us, we come. In the day of His power he makes us willing. Psalm 110 and verse 3 Christ's words were effectual. He touched their hearts, drawing them. How effectual is God's word? How effectual can God draw people affectionately? Well he drew Pharaoh's daughter, what To the stream. He drew Pharaoh's daughter look at a Jewish baby that they were drowning. All of these boy babies were being drowned, her father's decree. And she looked at the little boy baby, and she was just drawn by the Lord to love that Jewish boy baby. Boy, that's a factual drawing, isn't it? Pharaoh's daughter, Exes II? And how about the ravens? Ravens, you see them on the road all the time There's something dead on the road, we call it roadkill, and there'll be two or three ravens out there, and what do they do? They're fighting over it, right? They're not going to share that that dead squirrel with anybody. You can have the tail, I can have the head. No, they want the whole thing. And the ravens out there, they're plucking and pulling out. They won't even leave the road sometimes. They'll come barreling down them at 35 miles per hour I mean, they want that stuff. But in the days of Elijah, God sent the ravens with meat to feed Elijah. How do you draw ravens who won't even share with each other? How do you draw ravens to bring this meat to Elijah? That's effectual drawing and calling of God's creature. Pharaoh's daughter was a creature. That raven. uh is a creature. How about the wise men being drawn from the east of Bethlehem by a by a star? God's drawing them. They're wise men, magi, probably magicians, but God draws them to Bethel. God draws his creatures, whether it's the Pharaoh's daughter, a raven, a wise man who thinks he's wise. You're a creature. And God can effectually draw you, and that's why some of the says you this morning. We've been effectually drawn by God in one manner or another So Simon, Peter, and Andrew, who have been floating about the world on the troubled seas, we might say, of Galilee, God draws them to Christ and they forsake all, including their nets. That's a question of pilgrim. Has God's word caused you to forsake something? Has God's word caused you to forget or rather to forsake anything Nothing? God's word hasn't caused you to forsake nothing? God's word, if it's touching your heart, if you've repented, you're born again, regenerated, converted, you will forsake stuff. You will forsake stuff. Well, I can't forsake my friends. If you're really saved, don't worry about your friends. They're going to drop you as a hot potato. When I got saved, my wife got saved. We didn't have to forsake our friends. They boom, boom, boom. Now the phone stopped ringing, the business stopped coming, they'll forsake you real quick. And if you try to hang on to them, there's something wrong with you They forsook their nets. They forsook everything. And God's not asking us to forsake everything, but He's asking to forsake some things like sin and sinful companionship. Some people tell you they're Christians and they love being a Christian, it's never cost them anything. Wow. Hmm. There's something wrong. Without a question, their salvation. Simon Peter, you know, he's mentioned in all the lists of the disciples, he's mentioned first. Peter's mentioned all the lists. But Peter's always mentioned first in all the lists. That's something you kind of want to know about Peter. And Peter's also the first one, when Christ comes walking in the sea, he jumps out of the boat and walks on the water. The others don't. And in the Garden of Gethsemane, when they come in to rest the Lord Jesus Christ, who's Peter? He's the first guy to pull out a sword and chop off somebody's ear. I mean Peter's just first, first person in a lot of things. Andrew, his brother, he's noted when you go through scripture for something else. Andrew is one that's, he's very evangelistic. He's always inviting people. In fact, if you read through the whole gospels, you find that that Andrew actually invited Peter to come and hear Jesus. And he does, and then they're back working on their boats days later when Christ comes along and calls them. But Andrew had actually called Peter and uh that that is worth noting that Andrew is evangelistic John 18 and 10, or I'm sorry, not John 18, Andrew, John 1 and 42, he calls Peter, says, you gotta come and see this guy, you gotta come and hear this guy. That's Andrew. And then you find in in uh John six and nine that he sees a lad with loaves and fish and says, Son, come with me. I gotta introduce you to Jesus. We're in need of bread. And and the fish would be good too. That's Andrew And then when certain Greeks came and and they wanted to meet this Jesus, we read about John 12 and 20, and they said, well he's very, very busy right now. They can meet. Come on. He gets all these Greeks, a certain group of Greeks, and he brings them to Jesus Andrew's very evangelistic. Peter was always first in everything, but Andrew is most evangelistic. And then in verse 9, we're reduced to two more fishers. Fishermen, contrary to the Bible quiz game, there's four fishers of men. Verse 19 And when he had gone a little further fence, he saw James and John, his brother, who were in the ship. Isn't it nice when brothers get saved together? Wow. We're sisters Peter and Andrew, brothers saved, John and James saved. That doesn't often happen in families today, does it? Sometimes you're the only one. But here he comes, and he comes, he sees James and John, his brother, and they were in a ship mending their nets. The others were casting their nets. and uh perhaps washing their nests after mending them. And it says straightway they were they too are effectually called, he calls them, and they left their father in their ship. Boy, they didn't just leave their nets. They left their father. Hey Dad, we're we're outta here. Fishing business is yours. You have to do without us. It does say here that uh that they they they they left their father with the in the ship with hired servants. They must have had a big fishing mis ministry. Our big fishing business. So they left them with the hired hands. So Dad, you don't need us to get hired hands. They know what to do. We're going to follow the Lord Jesus. Now God doesn't always ask us to leave the business we're in, but these were disciples, these were apostles, and they were asked to leave the work that they were doing John would become Christ's favorite. I think we all know that. John was the Lord's beloved. He would be he would turn over his mother on the crucifixion on the cross. He turned over his mother John, and he said, John, behold your mother, mother, behold your son. I think we know that. But John, it's just as you see these first four disciples here. And uh James will be the first one martyred. We read about that in Acts 12, verses 1 and 2. Has his head cut off. But all four of these men were fishermen. And they all straight away and immediately follow Christ. And it showed there was more than just a magnetic, majestic personality for you just to drop everything and immediately follow Christ. And they must have noted that he was not only the Lamb of God that takes away the sin of the world, as John the Baptist had said and shared with everybody, but they recognized that Christ was the Lord is my shepherd of Psalm 23 They recognized that he was that shepherd in Psalm 23, the Lord. He was not just the shepherd, he was the Lord, and that the Lord was my shepherd. And why do we know that? John 1027 says, My sheep hear my voice and follow me. And those four fishermen were sheep. They knew the Lord is my shepherd. They knew that the Lord was a shepherd. They knew his voice, and they followed him immediately. This is the beginning of Christ's ministry, what we're seeing here. He's got four disciples, four unlettered fishermen, that he is going to turn the world upside down with. He hasn't got a Moses here. He hasn't got a Samuel here. He hasn't got a Daniel. There's not a Moses, Samuel, or Daniel among them. Well he's gonna turn the world upside down with him. Oh yeah, he'll add on that to the tax collector, that's not so good. Simon a zealot, that's not great. Doubting Thomas, that's not so good. Jude is a betrayer. I mean when you look at the list of men, the beginning of Christ's ministry, nothing here would impress any CEO or board of directors. But empowered by the Holy Spirit, he is about to set out and turn the world upside down and change it forever with fishermen. Four fishermen beginning here. And he begins by going to Capernaum on the Sabbath day, verse 21. And they entered in the synagogue and he taught, verse 22. And when he taught, the Lord Jesus Christ, when he taught, it says, they were astonished. or astonied and that word astonished comes from where your face is like you turned a stone. They were just woo! I mean they couldn't move. They'd never heard anything like this before. They were stoned or astonied or astonished. They never heard him like that. They were just dumbfounded. He taught them as one that had authority, or gravitas was a word they used to use around here. He had the he taught with such gravity, with such seriousness, not as the scribes. The scribes We read in Matthew 23, 23. They admitted the weightier matters of the law. They didn't talk about judgment, it says. They didn't talk about the mercy of God. They didn't talk about faith cometh by hearing, and hearing by the Word of God They didn't talk about we're saved by faith and not of works lest any man should boast. They didn't talk about faith saving you. All they talked about were the trivial things. It was straight in a gnat and all kinds of crazy stuff. But they didn't talk about the heavier matters Christ came with dravitas, with seriousness. He talked about life and he talked about death and our eternal destiny as heaven or hell. Now you don't get that in school every day, do you? You know? I mean I I went to school for twelve years of school in some college and they didn't talk about the important things. They just talked about other trivial things That you have to memorize to get a degree. Christ talked about the things that really really mattered The scribe's message was cold, lacking mercy. The scribes' message was without hope. It didn't say, you can never do enough works to get there. We can't guarantee you ever get to heaven. They gave you no hope. But you're saved by faith. That was hope that Christ had taught and preached. The scribes' messages were only cold. They were as dry as a dust on the mummy's tummy. That's an old grandpa Eddie saying, I like that I I use it once in a while. That was the scribes He impressed his hearers at Calpurnium. He impressed them. They realized that he's not just an earthen vessel. There's something special about this Jesus. There's something special about this man. What is it that this carpenter knows and says and how he relates it to he's not just a carpenter, he's not just a a a flesh Flesh and bone, there's something special about him. What is it? Even his enemies said in John 7:40, the enemies of Christ said, Never, never a man spake as he spake. And Calpurnium saw the same thing. They're astonished by the things that he is saying. Christ preaching. It was way beyond the the Billy Sundays of our day and the Dwight L. Moody's and the John Knox and the George Whitfields. His his preaching was well beyond Charles Spurgeon and Martin Luther, the Apostle Paul, or John the Baptist. The preaching of Christ was phenomenal Unparalleled. Never a man spake as he spake. People say if you had a chance of meeting anybody in the whole world you could ever want, some great personality, go back in history as far as you want. I would want to be there to hear Christ speak Never a man spake as he spake. Not Winston Churchill. Never give up. Never give up. Never give up. Remember the Alamo. Oh, these are great things. They stir us, don't they? But never a man spake as he spake. Every word carried immense weight so that those of Calpurnium were astonished, and we'll read next week how they were mesmerized by his miracles as well. Oh Calpurnium, Christ begins his ministry in Calpurnium, where they're astonished and they're mesmerized when they see miracle after miracle and Christ will go back there two or three times He preaches in Capernaum and they're so astonished, they're so mesmerized, and they're not converted Christ will say to them, had these words been heard in Sodom Had the miracles I've done in Calpurnium been in Sodom, Sodom would still be here today, Calpurnium. Oh, Calpurnium, worse is your end in eternity. In the city of Sodom. Christ began there. And they were not converted. And he came there again and again. And for the whole, for the most part, they were not converted. They were not affected by the man whom no one ever spake like him. So, pilgrim, has God's word affected you? It didn't affect Capernaum. Are you astonished, but not converted? Woe is you. Woe is you if you're not converted. Woe is you Let's pray. Father, we look to you this morning. So grateful that you came And touch many a heart that's here this morning. And oh yes, Lord, we know you had to knock on our hearts and knock our heads together sometimes, many a time We thank God that unlike Calpurnium, who you went to at least three times, who came to us three, four, maybe a hundred times that we didn't notice And your word, faith cometh by hearing, hearing by the word of God, it got through our ear gate, sifted down through our brain, into our hearts. We're so grateful, Lord. We pray this day that there are no Calpurniumites sitting here. That they will be more than astonished, more than mesmerized, that they will repent and believe the gospel and be converted. Oh Lord, may it be so in this little body of people. We ask this in Christ Jesus, who is the Lord and our shepherd. In his name we pray. Amen.