Alright, well, last time we were looking at a number of different passages that were trying to give us a sense of the Bible's tone and language concerning music. And just by way of a very quick and brief oversight, we looked at the passages in the Psalms that talked about singing forth the honor of his name, making his praise glorious. We looked at verses that said, Sing aloud unto God our strength. Make a joyful noise unto the God of Jacob. Come, let us sing unto the Lord. Obviously the Bible talks much about singing. It talks about instruments. Sing unto the Lord with the heart. with the harp, the voice of the psalm, with trumpets, and sound of a corn. It says to praise him with timbrel, and dance, praise him with stringed instruments, and organs, loud cymbals, high-sounding cymbals There was a number of different instruments. The Lord Jesus sang at the close of the what we would know today is the Lord's Supper. It says they sang in hymn and they went out to the Mount of Olives. Can you imagine he's singing on his way out to what he knows for sure is going to be his death sentence And then we saw places in the Old Testament where music was used. It was used to call the assembly of the children of Israel together. They had paid musicians. It was people in the tribe of Levi who were paid for this task. They had chief musicians. They had, you see that term a lot in the Psalms, to the chief musician, a a psalm of Neganoff or something like that. Those are musical terms. And then we started to look at the New Testament. Well, what I did omit last week we're going to cover this week, and that is the very clear, explicit passages in the New Testament concerning music. And some of you have raised it with me saying, well, what about these passages that, yeah, yeah, yeah, we're going to get to that today. So today's the day. So turn to Ephesians chapter 5. Ephesians chapter 5, there are two New Testament passages that directly address this matter of music and worship And so we're going to dig into those for a bit. And the first one is found in the book of Ephesians, chapter 5, and beginning in verse 17. Ephesians, chapter 5, and in verse 17. We begin reading, and it says, Wherefore be ye not unwise, but understanding what the will of the Lord is. And be not drunk with wine, wherein is excess, but be filled with the Spirit, speaking to yourselves in psalms and hymns and spiritual songs Singing and making melody in your heart to the Lord, giving thanks always for all things unto God and the Father in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ. Submitting yourselves to one another one to another in the fear of God. Yeah, in uh the days of the Apostle Paul, writing long sentences was not unusual. You can actually pack quite a lot of content and thought into it. It's our text-driven, email-driven world that puts out little dribbles and drables rather than packing a full thought into a sentence. So I'm going to start with a question. I'm gonna start with a question. Sorry, my uh audio is down a bit. Um and the question is this From what you've just seen, what are your observations? What do you draw or extract from what we've just read? I'll let you look at that and consider a response. Any observations come forward from this Oh come on, you have to know something. Am I a clanging gong or a banging cymbal? Surely I wasn't that vague. Right, so it talks something about speaking to one another and psalms and hymns and spiritual songs. Okay. This has something to do with speaking. It it gives a direction. Can you amplify a little bit about what we're speaking? It says a few things there, kinda pick that apart a little bit. Psalms. Psalms, okay, those would be the book of the Psalms, things that David wrote. He was the sweet psalmist of Israel. You know he's a prophet, he was a king, he's also a psalmist. You know, quite a interesting repertoire of qualifications in his resume. Okay, what else Mm-hmm. Yep, separate thing is uh thing called hymns, right? I mean something called spiritual songs. It's a song that's very spiritually minded. Hymns are uh and I'm not sure I'm sharp enough to know the difference between the two, uh, but they are three different things. So good Let me ask another question here. Now, there's a contrast in this verse. Did y'all notice that? I'm thinking particularly of verse 18. There's a contrast that's given What is that contrast? Tell me your thoughts on that. The world versus spiritual. Okay, good. Yeah, the world versus spiritual, so you've interpreted it for us But what is the contrast? Being drunk with wine better being drunk with fish. Okay, being drunk with wine See? Be not drunk with wine, but be filled with the Spirit. Did you catch that? Now it's interesting. You know, I've seen a lot of people coming to church, and I have yet to see somebody show up in a church building with one exception, um that was absolutely stewed. Now that one exception happened to be at our wedding and it was our church photographer. You're not to be drunk with wine, you are to be filled with the Spirit. There's a distinct contrast, right? I think that's there on purpose. Of course it's federal purpose. God wrote it. But I want to I want to drive it home a little bit, all right? Not drunk, but spiritual. You were saying not worldly but spiritual. And I want to Pick on that, how do we get to that conclusion? What do you know about people who are drunk with wine? And I mean really lit up. What's their behavior? When it comes to music Context is music. They're singing. They're singing. Boy are they ever singing, right? They never stop. They never stop. What's their songs like? Yeah the first qualification is loud. In general, louder is better. Loud I'll help you with that since I was in that category. I'm all too unfortunately familiar with that. Loud, raucous, songs of rebellion Songs of rage, songs that want to get you jumping up and down and moving quickly It says, be not drunk with wine, where is in what? Wherein is excess? Notice that sense of excess. There's some excessive behavior going on here. But rather, he says Be filled with the Spirit speaking to yourselves in psalms and hymns and spiritual songs. So the excess is interesting because That already starts to set a contrast between the music of the world, loud, exciting, uh very uh appealing to the to the flesh As opposed to a spiritual song, which you would have to take to be the polar opposite of being drunk with wine. You would expect it to be sober-minded, reverential. uh something to be praising the Lord, something that is reminding us about God honoring principles and things. Let me go a little further. Do you think a drunk person would find any pleasure in singing psalms and hymns and spiritual songs? Probably not, if they're sung in a God-glorifying way. Would a Christian find any pleasure in hearing the songs of the world In the house of worship. Probably not. So there's a contrast here, and that's what I'm trying to get at. The Apostle Paul is making a sharp contrast. There's too much focus and too much theology, I think, that's been given on what does he mean by Psalms or hymns or spiritual songs, and there are those who will argue for something called exclusive Psalmity. What that means is we should only sing what God tells us to sing, and that should be from Psalm chapter 1 to Psalm chapter 150. And they will argue Quite eloquently, that a psalm is a hymn, is a spiritual song. They are all three the same. That's what they will argue I take exception to that. I have no problem singing psalms. I think some of the best songs out there are those straight from the psalms. The difficulty with the Psalms, however, and this is not because thus saith Vince, but I'm just giving a practical thing about the Psalms, which is why I believe the scriptures also puts in hymns and spiritual psalms The difficulty we find with the Psalms is that they are Hebrew Psalms. They are psalms, as you know, that are written in Hebrew language And so the rhyme, the meter, the pace, the beat, all of that sort of stuff is going to make perfectly good sense in what language? Hebrew, of course. Now they are God-inspired and they are good songs. There's nothing wrong with that. In fact, Hebrew poetry is very different than ours. We are a rhythmic, metrical, we're all about sounds There's certain rhymes that go on. All of our songs have to end at the same sound at the end. If it doesn't sound right, you kinda, you know, uh, it's just dissatisfying. We we just think it's a second rate song if it doesn't end the same and alternating verse. Not so with the Hebrews. They are interested in repetitive themes, not repetitive phonemes They don't want the sound to be the same. They want the principle or the thought or the doctrine to be the same. For instance, Psalm 19 is a great example. Let's look at that. It's just one that comes to mind. What do I mean by repetitive themes? Well Psalm 19 is an excellent illustration of this, beginning in verse 7. The law of the Lord is perfect, converting the soul. The testimony of the Lord is sure, making wise the simple. The statutes of the Lord are right, rejoicing the heart, etc. And he goes on. Every one of those is talking basically about the Word of God. The law of the Lord, that's talking about the Word of God. The testimony of the Lord, that's talking about the Word of God. He goes on to talk about statutes, commandment, the fear of the Lord is clean. He's referring to the Word of God. He's on the same theme. He's just using different words to tie that together. And that's very helpful when you know it, and that does transport to every language around the world, but from a song perspective, it doesn't necessarily achieve the same end. My experience in trying to sing the psalms has run the gamut from it's next to impossible to sing. Those who hold to exclusive psalmody will attempt to not even alter the order of the words And it's very difficult to put any kind of form of music to it. Some will go to the extent that says, we don't even have an instrument. The guy up there blows a dog whistle, or a C note, or whatever that thing is, and then we're all supposed to pick it up from there And it's so hard to sing that you really can't get any benefit from it. It actually becomes an impediment to getting any benefit from the Word of God at that point. The scripture talks about singing to the Lord a new song. You know, God does gift his people musically. There are people who have come up with some truly exceptional hymns over the years. And there's no reason why those can't be sung, especially we are now standing on two thousand years of history. There's a lot of rich theology that has survived the test of time that somebody has been able to put together. Fanny Crosby is a great example. She's put together a tremendous amount of hymns. uh that are very God glorifying. Uh Watts is another one. Uh Horatius Bonar has put together some excellent ones and and so forth. Uh there's just many uh a hymn writer that are just most excellent. I'm sure I'm leaving quite a few out. So we see back in our Ephesians passage that some other points I want to draw out. In verse 17, it says, Wherefore be ye not unwise, but understanding what the will of the Lord is. The only word I'm paying attention to there is the word ye. Now, that is an Old English word for y'all. It's a plural you. And so the directive is to you, the church at Ephesus. There is a collective group of believers who are to be singing. So we are singing to the Lord together is a collective thing. The context is the whole church. Singing is to be done by all the saints. God wants to hear his children sing. It's a delightful thing when children are able to get together and sing a song. It's just so wonderful to hear all of the children in your family come together and sing. That's what you want to hear. That's great That's the thing that really excites you. You just get so jazzed about that and pumped. And and and and I don't care if the neighbor kid can play the saxophone. I I that's nice You know, but I want to hear my kids. And so it is with the Lord. He doesn't want to hear the children of the wicked. attempt to praise him. That's simply not of interest. What have you to praise me for? You're you're God's angry with the wicked every day, so he doesn't hear the wicked. That's not of anything that comes to his attention I have a quote here. There's others who, like me, have been very sensitive to this business about singing to the Lord psalms and hymns and spiritual songs and to do it in a sober manner. And I'm going to read a quote from a section called The Evaluation of the Trinity Songbook. One of the hymn books we sing from is called the Trinity Hymdal. There's a blue edition that came out in the 60s and a red edition that came out in the 90s. I like the blue edition. It's got a few songs in there that uh particularly like. The red edition did update uh some of the uh the tunes for some that were a little difficult. I read the quote as follows. We need to look at the culture of the music, not just the words in the music. What does he mean by that? He means this. He says, does reggae promote a reverential atmosphere? When we adopt the world style, do we reach the world or does the church become worldly? Good question. The author goes on to say, we believe this may be dangerously close to having a form of godliness, but denying the power thereof Does the worshiper now have to overcome the associations to songs that he's heard outside of the church? Is the church no longer a haven for the musically weary? And boy, I can raise my hand on that one. As somebody who was a DJ in college, who had mastered all of the world's songs and absolutely knew all the tunes and the beats that would get an audience hopping and crazy drunk. that I was looking for different music. When I became saved, when God saved me I was like, I cannot have this junk in my ears. I want to get out of certain grocery stores quick because they're playing songs from my era. I don't want songs from my era. I can't focus very well. I don't want to go to certain restaurants. I like Mexican restaurants. You know why? They play Mexican music in a language I can't understand. It's great. It doesn't stick in my head. It's Teflon. I love it. It's great. So we go to Mexican restaurants quite a lot for that reason. Do we want to bring our worldly amusements, the author writes, to the house of amusement? Excuse me. Do we want to bring our worldly amusements to the house of worship? The answer, of course, is no to all these things. Music communicates in a very powerful way, and we need to understand this communication. Music, the tune, what it is you're conveying to people, has a lot to do with the message. You can't divorce the two. I've had many a young people come to me and say, uh, well, do you like such and such a band? Uh Skillet, I think, is the name of a band that somebody asked me about. Trust me, you don't want to go look it up. And um as in sizzling hot and uh as in rock and roll and I said, Well, let me hear it and I, you know, heard a few uh tunes of that and I paused But the words are good Yeah, but the music is not gonna cut it, son. I'm sorry. There's just way too much of the old man in that. I I I could not just couldn't happen Not in the house of worship, I'm talking about in the house of God where the people of God sing. Uh individual musical preferences and taste. I'm still going to leave a little bit more liberty there, but I'm still going to say what are you listening to and what is going through your head? Is this Again, is a drunk person going to be quite happy listening to this? Is the world going to be quite happy listening to this? You ought to ask that question. I think it's a really good question because that's exactly how God puts it here in the contrast. Not drunk with wine where is in excess. Is the music being done in a form that's excess? Or psalms, hymns, spiritual songs, uh giving thanks. Is it a thanks-giving song? And there are some songs that do give thanks to people, and that's a good thing Let's move to the next passage that we have. We're going to leave this, and we're now going to go to the book of Colossians. Go to Colossians chapter 3, Colossians 3 and verse 16. I'm going to begin in verse fifteen of Colossians three where it says this And let the peace of God rule in your hearts, to the which also ye are called in one body, and be ye thankful. Again, notice the plurality You're in one body, be ye, plural, you Colossians, collectively together. Be thankful. He goes on, verse 16. Let the word of Christ dwell in you richly in all wisdom. Teaching and admonishing one another in psalms and hymns and spiritual psalms. Singing with grace in your hearts to the Lord. That is very interesting. What are your observations on that, those two passages that we just read? What are your observations? Somebody give me some insights of what you just saw there. Peace of God is a centerpiece of the passage. Okay, the peace of God is a centerpiece of the passage? What else do we have? So that that is whatever you're talking about should convey the peace of God or should bring about a sense of the peace of God. Okay. Peace of God's important in verse 16 uh where it's speaking particularly about uh music What would you find to be central? Okay, you know, Okay. We're getting there. You push that a little harder what you're trying to do. We're getting there. We're we're beating around a bush. There's there's one the word of God, here we go. Let the Word comes from. Yes, where the peace of God comes from. Thank you. The Word of God is to dwell in you richly. Notice that part dwelling in you richly The Pharisees said of the disciples, we perceive that they are with Jesus, because there was a certain speech coming from their mouth that betrayed that they had been with him. The language of Canaan, as it were, was they were not speaking like Canaanites. They were speaking like Christians. When the word of Christ is richly in your heart, when you're intimately familiar with the Bible, when you're familiar with thus saith the Lord, I wouldn't be surprised if some phrases from the Bible, if some very biblical themes begin to pop out and start to have preeminence in the songs. And that's why those that have endured over the years have done exactly that. They pick out biblical themes, and they're highlighted in the song, and that's why they're so special to believers. You know, you don't have to be drunk to hate the Word of God. I was working years ago in a computer lab at my job. I'd been with this Company, brand new, first job right out of college, for about three or four years, and I was in the computer room and um I was a Christian at the time, brand new baby Christian And uh some of my colleagues were were talking about music and what they liked. And I'll never forget this one gal. She was a sharp engineer, uh, you know, uh competent And she said, uh, you know, I I kinda like all kinds of music. I I like, you know, rock and I like uh jazz and I like uh I even like country and uh just but I I I I don't like gospel songs She liked everything on the broad road, but when it came to uh a church hymn or a gospel song, no, she drew the line there, just a dotted line there. I don't have a taste for that. Well, it could be that content and the music type are distinctly different. The children of God have a different utterance from their mouth. There's just something different coming out of their mouth. There's something different coming from their mouth when they speak one to another. And there ought to be something different from their mouth When they sing to one another, I would submit that there's got to be a difference. There just has to be. What comparison is made? Ephesians gives us a contrast. This verse gives us a comparison. What's the comparison made? This is a little tougher. And I'm looking at verse sixteen. If you don't like the word comparison, I'll say the connection. How about that? It's the word of Christ richly dwelling in you, connected to what? Teaching and admonishing one another. So we understand that. It's hard for somebody to be a teacher of the Word of God if the Word of Christ doesn't dwell in them. Of what are you going to teach? What will you speak about if it's unfamiliar to you? This is true for any field. I could scarcely show up at Masada School and pretend to be, oh, say, an English literature teacher and stand up and say, hi, I'm your English lit teacher. I've read some books in the past, so I think I know something about this They would immediately kick me out for more than one reason. Obviously, I couldn't just show up and pretend to do that. Well, isn't that true now for singing? Isn't that interesting? The exhortation is to who? The entire church at Colossae. As you sing, church, you, church, collectively, need to have the Word of Christ dwelling in you. You need to know something about thus saith the Lord. You know, one of the problems I find is that the uh church is Always enticed by this approach that I call the seeker-sensitive movement. A seeker-sensitive church is those that say, you know, there's there's people I think That really could benefit from coming to the Lord. Amen. And we need to do everything we can to remove roadblocks for these people to come to the house of God. Amen. And what they want to do is they want to start by dumbing down the worship music. And it kind of Roll out a little bit of a mat. We're going to roll out a mat that looks like worldly songs, and they'll go down the mat of worldly songs, and then they'll wind up in the house of God and they and then they'll hear preaching and then they might hear something and then we'll So it's a compromise. We'll compromise on the music and we'll we'll bring them in that way. The same fellow that wrote the earlier quote had this to say. He says many of the songs by Marinatha and Integrity tend not to be very instructive and often appeal to the experience-based heresy of our age. I had a feeling. So are drunks. Let me tell you what, those speakers at a hundred watts will move you. I can move a lot of people with these speakers, including an apartment across the street, but that's disastrous These songs quite often demonstrate shoddy lyrics, and we know we can do better. We found many in the songs in that songbook fall prey to undue repetition and very little instruction. Pretty bold statement. A simple analysis of these songs demonstrates they are straight out of popular culture We should not force the singer into the mindless chanting patterns that are so prevalent in Buddhism. and other Eastern religions. Now I learned about a little bit about this coincidentally, providentially, this week. I walked into my office and underneath the door was slid a calendar. And it was the healthy diet calendar for twenty eighteen. Our company puts out these calendars and they want you to eat healthy and all that stuff, mostly because We're self-insured for insurance and we don't want to overspend for a bunch of fat slots. So we'd rather make sure they're healthy, not smoking, not you know, whatever. They they want to make sure, okay, you're good and healthy, great. Yeah, all that good stuff And lo and behold, we look in there and there's something that says uh meditation. And they got a picture of the gal sitting there, legs crossed, you know. I don't I'm not sure what do you do with this? I mean, is that where you hold the incense or or the or the The chant, or I don't know. It's always these two fingers. Why why can't you do this? Or why can't you do this? But it's this. Somebody will tell me And you're supposed to chant a mantra, that is a little ditty that you just keep repeating on to focus on. Because the objective is to completely forget everything. Now I will confess I have my mantra. It goes like this. One, two, three, four. Repeat. One Two three four. This is what I do when I'm trying to go to sleep at night. When my mind is active and running rampant, it's like, okay, stop thinking. Count the four. Stop. Start over again. Because I found if I try to count You know, I lose track of where I was at and then I was now where was I at? And that's no no no one two three four repeat one two three four repeat and just relax and man about three rounds of that I'm out. That's what I use mine for I hardly consider it a worship song. I'm not doing this when I do it. What am I talking about here I'm talking about those who want to dumb down the congregation. We should be building people up with substantive songs that instruct and admonish. Now, I'm going to give you Exhibit A of fluffy spiritual song. Some of you have had cats called fluffy, right? It's a really thin cat, kind of skinny, but it's got you know like 50 feet of hair, and it looks like it's this big cat, and if you give it a bath, it looks like a wet rat. What is that? You know, fluffy. These are fluffy spiritual Yeah, you know what fluffy is all about, huh? Fluffy spiritual songs. One is called Here I Am to Worship. Now, we subjected ourselves to this, and there's red font in here that indicates repetition, and it goes, the line goes, here I am to worship, here I am to bow down, here I am to say that you're my God. Here I am to worship. Here I am to bow. It's the same seven words eleven times. The end. Well, I'll never know how much it costs to see my sin upon that cross. They repeat that four times. And it's nice and slow. And it's got uh, you know, nice strumming music to it. There's another one, Lord I lift your name on high. That literally repeats that stanza one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten times in the song. The same thing. It's fluffy. There's nothing from that. If you like to listen to that music in your car on the way to work, Praise God. That's fine. But that is not spiritually instructive music. That's not helping the congregation. Well, it puts me in the right mood. Where do you see mood in here? It doesn't say about the mood of Christ dwelling you richly. Christ doesn't talk about his mood. Actually, if you find anything about the mood of Christ, he was a man of sorrows and acquainted with grief. I just failed to find how these fluffy songs fit in the house of God. You know, when you think about, O sacred head now wounded. With grief and shame weighed down, Now scornfully surrounded by thorns thine only crown When you think about words like that, that's talking about the crucifixion of Christ and what he did, his atonement. These are things that the Bible talks about. It's a a hymn-centered book, H-I-M, and so our hymns, H-Y-M-N-S, ought to be about H-I-M. You know, look at how the Lord speaks against repetitive prayer in the book of Matthew. Go to Matthew chapter 6 and verse 7. Matthew chapter 6 and verse 7. The Lord says, when you pray, use not vain repetitions as the heathen do. They think they shall be heard for their much speaking. Now, if our Lord disses repetitive prayer, do you think he has a different standard for repetitive songs? I think not. I don't think there's much of a stretch there. There's other passages besides these that do speak about music in the New Testament, but those are the two premier portions. That the Word of God in the New Testament and the Old Testament should live and dwell and abide in us abundantly. It should find a comfortable home. It should find a haven there. And that happens by reading and by being taught. And one way we are taught is through songs. So the worship leader at the church, or the song leader, or whoever it is that picks out the song songs and directs the congregation ought to have this thought in mind. What am I teaching the congregation? That's why in Presbyterian and Reform churches The pastor tends to pick out the songs, and there's a smart reason for that, because he wants the songs to reinforce the message that he's talking about. It's very nice when You sing something, Psalm fifty one, the sermon happens to be about Psalm fifty one. Oh, gee, I think I just remember singing that. I mean it takes a while, I don't know about you, but for my dense brain to kind of pick up Well I see where he's going. I need to tell me where he's going to go, tell me and tell me where he took me, and then I might get it by the third or fourth time. It takes us a while. Repetition's a good thing, the Apostle Paul says. It's needful for me to write the same things to you. So our aim is to sing, to teach, not to tickle the ears. We sing to edify, not to excite. Those are two different goals and those are two different aims, and I would submit to you, that's probably why the drunks or my colleague at work in the computer lab is not interested in spiritual songs. And likewise the child of God should not be interested in the world's songs. You know, after I became saved, it's very interesting because you know what happened? All of a sudden, I actually started paying attention for a very brief period before I finally said enough of this music cut out from it And I actually started to listen as a saved person to my old ungodly songs, I started to listen to the words. I never really paid attention to the words before. It was all about the music and the rage and a handful of phrases that you could latch on to And when I listened to the words, I said, man, this is ungodly stuff. Country music, for the most part, is about cheating and getting drunk. You take out those two topics, you've pulled the rug out on 99% of country music. There just ain't nothing else left. And I never realized that. Absolutely never realized it And so the songs use words, and the music is there to reinforce and to hammer in the words into the minds of the person. That's exactly what it does. And I tell you, I just loved our Christmas hymns this year because we sang so many good hymns and Christmas songs that it just kind of kept those words going through the mind For the next several days and weeks. It was really, really wonderful. And what a nice way to have a jolt of that. You know, children memorize a tremendous amount of things through song If you give your children little DVDs of good Christian songs that are doctrinally intact Simple for their age. A 7-Eleven song is okay if you're seven. In the 7-11 range, I guess, although Cam could probably handle something a little meatier than that It's okay. Repetition is good because those children remember those songs and it sticks in their heads. O, B, E, Y, obey your mom and dad. O B-E-Y, obey your mom and dad. Makes them very glad. Yeah, that's it. Good stuff. Good stuff. That's what we need. Let's look at some other passages there. First Corinthians 14 is one. Angela brought this passage up last week and we'll revisit it again now. We should sing with our understanding. 1 Corinthians chapter 14 and verse 15. 1 Corinthians 14, 15, the apostle writing to the church at Corinth says this. What is it then? I will pray with the Spirit. And I will pray with the understanding also. I will sing with the Spirit. And I will sing with the understanding also Now, in the context, he's dealing with a church that's gone amuck with speaking in foreign languages. They're rather enamored with the fact that they can just open their mouth and all of a sudden they start rattling off something in French In fact, they themselves don't even know what they're saying. They're hoping a Frenchman's in there somewhere, or at least a French interpreter. They're very enamored with this. And they think that they can also put that into songs. The apostle's trying to straighten this out Fellows, he's as it were is saying, if I could paraphrase, you're misusing a God-given gift. Look at what he says in 19 Actually, 18, he says, I thank my God I speak with tongues more than you all. Yet in the church I'd rather speak five words with my understanding. that by my voice I might teach others also than ten thousand words in an unknown tongue Clarity of communication is important to him. That word teaching is the word catecho. It's where we get our word catechism. I want to catechize you. I want to indoctrinate you into Bible teaching. And if I can do that very simply, he says that's to be preferred. He says that's actually a good thing. That's why God gives us teachers. They're a help. They're not the Word of God. They're not a replacement for the Word of God. They're an aid. They're a help to help understand. And so if our singing is to be a result of the Word of Christ dwelling in you richly, then the singing should be with understanding. Meaning, you should be able to sing a song and start to pull out and draw out the doctrine and the teaching that this song is giving to you. Now I gotta hand it to musicians and hymn writers in particular who really know how to slice and dice the doctrine of God and arrange it in, you know, four part, four chord harmony, or I don't know what it's called. Is that w is that the right term, Victoria? For the music, okay. Uh but to put it in meter that is uh aligned well with hymns, I'm very impressed just to be able to put doctrinal nuggets together that are just such a blessing. Isaac Watts was a master at that. In the 17th and 18th century there was a uh hymn writer named Gadsby, Gadsby's hymns God glorifying hymns. If you ever come across Gadsby's hymns, G-A-D-S-B-Y, buy it and just read it. They were the way they did it in old times is that they would he would write his hymns disassociated from music. And that's because the music could be played at different meters. His hymns were according to meter, and so you could sort of interchange his hymn with the music. Very clever to be able to switch out the hymn with the the music and you can change it up. Gadsby's hymns, really good stuff. So this is what the Apostles uh Paul talks about in the Corinthian church. Go back to the book of Colossians. I probably should have changed my order so you wouldn't have to flip. Colossians chapter 3, the same chapter we were at before, he gives us some instruction in the first two verses, Colossians 3, 1 and 2, that music should be setting our minds on heaven. Music should be setting our minds on heaven. And boy, there's good reason for that. Colossians 3 begins, if ye then be risen with Christ, seek those things which are above, where Christ sitteth on the right hand of God. Set your affection on things above, not on things on the earth. This is a really great admonition in here. You know, we can get our minds easily set and affixed And deeply troubled by things on this earth. We can be so in tune with some of the news and the media that we just get spun up And so distraught by this investigation and this crooked politician. And of course, in this town, there's all of that being blasted out. And it can really rob your joy. I'm not surprised to hear these things. I'm not surprised to hear that. They've rejected Jesus Christ. They want to go their own way, and if you reject Jesus Christ, you reject the way of peace. So it's no surprise That all of the news from your mouth, Mr. Worldling, is bad news. I'm no surprise, Mr. Worldling, that the wisdom from your mind is a way of confusion and problems and heartache and grief. No surprise I wouldn't expect anything different. But for the godly, we have great and exceeding precious promises from our Lord Jesus Christ He has promised us, he has obligated himself to bless his people, and he has secured it in a new covenant by his blood on the cross All the terms and conditions of the gospel promises have been fulfilled in Jesus Christ. Yea in him all things are amen and amen. God looks upon his son, and he is obligated, can you believe that? To fulfill and carry out all of his blessings upon his people. He's obligated to carry that out. He will, in fact, draw you. He's the author and finisher of your faith. He begins it, he concludes it, and he's going to take you through the journey. You're on a ride. It's a roller coaster ride. Let me tell you, if you thought it was a smooth little choo-choo train ride in a circle on a merry-go-round, you're sadly mistaken. Whoever led you into that church put put out the wrong mat for you It's a roller coaster, but he's in charge, and no one's fallen out. No one's fallen out. Setting our minds on heavenly things is where the child of God needs to be at, and music is an instrument to help. God knows how we're made. He knows how we're wired. I don't know how I can have music just go through my mind. Isn't that amazing? You don't I don't have a radio receiver any stick in my head, but boy I can just with a thought music starts flowing through my head. I don't know if my cats can do that. I doubt it. The only complaint I get from them is for food. It seems to be the only thing they beg me for Child of God, on the other hand, needs to be fed spiritually. And one tool of that is music. So the point is that these seven eleven songs really dumb down the proclamation of our magnificent God and make heaven seem cheesy. Heaven is not Chucky Cheese It's above and beyond. How does it say at the end of Ephesians it says now unto him who is able? Ephesians three. Unto him that is able to do exceedingly abundantly above all that we ask or think According to the power that worketh in us, unto him be glory in the church by Christ Jesus throughout all ages, world without end. Amen. That's his doxology. God is able to do abundantly above all that we ask, and I've asked him for some pretty tall orders. He says I can do even above what you think. My uh fourth point I want to make comes to us from the book of Philippians, so let's turn to the book of Philippians. And the fourth point is this. Music should be, church music, church music, church hymns, spiritual songs should be excellent. That's what you're striving for, for excellence. Look at Philippians chapter 1 and verse 10. He says, verse 9, this I pray that, dot dot dot, verse 10, that ye may approve things that are excellent. That ye may be sincere and without offense until the day of Christ. Notice that phrase, that ye may approve things that are excellent. He says later in chapter 4 in verse 8, he says this, he says, Finally, brethren, whatsoever things are true. Whatsoever things are honest, whatsoever things are just, whatsoever things are pure, whatsoever things are lovely, whatsoever things are of good report And I would submit to you whatsoever things must include music, does it not? If there be any virtue, if there be any praise, think. That's the word meditate. Think on these things. What's meditation? I'm told that cows have more than one stomach. I've never gutted a cow and actually checked this out, but I'll take their word for it Uh somebody's telling me four stomachs. Do I hear four? Anybody say nine? I've heard nine. I've heard three. I have no idea. As far as I know, they're making it up. But anyway, I think the cow actually has more than one stomach. I'll go with four. Thank you. Our latest uh biology student here is all sharpened up from uh the master over here who's uh grilling her uh grilling her with uh research papers from the University of Wisconsin. Shame. Shame. But anyway, um that's complete aside. The purpose of that stomach is so that the cow can sit out in the field, and I can testify to this because my dad owned a cattle ranch. They'll sit out there and they'll lie down and they're just kind of comfortable in the field of grass and they're just Kind of my jaw does this from time to time, kind of gets going in a circular fashion, and they're just they're just chewing stuff. They're just just they're chewing the cud. Well that's what meditate is You roll it it's an interesting word in the Greek. It has to do with rolling things over in your mind. It's like you've got a thought and you're just going to kind of Look at it from different perspectives. Women are good at this. Ladies, I should be telling you something that you just have as second nature. Just looking at all the ins and out and connecting things a million different ways Men don't think like that, I'm sorry. But just to meditate and to look at, that's what he's talking about here. Things that are true. Honest, just pure, lovely, good report, virtue, praise. That's a pretty long list Have you ever sat down and put on a three by five card? Here's the things I'm going to think about today. Now, trust me, I'm as much of a failure in this as the next person. But that doesn't change the truth of the Word of God and what He tells us to do. It's an excellent admonition, an exhortation. One way to think about things that are true and lovely? Put scriptures up on your wall. When you go by, you can think about it and look at it. Um put God glorifying music in your car. You know, it's really easy this these days. Everybody has one of these things. And Well, you used to have one of these things. Uh the nice thing about one of these things is that you can download the family radio app and you can start to stream the family radio music into the car. Plug in the little 8th millimeter jack or blue s blue-toothed or whatever, and it's 24-7 Around the globe. You got a a connection? It's wonderful. There's a lot of ways you can do that. A lot of ways you can do these things. Music sticks in your mind, and we all understand that. And I asked the question: how does the flow of non-virtuous songs affect our minds prior to Or after worship? If you're rolling into the church parking lot, rocking out to the latest album from whatever, and then try to go into church, what is that doing to your mind? as you're preparing, so-called, for worship. Well, you're actually polluting your mind for worship. Would you dare go into a final exam and Start to have something else rattling through your head to try to disrupt it, to try to disrupt your thought processes and your ability to kind of concentrate and focus. Music goes a long way too that is my point, and we all know that it sticks in our mind. God has a criterion for music and it has a high standard. Should we expect anything less? You know, I'm going to keep driving this point home with another example here. Let's say that you want to open a savings account at a bank. Dear Uncle Charlie, bless his soul, passed away, and he left you a lot of money. And you want to go put that money in a financial institution. After all, you don't want to lose this And you're checking around at banks. And so you're making some phone calls. And you call up the ABC Bank. And the ABC Bank says, uh, how may I route your call? Oh, new accounts, please. Yes, ma'am, please hold. They put you on hold. And what comes through the telephone line but a children's nursery rhyme? Mayor, we had a little lamb, little lamb, little limb. A little child song, some little childish ditty comes rattling through the phone At this ABC financial institution with big columns and towers and pictures of presidents on the wall and suits and and and stock charts with arrows going up and But they have some silly ditty on the line. What does that say about the bank? Are you likely to go stick your money in that bank? I'd go, who are these people? Have this goofy, nutsy song on here? Are you kidding me? Maybe it was just a mistake. The next song rolls over to some other silly little child's nursery thing. You'd think, you'd look again, did I call ABC Playground Company? Or, you know, did I call the, you know, who did I call? What do you hear? Usually you hear some very sophisticated, calming music, music that's appropriate for the institution is what you'd expect to hear. Is God's church going to have anything different? What impression does that make upon somebody who would go to such a bank? Do you think that's going to fly past the bank president's desk? Oh gee, I think when I have our people on hold, we'll play some stupid little nursery ditty. That's that sounds like a winner. That's gonna bring a lot of people in. Hardly If you wouldn't do that for a bank, how much less would you do it for the God of heaven who owns that bank and a whole lot of other stuff Do we not have rich treasures in the Word of God? Why should we cheapen it? What impression are we leaving with people, let alone ourselves? Well, the point of this is that what Christians call beautiful says a great deal to the watching world about who we call beautiful. And so there should be a striving for excellence in music. playing performance, uh boy, I I'm I I I don't have this ad just right. I I'm just gonna back off. I I can't I can't do it. I'm not saying that. I'm saying there is a striving towards. There is an there is an upward trend. There is a desire to improve, not to dumb down. Is the trajectory going up? Are we aiming towards excellence? As opposed to, well Yeah, I didn't practice, so I'll just show up and tune it there. Excuse me while I tune it ding ding ding. You know, it says I'm sloppy. I'm not ready. It's a terrible thing. Let's look at some perverse uses of music because the scriptures also mention those who have a perverse use of music. You said, well Vince, you've been kind of giving me your opinion on these. I don't think it's my opinion, though I've been quoting from others, I've given you scriptures, I'm trying to make application I think the Bible is clear that there are those who have a perverse use of music, and the Bible in fact does talk about them. So let's look at a few cases of perverse uses of music. Job chapter 21 and verse 7 is the first place that I will start. Job chapter 21 and verse 7 We'll look at two places in Job 21. He's talking about the wicked, wherefore do the wicked live, become old Yea, are mighty in power. Dot dot dot. Skip down to verse eleven. He says, they, meaning the wicked, send forth their little children's excuse me, send forth their little ones like a flock, and their children dance. They take the timbrel and harp, and rejoice at the sound of the organ So here, this is a singing, this is a dancing. It's of the wicked, meaning the Bible acknowledges that the wicked dance. Notice the instruments they're taking, timbrel, harp, organ, same things that God's people use to worship. And I would submit to you that those songs are not good songs. They're songs of the wicked. Because, verse 13, they spend their days in wealth and in a moment go down to the grave. Therefore they say unto God, Depart from us, for we desire not the knowledge of thy ways So if this is the thought of their heart, they don't want to know the knowledge of the ways of God. Should it be any surprise to you that their songs do not include the knowledge of the way of God? How are we to be singing in church? Teaching one another Word of Christ dwelling in you richly. Psalms him, spiritual psalms. There's a connection. There's a thread here, folks. There's a continuum. This isn't anything detached. When it comes to music, we don't Shut the book and go do something else. Right? It's very connected to this book. Book by preaching, book by singing, but it's book-centered because it's hymn-centered, and that's what God would have us to do Isaiah chapter 5. Isaiah chapter 5 and verse 11. Isaiah 5, 11. This is the prophet Isaiah. He's writing to a rebellious people in the days of Israel, one of the mighty prophets of the Old Testament. And he is a prophet to the southern kingdom. Judah and Jerusalem. And he says in chapter 5, verse 11, Woe unto them that rise up early in the morning, that they may follow strong drink. That they continue until night till wine inflame them. Kind of sounds like Colossians, or excuse me, Ephesians a little earlier. And the harp and the vial and the tabrae, the pipe, and wine are in their feasts But they regard not the work of the Lord, neither consider the operation of his hands. Well if their minds are not regarding the work of the Lord, if their minds are not regarding the work of his hands, do you think that's going to be in their songs? Do you think it's going to be in their music? No, it's not. And so God says, woe unto them. And he lists all the reasons why there's woes upon them. One of the reasons is their music Because our music is godless. So if God says, Woe to them who have godless music, why are we buying the music of the godless? Why are we listening to the music of the godless? Why are we borrowing from the music of the godless? God says woe to them. We say, oh no, Lord, I'd like to buy this because I think it's pretty cool. God says woe to them. That doesn't sound like we're thinking God's thoughts after him. We've gone off the rails. We've chosen our own way when we do something like that. Daniel chapter 3. Daniel chapter 3. Music is very powerful, and it is used by the powerful in this example of Daniel chapter 3. Daniel 3 in verse 5. This is our blessed friends. Nebuchadnezzar, verse 1, the king, made an image of gold whose height was 60 cubits, and the breadth thereof 6 cubits. He set it up in the plain of Durham, the province of Babylon. Here he's got this big golden idol, a work of men's hands. He sets this thing up. He wants people to worship it. How is he going to signal the period of worship? How is this pagan king going to say, okay, this is what we're going to do to prepare to worship my false God? What does he do? Verse 5, at what time you hear the sound of the cornet, the flute, the harp, the sackbutt, the psaltery, the dulcimer, and all kinds of music? Ye fall down and worship the golden image that Nebuchadnezzar the king hath set up. Isn't that interesting? The ungodly king has decided that the prelude to worship is his music. And when you hear it, fall down and worship. I would submit to you, he's setting himself up like the God of heaven. He wants to be like the Almighty. There's a lot of singing in heaven Rightfully so, this is a wrong singing. This is a bad singing. This is the singing the people of God don't want to get into, and in fact When those songs encountered, what did our three or four friends do? Was it three? Was it four? There were certain Jews that oh yeah, it was the three friends, Daniel's three friends, Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego He says, I'm going to try it again. We're going to blow the trumpet in the heart. Verse 10, you've made a decree that whosoever doesn't fall down and do this, he'll be cast in the midst of a burning fiery furnace. And of course you all know the story. It's one of the children's favorite stories. But notice the element of music in that. Amos chapter 6 and verse 1, and this is the last passage for our study tonight. Amos 6. I go to verse 1 to pick up the context. He says, Woe to them that are in ease. In Zion. Sometimes bad music shows up not when the nation is drunken and out of control, or when a pagan king is beating his drums to say, Go worship my God. Music can show up at a time when people who are at ease in Zion. You know, ease at Zion means everything's going okay. Got my easy chair here in uh lower Judah, and everything's fine. Woe to them, he says, that are ease and dying. Trust in the mountain of Samaria, which are named chief of the nations to whom the house of Israel came. Verse 3, ye that put far away the evil day Far away. No. God's not coming anytime soon in judgment. The goodman has taken a bag, he's on a journey, and won't you'll come home at the appointed time. It it's taking so long. He he tarries. Isn't that interesting Those that complain about the tarrying of the Lord are those that God says, Woe to Verse four, that lie upon beds of ivory, stretch themselves upon their couches, eat the lambs out of the flock, and the calves out of the midst of the stall. The chant. Here's this chanting thing again. Chant. What's a chant? A 7 Eleven song. a mantra, a mindless repetition, that chant to the sound of the vial and invent to themselves instruments of music like David That drink wine in bowls and anoint themselves with the chief ointments, but they are not grieved for the affliction of Joseph. In other words, they're at ease in Zion, they're utterly unconcerned about the sad state of affairs in the house of God. That doesn't seem to bother them. God's people are sad, they're happy. God's people are in mourning, they're eating fat fatted calves. God's people can't hardly even sing. How shall we sing the Lord's song in a strange land? It says in one of the Psalms. And they're fine to just chant away, don't worry, do do Do do be happy, don't worry now. Woo hoo hoo hoo. That's reggae. This is a real song that says that. My dad had a little stupid bass fish on the wall. You sing these at Walmart. You push the button at the bottom and the bass comes out in his mouth starts chat chattering away with this mindless song. That's what these people are doing. Don't worry, be happy. It's the don't worry, be happy songs. And God says, Woe to them that are in ease in Zion. Again God says, Woe to these people, what do we do? We go and buy it. So um I have a um uh a uh uh uh A couple of points. I was going to make it a discussion question, but uh I I want to wrap it up here. Music Especially the tune has the capability of stirring emotions. We've seen plenty of examples of it and it's implied. We all know that But we must remember this stirring does not constitute being moved spiritually. That's the word of God. The Holy Spirit, by the word, converts. The Holy Spirit, by the word, moves spiritually. The Holy Spirit by the Word of God sanctifies. That is what a spiritual song is. It's a song that God the Holy Spirit can use because In there it can be found his words, his precepts, his doctrine, his principles, his fear, testimony, statutes, judgments, you name it, the things that are pure, honest, of good report, virtue, praise That's what you'll find in there. That's a spiritual song. That's being spiritually moved. When it's word-centric, it's no great thing. This isn't a surprise to the world It's devoid of that, and so what does it appeal to? The lust of the flesh, the lust of the eyes, the pride of life. Complete difference. The scripture sets forth a very high view of God, and our songs and our music has to convey save.