Well here we are. Here we are. From Texas. And it's been beautiful having some cool weather. I mean we've had a triple digit temperatures almost since the end of June. And I mean unrelenting. And so we're glad to be here. This is like winter where we live. So it's just wonderful. And I'd like to start with a word of prayer, if I may, and then we're going to look at a few things here about God's creation. Thank you, Father, for bringing us all together here on a Sunday. um up here in the east and uh we thank you for a group of people who are uh who make the effort To get together on a Sunday and other times too, I'm sure, to honor you and to worship you and to praise you, and you're worthy of our praise, because you are the creator of all things. And as the creator, Lord Jesus, you stepped into time And lived the perfect sinless life that Adam didn't live and made a way. Uh by taking our sin, our sin, all of them, on your shoulders on the cross so that we could get your righteousness, which happens. You rose from the dead, you conquered the death that was the result of Adam's sin. And uh now you give us a gift. You say, if we are willing to confess with our mouth the Lord Jesus and believe in our hearts that you God raised him from the dead. We will be saved. And thank you for that. Now watch over our time. Help me to say what you want me to say. And help our fellowship be pleasing also. In Jesus' name. Amen. So we're talking today about one little aspect of the creation. Uh feet. And I was gonna do a section on human feet, and the more I looked into it, the more I thought it's pretty gross. uh all the things that can happen as a result of a curse to human feet. So we're gonna do mostly just animal feet, okay? Because there's lots of that, but a few preliminaries, just a few. First of all We have to believe Jesus is our Creator, because the Bible says he is. John 1, Colossians 1, Hebrews 1. Like John, what's it say? Everything that was made was made by him. All things, John, the Gospel of John, all things were made by him, talking about Jesus. And without him was not anything made that was made. So he is the creator. God the Father, in the power of the Holy Spirit, through the agency of Jesus, created everything. Which means Jesus, as the Creator, would have the right and the authority to be the Savior. Because only the Creator would have the right and the authority to save his particular creature, which is us. Okay, so um I've been on both sides of the fence on this issue. Almost half my life I was an evolutionist And then this last half plus a few years, I've been a biblical creationist. Now, what's a biblical creationist Uh that is someone who believes this whole universe is about 6,000 years old. That there was a flood covered the whole earth maybe 44, 4500 years ago That Noah had dinosaurs on the Ark because they were created on day six, just like Adam. And uh So that's a biblical creationist. There's all kinds of creationists out there, by the way. I think a biblical creationist, younger, global flood. That's the two basic uh identifications. All right, now just a quick one here. The world loves Charles Darwin, and they love his book, which they don't tell you the whole name of. Does anybody know the whole name of Darwin's original book? On the origin of species and the preservation of favored races. On the origin of species by means of natural selection. And the preservation of favored races in the struggle for life. All right? Darwin was a hardcore racist. Well, hardcore. If you read his book, The Descent of Man, unbelievable So, how many races are there on planet Earth? There's one, the race of Adam, right? Now, by the way, they're trying to change that now. They're dabbling with the human genome and they're adding animal genes and synthetic genes to the human genome. So they're trying to change it so it's no longer going to be the race of Adam. I think maybe that's why uh Mark says we're to share the gospel with every creature. Maybe we're not gonna know. Is that a is that a A human, the race of Adam, or not? We'll just share the gospel anyway. Maybe that's what he means anyway. Darwin didn't know anything about cell biology, biochemistry, molecular biology Mendelian genetics, mutations, DNA, biological information, population genetics, neurobiology. None of that had been published in Darwin's day. And ultimately it was Christians that God gave the information to But published it for the world. So what's Satan's plan then? Get rid of God. Get rid of Jesus. Get rid of Genesis. Get rid of the Bible. Okay And when they can do that, they get rid of God. Now we don't have to worry about a judgment. We can just eat, drink, and be merry. For tomorrow we die. Okay? And that's where the world is I have just maybe two two quotes here. This is atheist Richard Beauxart. He says that he died. Christianity has fought, still fights, and will fight science to the desperate end over evolution. We don't fight true science. We fight science falsely so-called, based on billions of years. That is science falsely so-called. What do we have today? We've got fake news, fake science, that's called evolution, fake uh pharmacology. We have fake history. That's called revisionist history. I mean you look at what's going on in Satan's world system It's based on a bunch of lies and deception. Well, what's he? The father of lies and deception. And we live in his world system. Alright? Okay, so what does evolution do? He says evolution destroys utterly and finally the very reason Jesus' earthly life was supposedly made necessary Get rid of Jesus. Destroy Adam and Eve and original sin. Get rid of Genesis. And in the rubble, you'll find the sorry remains of the Son of God. He refused to capitalize it, so I did. If Jesus was not the Redeemer that died for our sins, and this is what evolution means, then Christianity is nothing. And what's he saying? We get rid of Jesus and we're home free. So, you get rid of Jesus and you get rid of hope. Okay? You get rid of love. You get rid of all the fruit of the Spirit, and that's what we're seeing in the world right now. We're seeing it in Israel right now with what's going on there. We see it in the United States with what's going on here So he understood the issue. Now here's one more. This is uh an honest atheist, Dr. George Wald. There are only two possibilities as to how life arose. Okay, what did he just say? There's only two ways we can be here. This is an evolutionist, an atheist evolutionist speaking. One is one way we can be here, spontaneous generation or rising to evolution. So in other words Life popped up from dead chemicals, spontaneous generation, and what happened from dead chemicals that came to life over millions of years, here's man. So that's what that's what he's talking about. So that's one way we can be here, he says. The other way is supernatural creative act of God, and there is no third possibility. Spontaneous generation. That life arose from non-living matter was scientifically disproved 120 years ago by Louis Pasteur and others, that leaves us only one possible conclusion. that life arose as a creative act of God. I will not accept that philosophically, because I do not want to believe in God Therefore, I choose to believe that which I know is scientifically impossible. Isn't that something? I have one more from him. Look at this One has only to contemplate the magnitude of this task. What? Nothing to man over millions of years. The magnitude of that task Chemicals to life, to concede the spontaneous generation of a living organism is impossible. Yet, here we are. As a result, I believe of spontaneous generation. That's sad. It's just sad, okay? But that's we bump into these kind of people on the college campuses. That they have made a choice. I will not believe in God. Therefore I'm going to believe what I know couldn't happen. Okay, some people say, well, I can have evolution and the Bible. And we're getting close to talking about feet. Okay, it's either evolution or creation. We just read you that from an atheist evolutionist. There's no middle road. What does the Bible say? There is a God. What's evolution say? The whole basis to have evolution. I gotta get rid of God. How am I gonna do it? Well, they do it through evolution. Earth was here first, says the Bible. Nope. Stars were here first, says evolution. Earth started all wet, says the Bible. It's all covered with water. Oh no, no, no, no. Started dry, says evolution. See, some people say I can have both. You can't have both. Once you know the issues, you have to decide deep down in your heart who do I believe. Do I believe do I believe the the word of God Or do I believe the word of man? That's what it boils down to, yeah. We've got to believe God's word. Light light was here, first three days, no sun until day four. Oh no, the sun was here, it had to produce the light, says evolution. Land plants were here first, says the Bible. Nope, nope, nope. Sea life was first, says evolution. See, which one was it? You can't have both The Bible says birds on day six, reptiles on day s birds on day five, reptiles on day six. What's evolution says? Oh no, the reptiles came thousands and thousands of years before the birds Man from dust, says the Bible. Nope, man from the primates, says evolution. Man sinned the cause of death, says the Bible. Oh no, death was there long before man came on the scene Right there. That takes care of the whole process of evolution. It takes care of people that believe in theistic evolution, which I did for quite a few years. Progressive creation, day-age theory, framework hypothesis, all of that. This takes care of there was no death before Adam You can't have millions of years of things living and dying if there was no death. And if there was death before Adam, why did Jesus have to come down and conquer that death by the resurrection? You see, it doesn't even make sense. So the gospel is definitely tied right into Genesis. Okay, so we don't see this out there, do we? But look at that foot Uh well there's a dog look at that foot. That's a different foot. Well, look at that. There's a cat bird. Do we see feet like that? Well yeah. Look if we all came from that original speck of life. Some people say it was all started with blue-green algae Where do all these different kinds of feet come from? Where did the information come from to make different kinds of feet into the genes? What what where did it come from? And by the way, the scientists can't answer that Where how did information get into the genes? Because information is non-material. You can't grab information out of the air and stick it into a gene. You can't take a gene and pull the information out God put it all there to begin with. Fascinating. Okay, so look at these. There's the American coot and the pink-footed goose And the blue-footed booby and the American purple galno and the eagle eagle's feet And all kinds of feet. By the way, eagles' feet. No, they say birds evolve from reptiles because birds have scales on their feet Those aren't even scales. They're called scutes or skutes. They have a totally different source. Scales, epidermis, outside layer of the skin. Scoots, scoots come from deep down in the dermis. Totally different origin. There's no relationship at all between scutes, which birds have And scales, although they still teach it at the university. That's one of their good evidences that the reptiles became birds. Look at those scales. They aren't scales. See, they lied to us. Now many of them don't know they're lying to us. I didn't when I was teaching it. Okay, look at all these different kinds of feet. I mean that's incredible. And God had all these different kinds of feet thought up before he made anything Because he spoke it into existence and it worked for the particular animal that he made it for, or the particular human. We're not animals, by the way. We're created above the animal kingdom to take dominion over the animal kingdom. We're created in the image of God Alright, so how beautiful are the feet? Consider this. Each of Earth's unique climates, cold, hot, tropical, desert, who knows, unique climates. They're truly packed with numberless wonders. Among these wonders is how each climate supports the different kinds of food and shelter its specific creatures need to sustain life. Now remember Before there were any there was anything at all. God had this all worked out and he spoke it into existence. Oh, I think I'm going to make that for in the desert. Bang, there it is, and it works. Okay, they know how to find food, they know how to find mates, they know how to do all these things. So each creature had to be crafted from head to foot for its precise environment Think about the amazing variety in the feed of different creatures. In the frigid northern areas of the predat there's your polar bears with their predatorial I say predatorial Because if you have a polar bear and a grizzly bear, and you have a pile of raw hamburger here and a pile of grapes over here, the polar bear will always go to the hamburger. The grizzly bear will go get the grapes. They would rather grizzly bears they would rather eat fruit than meat. But by the way, they will eat meat. So if you know that, you don't go out in Yosemite or somewhere and find a grizzly have a handful of hey come and get some grapes. You don't want to do that. Okay. Now oh did I finish that? Uh yeah, in the frigid northern areas you got the polar bears, the special snow boots, camels, look at they walk on hot sand, the Kinkaju, its feet, it can turn them 180 degrees Sir can run up the tree this way and turn around and keep the feet in the same direction and run down the tree that way. Where does that come from? If all these things came as a result of God's creation. So who is following our feet? That's a good question Okay? Are the footprint Steve Green had a song about this if I recall? Are the footprints that we are leaving behind, leading others to believe in the Creator and Redeemer, the Lord Jesus Christ? Are they inspiring him to love and obey him? We each have been entrusted with a certain number of years on this earth, some more than others. I'm in my 84th year, represented by a dash between the dates on our future tombstone. So how are we investing this little dash of time for God's glory? So you got the tombstone. You got one day Dash and the date we go to be with the Lord or the other way if we don't know Jesus, and there's that little dash. That's everything we've done right there. Okay. What is going to be there In that dash representing our life. That's what we need to think about from time to time. Okay. What are we doing here? That you might walk this is our family verse. That you might walk worthy of the Lord. Under all pleasing, being fruitful in every good work, and increasing in the knowledge of God. Colossians 1. 10. That's our family verse. I pray it almost every day for me and my family. How beautiful are the feet of the Kingju. They live down there in the Amazon and in Central and South America. Most of their time they spend up in trees. They're called the honey bear because they like honey They have a special tongue. Way out it goes. And they'll find uh beehives and honeycombs with bees all over And their fur is so thick that the bees can't sting them. I don't know about the tongue. I've not seen anything written about that, okay? Because they stick their tongue right down in there and bring the honey out. That's why they're called a honey bear And they can walk frontwards, backwards, uh 180. They can do a 180 with their feet. But they can do a 180 with their backbone. In other words How we do this. Okay. They can do a 180 on the on the lower part. Oh, turn it. They're thinking, wait a minute, do they know which direction they're going in? Which which They can do that. And that helps them up there in the trees. If they see something they want to eat over here and they're hanging on this way, they can turn 180 and go that way without turning their feet or I mean God had all that thought up before he made any of them. Once he tells us, he wants us to study what he's made and then give him glory and give him thanks. That's Romans chapter 1. And he says, if we If people don't do that, they study what he's made, they won't give him glory, they won't give him thanks, when they stand before him, God says they are without excuse Okay? That's supposed to lead us to Jesus, studying the creation. How beautiful are the feet of a kinkatu? And now it's tail. Is a it's a prehensile tail. It can do a lot, but its tail has like a foot on the end of it. Okay? And it can hang on to things there. It's just like a foot on the tip of its tail And not too many animals have that, okay? But it's like it has five feet instead of four feet. And uh and it gets food all around, uh, because it can just move almost in any direction Then you have spider monkeys, okay? And they live up there in the canopy, but they don't have a thumb. Okay? So, there's your spider monkey. Uh, foot, there's no thumb. Well why did God do that? Well because they harpy eagles like to eat spider monkeys. So they have the the spider monkey needs to be able to go rapidly through the jungle up there in the canopy And it'll grab on vines. Okay? Well, if it had a thumb and it grabs on a vine, it's going to be a split second longer to let loose to get to the next place. So God made it so all it has to do is hook, hook, hook, hook, hook. And away it goes. And it doesn't have to worry about its stump getting in the way. It doesn't slow it down. Now now you have to we have to think God had this figured out before there was any of it. What kind of a God do we have? Unbelievable. And you just think of that. Okay. So you've got the spider monkey, no thumb. Um, then we have another A monkey. It's not really a monkey. It's in a it's a prosimian. It's in the Lemur family. Okay? And it has a middle finger. It's on one of our DVDs. Uh we brought some of those in and we like people to take them. So that they can s share it with people. So it has this middle finger. It just looks like a piece of wire coming out of its hand. Well why would God it's the only primate with that. Okay. Why would he do that? Well because the I lives in Madagascar Where there are no woodpeckers. So God made a primate to do what the woodpeckers do. It climbs up on a tree. It has these great big ears. Looks like a cat, big ears for a for a primate. It uh taps on the tree with that long skinny finger with the hook on the end, taps on the tree, and it's listening And it can hear the grubs crawling around in the tree. So then it'll chew down into the tree to find the grub tunnel. And then it takes that long skinny piece of wire, sticks it down in the tree, down in the tunnel, stabs the grub, brings it out, has lunch. So God made a primate do what woodpeckers do in a place where he didn't put any woodpeckers. So we have that Spider monkey, no thumb. We have the eye with a finger, just looks like a piece of wire. We have the baboon with pouches like hamsters. Other primates don't have that. Okay. We have the slow loris. How many of you know about the slow loris? See, you're not allowed to know that. We live in Satan's world system. It's based on d lies and deception. If there's anything the evolutionists can't describe using evolution, They censor it out of the books. Okay, I majored in biology in college. I never heard of a slow loris. I never heard of a weta. I never heard of a neudebronc. I never What's a slow Norse? Well, not its foot. But under its arm right here, it has venom gland. It'll lick that gland to get the venom. Mixes it with saliva, and then when it bites into something, spreads the venom You're not supposed to know that. Because when you know that, you've got to give God the glory. Oh, there it is right there. The slow loris. Okay? Now it has interesting feet It has a grip like steel, okay? As a matter of fact, that's why it's in that red cloth. If I was holding that slow loris like in my jacket And it grabbed a hold of my jacket. You'd have to cut the jacket if it didn't want to let go. They found these things hanging dead, hanging on a branch in Indonesia. They can't pry the fingers up. Just locks on. They have to cut the branch. Where does that come from? There's no other primate like that. Okay? So you're thinking, even among the primates, what are those? Those are the apes, the monkeys, and uh prosimians, those are the levers, okay? You've got those three categories. We're not a we're not a primate We created above the primates to take dominion over. We're humans made in God's image. So the only venomous primates, slow loris, vice-like grip. Can't be open. And I just told you that. They get attached to a tree and they're they're attached. Now you have the gecko. And the gecko could run right across this ceiling Even it was made of if it was a mirror, a glass, pew, off they go. How do they do that? Well God made it so their feet Well, they have all these little gadgets. Let's just look at that just a little bit. They have, they use Venwal forces Molecular attraction. And they can adjust that to any service. Any circus. Circus. Any service. No. Any circuit. What am I talking about? Surface. Any surface? Yes. Come on. When your brain is 84, sometimes it gets Where are you? Okay. I'm already there. Yeah. I'll tell you Uh so it's these these electrical currents between atoms. Their their feet do that with whatever surface they're on. And I mean it's incredible. It's just and God thought that up. Okay? He did. So every square millimeter of a gecko's foot pad contains about 14,000 hair-like sea tie. Those are the little things, like little hairs. Now, but it gets even better. By the way, they can support their entire weight on just one toe. Just hang off a ceiling with one toe. It's that strong Now, each of these, the Sidna ha setta, have uh they're about five micrometers. A hair is 18 to 180, so they're much smaller than a hair. And uh each one of those is tipped with a hundred to a thousand, what they call spatulae And each of those is two-tenths of a micrometer long. That's about one-five millionth of a meter, just below the wavelength of visible light. God made that. And it worked. We can't do that. We can't duplicate that. Scientists have been trying to duplicate that because there's functions they can do. No, can't do it. Alright, I don't know if you knew that an elephant, tiptoes, God's biggest land animal, is walking around Tiptoe. So he's in the high heels. Yeah, well it needs them 'cause look, his heel is way up there. Uh in the it's way up there. Uh so this is actually tiptoeing around. I mean it's like God has a of humor too. This biggest land animal. And they can sneak right up behind you and you'll never know they're there. They can walk silently. Because they have these big pads under their feet and it muffles sound. Even they step and crack a little twig. No, you don't hear it. So they they really are equipped to do a lot. And uh Actually, those aren't really toenails that that the elephant has. It's there, but it isn't hooked into the bone at all. So they they walk on on their tiptoes and um God designed the elephant's elephant's foot so that the soul spreads out to take the weight at each step. When the foot is lifted The toes sag and the foot diameter is reduced. So you go out and walk in deep snow and you have a boot on. And it's slushy and the the you you gotta take your foot it and your boot stays like boop the boot stayed there. Your foot came out but the boot stayed. Well how is an elephant Going to uh it because they go down the riverbanks, deep mud. They walk in deep mud. They step in, might come all the way up, way up their leg, they're stuck. They're stuck. Nope Because when they begin to lift, the leg and the foot contract. So it just lifts it right up out, goes in the next It never gets stuck. Yeah. Now God had to think of that before he made the elephant. Because he knew they were going to be on river banks and different things like that. By the way, they can run they can run pretty fast too Uh they have a fingerprint or a hook print. Okay, so if you got there and okay, elephant stamp, come on, here's the ink, here it they have their own like fingerprint on their foot. But the older they get they kind of wear it down, but you can still tell. Oh, that's that one. Okay. The foot pad acts like a cushion, absorbs the impact, takes some of the strain off the leg. Great proportion of the foot is composed of fibrous, fatty tissue, acting as a shock absorber, has elastic properties which helped the elephant maintain its grip on the ground, enabling it to move silently. The only evidence of the five toes buried in its foot are the elephant's toenails, which are actually cornified shields in the skin. They're not actually attached to the fingers, to the digits, to the bones. So they're not really toenails in a sense. They can walk forward and backward. Elephants can walk backward. They can amble along at 25 miles per hour. That's pretty good. They can negotiate steep terrain. And they can swim. They're good swimmers. They like to swim, okay? And they can stand on their hind legs and reach way up in the trees and get different things that way. Then you have your horse's hoof with that soft part in the middle called the frog. And that is an auxiliary pump. Because when a horse is, for instance, running, their heart isn't big enough, it isn't strong enough to pump the blood through their whole body when they're running. So God made four auxiliary pumps. Because when it's running, it compresses that and that shoots the blood up the legs. Okay? And uh so God made horses with auxiliary pumps. Uh which which they really need when they're especially when they're running. Now something happens like if the horse is in the barn all winter And there's feed trough up here in front of it. And usually they'll put kind of the grain over here and they'll put like the hay over here. And so the the he'll move its front feet many times, but it won't move its back feet. So it moves over here and eats some grain and then it'll lift its feet, move over here, and that pumps, but they don't move the back feet So they usually, if they're going to go lame, the first ones feet they go lame in are the back feet. Because they haven't been moving their back feet if they're in a stall in the barn. So the farmers that know that, they'll get the horse out and walk it around, even in the winter. Okay, get get come on, we gotta get fresh blood down here. The frog covers the deep vessel-filled tissue part of the hoof, known as the digital cushion. And by the way, you someone that makes horseshoes They if you need one that really knows what they're doing. Because if the horseshoe is too thick for that particular horse and its particular weight It won't compress the frog enough and they can get problems in their legs. Okay, so there's different things we have to think about. That God had that all figured out Um I think we won't th I just want you to know it has four auxiliary pumps that got made to help it go when it needed us to go The the Emperor Penguins, okay? What about them? They have feet that stand on ice all winter long It can be 50 below zero. There can be a 60 mile an hour wind, and their feet don't freeze See, God has that figured out. And they have a thing called countercurrent blood flow. And that means the veins and the arteries are right next to each other when they come down the leg toward the foot So the cold blood, it's been in the foot, now it's in the veins, it's going to go back to the heart. The cold blood comes out of the feet, it's coming up to the heart. But it's right next to the hot blood coming from the heart to the foot. Yeah it is. And since it is that way, the heat from the Warm blood goes over into the vein that's coming up and warms the blood up. So when it gets to the heart, it doesn't have this cold blood coming into the heart. But that also cools it down And they can control the amount of temperature they need to keep their feet from freezing. They they can control that. They need a little more blood going, so they pump a little more Okay. How? How? You see? God had all that figured out when he spoke it into existence. Um the baby, mama lays the egg, gives it to Papa Bird, Papa Bird hatches the egg. Well, Mama Bird, Mama Penguin, goes off. For three and four months? And she feeds in the ocean. Now meanwhile, the ice pack is growing because it's winter Then she has to get from where she's feeding back because Papa Bird doesn't have food for the baby bird. So she has to get back to the baby bird to feed it. So she brings back uh Undigested, partially digested fish material that she regurgitates into the baby bird. So she feeds the baby bird, then daddy goes off. He hadn't had anything to eat in like three months. Well, how did he do that? You see? God knows. He he made it that way. Then you have your caribou. A magnificent animal. Just beautiful. They're made for snow. Their feet in the winter are hard. Hard hard hoof so they can chip through the ice to get down to lichens. They like to eat lichens In the summer, their feet are soft and they spread out. So when they walk on the tundra, they don't leave a deep footprint Because if they did that, it would destroy what goes on under the tundra. And then next year, when you come back where it had stepped, now there'd be a big round black spot And the next year be a bigger round black spot. That's why when you go like to Alaska and places they have signs. Do not step on the tundra. Because it it irreducibly destroys the tundra. And so you just can't do that. God made it, so we're not supposed to do that. There's a lot more about that. But anyway, uh time flies. The reindeer Uh this the female reindeer, by the way, is the only deer, as far as I know, that has antlers Hm. She doesn't lose and she doesn't lose her antlers. Like the males. They they have the mating season in the fall and then the big bulls They lose their antlers. So by about December, they don't have any antlers. Well now, meanwhile, uh Mama Caribou is pregnant and she needs good food for the baby that she's carrying So she finds a nice bed of lichens. They like to eat lichens in the winter. Totally different digestive system than in the summer. She finds these lichens and she's gonna eat these lichens. Here comes a big bull Hey, do I want those lichens? Sorry, sir. I found the lichens. They're my lichens. I'm the bull. I get the lichens. I have the antlers. Get out of here. So God made the female caribou so she could protect the best food all winter long. Well she's pregnant. I mean he thought of everything. See he wants us to study what is made and then give him thanks and give him glory. Oh yeah, it's unbelievable. Um eagles They have these talents. And they say that it their grip is so strong with those talents. They can puncture a tractor tire. And that's why you see people that handle these birds a big thick leather gluff on their arm. It'll come down and land. They're not taking any chances. Okay And even then, every now and then they penetrate it. Okay, these bird handlers. Yeah, so they're they're powerful. And um Th they by the way there's th their feet and their beak match. Look at that. Your beak is yellow, Mr. Eagle, and so are your feet. Oh, look at that. Yes it is. Anyway. Um The talons can be locked and unlocked, and they can catch a big salmon, and it's too big, they can't lift it. So they'll hold it and swim to shore. They actually swim to shore, paddle their way over, because they don't want to lose it. And then you have like your polar bear. This is Aggie the polar bear. She's about five feet behind me and Mark Dumas said, Whatever you do, don't bend over. He said, if you bend over, that bear is gonna think you're lunch So in the DVD, it's Alaska the the first one I guess. We have some here if you want them we just take 'em. I'm kinda like this when I'm talking about that. I'm not moving. And so anyway. Um What a foot they have. You know, it it's a big foot. Well they're running on ice and snow. So God put little things called papilla, little things they stick down and they kind of grab it. They have special hairs on their foot kind of strong little hairs they help grab. So they can run on ice, they can stop on ice, and uh they they they just have to have that for what they do They average about 12 inches in diameter. That's a big foot. And that spreads their weight out more on the snow and things like that. They they can run uh Faster than a man can run. So you can't outrun a polar bear. Okay. Uh you can outrun somebody slower than you. Anyway, uh the size of their feet helps them, they're excellent swimmers. They can swim for seven to ten days. And they're not going extinct. I won't get into all that. They're not going extinct. Don't believe these weather alarmists. Okay. And there's all kinds of evidence to support that, but we don't have time to get into that Uh the grizzly bearfoot. We we we couldn't find a grizzly barefoot. By the way, Vince did a wonderful job uh going through and telling us, okay, on this slide do this, this, this, this, this. We haven't had time to do it yet. We've got the list. We're gonna do it. Okay. So we appreciate that. We need all the help we can get Uh but the grizzly bear they have these big claws because they dig. They dig. Anyway, camels feet Huge feet. They're walking on sand. Okay. They're also very uh well insulated, so the sand could be 160 degrees or even more Dunburn him at all. Okay? And uh and they can run, they can stop, and they don't sink into the sand. They're right on top of it So they have that countercurrent flow also. So a lot of a lot of animals do. And they can they can regulate their own temperature. Let's say it's a particularly hot day They turn their temperature down inside. I can get it down to 87. 8 degrees Fahrenheit. Or let's say it's a particularly cold day. They'll get together, they'll just herd together, and they can ruin their own temperature up to 107. So God made them so they can adjust to the different degrees of and huge degrees between day and night lots of times in the desert. He made them that way. Uh then you have your your water strider, okay? It runs on top of the water. Jesus walked on water, right? Well, these water striders do too. I wonder if Jesus used surface tension. Or if he didn't even need that. I don't know. He created it, and that's what it uses, the surface tension on the water. And they have uh they uh they're the enemy of a water bug. And the water bug, uh the the water strider likes to eat water bugs And they're usually on the surface of the water too. They're a little round bug. So they're going along and here comes the water sprouter. And this water bug, oh, here comes that. He wants to eat me So God made the water bug that it squirts out like a soapy water solution And that destroys the surface tension on the water. So here comes the water strider. He's right on top of the water. Here's the water bug and squirts out his solution and hits that. There's no there it it hadn't nothing to support it because of the soapy water. How would that evolve? Right. You see, people say, well, I believe in evolution and the b wait a minute. How would that evolve? God had to do it, you see? Um What else do we have here? Platypus. Look at that foot. That's totally that's that's totally different kind of an animal. Okay, all kinds of things. Wonderful, what a wonderful foot. Look at the mosquito's foot. That's an 800-time magnification. That is a mosquito's foot. What do you mean? Look at all the contractions on them. Are you worried how they gonna land on you? You don't you don't feel it? They can bite you. You don't feel it. Okay? By the way, they have like a dagger. That's how they penetrate your skin. It shows up under a microscope. Phase electron, it doesn't have a single Flaw. But you put a razor blade, some of our sharpest instruments, under a microscope, all kinds of little flaws. That doesn't have a single flaw. It can just slide right through your skin. Nothing catches, nothing jerks, it's just You don't even feel it. Isn't that amazing? God did that. Okay? If evolution is true Then random, mindless chance processes would have had to produce each of these incredibly complex kinds of feet Which are all specifically fitted for their vastly differing kinds of climates and terrains. Each failed experiment, if evolution was true, would only lead to death Because they they can't they can't walk, they can't do anything. Yeah, I agree with you. And that's no further evolutionary progress could be made because dead things don't Evolve life-saving changes. Only the Creator, the Lord Jesus, could work such wonders, and they are truly without number, as the book of Job records. They are without number Now what about our feet? Well, I decided not to do much on our feet. I started looking at it and uh I don't think I want to do that. I mean since the fall and the curse. Human feet have problems. And the only kind of pictures they want to give you on the internet are the problems of Well, we all know what a normal foot looks like. Well maybe some of you don't I mean maybe some of your toes are kind of this way, you know. You never saw a real good foot. I don't know but too close in front. Yeah, exactly. So I didn't do it. Okay But they have more bones in the foot than anywhere else. There are 26 bones in each foot, 33 joints, 19 muscles, 10 tendons, 107 ligaments, 250,000 sweat glands. We all know about that. 8,000 nerves No wonder they're so ticklish. All these parts had to be formed at the same time and know how to work together for locomotion to successfully take place. God did that. He put all put all that stuff together and it works. So we started here. Are the footprints that we are leaving behind leading others to believe in the Creator and Redeemer, the Lord Jesus Christ? Inspiring them to love and obey him as other people watch us and they're watching. We have each been entrusted with a certain number of years on this earth Represented by that dash on the tombstone between our dates. So how are we investing this little dash of time for God's glory? Each one of you, how are you investing it for God's glory? Are you investing it for your glory or for God's glory? Each of these irreducibly complex creatures we've studied today shows the loving heart of our Creator to provide for His creation, perfectly suited for all environments Creating them with intricate beauty and complexity. By the way, this is not natural selection. No way. All it needed in in each genome was all it needed for whatever environment it would end up in. God had that built right into the genetics from the beginning. Nature didn't select that out somehow By the way, Institute for Croatian Research calls that continuous environmental tracking. I think that's a good way to describe it. Doesn't give nature any glory at all. It gives God the glory because he did it all from the beginning. Isaiah 52 reminds us we need to be bold with the truth of salvation, how beautiful upon the mountains are the feet of him that bringeth good tidings. Oh hey, that's us, that publishes peace, that bringeth good tidings of good, that publisher salvation, that saith unto Zion, Thy God reigneth And he does, even though it doesn't look like it sometimes. But he does. He knows what he's doing. So what a blessing. Our Creator showed his love for mankind by giving himself as the sacrifice for our sins. The Bible tells us in Romans 1, if we study the world around us, study the creation, we will recognize there is a creator. The Bible says his name is Jesus Christ, Colossians 1. 16, and that he is also the Savior of all who believe in him. That if thou shalt confess with thy mouth the Lord Jesus, and shalt believe in thine heart, God raised him from the dead. Thou shalt be saved. So, Jesus Christ, the Creator Came to earth to redeem his special creation, mankind, through living a life as holy man, holy God. But completely sinless. First Peter 2, what's it say? For even hereunto were ye called, because Christ also suffered for us, leaving us an example, hoopa grimo. that you should follow in his steps. That's like the writing that word would be like the writing over the blackboard or the writing under the blackboard. They used to have it when I went to school. You forgot how to make a capital Z Capital Z. You look at the black bo oh that's a capital Z. That's Jesus. He is our example. Okay? That you might walk worthy of the Lord and all pleasing, being fruitful in every good work, and increasing in the knowledge of God. Colossians 1 10. One quick little story. Yesterday, Costco, which is impossible to find a place to park on a Saturday. Well, we got a place to park, and here's this young man uh uh collecting the carts. I happen to be right beside the place where people put their carts. He's coming right by he had a sign said Leon. And so he gets right up to my window and I see Leon. Hey, hey Leon, I said, do you uh uh know anything about uh an animal? I don't remember which one No. Well they gave him one of our animal cards. Oh, that's very interesting. He said, you know what? He said, that animal has to be designed. I said, she's right He said, did you know the book of Romans says that if you study these designed animals and creatures that God made And don't believe in him, you're without excuse. This is the guy parking the carts at Costco. We had about a 15-minute chat. Praise God. Solid believers. So if you go to Costco And you see Leon. Leon. Say, hey Brother Leon, how are you doing? Okay. Well I'll say a prayer. Father, thank you that your grace is sufficient for all of us Thank you that the equipment worked this morning. Thank you for your creatures and father. What an am just looking at feet There's no way. All these different kinds of feet could just be the process of a mindless, chance, accidental, random, non-directed, non-purposeful, non-intentional process. You did it. And you did it so we can study them and then just give you thanks and give you glory for your mighty action. And we thank you for the salvation you give us through Jesus. In his name I pray. Amen.