Open your Bibles with me, please, to the book of Psalms and to the 42nd of the Psalms. Psalm 42. We read from the Beatitudes, from the Sermon of the Mount, very deliberately for our responsive reading this morning. And in the sixth verse of Matthew 5, we read, Blessed are they which do hunger and thirst after righteousness. And that is the theme we're going to consider this morning, looking at hungering and thirsting after righteousness from the 42nd Psalm. If you have your place there now, I'll read all 11 verses. As the heart panteth after the water brooks, So panteth my soul after thee, O God. My soul thirsteth for God. For the living God. When shall I come and appear before God? My tears have been my meat day and night While they continually say unto me, Where is thy God? When I remember these things, I pour out my soul in me For I had gone with the multitude, I went with them to the house of God with a voice of joy and praise with the multitude that did keep holiday. Why art thou cast down, O my soul? Why art thou disquieted in me? Hope thou in God, for I shall yet praise him for the Lord, for the help of his countenance. O my God, my soul is cast down within me. Therefore will I remember thee from the land of Jordan and of Hermon from the hill of Mizar. Deep calleth unto deep at the noise of thy waterspouts, all thy waves and thy billows are gone over me. Yet the Lord will command his loving kindness in the daytime, and in the night his songs shall be with me, and my prayer unto the God of my life. I will say unto God, my rock, why hast thou forgotten me? Why go I mourning because of the oppression of the enemy? As with a sword in my bones, mine enemies reproach me while they say daily unto me, Where is thy God? Why art thou cast down, O my soul? And why art thou disquieted within me? Hope thou in God. For I shall yet praise him, who is the health of my countenance and my God. Let us pray. Gracious Father, there is so much in this chapter, Lord, that we could consider this psalm alone for a whole year and not exhaust it. O Lord, in this psalm we see the sufferings of Christ upon the cross. And he himself even crying, My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken thee? And his enemies saying, If thou be the Son of God, come down from the cross, and we will believe thee. And O Lord, even mocking him upon the cross. Well Father, we see here the psalmist separated from the worship of God and longing for thy courts and thy sanctuaries. Oh Lord, this morning help us to see the man of God who truly hungers and thirsts for righteousness. Oh God, open this passage to our hearts. Open this passage to our understandings. Father, bless us through thy truth this day. May we plead. For Lord, if you do not bless us, we have no blessing. Oh Lord, if all we do here is stir our emotions, we have wasted our time. But oh God, may your spirit arrest our souls. In Jesus' name. Amen. Blessed are they which do hunger and thirst after righteousness And I am not asking you to raise your hand, but do you hunger and thirst after righteousness? And my friend, if we are honest with ourselves There's not a n one of us that's hungry enough. There's not a one of us Living in these bodies of sin and flesh that hungers for Christ alone. Oh, we may have a bit of appetite for him. We may have an occasional pang of hunger for the Lord, but oh how our flesh hungers for other things We find here in this 42nd Psalm, and I hope this psalm just jumped out at you again and again and again. I mentioned already, and it's not actually part of the message at all, but every verse of this psalm mentions the Lord El Elohim Jehovah. It's packed with him. And here the psalmist says, as the heart, we understand the heart there, not heart as in the beating organ in your body, but the heart, the the fallow deer, the roe deer. As the deer, as the heart panteth for the water brooks, so my soul panteth for thee, O God. And I wish I could stand here this morning as your pastor and tell you that my heart pants only for my God. But what a lie that would be. For indeed, though our hearts pant for God, we all know that our hearts pant for other things as well But blessed are they which do hunger And thirst after righteousness. And I believe by the very fact that you are present here today, I believe by the very fact that you have tuned in to this message from the Word of God that is an indication that you are blessed because there is with you in you a hunger and a thirst for righteousness. And if there were not the hunger and thirst, you would not be here. If there is not a hunger and thirst for righteousness, you will soon turn off this message. But blessed are they that do hunger and thirst after righteousness because something has happened. Our world is full of people who have no appetite whatsoever for Christ. But only those upon whom God has worked. Only those upon whom God has done something will hunger and thirst after righteousness. The world today hungers and thirsts for anything but righteousness. But oh, how blessed are they. That happened, happened. How blessed are they who realize that the filth of this world is but junk food. It is but trash. It comes from the worst sewer that your mind can imagine. It is repugnant. It is poison to your soul. But oh, those who hunger and thirst after righteousness How blessed they are. And here in the 42nd Psalm, we find the psalmist. who is separated from the place of worship, who remembers going into the sanctuary with the multitude on the holiday And my friend, holiday, our term holiday comes from the old Holly Day. The world talks about a holiday when they separate themselves from their employment and they go out and enjoy themselves, but a true holiday is a holy day when we separate ourselves from the world To Christ. But that also is not the message for this morning. How many sermons there are in these eleven verses. These who are blessed are those who, like Noah, have found grace in the eyes of the Lord when all the world is heading for a flood. And if you notice there in the title of the psalm, I should have read it and I neglected to in our scripture reading, to the chief musician Maskil for the sons of Korah. These psalms, which are a Maschel or a Maschel That term is a term which means a psalm of contemplation That term maskil means a lesson to be learned. It is a psalm of wisdom. It means to sing with understanding. This is something for deep meditation and contemplation. And this psalm, this maskile Of David is for the sons of Korah. There are multiple Korahs in our Old Testament. But we understand that these sons of Korah were the descendants of the Korah who rebelled against the worship of God. And along with 250 men, fire came down upon them, and the earth opened, and they perished. But gloriously we read in that account in Numbers 26 and the 11th verse, notwithstanding the children of Korah died not. God was gracious. God was gracious to allow the children of wicked Korah to live, they died not. And now we find this is a contemplation. It is a psalm of wisdom for the sons of Korah. For these sons of Korah were indeed brands plucked from the burning. For their father, along with 250 others, had perished in the fire. And now to these sons of Korah, these brands plucked from the burning. Blessed are they which do hunger and thirst after righteousness, because God God has done something. God elected to spare them when their father died. He would have been just for them to have burned and gone down to the pit with their father. But he spared them. He spared that seed alive. That they might be the singers who are called upon to contemplate as the deer panteth after the water brooks. So my soul panteth after thee. Oh my friend, if that doesn't touch you. Then cry out to God for a hunger and thirst for righteousness. For here, even in the title of this psalm, is such a marvelous exhortation That's right. They indeed were blessed. The unelect hunger and thirst for anything but Christ. That after the kindness and love of God our Savior toward us appeared, not by works of righteousness, but by but according to his mercy, he saved us. And so, coming to our text, as the heart panteth after the water brook, so my soul panteth after thee, O God. My soul thirsteth for God, for the living God. When shall I come and appear before God? The first thing that we are to contemplate, the first song of wisdom that we are to learn from this psalm is the nature of a true hungering and thirsting after. After God. David does not seek for God to give him ease. He's in the wilderness of Judah. He is removed from the sanctuary. He doesn't pray, God, give me a thermopedic dip, apostropedic bed. He sleeps He doesn't pray, God, give me a sumptuous meal. We find when he was in the wilderness, he was having to beg food. We talked this morning in Sunday school about him asking for the showbread. He doesn't pray for God to defeat his enemies. He doesn't say, My heart pants for anything this world has to offer. Oh, how we But David teaches us here the true nature of hungering and thirsting after righteousness. He says, as the heart, as the deer pants for the water brooks, it has to have them. It will die without them. So my soul panteth after water. Thee. Oh may God be gracious to give us that kind of hunger Psalm 27, 4. One thing have I desired of the Lord. That will I seek after That I may dwell in the house of the Lord all the days of my life, to behold the beauty of the Lord and to inquire at his temple. Yes, we need roofs over our houses, our heads, we need clothes to wear, we need food to eat, we need employment to provide for all these things, but what does your heart pan for? What is the one essential? And that is the first lesson to contemplate that we learn from this psalm. Oh, may we pant for God! And he'll take care of everything else. That's right. God was protecting David in the wilderness. God was giving him a place to sleep. Maybe it was just the ground. But he had a place to sleep. God was providing for his food. But he panted. He longed. For fellowship with his God. And that brings us to the second thing to contemplate, the second lesson we learn from this True hungering and thirsting after God is an all-consuming passion Note the language of the Psalm. Verse 1: As the heart panteth, so panteth my soul. Verse 2, my soul thirsteth. Verse 3, my tears Verse 4, I poured out my soul in me. Verse 5, why art thou cast down? Verse 7, Deep calleth unto deep. Verse 10, As with a sword in my bones, the entire psalm is filled with language of great passion. It's filled with language that carries a dramatic import with it. And I don't mean drama as in the way the world uses drama as in empty drama. But rather, this is one whose entire being, his entire soul, is wrapped up in this one thought. Oh, how I thirst for God. This is not simply a little thirsty and a little hungry. If you have children, I guarantee you, at some time or another, they said, Mom, I'm starving. No, you're not. I don't see any ribs. I don't see a swollen belly. I don't see the bones sticking out of your legs. You are not starving, nor are you close to starving, nor are you a month from starving. David was starving. He's not just a little bit thirsty. We read in 1 Peter 2 and verse 2, as newborn babes desire the sincere milk of the Word. That they may grow thereby. Give a crying newborn baby a pacifier. If he's not really hungry, the pacifier may do. But oh, those of you that are parents, know the cry of that infant when he's hungry. is truly hungry. The pacifier will not do. The teddy bear will not comfort. The rattle will not distract. He has got to have mother's milk. And when Peter was writing about the Word of God and that fellowship with God being the sincere milk of the Word. They did not have artificial man-made formula. That baby needs the breast milk. And I believe that's what David is expressing here in the 42nd Psalm. I believe that's what Christ was talking about in Matthew Matthew 5, 6. I believe it all ties back to a starving, ravenous hunger. I must have Christ or I die. A passion that overrules every other function of the body A passion that ever overrules all the lusts for anything else. Give me a million dollars or give me that which I need to live the next ten minutes. Which is you gonna take For what good is the million dollars eleven minutes later? What shall it profit a man if he gained the whole world? And lose. His own soul. David is expressing here for us an overwhelming passion. A thirst that if it is not slacked by God, I perish. A hunger for Christ that if I am not fed of him, I die on the filth of the world. For this cannot feed me. Man-made formula will not work. Don't distract me with a rattle or a teddy bear. I must have Christ. This is an overwhelming passion. And the word that's used there in Matthew 5, 6, when it says, Blessed are they which do hunger and thirst after righteousness, it's only used that exact word, one other time. And the other time it's used was after Christ had fasted forty days and forty nights in the wilderness. And it says that he wasn't hunger. Your kid in the backseat who happens to see a yellow arch and says, Mom, I'm starving. Ask him, has it been forty days and forty nights? You see, when Christ says, Blessed are they which do hunger and thirst after righteousness, The same word is used for Christ, who in his flesh had been forty days and forty nights in the wilderness. He was hungry. He was thirsty. And if the angels had not come and ministered to him, he would have perished. But that could not happen before the cross. So that is the passion that David is expressing to us here in this psalm. The third thing that we should contemplate from this psalm is that true hunger and thirst Results from trial. We are not hungry and thirsty until we've been run through the milk. And so we find David here in the wilderness. And David says, as the heart panteth after the water brooks. The believer who has been lying down in green pastures beside still waters isn't panting. And God is very gracious to lead us beside still waters and make us to lie down in green pastures. But oh Oh, there are times when God has to make us hungry. There's an old farmer's saying you can lead a horse to water, but you can't make him drink. And my father, being an old fa farmer, always said, But you can always put salt in the oats. And sometimes God has to put salt in our oats. Because we can become so complacent in our spiritual lives and so used to the green pastures and the flowing waters of the Word of God that God has to put us through some difficult Difficulties to make us hungry. God has to let us face some disappointments and some trials and maybe even some sickness Maybe some heartbreak. That we might turn away from the weak and beggarly elements of this world and get hungry for him. all over again. And so David says, as the heart panteth after the water brooks, the heart that is panting after the water brooks is the heart that has been running from the foe The roaring lion has been seeking to devour this heart. And oh how he pants Oh, how he longs for the water brook. Sometimes God has to put us through great trials. Look again. At the God ordained trials in this passage, verse 3, my tears have been my meat day and night. My tears have been that which I've eaten upon. You know, when you've eaten a meal of tears, you'll hunger and thirst for Christ. Sometimes God who puts our tears in a bottle, he'll let us cry. Just as, again, the baby sometimes has to cry and cry louder to get mom's attention, not that we ever have to get God's attention. attention. But the baby learns much through crying, doesn't he? He learns that that is how mommy's attention has gotten And so sometimes God allows us to cry not to get his attention, but to get our attention And to show us our need of Him. My tears have been my meat day and night Verse 6, O God, my soul is cast down within me. Verse 7, Deep calleth the deep, but the noise of thy water pots, all thy waves and thy billows are going over me. You hear the reflection back to Jonah? Isn't it glorious that the psalmist knew Jonah? Tell me this word isn't inspired. Tell me it's not preserved. But that again is another sermon. Verse nine I will say unto God, my rock, why hast thou forgotten me? God hadn't forgotten him. But again, I think most parents at some time or another have told Johnny, Johnny, we're in the store, stay right here. And Johnny has wandered off to the Hot Wheels aisle or someplace else. And mom and dad have stood a couple while away and watched Johnny look around. Where's mom and dad? And I think most parents at some time or another have let Johnny look around for a minute or two just to scare him enough. The next time mommy says stay right here, Johnny stays right here. You see, when we lose our appetite, when we lose our hunger and thirst for God, sometimes God has to step back a little bit. To make us hungry. To remind us how reliant we are on Him. You see, a hunger and thirst after righteousness. Comes through trials and tribulation. God ordained trials will cause us to pant after God But not only did God ordain trials cause us to path after God, God ordained rebuke will cause us. To pant after God. Before I was afflicted I went astray, but now I have kept thy word. Psalm 119 Verse 67. Psalm one nineteen seventy one, it is good for me that I have been afflicted, that I might learn my statutes Oh God, don't afflict me. But oh God, when you do afflict me, it is good for me. For there I learn your statutes. There I learn to hunger and thirst after my God. There I learn that the pacifier will not do. There I learned that the teddy bear cannot comfort, and the rattles of this world cannot distract for there. Oh God, may I hunger and thirst. to righteousness. So this psalm teaches us to contemplate the true hunger and thirst for righteousness often comes through trials. My son, despise not the chastening of the Lord, nor faint when thou art rebuked of him, for whom the Lord loveth, he chasteneth And scourgeth every son he receiveth. If we be without chastisement, then are we bastards and not sons. May we learn from the lesson that Ephraim learned in Jeremiah thirty-one. They are reading in verse 18, Ephraim says, I have surely heard Ephraim bemoaning himself, or God says of Ephraim, I have surely heard Ephraim bemoaning himself thus. Thou hast chastened me, and I was chastened as a bullock, unaccustomed to the yoke. Turn thou me, and I shall be turned. For thou art the Lord my God. Surely after I was turned, I repented. And after I was instructed instructed, I I smote upon my thigh. I was ashamed, yea, even confounded, because I did bear the reproach of my youth. My friend, have you ever smote on your thigh? God, why did I do that? Lord, why do I not walk in thy testimonies all the day long? Oh Lord, why has my devotion gotten so weak? Why am I so hungry for all the things of the world and so lacking in hunger for thee? Oh Lord, blessed are they. That do hunger and thirst after righteousness. Oh Lord, is the heart Must have the water brooks, so must my heart cling for thee. Yearn for thee David learned a great lesson from Shimei. Shimei was the servant of Saul who cursed David and threw rocks at him. And David's servant said, Let me go take his head off. And David said, No, let him curse. Because God has told him, curse David. And so this psalm teaches us to contemplate on the truth that true hunger and thirst after righteousness comes through The fourth thing that we find in this glorious psalm is that the repentant child of God never fears to come into his presence. The repentant child of God does not fear the presence of God. When Adam and Eve were in the garden, they heard the voice of the Lord in the cool of the day, they hid themselves, for they knew they were naked. But here, two times in this psalm, David says, Oh, when shall I come before thy presence? O Lord, when will I come before Thee? Adam and Eve heard the voice of the Lord. walking in the cool with a garden. That's what David is longing for. Oh Lord, let me hear thy voice. Adam and Eve hid themselves for fear because they knew they were unrepentant But David says, Oh Lord, let me drink of the brook. Let me hear thy voice. Oh, what a pleasure it is to hear the voice of Jehovah in the cool of the day. That's when Adam and Eve heard the voice of the Lord walking in the garden. It says right there in Genesis, in the cool of the day, the cool of the day is when the heart who has run from the lion all day long is now at the water brooks. He's in the place where his heart has longed to be. And he's drinking. Of the springs of living water. We read in Psalm 32, verses 1 and 2: Blessed is he whose transgression is forgiven. whose sin is covered. Blessed is the man unto whom the Lord imputeth not iniquity, and in whose spirit there is no guile. Ah, the fourth thing that we find to contemplate in this psalm is that the repentant child of God never fears the presence of God. He longs for it. Ah, but before we long for the presence of God, we've got to get rid of all the things in our life that would cause us to fear his presence. Because It's the repentant child of God. You see, this hunger and thirst for all the things that the world has to offer are the things which dull our hunger and thirst for Christ and cause us to fear. His retribution. The final thing that we would point out from this psalm Is that those who truly hunger and thirst for God will always be satisfied. Blessed are they which do hunger and thirst after righteousness, because they're going to get a little bit. No! Blessed are they which do hunger and thirst after righteousness, for they shall be filled. My cup run it over. We talk about a full glass of water when there's a half an inch between the water and the top. That's not full. It's not truly full until it runs over. Full means there's no more room left. I am not a righteous man. But oh, when filled with the righteousness of Christ. I stand before the God God the Father as fully justified, as fully righteous When I am emptied of all the trinkets of this world and filled with Christ. Indeed, blessed are they which do hunger and thirst after righteousness, for they shall be filled. Look at verses four and five of our text. When I remember these things, verse four, I pour out my soul in me, I empty everything out. I get rid of all the junk of the world. I pour out my soul in me. For I had gone with the multitude I went with them to the house of God with the voice of joy and praise with a multitude that kept holiday, holy day. Why art thou cast down, O my soul, verse 5? Why art thou disquieted in me? Hope thou in God For I shall yet praise him for the help of his countenance. There's the confidence. They shall Spurgeon said in his Treasury of David, referring to this psalm, the next best thing to living in the light of the Lord's love. is to be unhappy until you have it. Let me read that again. Boy, that arrest to be. The next best thing to living in the light of the Lord's love is to be unhappy until you have it. That's the heart of hungering and thirsting after righteousness. Ah Lord, I will be filled with thee, and I will never be satisfied until I'm filled with thee. I will live in the light of thy love, and I will be unhappy until I live in the light of thy love. But the unhappiness that I know as I long for the light of thy love, that's the next best thing to have in it. Isn't that glorious? Blessed are they which do hunger and thirst. Is it blessed to be hungry and thirsty? Not for the things of this world. But oh, how blessed are they which do hunger and thirst after righteousness. For they Shall be filled. Seek, and ye shall find. Knock, and it shall be opened. Blessed are they which do hunger and thirst after righteousness. Verse seven and eight of our Psalm, Deep calleth the deep. at the noise of thy water spouts. All thy ways and thy billows are gone over me. There's the trial that brings us to hungering for him. Verse eight Yet the Lord will command his loving kindness Those verse divisions. Oh, isn't it glorious? Yet the Lord will command his loving kindness in the daytime, and in the night his song shall be with me, and my prayer unto the God God of my life. For he satisfieth the longing soul and filleth the hungry soul with goodness. In Psalm 34, in verse 9 and 10, O fear the Lord ye is saints, for there is no want to them that fear him. The young lions do lack and suffer hunger, but they that seek the Lord shall not want any good thing. My elder brother had that verse on the mirror When he got married and moved out of the house and I moved into his bedroom. And that verse that my brother had stuck there stayed on that mirror until my mom remodeled the bedroom after I was married and gone. That verse was there every morning and I saw it. Oh what a blessing it is. The young lions do lack and suffer hunger, but they that seek the Lord shall not want any. good thing. They shall be them. Let me just read Three passages, four passages without comment, for you to contemplate, for you to think upon as we come conclusion of our message this morning. Hebrews 11, 6, but without faith is impossible to please him. For he that cometh to God must believe that he is, and that he is the rewarder of them that diligently seek him. Proverbs 8, verse 17. I love them that love me, and those that seek me early shall find me. Song of Solomon 3, verses 1 through 4. By night on my bed I sought him whom my soul loveth. I sought him, but found him not. I will rise now and go about the city in the streets, and in the broad ways I will seek him who my soul loveth. I sought him but found him not. The watchmen that go about the city found me, to whom I said, Sow ye him whom my soul loveth. It was but a little while that I passed from them, but I found him whom my soul loveth. I held him and would not let him go Luke 7, verse 37 and following. And behold, a woman in the city which was a sinner. When she knew that Jesus sat at meat in the Pharisees' house, brought an alabaster box of ointment. And stood at his feet behind him weeping, and began to wash his feet with tears, and did wipe them with the hairs of her head, and kissed his feet. And anointed them with ointment. Let us stand for prayer. Oh Lord, we are so blessed that we have any bit of appetite for thee at all. O God, teach us to hunger and thirst for Thee. O Lord, as the heart panteth after the water brooks, so May our hearts pat for thee. In Jesus' name. Amen.