Open in your Bibles with me this morning. I almost sarcastically said to the gospel according to Job. But to the book of Job. For indeed, the sad, sad book of Job is full of joy. It is indeed, in many ways, a gospel. A book of good news. Turn with to Job chapter 19. You would not think of Job as being a book For an Easter message, a message on the resurrection. And yet this book of Job contains one of the most glorious declarations of the resurrection. That you'll find anywhere in Scripture. Job 19. And I'm going to read verses 23 through verse 27. Here we find these words. Oh, that my words were now written Oh, that they were printed in a book, that they were graven with an iron pen and led in the rock forever. For I know that my Redeemer liveth, and that he shall stand at the latter day upon the earth. And though after my skin worms destroy this body, yet in my flesh shall I see God Whom I shall see for myself, and mine eyes shall behold, and not another, though my reins be consumed within me. Let us pray. Gracious Father, now may you, by your mercies to your people, open thy word that we may receive it. And O Lord, open our cold hearts that we may understand Thy truth. Father, grant to us the working of thy Holy Spirit who was promised to guide us into all truth, to point to the Savior, and to show us things to come. Father, this book before us this morning is the very inspired word of God. And we believe that you have preserved thy word to your people. We believe that you have done so for our edification and our admonition. And so, Lord, if our gathering this morning is simply a celebration of our friendship one to another, it is in vain. But, O Lord, if you would deign to meet with thy people this day. And to mightily bless thy word, to grant that the word of the Lord may have free course and be glorified To grant that your people may rejoice in your truth and may leave this place, loving you more than when we came. O Lord, then our gathering is not in Vain. And so blessed to these ends we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. We all know the story of Job It is very familiar to us. And so I'm going to try not to belabor the story of Job itself this morning. But here we find Job, a man who knew trials greater than any of us have known. We have all at some point or another had a loved one die, every one of us. We have all at some point or another had a financial disaster. Some of us have actually had a house fall in on us That happened to us in Jamaica. Of course it didn't hurt us, but the roof went off. Some of us know those kind of things. Probably all of us have had someone we love just as Job's wife did turn against us and say, Curse God and die. And so we've all experienced bits and pieces of the difficulties of Job, but I don't think any of us have had every one of them. But Job had. That is the man who is speaking these words. I know that my Redeemer liveth. And there I would like us to see first of all that Job expresses to us an amazing, unshakable confidence. I know this to be true. I know he lives. All the gods around Job were dead gods. All the gods of the heathen were idols of wood and stone, but here Job declares, I know that my Redeemer is alive. We serve our risen Savior. And we look at this world and see all of its chaos, but we serve our risen Savior who's in the world today. He hasn't lost control of the situation. He's in the world and he lives. And he says, I know that he will stand. Let me read the verse correctly to get it right. Verse 25, for I know that my Redeemer liveth. and that he shall stand at the latter day upon the earth. And what does it mean that he's going to stand on the earth? He's done that before. He lived here on this world for three years. He walked with Adam and Eve in the coup of the garden. He walked on this earth with uh Enoch. He stood beside the wall of Jericho. His feet have been here many times. So what does it mean that at the latter day he's going to stand on the earth? And folks, that word stand is a word of conquest. He's not just going to stand here as I'm standing in front of you this morning, but he's going to stand in ultimate victory. And folks, that word, when it says she shall stand upon the earth, we need to examine it closer. Because in Genesis 2 and verse 7, we read these words. And the Lord God formed man from the dust of the ground and breathed into his nostrils the breath of life, and man became a living soul. And then in Genesis 3. 19, God says to Adam, In the sweat of thy face thou shalt eat bread until thou return to the ground. For out of it wast thou taken. For dust thou art, and dust to dust thou shalt return. And folks, when it says there in Genesis 2. 7 that God made Adam from the dust And then in 319, you are dust and you're becoming dust. It's the same word as earth. In other words, when Job says that God will stand upon the dust, upon the earth. He's saying he's going to stand on the dust. And here Job is talking about his own mortality. And he says, I know that my redeemer liveth, and he's going to stand on this dust. He's going to conquer me. He's going to conquer this world. He's going to conquer it all. Job here has an amazing confidence As he sits in the presence of his friends that are ridiculing, who are telling him this is all happening because you don't know God. This is all happening because you're a vile sinner against God. This is all happening, Job, because you're so proud. Because you think you're so much better than everybody else. Job was the only righteous one in the crowd. But if he cares that my Redeemer is going to stand on the earth. But he uses the word that God used for his own substance. He's gonna stand again on the dust. And Job says, after my body, I will return to that dust, though worms make me dust. Yet in my flesh shall I see God. But then consider also not only what he declares in his confidence, but when he declares it. You understand that the story of Job is one of the oldest accounts in Scripture. We find the book of Job well into our scriptures after the historical books because it's located with the poetical books. But the book of Job predates Israel. This is before Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob Mm-hmm. This is before the patriarchs. He did not have the Ten Commandments, folks. He did not have Genesis, Exodus, Leviticus, Numbers, and Deuteronomy. He did not have the Pentateuch. In fact, many biblical scholars believe that it may well have been Moses himself, who recorded the story of Job, because it was known by oral tradition, it had already taken place. But it had never been written down. It may well have been Moses who actually wrote down the original manuscripts that we have as the book of Job. He didn't have the scriptures to fall back on. You see, when we rush to the scriptures, he didn't have that. All Job had was what took place in the garden. You're going to bruise the serpent's head, and it will bruise your heel. And so when Job says, I know that he will stand. He's going to stand. His foot is going to come down on this earth, and it's going to crush my dust. For I am dead with him. But it's also going to crush the serpent's head. And so here Job declares an amazing confidence in the work of God without all the benefits of truth that we have But there's more. For Job says there in verse 26, In my flesh I shall see God. Turn with you back to the second chapter of Job. Job chapter 2. After my skin, worms destroy this body, yet in my flesh shall I see God. After my skin, worms destroy this body. Job 2, verse 4. And Satan answered the Lord and said, skin for skin. You see the connection here? In 19, Job says, After my skin, worms destroy my body. Satan says to God, skin for skin! Yea, all that a man hath will he give for his wife. Put forth now thy hand and touch his bones and his flesh, and he will curse thee to thy face. God, if you hit his body He's going to curse you. If you plague his skin, his bones, his flesh, then he'll turn from you. And the Lord said unto Satan, Behold, he is thine hand, but save his life. You ever feel like you're beat up to the end of your life? Hit his body, but save his life. So Satan went forth from the presence of the Lord and smote Job with sore boils from the sole of his foot. even to his crown, and he took him a pot shirt to scrape himself with all, and he sat down in ashes. You understand that when Job declares though after the skin, worms destroy this body, he's almost being eaten by worms now. His flesh is rotting away on him as he speaks. Folks, that's a confident testimony. If I was sitting there with boils from the top of my head to the bottom of my feet, sitting in ashes, with nothing for medicine but a piece of a broken pot, the straight, the putrefying boils, he's rotting, folks. But that is when he makes his declaration. This man had an unshakable confidence in God. Oh, to have that kind of confidence. For how often in our problems we say, Where is God? How often in our problems we say, God, what are you doing? It's not supposed to be this way. But here is a man sitting in ashes with his skin rotting away And there may well have been maggots, because you know what happens with flies when there's an open sword and you have nothing but a piece of pottery to scrape away the sword. There may well have been worms in his sword as he spoke And though after my skin worms destroy this body, yet in my flesh will I see the Lord. This man had confidence, and there is and Savior. But not only do we observe the confidence of Job, we find his confession. I know that my Redeemer liveth. He doesn't say, I know that there's a Redeemer. It's personal with this man. I know that my Redeemer liveth And when he spoke those words, he had his supposed friend sitting there and telling him he didn't have a redeemer. God's rejected you, Job, because you're a sinner. God will not have you, Job. You're too wicked. Job, you're proud. Job, you've oppressed the poor. Job, you've done all these bad things, and that's why all these bad things are happening to you. But Job says, no, my Redeemer liveth. And he doesn't say my God. He says his Redeemer. His Redeemer. You see, my friend, our only hope is a Redeemer. Because Job's friends were right. Job was a sinner And Job deserved every bad thing that happened to him. But Job's confession is this: my Redeemer liveth. And my Redeemer shall stand. My Redeemer is going to take care of all of it. The Spirit But if the Spirit of Christ, him that raised up Jesus from the dead, dwell in you, he that raised up Christ from the dead shall also quicken your mortal, maggoty, skin filled, rotting Quicken your mortal bodies by his spirit that dwelleth in you. You see, Job confessed that he was a sinner in need of redeemer. And Job confessed his faith in a living Redeemer. I know that my Redeemer liveth. Job 1 Verse 9 and verse 11, you don't have to turn, but I'll read them to you quickly. Then Satan answered and said, Doth Job fear God for naught? Put forth thy hand now and touch all that he hath, and he will curse thee to his face, thy face And yet Job stood. Also, we find not only Job's confidence in Jehovah, confidence in his Redeemer, and his confession of faith in the Redeemer, but we find Job's consolation Look at the last part of verse 26. And though after my skin worms destroy this body, yet in my flesh shall I I see God. God's gonna make it alright. Job is sitting here with his body rotting away as he speaks. But he has confidence that in his flesh God's going to fix this. God's going to correct this. God is going to restore that which was broken in the fall. God is going to make it all right. As for man his days are his grass, as a flower of the field, so he flourisheth, for the wind passeth over it and is gone, and the place thereof shall know it no more. Job was dying. The life was going out of his body. But the mercies of the Lord are from everlasting to everlasting upon them that fear him, and his righteousness on the children's children. Now I say, brethren, that flesh and blood cannot inherit the kingdom of God, neither doth corruption inherit incorruption. Behold, I show you a mystery. We shall not all sleep, but we shall all be changed. And so Job declares his confidence. Job declares his confession. And Job had great consolation in God. But also we find that Job had a comprehension. of God. Look what he says there in verse 27. Whom I shall see for myself. I know that my Redeemer liveth, and upon the earth shall stand, whom I shall see for myself, and mine eyes shall behold, and not another, though my reigns become Consumed within me. Job here says, I'm going to see him myself. That's a comprehension. He's going to comprehend the face of God. Turn over with me to chapter twenty-three of Job. Job twenty-three. And there I start reading in verse one. I'm going to read a a little bit longer passage there. Then Job answered and said, Even today is my complaint bitter. My stroke is heavier than my groaning Oh, that I knew where I might find him, that I might call and come even to his seat. I would order my calls before him and fill my mouth with arguments. I would know the words, he would answer me and understand what he would say to me. Will he plead against me with his great power? No! But he would strengthen, what would put strength in me. There is righteous might there the righteous might dispute with him. So should I be delivered from e even delivered forever from my judge Behold I go forward, he is not there, and backwards I cannot perceive him. On the left hand, where doth he work, but I cannot behold him. He hideth himself On the right hand, that I cannot see him. But I know the way that I take, and when I'm tried, I shall come forth as Scope. Do you hear the sorrow in these words? Job is where is God? I go forward and I can't find him. I go backward. If I could find him, I would pour out my complaint. Oh Lord, I pray and the ceiling is brass. Oh Lord, I search for you in thy word and I, Lord, where are you? There's chaos around me. My house is gone, my family's gone, my ox and ass are gone My children are gone. My wife is telling me to curse you, and my friends are here telling me how sinful I am. Oh God, where are you? Where is God in all my troubles? Why do the righteous suffer? See the agony this man is in. Whom I shall see for myself. At that latter day, I am going to see him face to face. Oh, now I may wander in darkness Now I might search for him before and aft, and I cannot find him. But then I'm going to see him face to face to face. Face to face. I'm going to comprehend him who I shall see for myself. Mine eyes shall behold, and not another, though my reigns Though my very life be consumed within me. Psalm seventeen, fifteen As for me, I will behold thy face in righteousness. Righteousness, I shall be satisfied when I awake with thy likeness. Job says, in spite of everything that's going on, I'm going to see him. I'm going to see him for myself. Mine eyes are going to behold him, not another. It will be him. Even though my whole world is crashed, and my flesh is rotten, and my reins are consumed within him. Folks, there's a Glorious comprehension here. I don't see him now, but I will see him. For now we see through a glass darkly. But then face to face. Now I know in part, but then shall I know even as I am known Beloved, now are we the sons of God, and it doth not yet appear what we shall be, but we know that when he shall appear, we shall be like him, for we shall see him as he is Every man that hath this hope in himself purifieth himself even as he is pure. Here is Job without the advantages of the gospel that we have today. He knows his Redeemer lives. He knows this Redeemer's his. He knows his Redeemer will stand. And he knows in spite of the fact that his flesh is rotting off of him as he speaks, he's going to see his Redeemer, and it will all be okay. What a glorious comprehension. But then we find also Job's communication. We've seen his confidence and his consolation. We see now his communication. Oh, verse 23. Oh, that my words were now written Oh, that they were printed in a book, that they were graven with an iron pen and led uh in the rock forever. The critics Have said, oh, the Bible's not true. Here's a mistake. Job wouldn't have known about books. Bible must be wrong. Job wouldn't have had a pin. Bible can't be true. Here's the mistake. Job knew about books, folks. Job understood what writing was. But again, folks, Job is writing these words, speaking these words before the written scriptures, before the Pentateuch. I need others to know about this. This truth Needs to be communicated. It needs to continue. It needs to go beyond me. It needs to be written with an iron pin and in the rock forever. Oh, that it were now written. He had an earnest desire for the message to go forth. Job's words are written, and we benefit from them today. But you know, folks, sometimes it is the smallest word of a verse That can teach us so much. And as I was reading that verse, I came to the word now. Oh, that my words were now written. And I I I had to do more about that. What's it say? And so I went to the reference works, to the concordances, expecting to find this word thousands of times. Now is a very common word. Certainly there has to be thousands of times. But this particular word that is translated now in this verse, oh that they were now written. It's only found fifteen times in the Hebrew. It's not a common word. It's a very specific word. And I would love to go through all 15 with you, but obviously time will not allow. In Genesis thirty twenty seven, we have the account Of Jacob coming to his father, to Isaac. And Jacob has goat that his mother has prepared in the way that Esau would prepare venison And Jacob has upon his arms and his legs skins to make him feel hairy And Jacob has on his flesh the clothing of Esau to make him smell like Esau, the man of the woods. And in Genesis 27 and verse 33, we find that now Esau has come in and Jacob has already received the blessing. And in Genesis 23 and verse 27 and verse 33, Isaac trembling very exceedingly and said, Who where is he that hath taken venison? And the where there is this word now. Where is he? Where can we find him? Where has he gone? This is a very dramatic word. I hope I'm not confusing you with it. Now, at this time, I wish this were written down because this is a sentinel moment You see, the blessing that would have gone to Esau has gone to Jacob, and it can never be reversed. That which is being noted here is of such great importance that the world history rests on this verse. Because the gospel, the truth, came through Jacob. And Esau's families went to destruction. Where is he? Oh, that now this message were written. And then in verse thirty-seven of Genesis twenty-seven we find this word a second time. And Isaac answered and said unto Esau, Behold, I have made him. That is, I've made Jacob. thy Lord, and all his brethren have I given to him for servants, and with corn and wine have I sustained him And what shall I do now unto thee? I've got nothing left for you. There's nothing left for you. You see, if you're not in the first now, there's nothing for you in the second now. Where is he? Where is he gone? He's blessed. But now Esau, I have nothing left for you. And so there is given to Esau a pittance of a blessing. Folks This Redeemer was so important to Job that he uses this very exclusive word. And by the way, a lot of the modern translations don't don't include it. If you go to a lot of the modern English translations, it they they just just say, um I I gotta get the verse in front of me. Um Oh, thy words were written. They don't even translate the now. It's just ignored. But now I have no blessing for thee. And folks, I don't want to take this too far and thoroughly confuse you, but this is exciting. In Exodus 33, 16 When Moses speaks to God face to face in the tent before the people entered into the promised land. In Exodus 33, 15 and 16 And he said unto him, If thy presence go not with me, carry us not up hence. For wherein shall it be known here that I and thy people have found grace in thy sight, and the here there, where shall be known here that we found grace in thy sight, it's the same word now. Moses says, God, if not right now, don't let us go up. If it isn't known here that we are your people, we have no hope And just one more. Like I say, there's fifteen of them. I've given you three so far. Just one more, and we'll move on. When Jehu wiped out the wicked line of Ahab. Ahab had seventy sons, and Jehu said to the Jezreelites, Slay them all, and they brought their heads to Jehu to prove that they had wiped out the wicked line of Ahab. 2 Kings 10 and verse 10 Know now that there shall not fall to the earth. That there shall fall. Let me rewrite. Know now, it's that word now. that there shall fall to the earth nothing of the word of the Lord, which the Lord spake concerning the house of Ahab, for the Lord hath done that which he has spoken by his servant Elijah. And here again it's tied to God's word. Know now that nothing that Jehovah has said is going to fall. I hope I haven't taken you too far to confuse you. But here we have the declaration that the blessing has come. The birthright. And we find this word now. It's given to Jacob. We find Moses and the children of Israel. Lord, right here, right now, if you don't confirm your word, don't carry us all forth. We have Jehu. Now we know that the word, you see the connection there, it's tied to the word of God. Now take it back to Job. Oh Lord, now that thy word were written. With an iron pen and lead in the rock forever. This is the message that Job wants to communicate. Folks, this is it This is the truth. It must be known now. The words of the Lord are pure words, as silver tried in the furnace of earth purified seven times. Thou shalt keep them, O Lord. thou shalt preserve them from this generation forever. For verily I say unto you, till heaven and earth shall pass away, one jot or one tittle shall in no wise pass from the law, till all be fulfilled. It is easier for heaven and earth to pass away. than for one tittle to fall from the law. And so oh that my words were now written. Job felt an overwhelming need to communicate this truth. Job didn't have any children to leave this word to at this point. point, they were all dead. God was going to replace them. God was going to give his children more again that they might know this And so must we, as the children of God, communicate this glorious message, this glorious truth, because it is really Written in the stone forever. The disciples at the crucifixion ran and hid. John followed afar off. Peter denied at the enemy's fire. But after they had seen the risen Lord, they went to death for him. When they saw the boldness of Peter and John, they took note of him, them that they had been with With Christ. They had seen him face to face. And so, in this glorious account of Job. we find the glorious mess re message of the resurrection, which in spite of the flesh the fact that our flesh is rotting, in spite of the fact that we often can't find him, in spite of the fact that we face so many trials and difficulties, We have a message to tell. We serve our risen Savior. Let us stand for prayer. Oh Lord, you've ordained your word to go forth from stammering lips. Father, there's so much blessing and edification for thy people in thy word. May thy spirit take it And apply it to our hearts in Jesus' name. Amen