Turn with me in your Bible this morning to the book of Luke and the thirteenth chapter of the Gospel as recorded for us by Luke. And I'm going to read starting with the 31st verse and read through the end of the chapter. Verses 31 through 35. Luke chapter thirteen, verse thirty one The same day there came certain of the Pharisees, saying unto him, Get thee out, and depart thence hence, for Herod will kill thee And he said unto them, Go ye, tell that fox. Behold, I cast out devils and I do cures today and tomorrow, and the third day I shall be perfected. Nevertheless I must walk today and to-morrow and the following day, for it cannot be that a prophet perish out of Jerusalem. O Jerusalem, Jerusalem, which killeth the prophets, and stonest them which are sent unto thee How oft would I have gathered thy children together, as a hen doth gather her brood under her wings, and ye would not Behold, your house is left unto you desolate. And verily I say unto you, ye shall not see me until the time come. when ye shall say, Blessed is he that cometh in the name of the Lord. Amen. Let us bow for prayer this morning. Gracious Father, we thank you now for thy word. May thy spirit be the paraclete, be the exegete. May thy spirit teach us this day through thy word. And we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. In verse thirty-three Jesus declares, I must walk today. That word must is a word we understand. It's an imperative. It doesn't mean might, it doesn't mean should, it doesn't mean probably could. It's an imperative. I must walk today. I started to do a run-through of all the times we find this particular word must in scripture. and realize that if I did that as the introduction to the message, it would be the message. There's over 105 times. that we find the particular Greek word that's used for this imperative. And actually as I was working through, I've scribbled some notes and possibly in prayer meetings some Wednesday we'll consider five or six Of those must as time allows. So I decided, well, we need to take this word and see how it's used in other places. So I've kind of confined this just to this book of Luke And we're still in the introduction, but we need to start with this word must. I doubt that our fine internet people can keep up with me, so just listen well as I read through these passages. Luke 2, verse 49. And he said unto them, How is it ye sought me? Wish ye not that I must be about my father's business. There was an imperative there that the 12-year-old Christ realized I must be about my father's business Luke 4. 43, and he said to them, I must preach the kingdom of God, therefore am I sent. 9. 22, the Son of Man must suffer many things. 13 33 Nevertheless I must walk today. 1725 But first m I must suffer many things and be rejected of this generation 1725, but um sorry, uh 227, then came the day of unleavened bread when the Passover must be killed. 2237, for I say unto you that this is that which was written, or sorry, that that which is written must be accomplished in me 24 7. The Son of Man must be delivered into the hands of sinners. 24 26. Ought not Christ to have suffered. That ought is the word must. 24 44. These words spake I unto you while I was yet with you, that things uh these things must be fulfilled. And then 24, 46 Thus it is written, and thus it behooved Christ to suffer, and that behooved is this same word must. And that's just from Luke alone. You see, throughout the New Testament, we find these imperative statements from Christ. This is what I must do. This is what must take place. This is inescapable. And this term must is an imperative established in the councils of God. We might say to our child, you must clean your room. And the child understands that there will be grave consequences if they do not obey. But here these imperities of Christ are declared by God the Father. They're declared by Old Testament Scriptures. These are inescapable. Thus it is written, and thus it behooved Christ to suffer. But we find these imperatives in the New Testament other than Christ. For indeed, when we read, ye must be born again, it is the exact same word. And when we read that as the serpent was lifted up in the wilderness, so must the Son of Man be lifted up. It's the same imperative. Neither is there salvation in any other, for there's none of the name under heaven given among men whereby ye must be saved. Now here Christ declares in this 33rd verse of Luke 13, I must walk today. And the day following, for it cannot be that a prophet perish out of Jerusalem. Now What do we find in this passage? We began our scripture reading with verse 13. And in verse 13 it says The same day there came certain of the Pharisees saying unto him, Get thee out and depart thence, for Herod will kill thee. And that's when Christ says, No, no, no, no. No, no, no. I must walk today. And I must walk tomorrow. The same day, you see, in verse twenty-four of this passage, we find in this chapter where Christ declares strive to enter in at the straight gate, for many I say will seek to enter in, and they shall not be able The same day Christ had told these Pharisees, you know what, guys, you're going to try to get in, and it's going to be shut to you. And then in verses 27 and 28, he says, But I say unto you, I tell you, I know not whence ye are. Depart from me, ye workers of iniquity. He was talking about These very Pharisees who now come to him and say, You better leave because Herod is going to kill you. The first thing we find in these this passage this morning is human plotting. Men plotting. Now I assure you, the Pharisees had no care about the welfare of Jesus Christ. This warning is not a sincere warning. They're not telling him, hey, Herod was going to kill you, so you better leave to protect him. Rather they're saying Herod's going to kill you because they wanted him to leave. They wanted him out of their way. In fact, in Matthew 12 and verse 14, we find the Pharisees went out and held counsel against him how they might. destroy him. And in John 11, they gathered the chief priests and Pharisees together how they might put him to death. And in Luke 6 They tried to find accusation against him. The Pharisees had no love for Jesus Christ nor concern. Now it may well be that Herod had told the Pharisees to tell Jesus to leave because I'm going to kill him, because the Pharisees and Herod didn't hesitate to join forces when it was convenient. They didn't hesitate to link themselves together when they had a common enemy. And Herod. And the Pharisees wanted Jesus gone. Men plotting against the Son of God. But Christ declares to them: there's an imperative from my Father. I must walk today. And I must walk tomorrow. And the third day I will be perfected. Herod knew that he would face real trouble if he put Jesus to death. You see, Herod's already killed John the Baptist. And we find in Scripture that he didn't want to do it necessarily, but because of Herodias' daughter, he puts Jesus, puts sorry, John the Baptist to death. He's already facing backlash. John the Baptist was a pretty popular prophet. He was a pretty popular uh preacher. And even the scribes and Pharisees went out to see him. And remember the the question, what went ye forth to see? A re reed shaken in the wind, and one greater or greater prophet is here Herod feared that Jesus might be John the Baptist come back to life. We find this in Matthew 14, the first two verses. Where when Herod hears of the miracles and the mighty works being done from Jesus, he's afraid, because he knows he has put a de just prophet to death, and now he fears that maybe Jesus Is John the Baptist come back? Herod and the Pharisees wanted one thing. They wanted Jesus gone. They wanted Jesus out of their way because they viewed him not as the Messiah, not as one who would bring benefit to them, but one who would take their place. One who would diminish their influence. And we find there that Jesus says That a prophet is not without honor, save in his own country. This is taking place in Galilee. This is the region of Perea This is Jesus' hometown where he's being told he is not welcome. In Matthew 8 and verse 34 after Jesus casts the demon out of the demoniac of the Gatherings and remember the uh uh uh herd of swine rush down into the water and are drowned There in Matthew 8 34, and behold, the whole city came out to meet Jesus, and when they saw him, they besought him that he would depart out of their coast. Imagine that. Here someone comes into town and delivers this one who has been possessed of demons, one that was known to them all, one they feared. And he's delivered. And then they bring some sick people along and he heals them. And the response is not Glory to God in the highest, on earth, peace, goodwill toward men. The response is, please leave town. You're not welcome here. We don't want you. And so these Pharisees in this human plotting come and they say, Herod is going to kill you. But Christ wasn't afraid of the warning. Christ did not fear. In John nineteen, when Christ is before Pilate. And verse 10 of John 19, then said Pilate unto him, Speakest thou not unto me? Knowest thou not that I have power to crucify thee, and I have power to release thee. Jesus answered, thou couldest have no power at all against me, except it were given thee of my father from above. Christ did not fear. Just think about that. Here, these Pharisees say, we'll scare him off. Hey, Herod's gonna kill you. Let him dry. Christ was not afraid of this warning. You see, Christ knew how and when he was going to die. In John 2, verse 4, Jesus said unto her, What have I to do with thee? Mine hour is not yet come. That was at the marriage of Canaan. It's not time for me to be doing miracles yet. And in John 7, verse 6, Jesus said unto them, My time is not yet come. And again in John 8, verse 20, the hour is not yet come. Jesus knew the time. This is the God of all eternity. His time was not yet come. So the first thing we find here is human plotting. But the second thing we find is divine perception, human plotting, and divine perception. Look at verse 32. And he said unto them, Go ye, tell that fox, behold, I cast out devils, and I do curses to do cures today, and tomorrow, and the third day shall be perf I shall be perfected. Go tell that fox. Jesus knew exactly what Herod was trying to do. He calls him a fox, a sly one, a trickster, one not to be trusted, one whose word has no validity to it. Herod wanted Jesus gone and thought he could scare him away. We find here divine perception. Do you think Jesus knew what Herod was trying to do? Obviously. Where did herod come from? God created it. You're dealing here, Herod, with the one who knows all. Divine perception. We find this omniscience, this all-knowingness of Christ throughout the scriptures. Remember the twelve-year-old boy in the temple? What? Know ye not that I must, one of those imperatives, be about my father's business? And in Luke 2, verse 50, they understood not the saying which he spake unto them. They didn't understand. But he said, I must be about, here's a 12-year-old boy. He knew who he was. He knew all about Herod. He knew all about Pilate. He knew all about the crucifixion. But he's only twelve years old. He knows all things. In the week of his passion, we read that Jesus knew that his hour was come. When Judas came to betray him in the garden, did Christ not know what Judas was doing? Well, we read in John 18, 4. Jesus therefore, knowing all things, he knew exactly why he was come. When Herod and the Pharisees could not hide the, Herod and the Pharisees could not hide their evil intents from Christ. He understood. He knew exactly what they were doing. All things are naked and open unto the eyes of him with whom we had to do. And so Herod knew all, or sorry, Jesus knew all about that sly fox. Herod. But you know what else we find in this passage? Not only does Jesus know all about the sly fox, Jesus can protect us from the sly fox. Look down to verse 34. Oh Jerusalem, Jerusalem. Which killeth the prophets, and stonest them that are sent unto thee, how oft would I have gathered thy children together as a hen doth gather her brood under her wings? And ye would not Why does a hen gather her brood, her chicks, under her wings? Well, because a fox is coming. Because there's danger. You see, here Herod, with whom the Jewish Pharisees are joining themselves, the Pharisees didn't realize that Herod was a greater danger to them than he was to Jesus. And here in this same context, Christ says to, O Jerusalem, that stoneth the prophets, I would gather you, I would protect you from all these dangers around you. But ye would not. The Lord knoweth how to deliver the godly out of temptation and to reserve the unjust for the day of judgment and punishment Glorious passage in Isaiah 54 and verse 17. No weapon that is formed against thee shall prosper. And every tongue that shall rise against thee in judgment thou shalt condemn. This is the heritage of the servants of the Lord. Some people try to say, Oh, that's Old Testament. That's just the Jews. No, it's the church. And the declaration there is this is the heritage of the servants of the Lord. We are the servants of the Lord this day. And this is the heritage we have as well. Their righteousness is of me, saith the Lord. And so we find in this passage human plotting. We find in this passage divine perception. But thirdly, we find universal power. The universal power of Christ. I must walk today. Universal power. Look at verse 32. And he said unto them, Go ye, tell that fox, behold, I cast out devils today. And I do cures today and tomorrow and the third day shall be perfected. Hey Herod, how many devils have you cast out? Hey Herod, who have you healed? Pharisees, what power do you have over the devils? What cures are the Pharisees doing? But Christ has demonstrated his power over the devils. Turn with me to Mark chapter 9. Mark chapter nine and verse seventeen. In Mark chapter 9, in the seventeenth verse, and one of the multitude answered, saying, Master, I have brought unto thee my son, which hath a dumb spirit. And wheresoever he taketh him, he teareth him, and he foameth, and gnasheth with his teeth, and pineth away. And I spoke to thy disciples, and they that they should cast him out, and they could not. He answered and said of them, O faithless generation, how long shall I be with you? How long shall I suffer you? Bring him unto me. Man could not help this boy. Bring him unto me. And they brought him unto him. And when he saw him, straightway the spirit tear him, and he fell to the ground and wallowed, foaming. And he asked his father, How long ago it since this came upon him? And his father he said, Of a child. In all times it cast him into the fire and into the water to destroy him But if thou canst do anything, have compassion on us and help us. Lord, if you can do this, do this. And Jesus said unto him, If thou canst believe, all things are possible to him that believeth. And straight away the father of the child cried out and said with tears, Lord, I believe, help thou mine unbelief. And when Jesus saw the people coming running together, he rebuked the foul spirit, saying unto him, Thou dumb and deaf spirit, I charge thee, come out of him and enter no more into him. Here, Christ shows power both over demons and over sickness. There was a demon involved, and the demon was causing a deafness, a dumbness. To this boy, causing almost what we would say today look like epileptic Caesars when he foams at the mouth. This father brought his son to the disciples. Even the disciples couldn't help him. But Jesus declares that he has power over him. Lord, I believe, help thou mine un belief. And so Jesus Christ calls his power over the demons and his power over the flesh to witness. Go tell Herod Go tell Herod, I have power over the demons, and I have power over sickness. But why is that important? What's the significance of this? Well Notice he says, Behold, take note, Herod, I have this power. You see, Herod's mother was a Jew. Herod's mother was a Jew. That's how Herod ended up as being king of the Jews His mother was Jewish. And his mother had taught him, we know this from history, know this from Josephus. Herod's mother taught him Judaism. And we know from the Old Testament what were the qualifications of Messiah. And so what Christ is saying to these pharaohs, go tell Herod, behold, I have power over devils and I have power over sickness. Tell Herod, I'm the one your mother told you about. We've all heard the phrase, you know, that's the boy your mother warned you about. Well, Herod, I'm the one your mother told you about. Christ is declaring. He declares that he's doing the work of the Messiah. He declares to that fox That the things which he is doing are the things which only the Messiah can do. And he tells him, tell Herod, I must continue to do these works. until I am perfected, until my work is complete. I must work today, walk today and tomorrow and the day following. For it cannot be that a prophet perish out of Jerusalem. In other words, it cannot be that Jerusalem is the place where parish where where prophets perish. They're in Judea of uh in Judea, they're in Galilee of Perea. Herod, you can't kill me here. Because it's impossible that a prophet perish outside of Jerusalem is the is the import of the text. It's impossible that a per prophet perish out of Jerusalem. And of course Jerusalem. is the place where Christ is to be crucified. Messiah cannot die outside of Jerusalem. And so the fourth thing we find here is a messianic purpose A messianic purpose is declared. Verse 32 and 33, and he said unto them, Go ye, and tell that fox, behold, I cast out devils. And I do cures today and tomorrow, and the third day I shall be perfected. Nevertheless, I must walk today. and tomorrow and the day following, for it cannot be that a prophet perish out of Jerusalem or outside of Jerusalem. I cast out devils, I heal the sick. And the third day I shall be perfected. I hope you are following the excellent, excellent, excellent study that our brother has been bringing in Sunday school. He has touched on this word perfected already in Sunday school. And if if you're watching online and want to go back, you can go to Holding Fast and find those lessons. I would recommend them to you This word perfected is the word to finish or to complete. He tells Herod, I must walk today, and I must walk tomorrow and the third day. Not today, 24 hours, tomorrow 24 hours, but when my work here is finished, I shall be perfected. The work which my Father has given me to do will be brought to completion. We find in John 4, verse 34, Jesus said unto them, My meat is to do the will of him that sent me, and to finish the work, and to perfect the work. John 5, 36, I have a greater witness than that of John for the works which my father gave me to finish the same works I do. John seventeen four I have glorified thee on w earth, I have finished the work which thou gavest me to do. Hebrews two verse ten for became him for whom all things and by whom are all things And bringing many sons into glory to make the captain of their salvation perfect through suffering, to complete the work through his suffering. Again in Hebrews 5, verse 9, and being made perfect, he became the offer of eternal salvation. And in Hebrews 10, verse 14, for by one offering he hath perfected forever them that are sanctified. Tell Herod. Tell Herod, I'm going to continue my ministry today. I'm going to cast out devils. I'm going to heal the sick. And I'm going to continue this ministry tomorrow. And the third day I will be perfected. The work will be completed. And so we find a divine messianic purpose So this passage gives us the plotting of man, human plotting. It gives us divine perception. He knew all things. He understood Herod could pull nothing over on him. Universal power. There was nothing that was not subject to him. Messianic purpose. This is what I'm going to do. And nothing can keep me from it. But finally we find righteous purpose, righteous punishment, human plotting, divine perception, universal power, messianic purpose, and righteous punishment. O Jerusalem, Jerusalem, thou wouldst killest the prophets and stonest them that are sent unto thee, how oft would I have gathered thy children together as a hen doth gather her brood under her wings, and ye would not Behold, and that's the same behold that he used for Herod when he said, Behold, I walk today and tomorrow. Behold, your house is left to you desolate. Verily I say unto you, ye shall not see me until the time come when ye shall say, Blessed is he that cometh in the name of the Lord. Because Israel rejected their Messiah, their house was left to them desolate There was not a lack of a man to sit on the throne because Christ now sits on the throne. The promise that David was fulfilled. But Christ is the last of David's family to sit on that throne. There will not be another man on the throne of David. And so that promise was fulfilled to David. But where's the house of Israel? Well, they're fighting for it today. And they don't have it. Because they're surrounded by and filled with their enemies. And no matter how hard they fight, they're not going to have a true one-state solution. There will be wars and rumors of wars. Their house is desolate. Their house is destroyed to them. And there are still those within Israel that will be saved, but Christ has brought forth his church in their place. And so their house was destroyed. How often I would have gathered your children together as a hand gathers her chicks, but ye would not. These Pharisees who were involved in this human plotting These Pharisees who were telling Christ, hey, Herod's going to kill you, you need to leave. They should have been the first to rush to him. The scribes who knew the law. I would have gathered you as a hen, yah, as a brew, but you would not. The chief priest who cried, crucify him, crucify him! He came unto his own, and his own received him not. But as many as received him to them, gave he power to become the sons of God, even to them that believed on his name And so their national house was left to them desolate. But their spiritual house was left to them desolate as well. Oh, the temple was still standing when Christ spoke these words, but it would only be 70 years later that it would be destroyed, and it will never be rebuilt. There will not be a third temple on the mount. There's no need for it because the sacrifice is finished and it cannot be restored. And so their house was left to them. Desolate, and it was righteous punishment. They got the recompense of their sins. And they were not without warning. For in Leviticus 26 we find these words starting in verse 27. And if ye will not, for all this hearken unto me, but walk contrary unto me. Then will I walk contrary unto you also in fury. And I, even I, will chastise you seven times for your sins. And folks, that was talking about Old Testament Israel, but oh, how it applies to our own nation today. God is walking contrary to us We used to be one nation under God. Today we're one nation without God. God is walking contrary to us. Verse 29, and ye this is in Leviticus 26, if you care to turn. In verse 29, and ye shall eat the flesh of your sons, and the flesh of your daughters shall ye eat. Folks, we're not literally participating in cannibalism today, but we are figuratively eating the flesh of our sons and daughters by telling little children you can be whatever sex you want to be. We are literally destroying them as certainly as if we were eating their flesh by forcing this nonsense in the children. And I will destroy your high places and cut down your images. The church is being driven out of the land today. and cast your carcasses upon the cat carcasses of your idols, and my soul shall abhor you. And I will make your cities waste and bring your sanctuaries to desolation. That's exactly what happened in seventy AD. and I will not smell the sabor of your sweet odors, and I will bring the land into desolation, and your enemies which dwell therein shall be astonished at it And I will scatter you among the heathen, and I will draw the sword after you, and your land shall be desolate, and your cities waste, and every bit of that was accomplished against Israel. And so will be against any nation that rejects God. You see, man plots against God, but Christ still must walk today. Man plots against Christ, but in divine perception he knows exactly what they're doing. Man plots against Christ, but his universal power shall overcome them. Man plots against Christ, but his messianic purpose will be fulfilled. Man plots against Christ, but he will meet out righteous judgment upon them. And so we began our worship this morning with the words from the second Psalm, why do the heathen rage and the people imagine a vain thing? The kings of the earth set themselves and take counsel together against the Lord, against his anointed, saying, Let us break their bands asunder, let us cast their cords from us. He that setteth in the heavens shall laugh. The Lord shall have them in derision. My friend, we serve a great God. We serve a God who, in spite of man's plotting, has won the day. We serve a God who knows exactly what the enemy is trying to do. We serve a God who has power over all things. We serve a God who fulfills his messianic purposes. Hallelujah, I'm saved. And we serve a God who will not leave the enemies unpunished. Hallelujah. What a savior. Let us stand for prayer. Father, we thank you this day for your word and your truth. Lord, I pray that this passage will bring joy to the hearts of your people as it has brought joy to my heart. Lord, glorious things are contained therein. Bless your word to our edification. In Jesus' name. Amen.