Beginning at verse ten of first Samuel chapter four to the end of the chapter. And the Philistines fought, and Israel was smitten, and they fled every man into his tent. And there was a very great slaughter, for there fell of Israel thirty thousand footmen. And the ark of God was taken. And the two sons of Eli, Hophni and Phineas, were slain. And there ran a man of Benjamin out of the army, and he came to Shiloh the same day, with his clothes rent, and with earth upon his head. And when he came to Eli, when he came, lo Eli sat upon a seat by the wayside, watching, for his heart trembled for the ark of God. And when the man came into the city and told it, all the city cried out. And when Eli heard the noise of the crying, he said, What meaneth the noise of this tumult? And the man came in hastily and told Eli. Now Eli was ninety and eight years old, and his eyes were dim that he could not see. And the man said unto Eli, I am he that came out of the army, and I fled today out of the army. And he said, What is there done, my son? And the messenger answered Eli and said, Israel is fled before the Philistines, and there have been also a great slaughter among the people. And thy two sons also, Hophni and Phineas, are dead. And the Ark of God is taken. And it came to pass when Eli when he had made mention of the Ark of God that Eli fell from off the seat, backward by the side of the gate. And his neck broke, and he died, for he was an old man and heavy, and he had judged Israel forty years. And his daughter-in-law, Phinehas' wife, was with child, near to be delivered. And when she heard the tidings that the ark of God was taken, and that her father-in-law and her husband were dead, She bowed herself and travailed, for her pains came upon her. And about the time of her death, the women that stood by her said unto her, Fear not, for thou wast born a son. But she answered not, neither did she regard it. And she named the child Ichabod. saying the glory is departed from Israel. Because the ark of God was taken. And because of her father-in-law and her husband And she said, repeats it again, she does here, her dying words, her last words, the glory is departed from Israel, for the ark of God is taken. We've been looking at this for the last couple weeks, and we noted that just a few weeks ago Israel had gone into battle and attacked the Philistines, and 4,000 men had died. And Israel had fled, and they came up with the idea of taking the Ark of the Covenant out of the tabernacle at Shiloh, marching in the battle of the Ark of the Covenant, and surely God who dwells between the cherubim on the mercy seat would be with them. And so we're picking up here this morning in verse 10, where Israel goes in the battle, and Israel again is smitten. And instead of losing four thousand lives, thirty thousand more men die. And the ark is taken, and the two sons of Eli are slain. And we've discussed this already, but it's just as a recap, we noted it last week, and we'll just note it again today. Removing the ark from the Holy of Holies in Shiloh was a direct violation of the written contents that were inside the ark. Inside the ark was the law of Moses And we read about that in Deuteronomy thirty one and verse twenty six. Inside the ark we had the Ten Commandments, the two tablets, as well as Aaron's rod that had butted and so forth. But the thing to gear in on is inside the ark was the book of Deuteronomy that stated and the book uh stated that the the Shiloh would be the place that we set up for the Ark of the Covenant, and there was no indication that it ever, ever, ever should be removed. And yet, contrary to what the Word of God said, that they were carrying on their shoulders in the ark They were as if in God's face, inside the ark, it says it's not to be removed from Shiloh, and yet they're removing from Shiloh, carrying it on their shoulders. This is a sin in God's face, and they expected God to bless them for this. Eli, the high priest of Israel, should have removed his two sons, Phineas and Hapni, years ago, when they were caught messing around with the women in the sanctuary, when they were caught stealing from the sacrifices that were meant for God. He should have removed them then. They would have been disgraced, but they might have still been alive on this particular day. But he didn't remove them. They might have lived if he'd done that. Thirty-four thousand men of the armies of Israel might still be alive. Had Eli removed his two sons, who were priests, who were Levites, had he removed them from the ministry. But he didn't. And had he removed then the Ark of the Covenant of the Lord? Would still be in Shiloh. It would have remained in Shiloh. It would probably be, it would have remained in Shiloh and probably never been removed and moved to Jerusalem at all. And when we look at this, these are God's people going into battle, and they have a righteous cause. The Philistines are worshiping the God Dagon. They are an ungodly, they are a paganistic, heathenistic society, they hate Israel. They've been running in incursions into Israel uh small battles here and there. They've been tormenting them. I mean, this is Israel, God's people, and they have a cause. But I would say this morning, do God's people and a righteous cause always succeed It didn't hear. We may be a part of God's people, me we and we may have a righteous cause, but if there is sin in our hearts and sin in the camp, we can lose the battles that we're facing even today. And it's not just this battle, but you go back to the book of Joshua and you look at Joshua chapter 7 and verses 11 and 12, Joshua's come from a great victory of marching around Jericho, he's moving on in the promised land. And he goes after the city of Ai, he attacks Ai, and what happens? He is routed. Joshua is routed. He is driven from the city of Ai. Many of his men die. And he finds out that the reason is That Achan, one of his soldiers, had stolen some things from the city of Jericho, things that belonged to the treasure of the Lord. And there was sin in the camp. And so although Joshua had a righteous cause, and oh Joshua was leading out the armies of God and God's people, he lost as well. Do not think that because we have a righteous cause today, do not think that because we are God's people, that we're going to always win the battle. We have to deal with sin in our own camp, sin in our own hearts, or we're going to lose We're going to lose the battles and lose in a horrible fashion as they do here. Large numbers, dead, people of importance. People in the ministry, the Ark of the Covenant removed. These were sad times. In fact, when you look at this, it's it's it The only implication you can come up with here that I've seen from other commentators is this that God would rather have the Ark of the Covenant in the hands of God's enemies. than to have the Ark of the Covenant in the hands of apostate ministers. Hophni and Phineas were apostates They were ungodly, they were adulterous, they were wicked Levite priests, and God would rather have that ark in the hands of the Philistines for a time than have it mishandled by two wicked Levite priests So I would say this morning, Tilgrim, how do you handle the Word of Christ? That's important. How do we handle the Word of Christ? When the day's over, do you go out and just toss in the trunk of your car? You get home and you just toss on the floor in the corner of the bedroom? Maybe you use it for pressing flowers. How do you handle the Word of God? This is this is holy. It's to be reverenced, revered. It's one of the things of God. Infallible, inerrant, inspired, God breathed, and many a home. The only time that Bible is opened is to press a flower How do we handle the Word of God? Maybe we quote it out of context. We hear people do that all the time People I hear they say, oh the Bible says, judge not, judge not. You know you ought to read that in the context because Christ says immediately after that that we're to judge And make a determination between the wolves and the sheep. I mean, we're to judge, we're just not to judge on righteous judgment, but we're to judge our neighbor. But they'll say, judge not, judge not. They quote those two little words out of context Or as I've heard the sodomite lobby today say, they'll quote that verse in the Old Testament where it says that David loved Jonathan. And they sneer. Totally out of context. Or how about this one? They quote out the book of Peter, God is not willing that any should perish. Well, I'm going to tell you something. If God is not willing that any should perish, then nobody will, because if God's not willing for something to happen, it won't happen God is sovereign. If he doesn't want something to happen, it doesn't happen. And if God is not willing, the nation perish, then nobody will perish. And that's called universal salvation. Everyone's going to get saved. And that's not the context. The context there is Peter is writing to the church, to the state, and he says to the church and the body of believers, God's not willing that is not willing towards us word that any should perish. He's talking to believers. He's writing to the believers. But people quote these things out of context. So, how do you handle the Word of God? It's important. And Hophi and Phineas were mishandling it and they were abusing it and abusing their position as priests in Israel at Shiloh. And so we see the results. 30,000 men are dead. The Ark is taken. Hotney and Phineas are are slain. And as we proceed further, we're gonna re we're gonna see more results of what happens when you mishandle the word of God. Verses twelve and thirteen There ran a man out of the army at Shiloh with his clothes rent and earth upon his head, and he arrives there at Shiloh, and he finds Eli, says, Eli sitting by the wayside, that is along the side of the road That led out of Shiloh. In fact, in verse 18 it says he sat by the gate. So the main gate into the city of Shiloh, he walked outside the main gate, and he sat there by the wayside, right outside the gate. And as he's running up that road, he comes across Eli, runs right past Eli, and he's going in the city to tell everybody what has happened. Eli is sitting at the entrance of the gate. Now there's an important thing here I think that we ought to know, that Eli is he is really upset That the ark has been taken out of the Holy of Holies. That the Ark has been removed from Shiloh. There's no reason to. In fact, it's contrary to the Word of God to remove it. And he's really upset and and he is he's he can't wait to hear what has happened. He goes he can't just go to the gate itself. He goes outside the gate, he goes out of the way on the road, and he is probably he can't see it all, but he's he's listening, he's getting comments from people coming and going, have you heard anything yet from the war? Have you heard anything from the battle? What's going on? And he is outside the gate with young Samuel with him. And Samuel must understand as he as he observes him that he is really upset about the ark being gone. In fact, it says in verse 13 that his heart trembled for the ark of God. And Samuel, it was probably a good lesson for Samuel to realize how much Eli yearned for the return of the Ark of God. How his heart trembled, how he probably trembled. How concerned he was, no doubt he felt he should have spoken up and said to Hopi and Phineas, All right, you stole him the sacrifice. You've been laying with the women in the temple, you've been you've been uh seducing the lace here of the congregation, all these things are terrible, but you will not go inside the curtain of the Holy of Holies You will not lay your hands on the ark. You will not take the ark out of Shibul. That you will not do. And now Eli is sitting there outside the gate. He realizes, or he he at least now is res re he is probably repenting of what he has done. I should have spoken up I should have said, no, I'm drawing a line of the sand. You're going to go no further. You're not touching the ark. Only the high priest could go in and see the ark. We talked about that once a year. You could walk in the Holy Holies if you were the high priest. So you didn't walk into the Ark of the Covenant and just get a clear look at it. There was a cloud of incense over the Ark of the Covenant So your view was was was somewhat uh uh imp impaired as you looked at the Ark, and you would sprinkle blood on the on the mercy seat on the top of the Ark of the Covenant between the cherubim that were carved that sat there. You would sprinkle blood on the Ark of the Covenant Seven times and then you were allowed to stay in there. I doubt that Hopney and Phineas burned any incense sprinkle any blood. They just grabbed the ark and they took off with it. And so here is Eli outside the gate on the wayside and his heart his heart trembles for the ark of God It's been removed contrary to Scripture. And he said, I could have prevented this. I should have said something. And so I say to you this morning, do you ever say something to prevent others from sinning? Do you ever do that? Have you ever regretted not saying something to somebody who was sinning? Was that price like to do that? Mark chapter 8 and verse 33. Christ rebuked Peter. Mark 1, verse 15. Christ told people to repent of their sins, turn from their sins. John 8 and 11, he told them they go and sin no more. Speaking out might have prevented the ark from being removed. Speaking out uh may it would have prevented then the death of the soldiers, the death of his own sons. We need to speak out when we see things are unrighteous. They take these polls all the time. I don't believe the polls, but what I heard recently was that 56% of the people are against gay marriage. I don't believe that. I think it's a lot higher than that. But they're always getting these, you know, and I wonder where they where'd they g where'd they take this poll? At Towson State College? You know? How about just taking in a mall where you have all walks of life of people? I like to take a poll, but they wouldn't print it. I go in the hospitals. I'd ask every doctor if he thought that what sodomites do is natural. Because every doctor would tell you That our bodies aren't built in such a manner and that what is done is not natural. Every doctor, every 100% of doctors will agree to this. It's medically unhealthy. That did be a hundred percent poll there. We could talk about it more, but Do we speak up? Are we afraid to speak up and tell people what you're doing? It it's not just I don't like it and they don't like it and let's take a poll. It is a sin. It doesn't matter what fifty-six percent or ninety-nine percent The Word of God says sin is sin and we're to speak up about it. Eli should have spoken up, but he didn't. And I ventured to say there are times when every one of us here, myself included, should have spoken up and we didn't. And boy, the things that follow when we don't speak out against sin. What followed here? We read in verses 13 through 17. The man told it all. He told, because the Ark had come out of Shiloh, Against the scripture, he told all that transpired. And when the city heard, it says here in verses 13 through 17, the city cried out Cry. The city was crying. They were wailing in tears. You can just about hear the shrieks of despair. There'd been a great slaughter. Thirty thousand people are dead. And the ark of God is taken And if you can just imagine these people when they heard us, perhaps they were saying, we're forsaken, we're ruined, we're cursed. Because all that was true. The ark that Eli was waiting to return would never return to Shiloh. Ever. Eli is going to die this day, so he doesn't know that. It will never, never, never, never return to Shiloh. It'll end up in Jerusalem And they said, well, you know, the people were shrieking and they were wailing and they were ruined and were cursed, and they were cursed. Jeremiah 7, 12 through 15 talks about Shiloh and what happened here? And he says of them, the wickedness for the wickedness of Shiloh, it was cast out of God's sight Shiloh was cast out of God's sight. It was cursed, says Jeremiah in 26 and 6. And again in Psalm 78, 58 through 64, this whole episode is brought up that Shiloh became a cursed city. I went and looked for it on the map this week. It's not there. Jericho's still there, Jerusalem's still there, Bethlehem's still there, Shiloh's not there. It was a cursed city. I I thought sometimes you you we read these things so quickly we don't really we don't really get a view of what's going on here. Let me paint you a picture if I can. This man is a soldier. I don't know if he's a coward or what, but he's left the battlefield. He's fled like everyone else in the army has fled. And he has fled back to Shiloh. That's about twenty miles. from where the battle took place in Ephraim or in Ebenezer, he's fled about twenty miles or more back to Shiloh, which by the way is all uphill. Now he might be in good shape, but you run twenty miles uphill and it says his clothing is torn, there's dirt on his face, and he is he is panting, he is frightened. He is miserable, he is exhausted, he's got to be full of sweat and dirt, and he comes in with this horrible message and all the people start wailing and screaming. I'd look I just love to see a painting. I wonder if anyone's ever done a painting of this Of this soldier as he comes staggering to the gates of the city, as he's going by Eli, and all the people are wailing and crying, and in the pain I'd have the people wailing and shrieking, the soldier laying there about exhausted You know, ready to fall out fall right back on his office feet. He's so exhausted and he's dirty. And the people are wailing and screaming. And there's Eli, the old man, ninety years old, falling backwards out of his chair. What a pain. Falling backwards out of his chair at the feet of young Samuel. And the people they're just beside themselves. They maybe don't even see Eli falling at the time. That's what we've got going on here. I want you to notice the very moment that Eli fell. Look at verse 17. Having heard, Israel is fled, having heard there's been a great slaughter, having heard thy two sons are dead. And the ark of God is taken. That's what it says in verse 17. But look what it says in verse 18. Then it came to pass When he made mention of the ark of God, Eli fell off the sea backwards His neck break and he died. Do you see that? The man comes staggering and says, What happen what happened? And he goes back and tells Eli, Your ears all the waiting, your ears all the shrieking, ears all the crying And Eli said, What happened? What happened? Find the soldier turns to Eli and he says, Well, we've got 30,000 dead men, and the whole army has fled, and your sons are dead. And Eli's going, yes, yes. Remember, he's out there trembling for the ark. I don't want to hear about the sons. I don't want to hear about the army. What about the ark? The ark is taken. And it says in verse 18, and it came to pass when he made mention of the ark of God, Eli fell off his feet backwards, his neck broke, and he died. Eli, the indulgent father, saw the son's death, and that was hard, but he saw the loss of the ark a greater tragedy than the death of his unrepentant sons. Do you get that? Eli saw that what had happened, the ark of God falling in the hands of the enemy. He saw that as a greater tragedy than the death of what apparently are two unrepentant sons. I say to you again as I did last week that Eli, the indulgent father, I believe was a saved man. I believe he was a saved man. And yet he can't take this when the ark is taken. It was too horrible for him to consider. It was a sorrow he couldn't bear. And I would say this morning, pilgrim, what do you fear more? The relationship with your children or the relationship with the Lord Jesus Christ? If one was to be destroyed, what would you fear the most? What is the one thing to be most horrible for? That your children no longer like you? Or that God no longer loves you, or never did. For Eli having God absent in his life, having the Ark of the Covenant taken out of Israel, this was a tragedy. This is a loss. worse than the 30,000 dead. And Eli had to think, I'm responsible for 30,000 dead people? Yes, I'm responsible for the death of my two sons. No! The ark is gone. That is worse than anything else. to Eli. I believe he's a saved man with all his his problems and inconsistencies. Don't forget that Eli showed a good heart towards Hannah did he And Eli had a good heart in adopting Samuel and raising him, didn't he? We can not just concentrate on the bad moments, but I believe Eli was a a man like many of us with struggles But he loved the Lord. He loved the Lord's word that was inside that ark that was now removed from the nation of Israel. He could bear life But not with God's word removed from his nation, Israel. He could bear everything else but that. A lot of changes taking place in America today, but I'll tell you, the one that hurts the most is seeing God's word. removed from our society. And so we find that Eli, when he hears that the ark is taken, without speaking another word, he fell backwards. And it talks here about the broken neck, but I submit to you that Eli, before he fell backwards, he first had a broken heart, and then he broke his neck. He knew he'd indulged his sons and that he had caused all of this. The death of 30,000, the death of his son. the word of God taken, captured by the Philistines, the Ark of the Covenant gone. He had indulged his sons and caused all of this And we're not done yet with the results of Eli not speaking up against sin. Verses nineteen through twenty-two. Phineas' wife. Remember Eli has these two wicked Levite sons, Hopni and Phineas. Well Verses 19-22. Phineas' wife was with child, near to be delivered, and when she heard the ark was taken, and that her father-in-law and her husband were dead. She travailed for the pains came upon her. She maybe wasn't due for another week or for a few more days, but that news was so gut-wrenching to her that she goes into labor. She travailed for the pains came upon her. born with as a son that she named the child Ichabod. The glory is the part of an Israel, for the ark of God is taken. Verses nineteen through twenty-two Normally the pains of birth are not necessarily forgotten, but they're pushed aside for the joy of the newborn child. My mother told me she never forgot the pains of giving birth to me, but there was the joy that followed. And so that's normally what you would have here. But here we got pain that that doesn't go away. Here we have pains that are greater than the pains of the childbirth. There's pain here more than the hearing of the slaughtering of thirty thousand in verse ten, more than hearing that her father, her husband is dead, more than hearing her brother-in-law is dead, more than hearing the high priest Eli, her father-in-law, is dead. There's additional pain that says, When she heard the ark was taken, just like Eli. It's hard to imagine as a wicked a man as Phineas was. And his brother Hopney, lying with the women in the congregation, seducing them. It's hard to imagine. But Phineas had a godly wife. Unequally yoked as they were, she maintained her testimony as a Christian. She was a godly woman. I mean, her father-in-law is dead, her brother-in-law is dead, her husband is dead, and she's more concerned about the ark is taken. That's a godly woman. That's a saved lady. Well, you heard the ark was terrif was taken. Israel had lost its spiritual compass, so to speak, because Inside the ark was the word of God that gave direction for all things in life. The writings of the law of Moses are inside that ark, and they had lost their their spiritual compass, had been taken, had been captured by the Philistines And I just asked you this morning, does it bother you to hear and see God's word and Christ being removed from one segment of society after another? That bothers me. Does it bother you? It ought to bother you more than the slaughter of the unarmed personnel at Fort Hood, Texas. It ought to bother you more than the slaughter of the seamen on the USS Coal. That was hideous, those slaughters. That was horrendous That was atrocious. That was appalling. But it ought to bother us more when they're removing the Word of God from every segment of society we can imagine. Christ is removed from the chaplain's prayers today. The crosses are being removed from the cemetery today. The statues of Christ. And I know the idea why we should make images of Jesus and so I understand all that. But I also understand the hatred they have for Christ. They'll remove his word, they'll remove the picture, they'll remove the cross, any shadowing, any smidgen of indication that would even talk about or resemble the Lord Jesus Christ They want it out of our society, and that ought to bother us like the Ark of the Covenant bothered Eli and the wife of Phineas. That ought to be more atrocious, more horrendous, more appalling to us than anything else that's happening. This wife of Phineas, she had a precious spirit. She loved the Lord. She loved his word. She loved his people. She loved the nation of Israel. And she saw You say, well, why did she take it so harsh? Well, I think we've already discussed why she took it so harsh, but consider this. She also saw the eternal effect that it would have upon her son Ichabod with God's word removed from his life. Removed from her nation. Removed from her city. Her son would be raised in a cursed city called Shiloh. Her son to be raised without the spiritual compass, the word of God present. Her son to be raised with the with a priesthood destroyed all around him. Her son to be raised in a situation where the Philistines were in command of the population, the territory. And he'd be raised around the God of Dagon and all the other idols and so forth. And so she trembled for him, she feared, and she she saw what the eternal effects on the soul not of just Israel, but on the soul of her own son Ichabod And hence she names him Ichabod, and the word Ichabod means no glory. No glory. The glory of God has departed. There is no glory in Israel. She said the glory is departed. She says that in verse 21. The glory is departed from Israel, for the ark of God is taken. She says again in verse 22, it's her dying words, her last words. It's repeated here. She says it twice to show that the loss of family to her wasn't as tragic as the loss of the ark. The loss of the family to her wasn't as tragic as the loss of the contents that were in the ark, the law of Moses, that the tablets of stone, the Ten Commandments. She saw all this that the apparent glory and the God's presence that sat between the cherubim. It was all gone. And that was more tragic than the loss of the high priest, more tragic than the loss of her brother-in-law or her husband. The arch has been there. Since the days of Moses and Aaron and Joshua, the Archadender in the days of Gideon Jeffha and Ruth and Deborah and Barak and Samson and I could go on And now it was gone and in the hands of the Philistines. Now, everything of importance, everything of importance to Eli, who loved the Lord, everything of importance to the wife of Phineas, everything of importance is in the hands of God's enemies. Aaron's rod and butted. Who has it? The Philistines. The golden vessel filled with manna. Who has it? An omer of manna? The Philistines. The the tablets written in stone, the Ten Commandments. Who have it? The Philistines. The writing of the laws of Moses. Who has it? The Philistines. It's in their hands and they'll keep it. And they it won't be on display, it won't be read from, it won't be it won't be taught. What will they do? What will become of it? It makes me feel uh like those days are upon us where everything of God is in the hands of our enemies. God's enemies. You look at the media and what they do with the Word of God. You look at the movies coming out of Hollywood, what they do with the Word of God. You look at the music today What it does with the Word of God. You look at the press, the politicians, and even some of the pulpits, what they do with the Word of God. It seems like the Word of God is all in the hand of the enemies of God. This was a catastrophic moment for Israel. But Eli's falling out of the chair, and the people are wailing and weeping, and the soldiers falling back all dusty and sweaty. And there's a shrieking, and we're a cursed city. But as Eli's head hits the ground, his neck breaks and he dies. Nobody seems to notice the feet of Samuel. In the midst of a cat this catastrophic moment, they're unaware that God is preparing a young man named S. Samuel and that Samuel will lead Israel into some of the most glorious days the nation would ever have, in which he will also anoint the king of Israel named David The better days were ahead and they didn't even realize that. Here was God in control. God had not forgotten his people God had not forgotten Israel. God had not forgotten the Ark we'll discover shortly. God's plan was progressing right on schedule in this very, very stormy situation. God's got a plan, you know. And it's progressing right on schedule today as well Well we can look around us and we think we're in the midst of some catastrophic storm too. Things are just terrible. The storms of life. Are you going through the storms of life? I want to encourage you that Nahum 1 in verse 3, Nahum says God's way is in the storm. Are you in the storms alike? That's God's way. God's way is in the storm. Job twenty-one and eighteen, he said, I saw the Lord, he used the storms to carry away the chaff God uses the storms and light to carry away our chat, to carry away the chat that's r that's ridiculing us and that's persecuting us You know, the storms of life, that's God. God's way is in the storm. He uses the storms to carry away the chaff. Elijah saw the storms of life. He saw the whirlwind coming in 2 Kings 2, and he saw that it was his ticket out of here. And sometimes the storms of light thrust, it is our ticket out of here. And the disciples They sought Christ in the great storm. We read out in Mark 4 and verse 37. They sought Christ out on that sea in the great storm, and they sought him for comfort. So what I want you to do is look for Christ in the storms of life. Because God has his way. He has his way in the storm. Look for Christ in the storms of your life. It's really exciting when you find him. Because Christ has never lost one sheep, one soul, or one repentant sinner, even in the storms of life. I have lost none, he says. God's ways in the storm. Find some comfort. Find Christ in the storms of your life today. Let's pray. Pray. Lord, we thank thee that our ways are not your ways, that your ways are higher than the heavens or above the earth, and that you send the storms into our life to clear away the chaff. To remove the Philistines, to remove our sin patterns and our sin habits. You send the storms, Lord, for our good. You send the storms, Lord, and sometimes it is our ticket out of here. Oh Lord, may we embrace the storms of life and look for Christ in them. And we ask this in the name of our great God and Savior, Jesus Christ. Amen.