With me please to the 84th Psalm. If you remember back to a few weeks ago, the last time we were in person, We began a message in this psalm. And last time we just went verse by verse and did an exposition of the entirety of the psalm. Today we're going to focus on that 10th verse, but I'm going to read all the verses of the psalm in your hearing. To give us the context and the frame of reference. So I'll begin with the first verse of Psalm 84 and read through verse 12. How amiable are thy tabernacles, O Lord of hosts! My soul longeth Yea, even fainteth for the courts of the Lord. My heart and my flesh cry out for the living God. Yea, the sparrow hath found an house And the swallow a nest for herself, where she may lay her young. Even thine altars, O Lord of hosts, my King and my God. Blessed are they that dwell in thy house. They will be still praising thee, Selah. Blessed is the man whose strength is in thee, in whose heart are the ways of them. Who passing through the valley of Baka make it a well, the rain also filleth the pools. They go from strength to strength Every one of them in Zion appeareth before God. O Lord, God of hosts, hear my prayer. Give ear, O God of Jacob. Selah. Behold, O God, our shield, and look upon the face of thine anointed. For a day in thy courts is better than a thousand. I had rather be a doorkeeper in the house of my God than to dwell in the tents of wickedness. For the Lord God is a son and shield. The Lord will give grace and glory. No good thing will ye withhold from them that walk uprightly. O God of hosts. Blessed is the man that trusteth in thee. Let us tell for prayer, Father. Bless thy word now to our hearts. O Father, as we have prayed on so many occasions before Open our hearts to receive thy word and open thy word to the understanding of our hearts. And we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. For a day in thy courts is better than a thousand. I had rather be a doorkeeper in the house of my God. Than to dwell in the tents of wickedness. Who are these doorkeepers that are spoken of here. Well, you will notice the title of the psalm that is a it is a psalm for the sons of Korah. The sons of Korah, the sons of Kohath, they were the doorkeepers. And they were, first of all, singers in the tabernacle. And if you look at the title for the Psalms, which the title for these Psalms is indeed in the original manuscripts. But if you find look at the title, you'll find many psalms that were for the sons of Korah. They were singers in the tabernacle. But also these sons of Korah were the porters of the tabernacle. They had specific labors to carry the furnishings of the tabernacle. They carried the furniture. They were burdenmen, if you want to put it that way. Turn with you to the book of Numbers and chapter 7. And here we find some interesting facts about the sons of Korah and their labor as the porters, as the doorkeepers of the tabernacle. Numbers chapter 7. And verse 6. And here we we find that the offerings, the gifts have been brought for the building of the tabernacle. And in Numbers chapter 7 and verse 6 And Moses took the wagons and the oxen and gave them unto the Levites Two wagons and four oxen he gave to the sons of Gershon, according to their service, and four wagons and eight oxen He gave unto the sons of Mirai, according to their service, unto the hand of Ithmar, the son of Aaron, the priest But unto the sons of Kohath he gave none, because the service of the sanctuary belonged unto them that was that they should bear upon their shoulders. Well this is very interesting. Moses gives carts to the sons of Gershon because they were going to be carrying part of the tabernacle. They were going to have the tents. They were going to have the cloth. And carts are given to others because they were going to be carrying different pieces of the structure. But to the sons of Kohath, they were not given carts. Because they were to bear the Ark of the Covenant, the table of showbread, the altar of incense. the candlestick, the labor, and they were not to put them on carts, but rather they were to bear them upon their shoulders. Now what is significant about the furnishings of the tabernacle that they were not to go on carts? Each piece of furniture within the tabernacle in some way is a picture of Jesus Christ Jesus Christ was the sin bearer. The iniquity of us all was laid upon him. And so all the others they could use carts Driving oxen is a job, but the oxen do the work. The hangings for the tabernacle may be very heavy, but thereupon a wagon with wheels. But these sons of Kohath, they were to bear upon their shoulders. Every step that the tabernacle moved, every mile, kilometer, and foot that it traveled These doorkeepers do the weight. It was upon them. It's a very important job. But there's an easier way! No. This is how it's supposed to be done. And remember when the Ark of the Covenant was taken in battle and the Philistines put it on a cart and sent it back? But then it came to David, and David just leaves it on the cart. And Uzzah puts out his hands because the cart shook, and God smote him dead, because he put forth his hand to the ark. And David took the ark off the cart, and it was carried on the shoulders the rest of the way, because that's what God had ordained. Now you notice there in number 7 that they're referred to as the sons of Kohath. That's very interesting as well, because Kohath is the grandfather of Korah. Okay. Kohath is the grandfather of Korah through his son Isar, but Kohath is also the grandfather of Moses, Aaron, and Miriam. Tohat was the grandfather, was the father of Amram, who was the father of Aaron, Miriam, and Moses. Moses was actually the youngest of the three. Miriam was the oldest, Aaron, and then Moses, the three children of Amram. But Kohath was their grandfather, and Kohath was also the grandfather of the sons of Korah. They were all cousins. They were cousins, and that's going to be important in a moment. But the furniture of the tabernacle was carried by the sons of Korah, the sons of Kohath But you know what? They never saw what they were carrying, nor did they ever touch it. You see, it was only the Levites that were allowed in any form to touch the furnishings, and they were very limited in their exposure to it. They would touch the table of showbread as they laid out the bread They would touch the order of incense as they put incense on it. They would touch the candlestick as they lit the candles. But when they were transported, the sons of Levi would go in first, and the priest would cover the furnishings with special coverings. And then they would place the rods into the rings that God told Moses. And when the sons of Korah came in, they did not even see what they were carrying. But they put their shoulder under the rods and they lifted it up. You know, many times the service that God ordains for us doesn't make a lot of sense to us We can't even see the load we're carrying. We're not to touch it. We're not to manipulate it. And yet God says this is what we're to do. And the job of the sons of Korah was hard labor in total obedience. They were not even permitted to see what they were carrying. They were were porters. But not only were they the porters, the singers and the porters of the tabernacle But they were also the doorkeepers, and that's what brings us to this tenth verse. I had rather be a doorkeeper in the house of my God. Turn with me now to 1 Chronicles chapter 9 And we actually read this chapter for our responsive reading three weeks ago in preparation for what we're studying today. 1 Chronicles chapter 9. I'm not going to read the whole chapter, but I'm going to kind of drop down through and I'll tell you which verse I'm going to. so we can get the highlights of what it was that the doorkeepers actually did. So going down to verse 19 of chapter 9 of 1 Chronicles And Shalem, the son of Kor, and the sons of Ishbethath, the son of Korah, and his brothers in the house of their father, the Korathites, were over the work of the service keepers of the gates of the tabernacle, and their father, being over the host of the Lord, were keepers of the entries. So the doorkeeper is sort of a guard They're sort of the church security here. They are keepers of the gate. And then go down to verse 22. All these were chosen. Okay, they didn't suddenly decide, hey, I'm going to be a doorkeeper. They were chosen. These were chosen to be porters in the gates. Um sorry. And and these which were chosen to be porters of the gates were two hundred and twelve. So they and their children had the oversight of the gate of the house of the Lord, namely the house of the tabernacle, by wards. These were men who would know indeed how amiable. And we saw that word amiable, how how lovely, how delightsome. They understood the beauty of the tabernacle. Look at verse 24. In four quarters were the porters, toward the east, west, north, and south. They didn't leave anything undone, did they? They are looking in all directions, north, south, east, and west. And then verse 26 For these Levites, the four chief porters, were in their set office and were over the chambers and the treasuries of the house of the Lord. Okay, they've got a very important position here. They're over the treasuries and the chambers. They're keeping the goods. Verse 27. And they lodged round about the house of God. because the charge was upon them, and the opening thereof every morning pertained to them. They didn't live off far from the tabernacle. They were doorkeepers. They were right there. Why? Because the charge was on them. God had given them a job to do, and they weren't going to let a snowstorm keep them away from it. God had given them a job to do, and even if their feet were sore, they didn't want to have too many steps to make it to the tabernacle. The charge was on them. They were the ones who opened the doors. You see, these men were dedicated. We don't find them going on vacation. We don't find them living where it's convenient. But rather, their entire life. even down to where they lived was regulated by the worship of God. Folks, there's so many lessons for us there. Because we're doorkeepers in the house of God. We've been chosen by God. We have been given responsibilities within the house of God. And We don't choose our professions, our possessions, or our places of residence according to our convenience. But rather, we as the children of God order our lives around God's tabernacles, around his worship. We have a whole different perspective than the rest of the world. And the way we live. And so they lodged around the tabernacle. The charge was upon them. Note that they had bearing responsibilities. In verse 26, certain of them had charged the ministering vessels that they should bring them in. and out by tail. Verse 29, some of them were appointed to oversee the vessels and the instruments of the sanctuary, and the fine flour, and the wine, and the oil, and the frankincense, and the spices Verse 30, and some of the sons of the priests made the ointment and spices. You know what? God's given us all different talents. God's given us all different abilities. We find in the New Testament that there are both feet and hands. And the foot can't say, because I'm not the hand, I have no value. God's given us all different things that we do within the work of God. And yet they're all equally important. And so they were singers, they were porters, they were doorkeepers, they had great responsibility. But folks we find that they had a soiled reputation. We find that they had things in their past of which to be ashamed. You see, their father, Korah, had led a rebellion. Now remember I pointed out that Korah and Moses and Aaron would have been cousins. They they shared a grandfather. Their dads were brothers. But Korah is the one who led the rebellion in the ranks. Led a rebellion. Turn with me to number sixteen. And in number sixteen and verse three This is the sons of Korah who are speaking, and they gather themselves together against Moses and against Aaron. Did I give you enough time to turn there? Numbers chapter 16 Verse three. And they gathered themselves together against Moses and against Aaron, and said unto them, Ye take too much upon you, seeing all the congregation are holy. Every one of them. And the Lord is among them. Wherefore then lift ye up yourselves above the congregation of the Lord. This is Korah speaking. Korah and 250 other men. And he said, Who made you the pastor? Who gave you a position of more prominence or more visibility? And folks, this has been the downfall of many an elder. Within the church. You see, God calls men to the preaching ministry. God calls men to be leaders in the worship. God calls others to be the doorkeepers. We saw there that the charge was upon them. Yes, they had a lot of physical work to do, but it was what God had ordained for them. And they had to be faithful. So here, Korah is saying, you're taking on too much for you. Who may you rulers over us? Well, uh in fact he says there, wherefore then lift ye up yourselves above the congregation of the Had Moses lifted up himself above the congregation of the Lord? No, Moses has spent forty years out in the backside of the wilderness. And God spoke to him out of a burning bush. And then look down to verse 9 of Numbers 16. Same with it, but a small thing. This is Moses speaking Same with it as sm but a small thing unto you that the God of Israel has separated you from the congregation of Israel to bring you near unto himself to do the service of the tabernacle Moses says to him, Look, I know you have a different responsibility, but isn't it a small thing? Don't you see what a great privilege you have of carrying the furnishings of the tabernacle on your shoulders? And the Lord to do the service of the tabernacle of the Lord and to stand before the congregation and to minister unto them. Verse 10, and he hath brought thee near to him, and all thy brethren, the sons of Levi, with thee, and ye seek the priesthood also. And then down to verse 23. And the Lord spake unto Moses, saying, Speak unto the congregation, saying, get ye up about uh sorry, get yeah up from about the tabernacle of Korah, Dathan, and Abram. And he spake unto the congregation saying, Depart you, I pray, from the tents of these wicked men, and touch nothing of theirs, lest ye be consumed in their sins. Verse 2032, and the earth opened her mouth and swallowed them up. Their houses and all the men that appertained to Korah and all their goods. So Moses says to all the people, get away from Korah's tent. Get up from Korah's tabernacle, because God is going to judge it. Verse 26, from the tenths of these wicked men, keep that in your mind, that phrase. But drop down to verse, look over to chapter 26 of Numbers. Numbers 26, verse 10 and 11. Numbers twenty-six, verse ten. And the earth opened her mouth and swallowed them up to g together with Korah. When that company died, what time the fire devoured the two hundred and fifty men, and they became a sign Verse 11, notwithstanding, the children of Korah died not. Okay, we we've taken a long trail here, but think with me. God said, get away from the tent of Korah. Get up from the tabernacles of these wicked men. The earth opened up and swallowed all that pertained to them, but we find in chapter 26, God is merciful, and the sons of Korah died not. Now the sons of Korah say, I had rather be a doorkeeper in the house of God than to dwell in the tents of wickedness. Then they dwell in the tents of wickedness. That was their father's tent that they're talking about. I would rather be here. camped beside the door of the tabernacle because God has chosen me and the charge of God is upon me. I don't want to let anything hinder me from serving God. I would rather be here than the tents of wickedness. because I personally witness what happens in the tents of wickedness. These are the sons of Korah. If anybody could make this testimony in verse 10, they could make it from family experience. Some of us have been very blessed to grow up in godly homes. Some of us have been very blessed to have godly parents who, from a child, taught us the scriptures. Other of you I know are first generation Christians in your family. And some of you, I believe, have seen the destruction of sin in your own family. Families have seen what sin. My grandfathers on both sides were alcoholics. My father's father was was a very vile man. He owned Well, I won't get into what he his business was, but it was some of the worst evil you can think of. My father was a first generation Folks, if God has delivered you from the tents of wickedness, Rejoice in the tabernacles of God. Indeed, how amiable and how lovely they are. I had rather dwell here by the tabernacle. than the dwell in the tents of the wickedness. So that is who these sons of Korah are. In Psalm 103 we read, Bless the Lord, O my soul, and all that is within me, bless his holy name. Bless the Lord, O my soul, and forget not all of his benefits, who forgiveth all thy iniquities, who healeth all thy diseases. who redeemeth thy life from destruction. These sons of Gulkorah could truly say, God has redeemed my life from destruction. So that's that's who they are. The second thing we would learn from them is what is the alternative to doorkeeping? And folks, if you look at the passage, there's only two options. I'd rather be a doorkeeper in the house of my God than the dwell in the tents of wickedness. It's only two choices. You will be all for God, or you will not at all be for God. God will own it all, or God will own nothing at all. No man can serve two masters. Either he will love the one and despise the other, or he will hold to one and hate the other. You cannot serve God and Mammon. I I quoted the verse wrong, so let me get it right. No man can serve two masters. Either he will hate the one and love the other, or he will hold to the one and despise the other. Ye cannot serve God and mammon. There's only two choices here, folks. What is the alternative to being a doorkeeper? It is the tents of wickedness. You see, God has given us all responsibilities around the tabernacle. Some have responsibilities that are very visible. Others are just making the spices behind the scenes. Others are just keeping the treasury. Some are just lifting the heavy burdens. And sweating through the heat of the day. But God has made us doorkeepers for his glory. In 1 Kings 18, verse 21, how long halt ye between two opinions? If the Lord be God, Follow him. But if fail, then follow him. You see, we will be doorkeepers, or we will dwell in the tents of wickedness. But then finally, what are the blessings of the doorkeepers? And folks, this this could be a message in itself. I'm going to go through it fairly quickly. But first of all, the doorkeepers know the presence of God. God was in the tabernacle. He wasn't out in the wilderness. He wasn't, you know, some people say, well I can go worship God in nature, so I'm going to skip church and go sit in the woods and pray. Well, no, forsaking not the assembly of. . These people knew the presence of God. Where two or three are gathered together in my name, there am I in the midst. They knew the presence of God of hosts when they said how amiable they're the thy tabernacles, though God of hosts, they weren't talking about the tent. You see, the tabernacles of God are amiable because God is there. They weren't talking about their family or their cousins. What was it about the tabernacles of God that was amiable? It was the presence of God. Folks, doorkeepers know God's presence. They have that blessed privilege to be there. And if we look at the passage in verse 2, my soul longeth Yea, even fainteth to the courts of the Lord, my heart fainteth, and crieth out for the living God, for the God who is in the tabernacles. Verse three, the sparrow has found the nest there for her young What a great place to bring up your children, but in the tabernacles of God. Verse four Blessed are they that dwell in thy house, they shall still be praising thee. They're not praising the tabernacle, they're praising the God who dwells in the tabernacle. They know the presence of God. Creation, without understanding, sings its praises. But we, with our understanding, singeth praises. And so he says, even the sparrow has found the nest. The sparrow knows more than a lot of people. But this is the place to be, how amiable are thy tabernacles. They know the presence of God. And folks, hell, in its most basic Existence is the absence of the presence of God. They're cast into outer darkness. Well, Jesus is the light of heaven. There's no need of the sun there because he was. But the the wicked are cast into outer darkness. What happened to Adam and Eve when they sinned? They were kicked out of the garden. You see, the absence of the presence of God is the very essence of hell, its self. Secondly, the doorkeepers, not only do they know the presence of God, but they stay in the place where they can hear the word of God. Faith cometh by hearing, and hearing by the Word of God. They camp around the tabernacle. They stay in the place where God is speaking. Folks, we've all, I'm sure, known of tragic situations where families just did not value the worship of God. They taught their children by example that ball games on Sunday were more important than worship They told their children by example that vacations were more important. Folks, when you're on vacation, that's not a vacation from church. Um and you know I'm not saying my family's the perfect example, but when we're a away on vacation, we try to find a church We'll look through the phone book or get online and try to find a church. And if there's not one, we still have worship. And we're we're blessed at Mission Bible now that we're online. You can get online in any hotel you stay in But folks, vacation is not a vacation from worship. I remember one Sunday we were on vacation in Jamaica and there was no church close by And so we were out on the end of a pier at a table with my in-laws and my children having our worship And by the time we finished, there were other people that saw what we were doing and came and joined us around and listened to a message I prepared. You see, these doorkeepers are keeping themselves in the place where the word of God is heard. What a blessing that is Verse 2, My soul longeth, yea, even fainteth for the courts of my God, my heart and my flesh cry out for the living God. Folks, that's totally different from the world's opinions. That's right. Number three, the doorkeepers are in position to receive the blessings of God. They're in the place where God's blessings are distributed. They're in the place where they receive blessings. They have a dwelling place in trouble. Look at verse 4. Blessed are they which dwell in thy house. They will still be praising thee, Selah. They're going to be praising God regardless of what happens because they dwell in his house. Blessed are they that dwell in thy house. They're unlike some that run to the church when they have trouble. How common it is somebody has trouble when they try to find a church to help them out But these people dwell in God's house. Yea, a sparrow has found a house and to swallow a nest for herself, and folks were of more value than many sparrows. They have the bl a blessed place they dwell in a blessed place. They have the blessings of protection. Verse number five. Blessed is the man who trusteth in thee, and whose heart is the way of them. They trust in God. Verse number nine, behold O God, our shield and look upon the face of thine anointed. Verse 11, for the Lord God is a son and a shield. They dwell in that place where they have blessed protection from God They have the blessing of provision from God. Look at verse 11. For the Lord God is a Son and a shield. The Lord will give grace and glory. No good thing will he hold from them that walk uprightly Folks, you keep yourself in the fellowship of God's people and you receive the blessings from God's people It is the responsibility of every biblical congregation to care for the needs of its people. It's not the responsibility of the congregation to care for the needs of the community. The congregation may do that on occasion. But he that provided not for his own hath denied the faith and is worse than the infidel, especially those of the household of faith. Folks within the household of faith, it is our privilege and our responsibility to bear one of those burdens. Well folks, that's part of being a doorkeeper. That's being in the place where God blesses before the blessing is needed. And so the doorkeepers know the presence of God. The doorkeepers stay in the place where they hear the word of God. The doorkeepers are positioned to receive the blessings of God. And the doorkeepers' prayers are heard. The prayers of the doorkeepers are heard. Look at verse 8 and 9 O Lord God of hosts, hear my prayer, give ear, O God of Jacob, Selah Verse 9, Behold, O God, our shield, and look upon the face of thine anointed. Verse 11, For the Lord God is a son and a shield. The Lord will give grace and glory. No good thing will withhold from them that walk uprightly. Asking ye shall receive, knock and it shall be opened unto you. Call upon me, and I will answer thee and show thee great and mighty things, which thou knowest not. Folks, the doorkeeper's prayers are answered Mm-hmm. Because they've been walking in the right way in the begin in the first place. And God will bless them. Number five. The doorkeepers will receive reward from God. Verse number seven They go from strength to strength. Every one of them in Zion appeareth before God. Folks, they finished the course. They will not be like Korah, who died when the earth opened up and swallowed him. They'll be not like the the 250 other men that followed Korah in the blazing fire. But rather these sons of glory, they will appear before God in glory. Their grandfather's not in heaven, folks. Their grandfather did not make it And I mentioned earlier that some of you are first generation believers and have witnessed the destruction of sin in your own families. Oh, how much better to be a doorkeeper than to dwell in the tents of Wickedness. Verse 11: For the Lord God is a son and a shield. The Lord will give grace and glory. No good thing will we withhold from them that walk uprightly. God promises grace For grace for the sinners and grace for the sons of sinners. God promises glory. The glory of the crown is the crown of grace, and God promises good. And so in 1 Samuel chapter 2, we find the verses that I read for our call to worship this morning. For the Lord God, verse 7 of 1 Samuel 2, for the Lord maketh poor and maketh rich. He bringeth low and lifteth up. He raiseth up the poor out of the dust. He lifted up the beggar from the dung hill to set them among princes, and to make them inherit the throne of glory, for the pillars of the earth are the Lord's And he has set the world upon them. He will keep the feet of his saints, and the wicked shall be silent in darkness. For by strength shall no man prevail. And so, folks, these sons of Korah, they had witnessed what it is to dwell in the tents of witness. And so they boldly declared, I had rather be a doorkeeper here. than to dwell there. Folks, let's all be doorkeepers. Let us all stay at the tabernacle of God, for there is the pathway of blessing. Stand with me as we pray, please. Gracious Father, I thank you for the lessons of the doorkeepers. Lord, every time we look at this passage It is a fresh new blessing, O Father. Lord, I thank you that this passage was pointed out to me as a young teenager. And Lord, I I know other godly men close to my age that encountered this passage and it transformed their lives. They have been doorkeepers from that day on. Oh Father, make us doorkeepers. Father, I pray for the dear young children in our midst. I pray for the young Unmarried and the young married adults in our midst, Father, that they may commit themselves from this day forward to be doorkeepers in the house of the Lord. Bless thy truth to our hearts, we pray in Jesus' name. Amen.