When David in chapter nineteen, as we read this morning, is being pursued by Saul, that is his prayer in Psalm fifty-nine. And we'll say more about that in the message. But we we try to match these things up. They're not just we're not just picking a psalm or a proverb for a responsive reading, but we try to match them and that one matches uh quite Well. 1 Samuel chapter 19, verses 1 through 17 this morning. And Saul spake to Jonathan, that is King Saul, he spake to his son Jonathan, and to all his servants, that they should kill David. But Jonathan, Saul's son, delighted much in David. And Jonathan told David, saying, Saul, my father, seeketh to kill me. Therefore I pray thee, take heed to thyself until the morning and abide in the secret place and hide thyself. I'll go out and Stand beside my father in a field where thou art, and I'll commune with my father of thee, and what I see that I will tell thee. And Jonathan spake good of David unto Saul his father. And he said unto him, Let not the king sin against his servant, against David, because he hath not sinned against thee. Because his works have been to thee were very good. For he did put his life in his hand and he and he slew the Philistine. That's referring to Goliath. He slew the Philistine. And the Lord wrought a great salvation for all Israel. Thou sawest it, and you rejoiced. Wherefore then wilt thou sin against innocent blood to slay David without a cause And Saul hearkened unto the voice of Jonathan. And Saul swore, As the Lord liveth, he shall not be slain. And Jonathan called David, and Jonathan showed him all those things. And Jonathan brought David to Saul, that is, back into the court. And he was in his presence as in times past, probably playing the harp again and so forth. And verse 8, and there was a war again. And David went out, and he fought with the Philistines, and he slew them with a great slaughter, and they fled from him. And the evil spirit from the Lord was upon Saul as he sat in his house with his javelin in his hand. And David played with his hand, presumably the harp. Verse 10: And Saul sought to smite David even to the wall with the javelin, but he slipped away out of Saul's presence And he smote the javelin into the wall. David fled and escaped that night. And Saul also sent messengers unto David's house to watch him and to slay him in the morning. And Michael, David's wife, told him, saying, If thou save not thy life tonight, tomorrow thou shalt be slain. Remember, Michael was also King Saul's daughter. So Jonathan has warned him and now Michael has. So Michael led David down through a window, and he went and fled and escaped And Michael took an image and laid it in the bed and put a pillow of goat's hair for his boycer, or for his pillow, and covered it with a cloth, so she had this goat's hair that would look like David's head Now remember now goats aren't all white. Goats are brown and black and so forth. So she had this hair from the goat, and it looked like David's head under these blankets or under the shawls and quilts. And when Saul sent messages to take David in verse 14, she said, he's sick. And Saul sent the messenger again to see David, saying, Bring him to me in a bed that I might slay him. Saul didn't care if he was sick. And when the messenger were come in, behold, there was an image in the bed with a pillow of goats' hair for its bolster, or for its head or pillow. And Saul said unto Michael, Why hast thou deceived me so and sent away my enemy that he has escaped? And Michael answered Saul and he said unto me, Let me go. Why should I kill thee? See, I'm I'm married to this guy if I didn't. So title of the message this morning, If God be for us And we're going to discover as we read through this chapter, we haven't read all the chapter, but there's at least seven instances of attempts on David's life in just this chapter alone. And we're going to find that at one point he uses Jonathan, God uses Jonathan to save David's life. At another point, God uses uh David's agility to avoid the the thrust of the javelin. At another point he he uses Michael King Saul's daughter to prevent his from being killed. And so we s we're going to see this in here, this story. Uh even the soldiers, God uses them. They they're supposed to kill him, and they say, Well, he's sick. You know, he can't kill a sick guy And so we we see God here. If God be for us, who can be against us? And we'll go through this whole chapter, not today all of it, but if you were to read through it yourself, you'll count seven or eight times that God uses different means To preserve David. God never runs out of ways and means to preserve us from anything. And so that's what we have here. If God be for us, who can be against us? Now in verses 1 and 2, we write here that King Saul spake to Jonathan. And to his servants that they should kill David, and Jonathan, of course, goes to David and says, hide yourself Saul in the previous chapter we've seen and tried to kill David before. We will lose track before we're through with Samuel of just how many attempts on David's life by King Saul take place. Seven in this chapter alone, several times before, and many more times afterwards. But Saul tried to kill David secretly before he sent him out to go after Goliath, he sent him out to go after the Philistines, let the Philistines do his dirty work So that Saul's hands would look like like he like he was not involved in the death of of da David at all. But he was constantly sending him to dangerous places He wanted to go out there and fight and bring that a hundred foreskins of of the Philistines, you know, jeopardize your life. You've got a time limit, get it done or else. And uh just constantly pushing David beyond uh the the point of safety in battle, that the Philistines might kill him. And so it's always been very secretive, but now all of a sudden the secret's out. He wants him dead. He announces the Jonathan, he announces to the servants that he wants him dead He hated David so much that he now can't keep it in. He can't keep it to himself any longer. And he gives no reason for the hatred. Jonathan, in talking to his father, says, you're doing this without a cause. And Saul, if he had a cause, he could have come back, I've got a cause. He could start naming the reasons. But he didn't. He didn't have a reason. So Jonathan warns David to hide. Until this reason can be fathomed. Now I know we look at these stories and sometimes you think, how does it apply to the day? How does it apply to the day Well, you know, the Lord Jesus Christ talks about kings and how when kings before they go out to war, it says they sit down, they count the cost, and you determine whether they should go to war or not. All right? And here is Dav David King Saul wants to slay him. Who is David? David is the best combatant he has got in the entire Israeli army Dav I mean this David goes out and fights wars and he wins and he not only wins the wars, he keeps his men alive. This man he he's becoming the most adapted, the most uh uh As as far as a warrior goes, the most experienced warrior and the best warrior that soul is God. Why on earth would you want to kill, eradicate, get rid of the best warrior of your army It doesn't make sense. We have a ruler in this nation today Who thinks he's a king? And he has been removing the best combatant officers, admirals, army generals Navy, Air Force, in unprecedented, over a hundred. He's removed them from the West Point. Our best teachers, our best combatants, He's removed them from from the the Quantico Officer School. He's removed them from the the War College. He's removed them from the Air Force Academy. And when I say he's removed top, I'm talking about generals, first and second, three stars. He's removed them and replaced them with men. Not not Hear me out. He's replaced them with others who he's made generals. He's replaced them with others that have been to Afghanistan, that been to Iraq. But there's not a one sitting right now in these high positions who has seen one day of combat. Do you realize that? He has removed all of our patents and all of our MacArthur's And without a cause. Well, he calls it a cause. General Boykin, two-star army general, was removed because he went to a Christian school and told the kids how God had protected him in combat all those years He was removed for preaching Christ in his army uniform. There's something dreadfully wrong here with Saul, where he will remove the men with the most combat experience The man with the most uh uh ability, the man with with with such clarity and so many victories. There is something wrong with a ruler when he wants to get rid of the top combatants Experienced military men. That's how that applies to us today when we're reading of something that took place almost 3,000 years ago. Unprecedented what's going on today. And we wonder, I wonder, has an evil spirit descended upon the ruler of our nation. In verses 3 and 5, Jonathan says, I'm going to speak to my father. And Jonathan came back and he spake to David after he spoke unto his father. And he says to King Saul, he says, I don't understand this. He said, David slew the Philistine, the Goliath, and he brought a great salvation for Israel. He brought a great salvation. He saved your life. He saved your throne at great risk to himself. What are you doing here? Jonathan has been praying that his good advice and reasoning might touch his father, that he be receptive. Lot, Lot's wife was not very receptive to the angels, was she? When they said, don't turn back, don't look at Sodom. Pharaoh was not very receptive to the advice of Moses, right? Let my people go. Pilate was not very receptive to his wife that says, I've had a dream this night of this twice. And in my dream, he's a just man and do nothing. Do not touch this man. And Pilate didn't listen to his wife How receptive are you to listening to others? How receptive are you are to listening to your wife? She's your helpmate. You are supposed to listen and weigh and evaluate. She has your best interests at heart, gentlemen. She's the first person we ought to ask advice of. And it ought to carry more weight than the advice of anybody else except the scriptures. Because he swore to love you, for better or worse. So how receptive are you to the advice of others? Even King Saul was receptive to the advice of John. So I would ask you this morning, how receptive are you, not just the advice of your wife or of others? But I think we ought to be receptive to the advice of the Lord Jesus Christ. Are we receptive to his advice? Who said, if you love me, keep my commandments Commandments. How receptive are we to that suggestion from Christ? Usually people aren't very receptive to that suggestion from Christ because they're not very suggestive They don't subject themselves to the advice of almost anybody else, either. But soul did accept the advice And it says in verse 6 that Saul hearkened unto Jonathan and he swore, As the Lord liveth, he shall not be slain. What a decree from a king! Saul promises in God's name. None shall harm David. In God's name, he makes his promise. Warning. Pious expressions can come from some pretty spiritually shallow hearts It's better to trust in the Lord than to put your confidence in princes or to put your confidence in rulers. Pious there can be pious expressions, there can be pious professions, there can be uh pious confessions. But they may come from a very shallow heart, and so we are not to put our trust in anyone but the Lord, not to put our trust or confidence in princes or in our rulers or earthly rulers And some of us have found uh we get so enamored sometimes when someone's running for Congress or Senate because they're good looking or they're intelligent or they come from Harvard or Yale or something like that. And then we find out later on that when they said, Read my lips, no new taxes. Oh, they weren't telling the truth. Or when they tell you I never had any intimate relationship with that woman, oh, the president wasn't telling the truth. Or when they tell you if you like your doctor, you keep your doctor. Oh, if you like your insurance, you keep your insurance. Or if your insurance is going to go down, what's going to cost you every year? You eventually you begin to learn that you cannot put your trust in the rulers We're all looking forward to another election and getting a better president or getting a better congressman or senator. Stop putting your trust in people. Trust in the Lord. Sometimes we can be shamed into changing our minds, and that's what happened here. I think Jonathan shamed his father. How can you do this for God? He's put his life in a line for God and country and for you and for your throne. And it chained him. Sometimes we can chain people and to change their mind, but the heart doesn't change Saul changes his mind momentarily or for a while, but his heart hasn't changed Judas betrayed Christ. And then he went to the Pharisees and Sadducees and the priests and said, Oh, I shouldn't have done this. I betrayed innocent blood. Take the money back, take the money back. But Judas never repents of what he has done. He just changes his mind and realizes he's ashamed of what he's done, but he never repents of his heart. So he at least changes for a while and Jonathan brings David back to the to the court and he's in the court and he's playing the harp. before Saul again and he's going out to do battle and he's coming back to the court again and things seem to be back to usual, back to the the good times again As in times past, it says here in verse 7. David went out in verse 8 and he fought against the Philistines. They slew them with a great slaughter. David continues to faithfully serve the king who has severely mistreated him. Wow, you ever been severely mistreated? It's hard to respond to people in like or to in kind, isn't it? But when we're treated poorly in this world, especially when we're treated poorly because we're Christians, it's one thing if your neighbor doesn't like you because you're parking in his spot, or your neighbor doesn't like you because you blew the leaves with your leaf lower into his yard. You can do things like that to irritate. But if they don't like you and if they are if they're provoked and they're they're nasty because you're a Christian If that's the reason why people come back to you, if that's your experience, you're treated badly because of your Christian testimony, then Christ says, let us not be weary in well-doing. For in due season we shall reap if we faint not. Taught to the Holy Spirit in Galatians 6 and verse 9. And well doing. Couldn't Jacob have tired of well doing when he worked seven years for his wife, Rachel, and Laban switched and gave him Leah and Couldn't Joseph have grown weary when his brother sold him into slavery and he ends up not only into slavery, but a part of his wife ends up putting him into prison? I mean, couldn't he have grown weary of doing good Couldn't Job have grown weary of doing good? You read this chapter of Job. He was a godly man, he was a righteous man, he did good, he gave to the poor. I mean he he he was a man who offered sacrifice to God all the time Couldn't Paul have grown weary after the third or fourth beating and the stonings and the being shipwrecked and robbed and the treatment that Paul had from the Pharisees and the Sadducees? I mean, you could grow weary of these things, couldn't you, as a Christian? But when not to grow weary, when it's Christian persecution, when it's persecution against us because we love the Lord, because we love the Bible, because we love the Word, because we want to walk the straight and narrow, because we're opposed to abortion They were ridiculed. There's a professor, I forget the college now, he's He had tenor, which means you can't lose when you're professor of college. You're supposed to be able to keep it until the day you die or something. Anyway he was fired. They tossed him out because in the course he was teaching And as a college that prides itself on open to all views. And so some of the class stood up and told him that uh he was opposed to marriage except between a man and a woman. And the professor says, Well that's fine. I'm sure you'll find some opposition here, but go ahead, let's let's hear what she had to say. And the colleagues came down, the professor said, You're fired. He says, For what? He said for letting this man voice his opinion in your classroom. You encouraged it He said, but the motto over the in our bullets that we send out to bring kids to college says, we we welcome all views. He said, I welcome all views that you're fired. He's already been to one court, and the courts have said the college has to reinstate him. They're refusing to, they're appealing it. Persecuted for standing up for the Word of God, believing that marriage is between a man and a woman only Be not weary in well doing. David lived a life like that. As much as he could have gotten weary from all the attempts in his life from Saul. And in verse 9, it's going to come right back at him after he's been in the court for a while and Ben in some more battles for Israel and for Saul and makes Saul and Israel uh comfortably safe because of all of this. In verse nine, the evil spirit from the Lord was upon Saul as he sat in his house and his javelin with his javelin in his hand and David played with his hand. Uh you might be wondering what's King Saul doing with his javelin in his hand all the time. Well a lot of kings had a scepter. You know a scepter would be a nice Shining baton, maybe a little crown on top. But uh Saul and others, especially when they're uh uh a king that's often in war, he'd like to be seen with his spear. And he had the spear, and he might be walking, he might slam it in the floor to get some attention as he spoke. So it wasn't unusual to be carrying the javelin in his hand back and forth, pacing and thinking. And so he has the javelin in his hand, the evil spirits come upon him. David has had a recent victory. He's come back in verse eight. David went out and fought the Philistines, slew them with a great slaughter, and in verse nine Saul is envious again. David's getting all the accolades. David's getting all the cheering. David's name is in all the newspapers. Oh, the great general is back. And had very few uh injuries and very few losses of life, and he's scattered the Philistines, he's killed the Philistines, and the envy of Saul is just oozing up inside of him again. And that envy It opens a door in Saul's heart for the evil spirit to end in. Call it the door of envy. On the dark side of Saul's heart, this door of envy is opened, and the evil spirit can come in to To the dark side of Saul. And it does. And Saul takes his javelin, he's walking back and forth with it. He's full of envy and the evil spirit. He has gotten his attention, hasn't he? Saul with all the envy in his heart and all these horrible thoughts he's got He's got the attention of Satan. Satan has sent the evil spirit. And I just wondered this morning, Pilgrim, are there any thoughts in your head that are inviting Satan's attention? Because Saul has got this evil thought, this envious thought, this jealous thoughts. He hates David, and against the attention of the evil spirit, God sends the evil spirit. He finds an open door in his heart, and sometimes we can have evil thoughts, and it gets Satan's attention. Satan is always out seeking who he may devour, 1 Peter 5. 8. So think about a pilgrim. What are your thoughts like? And hence in verse ten eleven, Saul sought to smite David again with the javelin again to the wall again and it says that David slipped away and the and he smote the javelin into the wall Saul broke his vow to God. He said, In the name of the living God, David will not be slain. In the name of the living God. And then he breaks the vow himself. He doesn't allow someone else to break it. He breaks it. He breaks the vow. He breaks the covenant with God. Have you ever broken a promise to God? No, we all make promises. Oh God, oh God, please give me through this test. You let me go through this test. I'll go to church ten weeks in a row. Oh God, oh please give me this test. Oh the tire's going flat. I'm running out of gas. If I just find gas in the next, oh just give me the next tax, oh God, give me the next tax. I'll give a hundred dollars a collection plate. And then you and you coast up there and you get the gas. And you forget all about your promise to God. You ever broke a promise to God? If you have, ask very quickly to be forgiven. I mean God will forgive you, but you better ask to be forgiven. That's something you better do quickly This episode's a little different. The first one where Saul tried to kill. If you go back to 1 Samuel 18, just one chapter back, where he tries to kill David, and says he threw the javelin and he tried to pin him to the wall. But in this one, especially if if you could read this in the Hebrew, uh the Hebrew commentary said what it says here is that he he really he thrusts the jabber. He walked by David, not gonna take a chance of throwing the jabin across the court, you know, and and uh him being able to dodge it. You can throw a javelin at about fifty miles per hour. You know, you can you can dodge a baseball at that speed sometimes if you're expecting it So if if what we find here is that he thrusts the javelin into the wall, it says, less chance of missing at close range with a javelin. And David must have just turned right or spun his arm up in the air and went under his arm. We don't know. But it says that David slipped away from the javelin. And it smote into the wall. Christ said, There shall not a hair on your head perish, Luke 21 and 18, without God's permission. When you look at the number of times that David's life is threatened, the number of times that Saul himself tries to kill him and have others kill him, and every time David slips away, every time David is saved by a compident like the king's own son or or the king's own daughter. It's just amazing here. But with God before us, who can be against us? Not a hair on our head shall perish, Christ said, without God's approval. The angel of the Lord encampeth round about them that fear him and delivereth them. Psalm 34 and 7. The angel, God has angels that encamp around those that love him. We call them guardian angels today, but the Bible says they're there. And they encamp round about them that fear God, and He will deliver them that fear God Well, David fled. And Saul sent messengers onto David's house to watch him and to slay him in the morning. And Michael, that's uh King Saul's daughter, who is married to David, she goes and she tells David, she tells him what's going on. How did King Saul know where David was? I think King Saul knew how much David loved his home. How many of you love your home? You get away from work or you come back from maybe you're overseas in the military and you can hardly wait to what? To go home. Ladies, do you make home attractive so your men want to come home at night after work? Is home an attractive place? I've heard men say they pull up in front of their house at night, they turn the key off, and they look at their front door and they go, Oh, well, here we go Kids will be screaming here and wife will be yelling over there and the dog will be barking over here and start the car back up and drive away and come back maybe an hour or two later. Tell the wife, better work late tonight. Ladies make the home attractive that the husband wants to come home, wants to come home every night, wants to come home early I think David loved his home life at this point. Home was his refuge. Saul's trying to kill him. He doesn't go out and hide in the woods, he just goes home. He's not going to kill me in front of his daughter. It's his refuge, it's his sanctuary. Is home your refuge in your sanctuary? You're out in the hubbub of the world, you're grocery shopping, you're out in the mall somewhere, and you're saying, oh I can hardly wait to get home. Or has the mall become your escape from home? Actually, gentlemen, for a home to be a sanctuary and a refuge, the buck stops with you. You're the head of the household. You're the headship You too should make home attractive for the wife, for the children, for the one to get up and leave, run away. Well I ran away at seventeen. I hated my home. Didn't like being told what to do, you know So I joined the Marine Corps. Oh, big mistake. I thought the D I was gonna say, well, Private Byrne, what would you like to have for breakfast this morning? And uh we're gonna go out in the rifle range today, you want to shoot some targets? Oh that sounds great. Thank you, G. I. Nice firing pan under the fire, because I didn't like being told what to do. I always wished I had enough courage to tell the D. I. that my mother could hit harder than him. But but I was afraid he would prove me wrong. He hit pretty hard as it was I I I don't know if they're allowed to beat on you anymore in boot camp, but they did back then. Home should be a sanctuary, gentlemen. You ought to make it an attractive place for the kids. For the wife. Now it's this here that David went home. He wanted to be home. He had a wife that at that time made it attractive. She was like the Proverbs' wife from 312. She will do him good all the days of his life. And of course what did she do? She said she said, David, my father wants to kill you. But David, he's sending men to get you. You gotta escape, you gotta get out of this house, you gotta go. She will do him good all the days of his life, Proverbs thirty one twelve. In her tongue is the law of kindness, Proverbs thirty one and twenty-six. Wives, do you have a tongue of kindness? Will you do your husband's good all this day long? And by the way, I know it's a proverb about the wife, but gentlemen, do you have a tongue of kindness? Do you do your wives good? And do you are are do you do them good all the days of their life? And do you have a tongue of kindness when you speak to them? You come in at night, what's for dinner? They can at least say hello. Give him a little hug. Peck on the cheek. Little nibble on the ear. Won't go any further than that. I used to like to pat my wife on the back when I come in the morning at after work at night. Pat her on the back. Well a little lower than the back, but you know. And and by the time my daughter was three or four years old, we would be out in public somewhere and she'd walk out and she'd pat my wife I mean, what are you doing? Well daddy does that. In her tongue, in your tongue, is there the law of kindness, gentlemen? This is the home that David was living in. And this is the kind of wife he had at that point. She was looking out for his health. Boy, my wife must really love me. I got a jar of pills that deep almost every day that I have to take. Well they're that deep because I didn't take yesterday's and the day before's. But uh she looks a We need to look out for one another. Now Saul says, wait until morning, for he isn't, you know, you say, why does he wait until morning? You know, send those guys down to surround house, bust on our doors and go in there and get him that evening. You know, maybe while he's asleep or something. Just bust, go in and get him Saul no think about this. Saul knows he's not dealing with the little shepherd boy anymore. He's dealing with a commander of a thousand soldiers. He's dealing with the man who killed Goliath. He's dealing with the man that's been to war. He's dealing with a with a very successful commander of armed forces. He's dealing with a guy who is a veteran with immense success in the battlefield And the last thing you want to do is go against somewhere like that in nighttime maneuvers. Nighttime maneuvers are very dangerous. Talk about the fog of war. You don't want to attack someplace at night unless you absolutely have to So we're going to wait till morning. And you know, really, I think God intervenes here too, because Saul wants David dead, and I really think that Saul could care less. about going in and light nighttime maneuvers, very dangerous time, against a guy who killed Goliath, who could probably clean house with most of the guys that tried to break into his house There will be a lot of bloodshed, a lot of dead people, and yeah, maybe David's dead too. But Saul doesn't do it. Not because he's afraid he'll lose some soldiers. He doesn't care how many soldiers he loses as long as David's dead. But he doesn't send them in there. Because of God before us, who can be against us? And God rules the heart of Saul, and He says, wait till morning. And David David escapes that night. Verses 12 through 14. David, uh Michael lets David down to a window and he escapes. David fled not out of fear, by the way. I do not believe that David Well you read Psalm fifty-nine and you read it very carefully, if he doesn't flee out of fear, well the only fear he has is he David does not want to kill one Israeli soldier. He'd have to defend his life, he'd have to defend his wife, have to defend his home, he'd have to kill some of these men who he's been in combat with, who has served under him, who he reveres, who he loves, who have fought together. He doesn't want to kill any of these men. And so the only fear he has is they have to kill maybe a brother in Christ. A sa someone who's saved. Someone who loves the Lord, the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. He does not want to do this. And so he flees. And then his wife, Michael, she takes an image and she lays it in the bed, she covers it up, maybe with a quilt and some blankets and an Afghan. And when Saul sends a message to take David, she says he's sick. I know the king wants you to bring him back if he's sick. He's really sick. In this modern day, she'd have met him at the door, you know, the vaporizer and going on the back room and she had a thermometer and she'd be shaking. Oh man, he's really sick. I mean he's just he's just sweating, he's really bad. He can't come and see the king today. And so they they're lied to m she lies to her father's messengers, giving David time to distance himself from his pursuers. Saul had meant in verse 21 of chapter 18, Saul had married his daughter to David and said he wanted her to be a snare to him. Unfortunately, she cares for him, and it doesn't work out the way Saul wanted it to. Another way of God preserving David. God before us, who can be against us? If you wonder with all this going on, the men are outside lurking around the house, they're waiting until dawn, waiting for morning, they're gonna kill them, they're gonna break in. If you're wondering You know, it as David's Michael are tying the sheets together, let them down out of the window, and made those spots, the sheets coming out the window, they'll made those spot them before his feet even hit the ground. Uh maybe Saul's out there with them. If you wonder how David handles the stress. Read Psalm fifty-nine. We did it today in the responsive reading. Read Psalm fifty-nine David, we find Psalm 59, how does he handle stress or stressful situations? He prays. He prays and he sings praises to God. Of the Lord's power and mercy. You look at that psalm, he says, Deliver me from my enemies, O God. Save me from these bloody men. For lo, they lie in wait for my soul, right outside his house, right? The mighty are gathered against me. He knew some of his men. They were mighty soldiers, mighty combatants. He said, Oh Lord, but I will sing of thy power. Yea, I will sing aloud of thy mercy. In the morning, when I'm gone and they discover I'm gone, I will be s by the time they discover I'm gone, by the time they find that's a mannequin under sheets of blankets, by the time they f I'm just I'm gone It'll be mourning and they'll be frustrated and I'll be off somewhere singing your praises. How do you handle stress, pilgrim? Prayer is a good place to start when you're in a stressful situation. Paul and Silas are arrested. and Philippine or tossed in the prison. Remember the story of the earthquake? They're tossed in the prison. And so what did they do? They begin praying and singing at midnight. In Christ. When he's betrayed, the night of his betrayal, when Judas betrays him and runs out, and they've had a time of prayer. And they've done the Passover, and it says that just before they head out the Garden of Gethsemane in Mark fourteen and twenty-six, Christ led them in song. He's going to be arrested in the garden, scourged, and crucified. How does he handle the approaching stress? The Lord Jesus Christ sings praises to God. So how do you handle stress? Think about it next time. Pray and sing. And Saul says in verse 15, sent the Meshers again. He says, bring him up to me in the bed that I may slay him. Saul said, He's sick? I don't care if he's sick. I want him here, I want him now, and I'm gonna kill him. You think so, but he's sick. Really? Whoa. Hey, maybe he'll die of whatever he's got. How bad's the fever? Is he perspiring a lot? Is he having tremors? Is he cold? Maybe you should just sit back and wait to see if he'll die. Not Saul. Saul's hatred has gotten so great he doesn't want to hear that David has died of malaria or that David has died of something Saul wants to kill him with his own hands. He wants to see him die in his very presence. Well, that's hatred. Not enough to hear the person's dead. They want to watch, he wants to watch him die. Doesn't sound very Christian, does it And yet, we read of in the days of Christ, the chief priests, the elders, the scribes, the Pharisees, they stood at the bottom of the cross. And they wanted to watch Christ die. They wanted to hear him moan and groan in pain. They wanted to watch the blood running out of his hands and his feet. They wanted to watch him die. That, my friend, is real hatred However, when the messengers were come, behold, there was an image in the bed, and Saul said unto his daughter, Michael, Why hast thou deceived me and sent away my enemy? Saul believes that her loyalty should be to her father, her loyalty should be to the king and not to her husband. How can you deceive me and betray me? You're my daughter. Who's he? He's just your husband Ladies, you know where your loyalty lies? And when things are going wrong in the household, and we're all gonna have things go wrong in the household something, you don't run back to mommy You work it out with your husband. And husbands, you don't run back to your father. You keep it in-house. You take care of it up between the two of you. And he says, You should have come to me. You're my daughter. Your loyalty belongs. No, your loyalty is not to your father. The Bible says in Genesis 2 and verse 4 that a man has to leave his father, mother, and cleave unto his wife. And the same with the daughter. She leaves her mother and father, she cleaves onto her husband. We need to stick to the Word of God. The Word of God says we're to cleave. My call is not to cleave to her father anymore, even though he's a king. She's to cleave to her husband David, and that's what she's done. You're to cleave. I like cleaving, by the way. I I think you know what cleaving means hugging, holding, embracing. We're to stick together. We're to stick to the Word of God. Those who don't hold the scriptures like Saul. You know what? Saul doesn't hold to Genesis 2 and verse 4, cleaving together. He doesn't hold to that. When people don't hold to the Word of God, like Saul here, he doesn't hold to the scriptures The people who don't hold the scriptures, they're really surprised when somebody else does. I could ask this morning if you're doing a cleaving. If you're not, I suggest you do some But here she has lied to her father. She lied to the Mesh, now she lied to her father. She says, I'm tr I tried to keep it home, but he said, Let me go. Why should I kill you? She said, I'm married to a monster. I'm married to a brute. It's not my fault. You shouldn't be angry with me. He threatened to kill you. He threatened to kill me rather. He and Saul said threatened to kill my daughter He threatened to kill my daughter. He threatened to kill my daughter. He threatened to kill a member of the royal family. Oh, now I've got a cause. Now I've got a cause and a reason to kill David. She lied. She lied twice. Do you know someone thinks lying is okay? Because she thought it was okay to lie to people, lie to her father. Do you realize in fact no one can realize where a lie will end? Her lie gave Saul the reason to kill David. He never had a reason. Jonathan talks to him. He had no cause, he had no reason. But now he's tried to kill a member of the royal family. He's tried to kill the daughter of King Saul. Her lie has given her father a reason to kill David. The evil consequences that follow a lie are unpredictable. Don't tell me it's a little white lie, or it's a little innocent lie, or it was a lie to protect someone's, you know, to so that so someone wouldn't be hurt You have no idea the consequences of a lie. It's unpredictable. Satan lied to Eve. Look at the mess we're in today. Gehazi lied to Elijah, and Elijah said, You'll be cursed with leprosy all your days And he says, and all your seed forever. There's someone walking around right now with leprosy in the world somewhere. He's probably a relative of Gehazi. The consequences of a lie, they're unpredictable. All liars shall have their part in the lake which burns with fire forever and ever. Revelation 20 and verse 10. It is far better if with our tongue rather than lying we would confess that Jesus Christ is Lord. Let's use our tongues to sing praises to God and glorify Him and not lie We'll pick up next week on where it goes. Father, we thank you this day for your word. May we stick to your words. King Saul couldn't. King Saul didn't. But we should, we shall, if you give us the strength and the power. Lord, may we stick to your word though it irritates others. May we stick to your word though it surprises others. May we stick to your word Because it will save others, as our testimony reaches them. Bless us, Father, this day. As you bless David, may we too learn, as David learned, that if God be for us, who can be? against us. And it's in the name of our great God and Savior, Jesus Christ, we pray. Amen. Amen.