Turn in your Bibles with me this morning, please, to the book of 1 Chronicles, or 2 Chronicles, 2 Chronicles and Chapter 7. The seventh chapter of 2 Chronicles. Well, you're turning just a few things. First of all, congratulations to Hannah Ott, who we have known for many years as Hannah Young, and the Young family on the wedding of Hannah and David yesterday And then I just received word, you'll notice Gil is not with us. Apparently Kathy was having some pain this morning and they were heading to GBMC. So I just got that word a few moments ago So pray for Gil and Kathy. And then one new request on the back of your bulletins. Vince and Angela will be traveling this week for treatment. uh for Angelus and be in prayer for them as well that God will give strength and healing. Second Chronicles chapter seven, and I'm going to uh read down through verse twenty-two of the chapter. Verse 1. Now when Solomon had made an end of praying, the fire came down from heaven. And consumed the burnt offering and the sacrifice, and the glory of the Lord filled the house. And the priests could not enter into the house of the Lord, because the glory of the Lord had filled the Lord's house. And when all the children of Israel saw how the fire came down and the glory of the Lord upon the house, they bowed themselves with their faces to the ground upon the pavement and worshipped And praise the Lord saying, For he is good, for his mercy endureth forever Then the king and all the people offered sacrifices before the Lord. And King Solomon offered a sacrifice of twenty and two thousand oxen and a hundred and twenty thousand sheep So the king and all the people dedicated the house of God, and the priests waited upon their offices. The Levites also with instruments of music of the Lord which David the King had made to praise the Lord because his mercy was Mercy endureth forever. When David praised by their ministry, and the priests sounded the trumpets before them, and all Israel stood. Moreover, Solomon hallowed the middle of the court that was before the house of the Lord, for there he offered burnt offerings and the fat of the peace offering, because the brazen altar which Solomon had made was not able. To receive the burnt offerings and the meat offerings and the fat. Also at the same time Solomon kept the feast seven days, and all Israel with him, a very great congregation, from the entering of Hammoth unto the And in the eighth day they made a solemn assembly, for they kept the dedication of the altar seven days and feast the feast seven days. And on the three and twentieth day of the seventh month he sent the people away under their tents, glad and merry in heart For the goodness of the Lord that the Lord has showed unto David and to Solomon and to Israel his people Thus Solomon finished the house of the Lord, and the king's house, and all that came into Solomon's heart to make in the house of the Lord, and in his own house he prospered effect uh prosperously affected. And the Lord appeared to Solomon by night and said unto him, I have heard thy prayer. And have chosen this place to myself for an house of sacrifice. If I shut up heaven, that there be no rain, Or if I command the locusts to devour the land, or if I send pestilence among my people If my people, which are called by my name, shall humble themselves and pray and seek my face and turn from their wicked ways, then will I hear from heaven and will forgive their sin, and will heal their land. Now my eyes shall be open, and my ears attentive to the prayer which is made in this place. For now have I chosen and sanctified this house, that my name may be there forever, and mine eyes and my heart shall be there perpetually. And as for thee, if thou wilt walk before me as David thy father walked, and do according to all that I have commanded thee, and shall observe my statutes and my judgments, then will I establish thy throne the throne of thy kingdom accordingly. As I have covenanted with David thy father, saying, There shall not fail thee a man to be ruler in Israel. But if ye turn away and forsake my statutes and my commandments, which I have set before you, and shall go and serve other gods and worship them, then will I pluck them up by the roots out of my land. which I gave them. And this house, which I have sanctified for my name, will I cast out of my sight, and will make it to be a proverb and a byword among all nations And this house, which is high, shall be an astonishment to every one that passeth by it, so that he shall say, Why hath the Lord done this unto the land and unto this house? And it shall be answered, because they forsook the Lord God of their fathers, which brought them forth out of the land of Egypt. And lay hold on other gods and worship them and serve them. Therefore, he brought all this evil upon them. Let us bow together for prayer. Father, now as we approach your word, we thank you that the book before us is not a book of man's wisdom. But this is the very inspired word of God that has been passed to us by divine inspiration and has been preserved to us this day. Lord, bless thy word to our hearts. Cause us to look to thee this day. And Father, we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. This 14th verse of 2 Chronicles 7 is typically thought of as a revival verse. And yet if we look at the context, it was not given for revival, but rather it was given in a time of revival. It was given in a time when God's blessing was being poured out upon the people, and God's people were earnestly praying, and they were sacrificing and they were rejoicing in the Lord, and their entire desire was to do that which was. was right and do that which was well pleasing unto the Lord. And they demonstrated that in their song. We read of the music. They demonstrated that in their sacrifice, abundant sacrifice. They demonstrated that in their selflessness. They gave themselves to the Lord. They demonstrated their love for God and their submission to Him. But in the midst of all this, we find a warning. To truly rightly divide 2 Chronicles 7. 14, we've got to go back to chapter 6. Don't worry, I'm not going to read the whole chapter. But I want us to look in chapter 6 and see what leads up to this proclamation. 2 Chronicles 7, 14 is Jehovah speaking. And Jehovah sets up their covenant. If my people, which are called by my name, shall humble themselves and pray, and seek my face, and turn from their wicked way, then You do A, I do B. I'll hear your land. But look back to verse 22 and following in chapter 6. I'm just going to highlight a little bit through that section. In chapter 6, verse 22, it is not Jehovah speaking, but rather it is Solomon speaking on behalf of the people. And look what he says: Solomon's prayer. If a man sin against his neighbor, and an oath be laid upon him to make him swear, and the oath come before thine altar in this house, then You see the if in the then, if a man sin, 22, 3, then hear thou from heaven and do and judge thy servant You see the A and B relationship. If a man sin and he repents in this house, then here. Look at verse 24. And if thy people, Israel, be put to worse before an enemy, because they have sinned against thee, and they shall return and confess thy name, and pray and make supplication before thee in this house. Then, verse 25, hear from heaven and forgive their sins. Verse 26, when the heaven is shut up, does that sound familiar? Because God says there in verse 15, when I shut up the heaven. Look at Solomon's prayer in verse in chapter six. Verse twenty-five. Then he or sorry, verse twenty-six, when the heaven is shut up and there is no rain, because they have sinned against thee Yet if they pray toward this place and confess thy name and turn from their sin when thou dost afflict them, 27, then here you see the A B God, if we confess, you forgive. Look down to verse 28. If there be a dearth in the land, and if there be pestilence, and if there be a blasting or mildew or locusts or caterpillars, If their enemy besiege them in the cities of their land, whether um or whatsoever sore or whatsoever sickness there be, then what prayer or what supplications whoever shall be made by any man or any people. First word of verse 30. Then. Okay? So we don't need to go through all of them. But you understand here that chapter 26 Solomon's prayer is setting up a covenant with God. God, when we sin against you, if we repent in this Temple that is being dedicated on this day, then God, you hear our prayer and forgive. Now with that background, we come back to 147. Because chapter 6 is Solomon's Prayer. In chapter 7, we read in verse 1, God answered by fire. God answered by smoke in the tabernacle. And God answering by fire does not begin here because on the mountain, when the Ten Commandments were given, how does Got to answer. Well, there is fire on the mountain and smoke. And when Elijah was on the mountain and praying to God, he answered by fire. When we find Isaiah in the temple and he sees the Lord high and lifted up, the smoke fills the temple. And when we find John in Revelation in the New Jerusalem, there's smoke and there's fire. And so God confirms his blessing on the temple that's being established by fire. And we read there that the priest could not enter because the smoke was so predominant. And we read there in verse 3, the people bowed themselves but down to their faces on the pavement. They were profoundly affected by the presence of God. I got a hold of them. It was a cold slap in the face, as we say. It got their attention. And they bowed before God. Now that's what is missing in most of the expositions of 2 Chronicles 7, verse 14. Oh, if my people, which are called by my name, should humble themselves and pray. So we're gonna humble ourselves and pray. But it totally ignores The presence and the power and the might of the God before we come, whom we come. It totally ignores chapter 6. Which is a covenant between God and man, which is an acknowledgement. Lord, the day's going to come when we sin against you, but when we sin against you Lord, in our repentance, hear and forgive. If we confess our sins He is faithful and just to forgive us of our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. If we say that we have no sin, we deceive ourselves and we make him a liar. And so that's the background which we dare not miss in this passage. I've given you a brief outline. It's on the back side of your uh of the song sheet there. And I say it's brief. I've got a lot of notes in front of me this morning, and we'll try to get through them quickly. But I wanted you to have something in front of you. When we come to 2 Chronicles 7, verse 14, the first thing that we have to notice is who these mercies are being addressed to. He says, if my people. It's not addressed to everyone in the world. This promise is not addressed to the United States. Let's be very clear on that. We are a greatly blessed nation. But this is not talking about our land or our nation. If my people, God's people, are those that are the redeemed. God's people are those that are the purchased. Now, when God was speaking to Solomon in this dream He was referring to those that he had purchased from Egypt. And throughout the passage we find that context. If you look at verse 7 of chapter 14, I'm sorry. If you look at verse I'll get myself right here. Look at verse six of chapter one more time and I got it. Look at verse five of chapter six. I'm getting all the numbers Mixed into each other. In verse 5 of chapter 6, he says, Since the day that I brought forth my people out of the land of Egypt. His people are those that are brought out. And then in chapter 17 and verse 5 He's quoting from 1 Chronicles 17, verse 5 is where he's quoting from in chapter 6, verse 5. I'll get this right yet, folks. Chapter 6, verse 5 of 2 Chronicles is quoted from chapter 17, verse 5 of 1 Chronicles. There, that's right. In 1 Chronicles 17, verse 5, he says, For I have not dwelt in any house since the day that I brought up Israel unto this day. And so you see the context here that when he's talking about his people, he's talking about those that he has delivered from Egypt. Now let's connect that to us today. The people of Israel rejected their Messiah. We read in Scripture, are there few that be saved? He came unto his own, and his own received him not. But God did not have one means of salvation in the Old Testament and some new means of salvation in the New. He is the same yesterday, today, and forever. And the New Testament is very clear that the salvation of the Gentiles along with the Jews was in God's eternal plan before the foundation of the world, because I was chosen in him. before the foundation of the world. And I don't have enough Jewish blood. I'm very pleased to have a little bit in my body, but I don't have enough of the blood of Abraham to be called a Jew And we read in scripture that there are those that say they are Jews and are not. But I am part of this, my people. Because the my people that God talks about are the redeemed. When he was talking to Solomon, it was those that were purchased from Egypt, and yet of those that were purchased from Egypt, only Joshua and Caleb ever made it to the promised land. But today we are the people of God. We are those that are called by his name. And if you look at the context, it's very clear. Look at chapter 6, verse 32. Moreover, concerning the stranger, who were the strangers? Well, the strangers were those that did not have the blood of Abraham. But they had joined themselves under the God of Israel. Or should we say they had been joined by sovereign will under the God of Israel. Moreover, concerning the stranger which is not of the people of Israel, but has come from a far country for thy great namesake and thy mighty hand And thy stretched out arm, isn't that glorious? If they come and pray in this house, then hear from heaven, even from thy dwelling place, and do according to all that the stranger calleth to thee for, that all people of the earth May know thy name. And so, first of all, we have to understand that this passage is addressed to my people, to God's people. But then God expands on that. He says, my people which are called by my name. God has written his name on his people. We are his own. The believers were first called Christians at Antioch. They were followers of Christ. The name of Messiah was written on him. Now the Jews that rejected Christ, they were the people of the Messiah. They were the ones who were waiting for Messiah. And the promise was that of their blood would be born the Christ, the Messiah. But it's not simply that God has put his name on us. But in an even greater sense, we are called by his name. And I don't mean called by his name as if I am called by the name Joe, but rather the name of Jehovah has called me. The name of Jehovah has drawn me to himself. And that's what we saw there in chapter six, where they come for his great namesake, they come for his mighty deeds, they come from all peoples of the earth. Because he has arrested them by his truth just as certainly as he arrested Saul on the road to Damascus. And what was it that Saul said, Who art thou, Lord? Give me your name. And remember what Moses said at the burning bush. Who art thou, Lord? Give me your name. What is the name when I go to Egypt to deliver your people? What is the name by which I'm to tell these people that you are calling them out? And the answer was, I am that I am. I am Jehovah. I am the self-existent one. I am the God who is, was, and is to come. The only God. Now, why does the United States exist? Well, it goes all the way back to men who had been called by that name. who could not worship God in freedom. They had no interest in Buddha. In fact, Buddha hadn't even really come to the Western world at that point. And most of the gods today had never even been heard of, even though as we saw back many weeks ago, um that A lot of the modern New Age gods are actually the same old gods renamed But this nation was established as a Christian nation by these very men that were our forefathers, Francis Scott Key, whose hymn we sung earlier. Who had been called by this name, who were believers in Jesus Christ, the crucified one. Key left no no ambiguity there. And let me tell you something very clearly, and I know I'm getting off topic, we'll get back to this in a moment. But those that want to take away our national anthem. The problem is the theology of the man that wrote it, and that is at the very heart of what they're trying to do. But God here speaks of those that are called by his name. Let my people go. Let them go to worship me. And consider what we read about that name in Job chapter 2 and verse 32. And it shall come to pass That whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord, and there in Joel chapter 2, Lord is in all caps, whosoever shall call upon the name of Jehovah. Shall be delivered. For in the Mount Zion and in Jerusalem shall be deliverance. So the Lord has said. and in the remnant whom the Lord shall call. And Peter on the day of Pentecost quoted from Joel chapter 2 Paul in Romans 10 quoted from Joel chapter 2, Whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. And then in Acts 4, Peter, neither is there salvation in any other name, for there's none other name under heaven given among men whereby we must be saved. Now, why is this important? If my people, which are called by my name. It's not talking about everybody on the earth, folks. It's not talking about most of American religion. It's talking about those who have been called out of this world by the name of Jehovah. It's talking about the true remnant. And it's interesting that there in Joel 2, Joel uses the term the remnant, whom the Lord shall call. They're in Joel 2, verse 32. Neither is there salvation in any other name, for there's no other name under heaven given among men whereby Does it say ye must be saved or we must be saved? Someone tell me without looking. It's we! It's not ye It's we, whereby we must be saved. That word we there in Acts 4 verse 12 148 times in our King James Bible is translated us. It's only translated we 25 times. But the majority of the time, it's us. Neither is there salvation in any other, for there's no other name given under heaven whereby us must be saved. There's an ex exclusivity. I didn't say it right, but you know what I mean This is an exclusive group. If my people which are called by my name. And then it continues with the Requirements that are put upon them. If my people, which are called by my name, shall humble themselves. And we saw there in chapter 3 that the people, when the glory of God was seen, they bowed down on their faces with their faces to the pavement. They did not dare to look upon such glory. They did not dare to lift their face to such majesty as this. Because they knew their sin. All of chapter six is saying, Lord, when we do this, if we repent, forgive us. There's a lot of humility there. Pride is cast out. God says, if my people which are called by my name shall humble themselves. Shall bow before my righteousness, shall admit their own sin and guilt. Psalm one thirty six eight verse six though the Lord be high, yet hath he respect unto the lowly, but the proud he knoweth afar off. James four verse six But he giveth more grace wherefore God saith or wherefore he saith God resisteth the proud, but giveth grace to the humble If my people, which are called by my name, shall humble themselves and pray. That word pray is interesting too. Turn with me to 2 Samuel, or 1 Samuel chapter 2. Actually, I don't think you have to turn. I think I gave you that on your little sheet there. Did I? Yes, I printed out the verse for you. There on your sheet. Roman numeral two, letter B, I've given you 1 Samuel chapter 2, verse 25. First Samuel 2, 25, if one man sin against another, the judge shall judge him But if a man sin against the Lord, who shall entreat for him? Now I printed that verse out of your notes, and you notice there's two words underlined. First of all, it says, whosoever if a man sin against another, and the judge, judge him And then last, who shall entreat for him? You know what those words are? The exact same Hebrew word is pray here in 2 Chronicles 7, verse 14. You see, this word judge in Samuel is the same word pray in 2 Chronicles. If my people, which will call by my name, shall humble themselves and judge You see, the prayer being spoken of here is a prayer of confession. And if we should judge ourselves, we should not be judged, we read in Scripture. You see what this praying is talking about is not Lord give us this, not Lord give us victory over our enemies, not Lord give us a good leader, not Lord give us prosperity, not Lord give us anything, it's Lord forgive us. If my people which are called by my name shall humble themselves and say, Lord, may I judge my sin? Lest you judge it. Because that's what we find there in the verse in 1 Samuel 2. If a man sin against another man and the judge judge him But if a man sin against God, who will entreat? It's the second way this verse is this word pray Intercede Who will be the mediator? If my people which are called by my name shall humble themselves in judgment of their own sin. Oh God, have mercy on us. May we judge our own sin? Lest God come and judge our sin. For you saw there in verse, I think it's 15 of 7, God says, when I send the mildew, when I send the caterpillar, when I send the pestilence. Now see, if we do not judge our own sin, our sin will be judged. Now, that's not to ignore the fact that our sin is judged in Christ, our mediator. But we suffer in this life the penalties for our sin. You see, we are a nation in which dwells the My People. And we were a nation that was established by the my people here that are spoken of. But we're a nation, we're a people within this nation that have stopped judging our own sin That have stopped judging the sin around us. We read there in Psalm 11 and verse 3. If the foundations be destroyed, what can the righteous do? We had that psalm as our responsive reading very deliberately this morning. Because Jesus Christ is the cornerstone. And other foundations no man lay. The Ten Commandments are the cornerstone of truth. And the word of God is his law given to man. And yet we've taken it out of our courts and we've taken it out of our schools and we've taken it for our from our our county, our squares. And they want to tear down crosses wherever they're found, and you can't have a cross on public land because separation of church and state is And it's because my people, which are called by my name, stop praying. Stopped judging our own sin. Oh, we got a lot of judgment for theirs. We still have plenty of judgment for theirs. But judgment begins at the house of the Lord. If my people, which are called by my name, shall humble themselves and pray. Look at verse twenty-three of chapter six In that A B scenario, that covenant promise, if we do this, then here and do that. The first part of verse 23, then hear from heaven and do and judge thy servants Now, verse 23, the judge there is not the same word that we have in chapter 7, verse 4, but it's the same idea. Lord hear and judge us. Bring righteous judgment. I mentioned earlier, 1 Corinthians 11, verse 31, if we would judge our own sins, or if we would judge ourselves, we should not be judged. If my people, which are called by my name, shall humble themselves and pray and seek my face. The psalmist David said in Psalm 27, verse 8: When thou saidest, seek my face, my heart said unto thee, Thy face, Lord, will I seek. When our children disobey and we are correcting them, what do we say? Look at me. Look at me. Look at me. Don't look away. Look right here. Look at me. Why do we do that? Because we want them a good point. We want our children to understand what they've done wrong, why it is wrong, and what is expected. Look at me. If my people which are called by my name shall humble themselves and pray and seek my face. Look at me. Don't look at the world. Don't look at the president. Don't look at what's going on around us. Look at me. Look unto me and be ye saved, all ye ends of the earth, for I am God and there is none else. We love the United States, but it's not our God. We look at the crucified one. Look at me. The face is the place of the eyes. When we truly seek the face of God We cannot make a pretense of hiding anything from his gaze. He sees us. And when we seek his face, we acknowledge that his eyes are upon us. The face is the place of the mouth. When we seek his face, we will hear from him. When your child turns away and you're trying to correct them, you wonder if they're listening. Ah, but when they look you in the face, they read your lips. Look at me. Look at me The face is the place of the ears. When we seek his face, he will hear our cry. Uh my hearing is not what it used to be. And I have a feeling if I started whispering, a lot of you would have trouble hearing even with the microphone. Because our hearing deteriorates But when I want to hear someone clearly, I look at their face. Why? Well, because my ears are attuned to what they're saying. When we seek God's face, he hears our prayers. Not that he doesn't hear at other times, but oh, there's that communion with God The face is the place of the mind. When we seek his face, we seek that we might think on him and he might think on us. I was in um in White Marsh Mall with my daughter this week And uh I was standing in line and she came up behind me and she said, Dad, I didn't recognize you from beh from the back. Of course I've lost a lot of weight. It made me feel really good. Without seeing my face, she didn't know Dad, because Dad's not as big as he used to be. Face is a place of recognition. When we seek God's face, we recognize him, there's my dad, there's my other father. We look upon his face. The face is the place of the nose. When we seek his face, it is our desire that our prayers be a sweet smelling scent in his nose. Seek his face. Ah, if my people which are called by my name will humble themselves, judge their sins, and seek my face. And turn from their wicked ways. See, I mentioned when we tell our children, look at me We want them to understand what they've done wrong. We also want them to understand you better not do it again. We've had enough of that. But how often we as Christians continue in sin that grace may abound God forbid. And turn from our wicked ways. The biblical command to turn is not something that we can do on our own Man can try to do better, man can uh change his ways to some degree. But you see, when we're truly seeking his face, when we're truly praying in repentance, when we're truly humbling ourselves before him He'll take over and do the rest. Turn us again, O Lord, cause thy face to shine, and we shall be saved. You see, true repentance is not me turning around, but it's God turning me around. It is me coming humbly before God to the point where God says, Yes, now I can work with you. Now the clay which was hard has been softened by the water of the Holy Spirit. It's malleable. Clay in the potter's hand. And then thirdly, notice what God has promised to do for his repentant people. Then will I hear from heaven and will forgive their sins and will heal their land. First of all, God promises that he will hear. If I regard iniquity in my heart, the Lord will not hear me. For a time may God may silence our prayers, but he may make us seek him more. But when we come in this kind of repentance, God will hear. He will hear from heaven In Psalm 39, starting in verse 10, we read these words. The psalmist says, Remove thy stroke away from me. I am consumed with the blow of thine hand. When thou with rebukes dost correct man for iniquity, thou makest his beauty to consume away like a moth. Surely every man is vanity, Selah. Hear my prayer, O Lord, and give ear unto my cry. Hold not thy peace at my tears. For I am a stranger with thee and a sojourner, as all my fathers were. Oh, spare me, that I may recover strength before I go hence to be no more. Isn't that beautiful prayer of repentance? Oh Lord, remove your stroke. Lord, I did wrong. You had to spank me. But restore thy peace. God will hear. But not only will God hear, God will hearken. That's why we want our kids to look us in the face, right? Because they may hear what we say, but it doesn't mean they're going to hearken God will hear and God will hearken. Look at verse 21 of chapter 6. Here in Solomon's prayer, Solomon says, Hearken therefore, unto the supplication of thy servant and of thy people Israel, which they shall make toward thee in this place, hear thou from thy dwelling place, even from heaven, and when thou hearest, forgive. To hear is one thing. To hearken is to grant that which is heard. God will hear from heaven. God will hearken. And then finally it says, God will heal. Then will I hear from heaven and will forgive their sins and will heal their land. Now I began in the introduction by saying that this land, that's the United States, is not the land that has been spoken of. The land being spoken of in this passage was the physical land of Israel at that time, but more specifically, it was the place where the temple was built. It was Jerusalem. Today there is still the remains of a temple in Jerusalem. But the temple of God today is not a building. It is his people. We are the temple of God. God temples with us. And so the promise is that if God's own elect, God's own redeem purpose uh purchase people Will confess their sins in prayer and seek his face and turn from their wicked ways. He will heal us He will heal his people. Because remember, I said that the reason that this nation has turned from God Is that the people of God within this nation have turned from him as well If there's any hope for the United States, it's not in our president, it's not in our power, it's not in our wealth, it is in the people of God. We need healing. We need to be restored. The uh hymn writer William Cooper Wrote the words, Fear not, ours um, ye fearful saints, fresh courage take The clouds ye so much dread are big with mercy, and shall break in blessings on your head. Judge not the Lord by feeble sense, but trust him for his grace Behind a frowning providence, he hides a loving face. We may bear the judgment of God for our sins. But behind the frown of God is always the smile of His mercy and His forgiveness. May we His people that are called by my name Humble ourselves and pray and seek his face and turn from his wicked ways that he might heal us. Let us stand for prayer. Our Father and our God, we thank you for your word. Oh God, today may we seek your face. May we gaze upon you. May we hear your word and hear your truth in humility. Bless us, we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen.