Turn with me to 1 Samuel chapter 6 this morning. Your bulletins give the title of the message in his presence. I've changed that title about five times since I gave that to Rob this morning at this point. If you're looking for something in the message to represent the title, at this point the title of the message would be Scripture Really Matters. Scripture Really, Really Matters. So 1 Samuel chapter 6, if you follow with me, as we begin at chapter 6 and verse 13 to the end of the chapter. If you recall, the Ark of the Covenant was captured by the Philistines. And uh the the Israelites had not s sent for it. They didn't offer a ransom for it, they didn't try to sneak back over and and get it back. They just didn't have it anymore And so we we know that the Philistines were putting it on a cart last week and that they said if the cart heads for Israel, they can have it. If the cart stays here, we're gonna keep it And so they kinda left up into God's hand. So we found that the cart took off, heading north northeast towards Israel, and the Philistines were walking behind it to see what it was going to do. Or what the cattle are going to do. And in verse thirteen we read, and they of Beshemesh, that was a city right on the border of the Philistines and Israel. And they of Beshemesh, the city means s uh house, Beth, house of the sun And they of Behemoth were reaping their wheat harvest in the valley. And they lifted up their eyes and they saw the ark. And they rejoiced to see it. And the ark came into the field of Yahshua, a Beshemite, and stood there where there was a great stone. And they claved or cut the wood of the ark and offered the kine, or that's the milk cows or cows, as a burnt offering onto the Lord. The Levites took down the ark of the Lord and the copper that was with it. Remember the copper had inside it the uh golden uh emrods or tumors and golden mice. As a sacrifice to the God of Israel. Philistines wanted to get rid of the ark, and they didn't want God to be mad at him anymore, and so along with the ark, they sent this coffer full of these gold items. So the Levites took down the Ark of the God and the copper that was with it, wherein the jewels of gold were, and put them on the great stone And the men of Beshemesh offered burnt offerings and sacrificed sacrifices the same day unto the Lord. And when the five lords or the five kings of the Philistines had seen it They returned to Ekron the same day. That is after they saw that these cow were cattle, milk cows were inclined to go all the way up to Israel to take the Ark of the Covenant back And they saw how well it was received, and they saw them cutting up the ark and or not the ark but the cart, and and they saw them sacrificing and killing of the the cows. It says the five kings They just acquiesced to that at that point. And they returned to Ekron the same day. And then we have a little bit of the scripture here that these are the golden emrods which the Philistines return for a trespass offering on the Lord For Ashdod one, for Ghazna one, for Ascalon one, for Gath one, for Ekron one. So the five major cities and the five major kings that followed this cart And uh there they were represented uh in their sacrifice with these golden tumors or golden emrods. All this was in the coffer on the ark And it's described here. But also it says there were golden mice. According to the number, verse eighteen, of all the cities of the Philistines belonging to the five lords, both fence cities and country villages So we have no idea how many golden mice were also on that uh cart with the ark. It could have been a hundred. We have we just have no idea. But for every village the Philistines had and for every little uh country city and so forth Uh and these two are there. And it says, uh and onto the great stone of Abel whereon they set down the ark of the Lord, which shall remain on this day in the field of Yeshua the Beshemite. So onto the stone they put the ark and the copper with the golden mice and the golden emrods or tumors. And then we see a change here in the story. Verse 19 and he that is God smote the men of Beshamesh Because he had looked into the ark of the Lord, even he smote of the people fifty thousand threscore and ten men. And the people lamented because the Lord had smitten many of the people with a great slaughter Now that is a great slaughter. If you have an NIV Bible it says seventy people died. Or if you have a a Living Translation Bible it says seventy people died, but Seventy people dying doesn't sound like a great slaughter, does it? And so uh we can stick here with the King James. If you have the New American Standard, it also says a great slaughter and the fifty uh fi 50,000 uh plus uh three score and ten. So uh that's why it's so important the scriptures that that you read, that you make sure you've got a good translation. And so here it says there was a great slaughter, and the men of Beshemesh said, Who is able to stand before this holy Lord God And to whom shall he go up from us? We've got to get rid of this thing, and where are we going to send it? And they sent messengers to the inhabitants of Kerjathjim, saying, The Philistines have brought again the ark of the Lord Come you down and fetch it up to you. You know. They don't they don't want to realize what what's going on here. They they want somebody else to come and get it and have it in their city as it were And I think sometimes when we were envisioning uh these uh over fifty thousand people lying dead around the Ark of a Covenant because they looked inside it, it doesn't say they all dropped dead as they looked inside. It doesn't say that they all came and died when it all it says that there were men started looking inside of it and God just sent a plague throughout, a great slaughter throughout Israel, and over fifty thousand people died. You know, if you walk up to an ark and this guy drops dead and it's running, the next guy drops dead and the next guy drops dead Pretty soon after 40 or 50 bodies you're going to get the idea, I'm not looking in the ark. So we don't know how many looked in the ark. We know it was enough to raise up the wrath of God, and he destroyed over 50,000 people in Israel for this And so as we look at this, verse 13, it says, They saw the ark and they rejoiced to see it, and they offered up the kine or the cows as a burnt offering on the Lord. There are three things I think that are noteworthy here as we talk about scripture matters. Scripture really, really matters. First off, the rejoicing of the Beshelemites, alright? They were so involved with the rejoicing that they they overlooked their obedience to the Word of God They offered these milk cows. Milk cows are female cows, all right? In Scripture, Leviticus 1-3 says that a burnt offering is to be a male or a bullock. And so they were they were so full of enthusiasm, they were so excited, they were so full of rejoicing that the rejoicing just overrid or overrode their obedience to the scriptures, and that's important Because when we see that God is striking them all dead later on, it didn't just start with them looking the ark. We find they were disobedient, disobedient, disobedient several times. before they look into the ark as well. And so it says here that they they they sacrificed the cows, the milk cows. That was contrary to Leviticus 1 verse 3 and also Leviticus 22, 9 says that That if they were there was a dreadful warning that if they will die if they profane the sacrifice. And they had profaned the sacrifice. They didn't bring in bullets. These cows are here. They were handy Why not just use them? Why run out and get some bullocks somewhere? And so scripture really mattered. But they didn't think it did. And second, we find here at the sacrifice that they didn't do it in Shiloh. Shiloh was the appointed place, according to Joshua 18. 1. in Deuteronomy 12 and 5 and 6. Shiloh was only about 25 miles away. The ark had just come into Israel. They can take it back up to Shiloh. That's where the tabernacle is Burnt offerings would be taken before the door of the congregation, they were to be sacrificed there before the tabernacle. And again, scripture really matters, and they didn't care. They were so full of exuberance And they were so full of rejoicing, it just didn't matter to them. That Exodus 29 and 10 or Leviticus 16, 7 said it's outside of the tabernacle at the door should the burnt offering be brought. And they didn't do that And then thirdly, Christ said we are to worship in spirit and in truth. That is, Scripture does matter. And uh we tell we think of some of the exuberant people today that are in worship services and scripture doesn't matter to them. Uh there'll be babbling in tongues, but the scripture says in in 1 Corinthians 14 and 27, it's supposed to be a real language And the whole church sometimes will be babbling in tongues and scripture says that they're to speak one at a time, by course. You have a three or four course meal They bring out the salad, then they bring out the soup, then they bring out uh the main meal, then they bring out the dessert. You know, four course meal. It's brought out little at a time. And tongues are supposed to be spoken by course, one at a time, and never more than three courses. But some people are so exuberant in their worship that scripture doesn't matter Scripture tells us in 1 Corinthians 14, 27 that also there should be an interpreter available, and if not, they are to remain silent, and that it's supposed to be a real language, not just some uh gobbledygook And so we we can find even in this day and age that for some the exuberance, the excitement, the rejoicing is more important than what the scriptures say, and that can be costly in the long run Now I said there's three things I would thought would be noteworthy. It was not just that they an inappropriate sacrifice, and not just that it was a sacrifice that was sacrificed in the wrong location, as it were, but I also want you to note That they sacrificed these two Philistine cows. So, in other words, the sacrifice cost them nothing. It was cheap. It was free. It cost them nothing. It wasn't a precious sacrifice And when we talk about how precious the scriptures are, how scripture matters, we have to think about the fact that the Lord Jesus Christ, He was a precious sacrifice. And he was offered outside the tabernacle in Jerusalem, was he not? And he was a male, as all sacrifices were to be, the burnt offerings and so forth. And so if it doesn't matter here what they did in Bethemus, maybe it doesn't matter what happened at Jerusalem either. Maybe it could have been a woman's sacrifice. Maybe it could have been in a different town instead of Jerusalem, outside where the tabernacle didn't exist Maybe it could be a less precious person. Let's just sacrifice a bum or or a uh a a bag later or let's just sacrifice uh a criminal. But we sacrificed something that was precious, something that was very costly. Christ will talk about our sacrifices when he spoke in Mark 12 and 42 about the poor widow who cast in two mites into the treasury. And Christ commended her, he said she gave her all It wasn't a cheap sacrifice for her. It wasn't a free sacrifice for her. So I ask you this morning, what is your offering to the Lord worth? When you give the Lord, what's its real value? And you know, none of this should have happened. They're they're wrong here on three counts. They're wrong on the first count as to what they sacrificed, they're wrong, you know, it was it was a female cow. They're wrong on the second count in in that they're in the wrong location for their sacrifice. And you know some people tell you, Oh, I don't have to go to church, I can just worship anywhere. Wrong. Right? And thirdly, they were wrong that it was a cheap, it cost them nothing sacrifice. And they ought to have known better because w what happens here, we're told that this takes place in Beshemesh. And in verse 15, it said the Levites it took down the ark and the copper wherein the jewels of gold were. There were Levites present Levites knew the Levitical law, Levites knew the Mosaic Law. How could they stand by and let these Becemites just sacrifice inappropriately break three different Scriptural verses as if scripture didn't really matter. The Levites were present there in Bechemeth because Joshua 21, 16 says that when they were casting lots and breaking up the twelve tribes and where they would live, there were cities who were assigned, and it says Beshemesh was assigned out of Judah to the sons of Aaron. Beshemesh was to be a city of Levites. That's why the Levites were there. And the people that lived in Bethemeth, they should have known the scriptures. And I I have no doubt that they've been taught them, they've been preached to them, but there came a point in their life where scripture Yeah, it didn't really matter. Levites ought to have instructed the Behemites That all things are to be done decently and in order, First Corinthians fourteen and forty, especially when it comes to a a worship service and a service that commemorates the sacrifice. a communion service and so forth. All things been decently and in order. And I I would propose to you this morning, Christians, are you teaching your children and your grandchildren or some soul out there what quite Christ requires of them. Are you teaching your children, your grandchildren, or some soul out there that Scripture Really matters. It really matters what the scriptures say, and not what you feel like doing in a church service, and not what you feel like doing in a worship service, or not what you feel like doing on the Lord's Day. Scripture really matters Nevertheless, for all the inconsistencies and irregularities and the breaking of Scripture here The Philistine kings were observing this, and all they saw was the their their rejoicing, their exuberance, like the Baal priests on Mount Carmel Yelling and screaming and shouting. And to the Philistines, that looked pretty good to them. That looked that looked very religious. That looked that looked very, very uh uh God honoring, as it were. And so the five Philistine lords when they'd seen it They return to Equan and say, well boy, they really are religious up there. I mean they really got religion up there and they got their art back and they're happy. And they they just left thinking everything was okay. You know what I noticed as I read that maybe you did too? These five kings. Powerful men they were in the land of the Philistines. And they had followed this ark from you know some distance back Waiting to see if we'd go off the side of the road and the cattle might be missing their calves and turn back around. Remember the cows had newborn calves, but they ignored the newborn calves, they headed up towards Bechemet Waiting to see if they might turn around, waiting to see if they might go off into one of the wheat fields that was being harvested at that time. But they didn't. They just went straight, straight, straight up to Beshemesh and then into the field of Yahshua It would be nice to talk about that sometime. Why the field of Yahshua? Why did the Ark of the Covenant go into the field of Yeshua to a great stone or a great rock? Lots of uh symbolism there to talk about Christ. And of course it's called the house of the sun and Beshemesh. There's just so many things we s we could point to Christ about this. But here they are these Philistine kings and are following up there. The ark stops and they stand back to watch to see what happens. And they see them take the Ark of the Covenant off. Well they expected that. Placed on the rock. They see them take the copper out full of the golden mice. Mice made of gold and the tumors made of gold. Well they expected that. Okay, well we'll get our cart and our cows back and we'll head back to Ekron. Oh, what are they doing? They're chopping our cart up. It's a good cart. It's a brand new cart. It's a new cart. You don't have to do that. Just do it Just give us our cart. We'll go. You got your arc, we want our card drive. They chop the car. What's wrong with these people? Don't they have any appreciation for us? But they're outnumbered, and there's the five of them, so they just kind of watch that. They're killing our cows. We can't just give us the cows. We'll put a rope around. Take the cows back away. They got calves back in the barn. You know, back to Nashville. Come on, don't you want to kill our cows But but they watched this and the and the carts chopped up and they killed their cows, they cut their cows in pieces, they set fire to the cart, they sacrificed the cows, and they the kings The kings, the five kings, they they returned to Ekron. It's as if they were dumb and opened not their mouth because Thou hast done it, Psalm 39 and 9. They seem that they a the acquest to the providence of God Thy will be done. Matthew six and ten You know, the Philistine kings can submit to the providential hand of God. Shouldn't Christians submit To the hand of God. I mean, albeit they may have been reluctantly submitting, shouldn't we readily submit? If Philistines can reluctantly submit to the providence of God in his hand, shouldn't we readily submit to the providence of God And his hand in our lives. The more I the longer I live and the more I go through the Lord's Prayer, the more I realize how deep and meaningful it all is. My wife was going through her health problems and we couldn't find food that she could eat or digest and she was losing, you know, pounds every week and I thought she was gonna die of malnutrition. We would pray Give us this day our daily bread. Lord, give us something that she can digest. Give us something that can keep her alive. And then when we face situations where We're gonna lose a loved one. Can we say, thy will be done Well the Philistines here were they were willing to submit to their cart being chopped up, their cows being sacrificed, losing all that gold, and they returned to Ekron. In verse eighteen it says that the great stone where they stepped the ark on, it mentions that here. The ark wasn't back in the tabernacle of Shiloh, was it? No, it was not. But it wasn't back in Ashdod either I mean they had a lot to be rejoicing about. Uh the ark's not in Shiloh, but it's not in Ashdod, it's not in the temple of Dagon. I mean things have gotten a little better. And it had been gone, it says, if you go back to 1 Samuel 6 and 1, they had not seen the ark in seven months. In fact, they had no idea they'd ever see the ark again. Ever, ever, ever. And so when they're in the fields and they're chopping away at the wheat, they're harvesting, they look up, the last thing they expected to see was the Ark of the Covenant coming. Maybe if they saw the Ark of Covenant and the Philistines, they probably thought the Philistines are chasing the cart. They want the cart back. They're going to address it. But the Philistines were just walking along beside the cart. in no hurry to stop the cart, in no hurry to stop the return of the Ark of the Covenant. And so it's been seven months, and now it comes in the field of the Behemites. And if nothing else, no, it's not in Shiloh, but it's not in Ashdod, no, it's not in Shiloh, but it's not in the Temple of Dagon. No, it's not in Shiloh, but it is in Best Shemesh, and this is the closest these people have ever been to the Ark of the Covenant. Are you closer to Christ today than you were seven months ago? Some of you I know you are, because you're going through some struggles. Hard times will do that for us, but we ought to be able to look back uh a year or six months and say we've grown in Christ, we've grown in grace and knowledge of the Lord And here they they found themselves closer than they'd ever been before to the Arctic Covenant. They have this is our relationship ought to get nearer and dearer than it was seven months ago, seven weeks ago, seven days ago. Was the relationship of the Beshemites closer than it was seven months ago? It would appear here that the answer is no. And we know Christians like that, or unsafe people like that. Seven months ago they were out drinking, carousing, carrying on, and uh into porno or whatever, doing it, and seven months later they're still just the same. Nothing's changed, maybe it's gotten worse. But here were Behemites. They were living in the city of the Levites, where the priests were. You would think within s the last seven months there had been a mourning and a bemoaning and a praying for the return of the ark, and that some tragic thing like that would have caused them to get closer to God But it doesn't appear that they had gotten closer. Because in 19, verse 19, we find that God begins to smite the people of Bethsemas because they had looked into the ark Only the high priest was allowed to look in the ark. Well, and brother, he wasn't even allowed to look in the ark. He was only allowed to look at the ark, and he was only allowed to look at the ar Once a year we read in Scripture That on the seventh month and on the tenth day there would be a cloud of incense that covered the ark. And as you walked into the Holy of Holies, the high priest one of the Levite priests to be selected to be the high priest for that year, and he would walk in after burning incense and covering the the uh the tabernacle inside and burn the incense inside the Holy of Holies, behind the curtain, behind the veil. Then he would walk in and he would Through a cloud of mist and incense, he would see vaguely the Ark of the Covenant. But he never looked in the Ark of the Covenant. Never looked in the Ark of the Covenant And these people had done that. They had looked in it Seeing the ark wasn't enough. There's people out there all the time. Whatever's going on in their life, it just isn't enough. They want more excitement, they want more of this or more of that. You only go around once a light gotta grab all the dust so you can You've got to take every opportunity you can to do everything you can. Every particular sin they haven't sinned yet. They're a bucket list, I'm gonna be able to bucket list of all the sins they haven't committed yet that they want to commit before they die I guess that was their bucket list. They wanted to look inside the Ark of the Covenant. And they looked inside it. Maybe had an excuse. You know, I know we're not supposed to look in the ark, but the Philistines have had it for seven months. Maybe they stole something out of it. You know, inside the ark is supposed to be Aaron's rod that had butted and and there's supposed to be an omer of manna in there and And there's supposed to be the the Ten Commandments carved in stone by God's finger. And there's supposed to be the writings of Moses in there, the autograph writings of Moses. I mean, what if they stole some of that stuff? We've got to find out if there's anything missing. If there's anything missing, we need to go back to those Philistines and say, hey You didn't give it all back to us. Maybe maybe they're trying to make an excuse for why they should look in the ark. Or or maybe they broke something. You know, maybe the omer, the the vessel that's told the man is leaking, or or maybe they broke the Ten Commandments. Not just broke them with a hard or broke them or dropped them off the ark or something or off a cart or something. I'm sure there was all kinds of excuses that people make to go contrary to what Scripture teaches. And the reason people look for excuses to go contrary to scripture is because scripture doesn't really matter to them I don't have to go to church on the Lord's Day. I can worship God in my own uh my own house. I can worship God while I'm out camping somewhere. I don't need to make a regular tenance to the Lord. It says forsake not the assembly together of the brethren. Oh scripture doesn't matter. That's really what they're saying. Our scripture's not all that accurate. I mean, let's look inside the ark. Maybe we'll find it It's only eight commandments and Moses has been pulling it over on us, huh? You know? I mean how accurate is that? That was a long time ago when Moses came down from the mountain And maybe it's not quite that accurate. Or or maybe Aaron's rod isn't in there and never was in there. Or or maybe the the omer is maybe it's not an omer, maybe it's less than that, you know, or maybe it's more than that. I mean, how accurate is the scriptures anyway So let's find they had to be looking for excuses to go inside and look. I'd say this morning, do you trust the scriptures? Do you think scriptures matter? They didn't. And it cost them their lives right then. And for many it probably cost their eternal life as well. So they decide to look in the ark. I I want you to picture this. They've got the ark And they say, I don't know if Scripture is accurate or not. So they walked up to the ark. And if you go back and read in the book of Numbers, it's Numbers chapter 4, verses 5 and 6, 4, 5, 6. The ark is described this way. It was covered with the veil of the temple. And after that it was covered in badger skins. And after that it was covered in a holy blue cloth. So The ark's coming down the road with the cattle, and it's still covered as it was as as they captured it, they return it. They don't want the Israelites to get any madder at them than than they already are And so these men they walk up to and they want to look in the ark and they see this holy blue cloth. Having been trained and taught by the Levites, they say, Well I wonder if Scripture's asking If Scripture is accurate, when we go to look inside the ark and we pull out the holy blue cloth, we should see badger skins there. And they pull back the holy blue cloth? Whoa, badger skins Wow, scripture's pretty accurate. But you know what? I wonder what's under the badger skins. I know scripture says under badger skins is the veil of the temple. Never seen that before either. And they with the cherubim, you know, uh into the into the veil where the cherubim were were knit or sewing, and they pulled back the badger skins, and there's a cherubim, there's another cherubim. Oh my goodness, the veil of the temple. It's just like the scriptures said Wow. I mean, if scripture matters, if scripture is accurate, there it is. You would think that when they when they pulled back the holy blue cloth, they'd go, whoa, put it back on. Scripture is accurate. Or when they pull back the badger skin and say, Whoa, there's a Baal temple. Whoa, put it all back, put it all back. Scripture is really accurate because the next thing it says is we're not to even look on the on the ark. We're not high priests This isn't the day of atonement. We haven't sprinkled the blood on the on the on the seed yet. We haven't burned the incest. We gotta back off. But they didn't. Because scripture didn't really matter. Oh, maybe scripture was accurate here, maybe it was accurate there, but it's not gonna be accurate everywhere. What's gonna happen? We pull it off. Well, it says if you profane the works of the Lord, you shall die. That was a verse given to us in scripture earlier in the message this morning. And so they lifted the lid. Because to them scripture didn't really matter. They were just treating the ark they covered like some common chest. Each layer should have caused them to give pause and to question, what are we doing? Surely someone in that group said, what are we doing? Put it back, put it back. God does that to us sometimes. We're doing something we shouldn't do and Police officer catches and stops us and that's God saying to him, what are you doing, driving drunk, or what are you doing driving recklessly? Or what are you doing speeding like that And you get the warning ticket or you get the ticket, and that's just God's way of talking about you. You know, you have to reevaluate the things you're doing in your life. You're going to kill somebody, and then you've really done something horrible. We need to pause sometimes. And when we're reading scripture, scripture says that we're we're not to be doing something. We ought to give that a great deal of thought. There was deadly destruction when the Philistines in chapter 5 and verse 11 of 1 Samuel, when they had the Ark of the Covenant, plagues went through the Philistines, it killed them off. It was a deadly destruction. and and they think they can get by with something that the Philistines couldn't get by with. It says judgment begins in the house of the Lord. If there was deadly destruction with the Philistines If the Jews or the Israelites do something with the ark of God, it's going to be worse for them. God's not going to go easier on them. It should have been sufficient warning for the Behemites. It should have been sufficient warning for them what had happened to the Philistines, but it did not. They wanted to look inside the ark. And so I would say this morning: Are you looking inside a magazine you shouldn't be looking in? Are you looking inside a TV that you shouldn't be looking at something? Are you looking at something at TV you shouldn't look at? Are you looking at your computer at something you shouldn't look at? Are Are you looking to the things that you know are forbidden to look at and you're looking at them? If you're a Christian, it's going to cost you. If you're not a Christian, oh the cost is still coming. It'll be delayed until you reach eternity. Maybe they just wander through any gold mice inside the ark. I mean If they had all these gold mice, the coffer was full of blue gold mice, and maybe the coffer was too small, and they had to lift the lid and throw a few more inside the Arctic coffer. I mean, excuses after excuses after excuses we make as we sin, don't we? Well, people say that uh this is a terrible movie, uh Noah. Have you heard about the new movie Noah? It's a terrible movie. And well you can't knock that movie because you haven't seen it. You have to go and see the movie. I've been listening to Ken Ham's got about an hour and fifty minutes. Take he and several others went down and they watched the movie I mean, do you do you know why the flood came? Oh, by the way, the flood has about it's about two percent accurate. The movie of Noah from Hollywood. 2% accurate. It does show a worldwide flood. Alright? And you know why God flood the whole world? Not because the world was full of sinners, not because the heart of man and his imagination were continually evil. He flooded the earth because man was destroying the environment. Think about that. You are destroying the environment, someone will wipe out the entire environment. Does that make sense? But that's what the movie says. These men were destroying the environment. They were chopping down trees, and they were killing off the grass, and they were hurting the nature and the birds. And that's why God destroyed the earth. Nothing about sin And Noah is a psychopath. Noah's out there running around trying to kill everybody. Noah thinks the only way the earth can survive and be pristine and wonderful is if all the human beings are dead. He doesn't want any women on the earth So people say, you can't judge the movie until I've seen it. Talk to people to see the movie. And ask him, did Noah want any women on the ark? No, he did not. And when he found out that his son had brought his wife on and she was pregnant He said, I will kill the babies when they're born, especially if they're women. And they're two little girls. He grabs a knife, he walks up to kill them, and then uh you have to see the movie to find out what happened. No. He He doesn't do it. He drops the knife and he he begs of God to forgive him, for he just can't kill the little babies. Wow. Good thing there were any abortionists on this ark that have had no problem with that. You know you don't have to see something to know when it's bad. I don't have to get a I don't have to get a subscription to Playboy magazine and go through it once a month for me to tell you it's pornography. Oh you can't judge it, you've never looked at it All you gotta do is ask somebody if you are is there nudity in it? Well then it's wrong. They say, well, you've got these great um paintings of Rembant and and uh you know Michelangelo and in the 16th chapel you got nudity there what do you say about that it's wrong too It's wrong through. I don't care who paints it. So are you looking into things you shouldn't be looking into, pilgrim? The result was fifty thousand three score and ten. That's a great slaughter. People say to me, I can't believe in the God of the Bible, especially the God of the Old Testament. He is just too severe Oh no, I can't believe the God the Bible just I look around the world and I see I see people born, you know, and and and I see them die and I see how they live and And God is so severe. Why doesn't God love mankind more and treat mankind better? And and why does he why do he have to create on earth all these diseases? And we know the answer to that. He didn't He created a sin-free world and man sinned and the Jesus came as a result of sin, like the thorns and the thistles. But they think God is too severe. Well, God is severe, especially to those who sin knowingly. The Beshemites, they were in the city of the Levites, they knew the Word of God. It just didn't matter to them. And you you talk about people who God's going to deal with severely, you look at the woman. who is delivering babies one one hour of the day and a couple hours later she's over aborting babies at the same time frame. Oh that that was a preemie that I aborted. Well that was a preme that I delivered. Who do you think should be held accountable? That woman that woman doctor be held more accountable Then the teenage girl walked in and got the abortion. Because that doctor knows. That doctor knows. How about the preacher? He's out there, he's preaching the sermon, he's going on, he's preaching all this good stuff, and then he gets mad at his wife, and he starts taking the Lord's name in vain Shame on him. He knows. He knows that's wrong. How about God's chosen people here? They were God's chosen people. But they could care less. They were curious and they were choosing to worship. In fact, we read in the next chapter, they were choosing to worship. strange gods, Balaam and Astaroth. Balaam was the male god of of uh vegetation and growth and and the god of rain, by the way. He didn't know that Mali was going to attack him or they're probably going to stop worshiping that god. And Astro, she was a fraternity goddess, and they brought in all kinds of prostitution. I mean it was it was a horrible mixture of what they called religion. And the Jews, they were the God's chosen people, and they knew better. They know. And so God's going to hold them more accountable when they open the lid of the Ark of the Covenant. When someone knows better The results are very bitter. And I suspect that everyone here knows that thou shalt not commit adultery, thou shalt not steal, thou shalt not take the Lord's name in vain. Just remember the Sabbath day and keep it holy. Thou shalt not covet. You know, thou shalt not kill. You know these things. You know these things. And if you commit them, you will be held more accountable. You know them. And God will make your life far more bitter. If we commit those sins that we know our sins. And furthermore, we don't even we can't even begin to imagine the hidden sins of the people of Bashemesh. The hidden sins in a man's heart, in a man's mind, the things he's committed, the things he's thought to commit, the things he's hoping to commit, the things he' Flying commits God knows all of that. We can't think that God is too severe. His judgments are unsearchable in his ways past finding out Romans 11 and 35 The truth is, if you want the truth about the people of Behemoth, if you want the truth about all of us, the truth is none of us deserve one iota, one smidgen of God's mercy. We don't deserve it. But God is often merciful. But we don't deserve it. The Beth Shemesh people, the Beshemites in Beth Shemesh, they understood one thing. It says in verse 20, 21, the men of Bethem said, Who is able to stand before this holy God? And the answer is no one. Unless you come in the presence with Christ as your mediator, with Christ as your representative. If thou, Lord, shouldst mark iniquities, O Lord, who shall stand? Psalm 130, verse 3. The Behemites, some of them had looked in the ark, they understood the holiness of God, the justice of God, but little of his mercy. They said, who can stand before God? We'll all send it all. They don't understand about the mercy of God. Their question shouldn't have been, where can we send the ark? We've got to get rid of the ark. Where can we send the ark? Their question ought to have been, what can we do to get right with God? What can we we do to make things right with God, for God to grow, come nearer to us and for us to get nearer to God. That's what they should have been asking. Rather than where can we send the ark? And so they sent messengers to Kershath Jerem saying, Come you down and fetch it up, you. God's beating us up down here. We don't want it anymore. Come and get it. You ever feel like God's beating you up? Do you ever feel like you're taking a real beating? Every boxer knows when he's in the ring he's getting the worst of it. He's getting he's just getting beat up. He doesn't keep running from the guy. What does he do? He runs right at the guy, throws his arms around, gets him in a clinch where the guy can't hit him. We see that they wrap their arms around the other boxer, the guy can't get his arms up, he's trying to hit the guy and he can't. He knows that when you're getting beat up, you run towards the one that's beating you up. And if God's beating you up this morning, it's wrong to run from him. We need to run to him, wrap our arms around him. That's when the boxer gets his breather. In tough times, move closer to God rather than drift away or push them away. In rough times, wrap your mind around God, your heart around God, your soul, and your hands, wrap them around His Word. And around his incarnate word, the Lord Jesus Christ. And don't let go until he blesses you. I told someone the other day, I love the Psalms. So many of them are the prayers and we need to read them ourselves and and they'll become our own prayers and they'll often get us through what we're get we're going through. And I said the person Just grab the Psalms and start reading. I said, God will bless you. I don't care if it takes twenty chapters or sit down and start reading the Psalms until God blesses you. Don't let go of the Word of God until it blesses you And they said, I I'm so alone. I'm so alone Remember the story of Jacob wrestling with the angel? Genesis 32, 24. This is what it says. And Jacob was alone. And there wrestled a man with him until the breaking of day, and Jacob said, I will not let thee go except thou bless me. You alone this morning. Don't let go of Christ until He blesses you. Don't let go of the Word until it blesses you. Don't let go of this until Scripture really matters to you. And it will bless you. Let's pray. Father, we thank thee for the example of the Eshemites. A horrible example that we need to learn from ourselves lest we go through the same thing. And we thank you, Lord, that as we continue in the story, that we find that God does bless his people, Israel. And God does love the repentant sinner. And if we hang on to the Lord and hang on to the scriptures, it'll never embarrass us. We'll never have to make excuses for it. Rather, when it begins to really matter with us It will bless us, and we in turn will bless others who are around us. Oh Lord, may the scriptures matter this morning in each and everyone. May it matter so much that we read it every day. May it matter so much that we memorize it. May it matter so much that we share it with others. We ask all this in the name of our our great Savior Jesus Christ. Amen.