Open in your Bibles with me, please, to the book of Revelation, the last book of your New Testament, and the first chapter. Our text this morning actually will be that 10th verse, but I'm going to read from verse 9 through the end of the chapter. As we begin our consideration. Revelation chapter one, and beginning with the ninth verse. I, John, who also am your brother and companion in tribulation And in the kingdom and patience of Jesus Christ was in the isle that is called Patmos for the Word of God and for the testimony of Jesus Christ. I was in the Spirit on the Lord's day, and heard behind me a great voice as of a trumpet saying, I am Alpha and Omega, the first and the last. And what thou seest, write in a book, and send it unto the seven churches which are in Asia, Ephesus, and And unto Smyrna, and unto Pergamos, and unto Thyatira, and unto Sardis, and unto Philadelphia, and unto Laodicea. And I turned to see the voice that spake with me. And being turned I saw seven golden candlesticks. And in the midst of the seven candlesticks one like unto the Son of Man clothed in a garment down to the foot and girt about the paps with a golden girdle. His head and his hairs were like wool, as white as snow, and his eyes were as a flame of fire And his feet like unto fine brass, as it had been burned in a furnace, and his voice was like unto the sound of many waters. And he had in his right hand seven stars, and out of his mouth went a sharp, two-edged sword, and his countenance was as the sun shineth in his strength. And when I saw him, I fell at his feet as dead. And he laid his right hand upon me, saying unto me, Fear not, I am the first and the last. I am he that liveth and was dead. And behold, I am alive forevermore. Amen. And I have the keys of hell and of death. Write the things which thou hast seen, and the things which are, and the things which shall be hereafter. The mystery of the seven church stars, which thou sawest in my right hand, and the seven golden candlesticks The seven stars are the angels of the seven churches, and the seven candlesticks which thou sawest are the seven churches. Let us stop for prayer. Father, now we pray that you would open our understanding That we might receive from thy word spiritual blessing and edification. We thank you, Lord, that all scripture is given by inspiration of God and is profitable. Oh God, may you make your word profitable to our hearts this morning in this place. And we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. I'm going to kind of give you the outline of our study this morning at the very outset so you know where we're heading. First of all, we're going to consider what is the Spirit of God, or who is the Spirit, what is meant when we read the term the Spirit in Scripture Secondly, we're going to consider what are the works of the Spirit of God, or what is this ministry? What is it that the Spirit of God does? Thirdly, we're going to consider what John is saying when he says that he was in the Spirit on the Lord's day, there in verse 10. And then fourthly, we're going to try to make practical application of all that to our hearts today. To our walk with the Lord, to our time of devotion day by day, and to our lives in general. The Spirit of God. John says there in verse 10, I was in the Spirit on the Lord's day. And you'll notice that spirit there is capitalized. He's not talking about being at a ball game and being emotionally touched. He's not talking about some thing that was worked up from within man, but rather he is saying that he was in the Spirit. In the Spirit of God. And so when we talk about the Holy Spirit, what are we talking about? Well, the Spirit of God is the Holy Spirit, it is the third person of the Trinity. When Christ was baptized, we read that he saw the Spirit of God descending on him And John the Baptist testified that he as well saw the Spirit of God descending on Jesus at his baptism. And we read in Mark 1 and verse 12 that immediately he was driven by the Spirit into the wilderness to be tempted. That is the Holy Spirit of God. It is the third person of the Trinity. When Christ entered into the synagogue in Nazareth, He was given the book of Isaiah to read the people. And he read from Isaiah 61 and the first verse. There he read, the Spirit of the Lord is upon me. Christ was declaring there in the synagogue of Nazareth. That the Spirit of God, the Holy God in spirit form was upon him. And he was speaking on that authority. When Christ was speaking with his disciples shortly before he his crucifixion and before his return to heaven, he promised them that when the Comforter has come, whom the Father will send, even The Spirit of Truth, the Holy Spirit, which proceedeth from the Father. And again in John 16 and verse 13, howbeit, when the Spirit of truth is come, He will guide you into all truth. Now that's very elementary. I believe all of us here this morning have a fairly firm grasp of who the Holy Spirit is. But then there's another spirit that's spoken of in Scripture. This is the spirit that we refer to as the inner man or the heart of man. This is what Christ was referring to in Matthew 5 and verse 3, when he said, Blessed are the poor in spirit. He wasn't saying they're poor in the Holy Spirit, the third person of the Trinity, but they are poor in the inner man. Their own opinion of themselves is depressed. Now why would depression be a good thing? Psychologists will tell you you need to be happy. And you'll hear ads on TV about talk therapy and about medication therapy and so on to make people happy. But Christ says, blessed are the poor in spirit. Well you see a man or a woman who is faced with his own sin Who is faced with the depraved nature that is in him will indeed be poor in spirit. God be merciful to me, a sinner. And oh, how blessed is that man! How blessed is that woman who is poor in spirit, Lord, I have no righteousness To bring before you, no merit of mine own, thy anger to suppress. My only hope is found in Jesus' righteousness. Blessed are the poor in spirit. And again, Christ warned his disciples: watch and pray lest ye fall into temptation. The spirit indeed is willing, but the flesh is weak. He was talking about that. inner man, that person that lives inside of you. Mary, in her great song of praise, when she learned that she was the bearer, the Messiah in her womb, says My spirit hath rejoiced within me. Ah, what joy came to her heart that she was so blessed of God. We read of Jesus in John 11, that when he saw the multitude weeping at the grave of Lazarus, he groaned in his spirit and was Isn't it a marvelous truth? That here Jesus Christ, the Son of God, the second person of the Trinity, when he became flesh and blood, he had that spirit in him as we have in us, that inner man, he groaned in that spirit. And that is crucifixion. And when he Jesus had cried with a loud voice, he said, Father, into thy hands I commend my spirit. That life within him, that inner man. And so we have the Holy Spirit, we find in Scripture, and then we find the Spirit which is in man. But thirdly, in Scripture we find the unclean spirits. And they are not the focus of our consideration today. But just briefly, the unclean spirits acknowledge who Jesus Christ is. Though men denied Christ, the unclean spirits recognized him and they acknowledged, are you come to torment us before time? The unclean spirits were cast out by Jesus Christ. The unclean spirits were under the authority of Christ, and he gave that same authority over the unclean spirits to the apostles. But the unclean spirits are not our consideration this morning. And so that very briefly is our first point. What is meant by spirit? Well, we have two spirits we're considering here. One is the Holy Spirit. And the other is the spirit that is within man. But secondly, we need to clarify what is the ministry of the Holy Spirit? What does the Spirit do? And this is an area over which there is great confusion in religious circles today. There is massive amounts of falsehood And as Brother Vince was mentioning in in Sunday school this morning, a lot of that falsehood comes straight from Satan. And its sole purpose is to try to deceive, if it were possible, even the very elect. But the tares and the chaff among the wheat are vastly deceived over what the work of the Holy Spirit is. And they believe all manner of falsehoods, and they feel very good about their religion, but it is totally lacking in the true Holy Spirit. And so the first principle we must always consider in relation to the Holy Spirit is everything about the Holy Spirit will be agreed to by the Word of God. And everything we need to know about the Holy Spirit is told to us in the Word of God. And anything that is claimed to be of the Holy Spirit that is not in agreement of the Word of God is false. It must be cast aside. The Word of God must be our guide when we consider the works of the Holy Spirit Now we find in the Old Testament that God spoke to his people through dreams, through visions, through angelic uh appearances through appearances of the second person of the Trinity and by direct revelation That was before the completed Word of God. That was before we had the entire revelation of truth in our hands, in front of us. Now the word inspired means God breathed. In other words, God breathed out the truth. There were many, many, many, many more angelic visits to man in the Old Testament than are recorded. But the words of those angels were not inspired. If they had a been, they would be written right here. And in existence are several apocryphal books. Most of them not from the Old Testament period, though some of them from that time, most of them from the time of the apostles. That are not the Word of God, and many of them claim to have angelic stories and so on But we have the Word of God. So first of all, the Old Testament, God is speaking by dreams, God is speaking by visions, God is speaking by direct revelation, God is sending angels to visit with man, and at times even Christ Himself appears. For the comfort of man. The Old Testament also claims the prophecy that at some future time, future to the Old Testament, God's Spirit will be poured out in abundance. And in Joel 2 and verse 28 and 29 we read, and it shall come to pass. Afterward, that I will pour out my spirit upon all flesh, and your sons and your daughters shall prophesy Your old men shall dream dreams, your young men shall see visions, and also upon the servants and upon the handmaids in those days will I pour out my spirit. And that prophecy was absolutely fulfilled at the time of the incarnation of Christ when he dwelt here on this earth And in the years shortly following the resurrection and return to heaven of Christ, it continued in the time of the apostles, when God was pouring out his spirit and his word was in abundance. And there were many prophecies. But again, that was before the completed revelation. That was before we come to the book of Revelation, which we're studying today. And here Christ is appearing to John to give him the final words, to give him the last sentences, the last part. In that period when the young men saw visions and the old men dreamed dreams and God's Spirit was poured out in abundance, we have the speaking in tongues. And the speaking in tongues was in multitude. But did you realize that there was never a word spoken in tongues that was inspired? So much emphasis is put today on well you need to speak in tongues and I have a tongue and I have a revelation, but there has never been one inspired word spoken in a foreign tongue Because if those words had been inspired, they would be written right here. We have the complete, inspired, revealed Word of God. And so that was a work of the Holy Spirit, but not a work which we need today. The scriptures have been fulfilled. And so the New Testament itself states that a time would come when those visions and dreams and tongues would end, when they would no longer be needed And so, as we consider the work of the Holy Spirit, we must be bound and directed by the Word of God. The inspired, completed, perfected, preserved Word of God is our guide. And so charity never faileth. By this shall all men know that you're my disciples, if you have love one toward another. Oh, that gift of the Holy Spirit continues to this day because indeed charity is a gift of the Holy Spirit Because I don't think any of you love me if it wasn't for the Holy Spirit and even my wife wouldn't love me if it wasn't for the Spirit of God working in my heart. I'm not a lovable person. I don't claim to be a fuzzy teddy bear. But you love me and I love you. Why? Well, because the Spirit of God has made me what I am. And he's made you what you are as well. Hallelujah. Charity never faileth. But whether there be prophecies, they shall fail. Whether there be tongues, they shall cease. Whether there be knowledge shall vanish away. For now we know in part, and we prophesy in part. But when that which is perfect is come, then that which is in part shall perfect. And what is the perfect that was being spoken of there? Well, every word of the Lord is pure. It is perfect. And in this very book of Revelation, which completes our inspired Word of God, in the 22nd chapter in verse 6, And he said unto me, these things are faithful and true. These things That's right. As we come to the end of Scripture. These things are faithful and true. This is the perfect. Which was to come. And in verse 18, if any man add unto these things God shall add unto him the plagues that are written in this book. Okay. We have a painting behind us. It's pretty nice. How about if I take out my Sharpie and I start adding bits and pieces in here What will I do? I will immediately destroy a beautiful painting. Why? Well, because I'm not the artist. I'm not the artist. All I can do is degrade it. I cannot improve upon it. That's right. And so God gives this warning. This is it. This is the revelation. It's completed. If you add to it, I'll add the plagues that are in it unto you. Because it's done. It's perfect. It's complete. And if any man take away from the words of this book You can edit Mark Twain all you want to. But if any man take away from the words of this book and of this prophecy, God shall take away his part out of the book of life and out of the holy city and from the things written therein. And so We find that the work of the Holy Spirit has not been the same at all times in history. Okay? We had the Old Testament, where there was a multitude of ways God was speaking. We have the New Testament where the Spirit, the Holy Spirit, is poured out upon men, and even then, when the Spirit was poured out upon men, it did not necessarily mean that what they were saying was inspired of God as Scripture. It was a direction. God was teaching, God was leading. But everything that was spoken through the Spirit Prophecy came not in old time by the will of man, but holy men of God spake as they were moved by the Holy Spirit. Every time the Holy Spirit was speaking in that prophetic voice that was necessary for the Word of God, it was recorded. Every time an angel or some other spirit spoke, the word of God directly given to them, it is recorded because we have messages from angels. We have the angels that greeted the birth of Christ. Go to Bethlehem, those were inspired words. They're recorded. But there were many things spoken by angels that are not recorded. They were not the inspired words. God. And there were many words spoken in tongues, and they were not the word of God. And many sermons were preached, and they were good sermons, I'm sure. And I believe it's John that says if all the things were written, the books could not contain them, but they were not the inspired word of God. Mm-hmm. But the Holy Spirit has given to us the Word of God. And so I've taken kind of a circuitous Journey to get here because our second point is what is the work of the Spirit of God. I want to funnel that all down to what is this work of the Spirit of God today? Because we've seen his works have been different. Scripture does not leave us to imagine what the work of the Spirit of God is, but rather Scripture tells us exactly. And there are three things three works of the Holy Spirit that we're told of in the Word of God that apply to us today. Number one, the Holy Spirit testifies of Jesus Christ. This is found in John fifteen and verse twenty-six. But when the Comforter is come, whom I will send unto you from the Father. Even the Spirit of truth, which proceedeth from the Father, he shall testify of me. The Holy Spirit of God never testifies of anyone but Jesus Christ. If there's a testimony of some other prophet that comes along, Whether he be Muhammad or Confucius or Haile Selassie or Rastafari or whatever name he wants to go by, Jim Jones or David Quaresh. The Holy Spirit will only testify of one name, for there's none other name under heaven. given among men whereby ye must be saved. The first thing that the Holy Spirit does is he testifies of Jesus Christ That is his ministry, to point men to the Messiah, to point to the shed blood of Christ, for without the shedding of blood there is no remission. And so this Holy Spirit will always testify of Jesus Christ. Now if someone comes along and says, Well the Holy Spirit told me this, don't believe him. Because the testimony is already here. Right. The testimony of the Holy Spirit is always of Christ. In John 14 and verse 26, Jesus said, But when the Comforter, which is the Holy Ghost, whom the Father will send in my name, he shall teach you all things and bring all things to your remembrance. Whatsoever I have said unto you. And so there we find the Holy Spirit isn't coming up with his own words. But rather, the Holy Spirit is bringing to our remembrance everything that Christ said. Well, where do we find that? In this precious book. And so the first things the Holy Spirit does is He testifies of Jesus Christ. And Christ Himself said, Search the scriptures, for in them you think that you have eternal life, and they testify. of me. And on the road to Emmaus, when Christ talked with the men there, beginning at Moses and all the prophets, he expounded unto them in all the scriptures the things concerning himself. And so the first work that the Holy Spirit is doing in our day and age is He's testifying of Christ. The second is that He is guiding us into all truth. This is found in John 16 and verse 13. Howbeit, when he, the Spirit of truth, is come, he will guide you into all truth, for he shall not speak of himself. But whatsoever he shall hear, that shall he speak, and he will show you things to come. The Holy Spirit guides us into all truth. What is truth? Thy word is truth. And so the Holy Spirit guides us into all truth. But all truth is found in this word. And so if the Holy Spirit is coming along and telling you that you need to go do such and such and the other, don't believe it For the Spirit speaks through the Word. And you'll find men that come along, well, the Spirit of God told me that Christ is coming back at such and such date. Well, no. No man knoweth the day. Well, this happened or that happened. Ye shall know the truth, and the truth shall set you free. I am the way, the truth, and the life. No man cometh to the Father but by me. And in John fourteen and verse twenty six, but when the Comforter has come, whom the Holy Ghost will send in my name, he shall teach you all things, and bring all things to your remembrance whatsoever I have commanded. He guides us into all truth. He guides us into the knowledge. And Christ does show us things to come. And the Holy Spirit reveals things to come in the world. I know what's coming. I know that the elements are going to melt with fervent heat. That's right. I know that he will come with his angels, with his sin, with a shout, and the voice of the archangel and the trouble of God. I know the dead in Christ shall rise first, and we which are alive and remain shall be caught up together with him in the air, and so shall we ever be with the Lord. I know all these things. Why? Because the Word of God has told me they're so. But you know what I really need to know? Nothing else. Nothing else. There is nothing that I need to know about the future. That is not found in the Word of God. I don't need to try to figure out the date. Now I can view what's happening in the world and compare that with Scripture. And I can say, well, you know, hey what it it's it's it's coming. It's soon. It can't be much longer because I I see The signs of the time, and the signs of the time agree with the Word of God, and therefore I say, even so come, Lord Jesus, and becomes before I finish this sermon, hallelujah! But there's nothing I need to know which this book does not tell me. Now there's a lot in this book that I don't understand. But when God ordains for me to understand it, the Holy Spirit will guide me into all truth. And so, first of all, the Holy Spirit testifies of Christ. And secondly, the Holy Spirit guides us into all truth. But then thirdly, the third work of the Holy Spirit which are were given to us today is the Holy Spirit empowers us to proclaim the gospel of Jesus Christ. This is found in Acts chapter 1 and verse 8, a verse which I'm sure you can quote. But ye shall receive power after the Holy Ghost to come upon you, and ye shall be witnesses unto me. Both in Jerusalem and in Judea and Samaria and under the uttermost parts of the earth. What is not mentioned in that verse? New revelations out there. Prophecies, not there. Speaking in tongues, not there. Healing the sick Out there. There is one thing that we're told that the Holy Spirit will empower us to do. It empowers us to be witnesses. Amen. Oh. And as we look at the New Testament and we find you realize only one of the disciples died of old age. They were empowered for the witness. And when they saw the boldness of Peter and John, they took note of them that they had been with Jesus. I have fought a good fight. I have finished my course. I have kept the faith. Therefore, there is laid up for me a crown of righteousness, which the Lord shall give. Lay not this sin to their charge, Stephen said as he was stoned. Huh? They had mighty, mighty power. Yes, some of the apostles performed miracles. And yes, there was some speaking in tongues in those days. But John had not yet been to the Isle of Patmos, friends. The period was not yet on the sentence But here it's completed. And so the ministry of the Holy Spirit today is to testify of Jesus Christ. is to interpret the Word of God, is to guide us into all truth, and that as well points us squarely to Christ. And the ministry of the Holy Spirit is to empower us. To be witnesses. And it's not just Acts 1. 8 that tells us that. For in Matthew 28 and verse 18 And Jesus came and spake unto them and said, All power is given unto me in heaven and earth. Go ye therefore. Teach all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and the Son and the Holy Ghost, teaching them to deserve all things whatsoever I have commanded you, and lo, I am with you always, even to the end of the world. Christ was saying there, I'm giving you this power. This power that's coming. I'm sending the Holy Ghost. And so the Holy Spirit is involved in those three works. And so we covered three two things so far. Excuse me. First of all, what is the Spirit? Well, we have the Holy Spirit of God that's spoken of here, and then we have the Spirit which is in man, which is the inner man, the emotion of man. And then we've seen the works of the Spirit. They were varied. The Holy Spirit in the Old Testament at different times did it worked in different ways, but today he points to Christ. He interprets the word and he empowers us for witness. But then what does John mean when he says, I was in the Spirit? And I point out again that spirit there is capitalized. There is the spirit of prophecy, which we've seen in the Old Testament, and John certainly had that spirit. And it was that spirit of prophecy that has given us the Word of God, holy men of God, spake as they were moved by the Holy Ghost. And that spirit was given to Paul, and he said all scripture is given by inspiration of God and is profitable. But that's not what John's talking about here when he says he was in the Spirit Later in this passage, we'll find John receiving divine revelation. In fact, in verse 11, the next verse, it begins. But John says he was in the Spirit on the Lord's day. But to understand that passage, we've got to consider other scriptures. Walk in the spirit, and ye shall not fulfill the lust of the flesh. And uh I sometimes hesitate to read for the commentaries, but a lot of times they can explain something better than I can. Albert Barnes puts it this way. He says, the fair meaning of the passage is that he was at that time favored with a large measure of the influence of the Holy Spirit. that he had a state of high religious enjoyment and was in a in a condition not inappropriate to the remarkable communication that followed In other words, John, here on the Lord's day, was in a state of worship and fellowship with God. He was in a state of the high enjoyment of the pleasures of God. My friend, have you ever known that state? Have you ever been so overwhelmed with the joy of the Lord? That your spirit cried out and rejoiced. Doesn't mean that you spoke in some foreign language. Doesn't mean that you touched somebody and they were healed. It doesn't mean that you received some knowledge outside the Word of God. But rather have you come to that place in devotion that you were overwhelmed with the joy of the Lord and the Spirit of God Surrounded you and filled you, and your spirit cried out in rejoicing to God. That's what John's describing here. He says he was in the Spirit on the Lord's day. And he did receive a divine inspiration at that time. But you see, it is that state of being in the spirit. In which the Holy Spirit testifies of Christ, guides us in the truth, and empowers us for witness. The Puritans, Brother Vince and I have prayed about this together, the Puritans referred to what they called the divine aid or that certain help. The Puritans understood in preaching that there are times when the preacher goes far beyond his study. And his thoughts are directed and guided. And it's not that there is a new and special revelation, but the preacher knows in the preaching of the Word of God that there is far more than himself. And God is blessing. Oh, it's a glorious thing. I pray for it every Sunday. I pray that I may decrease and he may increase. I pray that man see not man, but man not fail to see Christ. The sad part about being in the Spirit as John was in the Spirit is that we aren't there all the time. That we're not there all the time. But you see, being in the Spirit on the Lord's Day, as John was in the Spirit, is not something that comes about by spiritual laziness. You can't open this book for the first time in days and expect it to thrill your heart. You can't go to prayer for the first time in a week and expect to have great fellowship with God Have you ever encountered a good friend from high school that you haven't seen in ten or twenty years and realized that you don't have a thing in common with them anymore? This is the person that you used to spend your days with, but now they're a stranger to you. I'm getting ahead of myself under the practical application. But you see, John was in the Spirit on the Lord's day. John is expressing to us here that he was overwhelmed with an exceeding joy of the Lord. Yes, he will receive divine revelation from the spirit capital later, but before he received The message from God, he was overwhelmed with the Spirit. He himself was in the Spirit. And the Spirit was in him. And he was rejoicing in the Lord. And so to move on to our application, first of all, John is expressing an overwhelming, all-consuming joy in the Lord David said in Psalm 104, I will sing unto the Lord as long as I live. I will sing praise unto my God while I have my being. My meditation of him shall be sweet. Oh that sweet, overwhelming fellowship with God. Let Israel rejoice in him. Let the children of Zion be joyful in their king. Psalm 149 verse 2 Psalm 33 verse 1, I rejoice in the Lord, or rejoice in the Lord, O you righteous, for praise is comely for the upright. So the first thing we see that John is expressing an overwhelming joy in the Lord. Secondly, I would have us to see from this passage that John does not describe himself as a super Christian. John is not expressing something here that was unusual. He's not expressing himself as exceptional. Yea, brother, in verse 1, verse 9, he says, I John, who also am your brother. And companion in tribulation. And the kingdom. And patience of Jesus was in the Isle of Patmos for the word of the Lord and for the testimony of Jesus Christ. You see, my friend, to be in the Spirit is available to every Christian. And I would even go so far to say that if you claim to be a child of God, but you've never known this joy, I doubt your profession. And some people say, well, I can tell you the day and the hour and the place where I was saved, and other people say I can't. And I'm not saying you have to know exactly where you're saved. But I believe many of us can point back to a certain time when we knew that we passed from death to life. And that joy of the Lord overwhelmed us, and maybe you don't know the date. But you know it happened. You know you were transformed. You know that you were taken over by the Spirit of God. This is not something that's unusual or exceptional for a child of God. Rather, it should be the norm. We find also that this joy of the Lord is not confined to locations or circumstances. John's not at liberty. He's a prisoner on the Wild of Patmos. He is separated by hundreds of miles from any congregation. He is not able to be in the fellowship of the believers. He's writing to the seven churches, but he can't get to any one of them himself. And yet on the Lord's day, he was in the spirit of God Spirit. O God, thou art my God, early will I seek thee, my soul thirsteth for thee, my flesh longeth for thee in a dry and thirsty land where no water is, to see thy power and thy glory so as I have seen thee in the same. Fourth, this ecstatic joy in the Lord should be sought by every believer. Oh, how we should long for that kind of fellowship. Oh, how we should seek to be always in the Spirit. As the heart panteth after the water brook, so panteth my soul after thee, O God. My soul thirsteth for thee, for the living God. When shall I come and appear before thee? Well, that's the cry of one who's longing for this life in the Spirit. Walk in the Spirit, and you shall not fulfill the lust of the flesh. If we live in the Spirit, let us also walk in the Spirit. You notice the words there? If you live in the Spirit, let us walk in the Spirit. It's not talking about an occasional thing. It's talking about a daily life in the Spirit. of God. And we find further that the believer should have a regular time of scheduled worship. And if you're not living in the Spirit, I would doubt that you have a regular time of scheduled worship. John was in the Spirit, and he tells us when it took place. He was in the Spirit on the Lord's day And from the time of the resurrection, the Lord's day, the first day of the week, has been set aside for worship. In the Old Testament, God had told him, Keep your foot for my Sabbath Set aside one day, for in six days I made the earth, and on the seventh he rested. And the Sabbath was fulfilled. Christ came not to destroy the Sabbath, but to fulfill it. Christ fulfilled the Sabbath. We no longer needed that Sabbath. But Christ rose from the dead on the Lord's day, and the day was committed to him. The day was named for him. We find from the very beginning That on the Sabbath they gathered together. They gathered for worship. On the Sabbath day they assemble, they assembled for worship, not forsaking the assembly of yourselves together On the Lord's day, the believers gathered for breaking of bread in Acts 20 and verse 7 that they gathered and they were breaking bread, and Paul preached to midnight. They gather for mutual edification. Faith cometh by hearing, and hearing by the Word of God. They gathered on the Lord's Day for mutual comfort and encouragement. We find that on the first day of the week they were hiding the upper room, and Christ came and he comforted them. And on the Lord's day, the believers were told to bring together their offering. And so we find by way of application that this being in the Spirit should be the norm for the Christian. It should be sought by the Christian. Our schedule should be arranged to receive it. Not forsaking the assembling of ourselves together. It should be a daily thing. Let us walk in the Spirit. But the last thing I'd have you to see about being in the Spirit is that it's all about Jesus Christ. For the promise of the Spirit was that he would testify of Christ, show us things to come, and empower us for witness. Look down at the balance of this chapter, and I'll just highlight it. Verse 10. He says, I was in the Spirit of the Lord's day, and I heard a great voice as of a trumpet. I heard a great voice as of a trumpet. Not one of us have a voice as a trumpet. I can get pretty loud. But I don't have a voice like a trumpet. A trumpet is heard from long, long distances. In fact, the trumpets that Israel used in the Old Testament could be heard from miles. They would blow the trumpet, and they've got two million people, 600,000 men, plus women and children. And they would blow the trumpet at the tabernacle, and the entire assembly would hear that trumpet. Two million people. Well here Christ is the one speaking. And his voice is as a trumpet. And he says, I'm Alpha and the Omega, the first and the last. There's none other. I am God and there is none else beside me, John. Ah, you're enjoying this time of great excitement, but it's all about me. It's not about what you want to do. It's not about your emotions. It's not about your own ideas. It's all about Jesus Christ. Being in the Spirit is all about Christ Verse 12, and being turned I saw seven golden candlesticks. Well, we know from the Old Testament the meaning of the seven golden candlesticks. And in the midst of them, the seven candlesticks, one like unto the Son of Man. Remember Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego? They were in the spirit and the fire. And God was with them. Verse 17, I saw my fellow disfeet at death Well you see, if you're truly in the Spirit, there's nothing left in you. It's all prostrated before Him. Felt as if he is dead. And he said, Fear not. What does the Holy Spirit do? Well he comforts us. Fear not. I am he that liveth and was dead. And behold, I'm alive forevermore. Amen. And I have the keys of hell And death. It's all about Jesus Christ. And so we find John in terrible circumstances, separated from friends. But we find that he had great joy in the Lord. Oh, that we might live in that same joy. That we might live in that same fellowship. That we might be so consumed with the Holy Spirit of God and consumed by the Holy Spirit of God that we walk in that Spirit day by day. If we walk in the Spirit, then we'll not fulfill the lusts of the flesh. Dear friends, I have a confession to make. This week I have fulfilled the lusts of the flesh. And I think every one of you, if you're going to be honest, will say, yeah, I have to. I have stumbled. I have fallen. I have not lived for God to the fullness. I have not lived for God as I should. Oh May we live in the Spirit. Oh, may we walk in that overwhelming joy of God day by day. For there is our defense against the evil one. Let us stand for prayer. Father, we thank you for this great testimony that John has given us, that he was in the Spirit on the Lord's day. O Lord, may we walk in the Spirit, that we not fulfill the lusts of the flesh. May we know that time of devotion with you, that earnestness in thy word, may we know that time in prayer. May our lies be consumed with thy truth. Father, we thank you that the Spirit always points to Christ. Bless thy truth to our hearts in Jesus' name. Amen.