We're very, very close to the end of the book of Hebrews, but uh these last portions, uh these last verses, you know, are tempting to shoot past kind of quickly. But because I really do believe that God Almighty has divinely inspired the penman, whoever that is. to capture holy writ for us, we can actually stop and strain at every word and we can think about it. It's an organic inspiration. God used real human beings to write this and so we can also get a little insight into the early New Testament church and that particular the group of Jews who were then believing in Jesus So that's what we're going to touch on a little bit today. And I'm going to read the passage in Hebrews chapter thirteen. We're going to look at verses eighteen and nineteen. I've got our question and some good answers, and we'll cover your input as well Reading now from Hebrews 13 and verse 18, we find this simple statement. Pray for us. Pray for us. That's how it opens. For we trust we have a good conscience and all things willing to live honestly. But I beseech you the rather to do this, that I may be restored to you, the sinner. Thus ends the reading of that part of the Word of God. Well, my question is this, what is your idea of a great place to be? What's your favorite and most ideal place where you could Simply go and live, maybe even retire there forever. Why did you pick it? What would you do to prepare? Well, I'll give our online audience the first crack. Uh we had one that was quite good. Uh all all four of them were good and I was particularly delighted to read all of them from Ark brethren in the place where sunshine and unicorns and butterflies are always at. A place with mountains and running streams, waterfalls, an abundance of wildflowers and non-carnivorous critters. Nice caveat. What we do and don't want I like that. Somewhere nearer to our brethren, like a little slice of heaven. To get ready depends on what's required. Uh their sister in Florida says if it were possible for me to move, if even I wanted to, it'd be somewhere where I could find a reasonably faithful church. That would always be my first consideration. I would have moved there if I had to, but not possible for this move Alright. I like that. Yes. In other words, uh where the saints are. That's a good place. I like that answer At this point, suburban Maryland, centrally located close to family, church, and friends, what's required, pay off your debt and buy a one-level home, a vacation home in a beach town. But again, some place where church is nearby. And my favorite one is why at the Kluth Estate and Gardens, of course. Right answer. Your answers, favorite place to be, where could you go, Miss Saba, and retire forever? Of course, Lebanon. I I could have predicted that answer in advance. Why did you pick Lebanon? You were born in Syria. Yeah but I lived in Lebanon and I was three years when we left here. Yeah. It's a beautiful place. It has a Mediterranean climate, one of two places in the world that have that, uh Lebanon and Israel have it and uh San Diego, Southern California, has that very same climate, microclimate. It's just right up against the coast and it keeps the regulates the temperature. Beautiful. I'm not even gonna ask the McKnight, I know where they want to go. also. Oh that's right. Organic fruit. I like to eat my vegetables processed. T-bone. That's how I like it. packaged and processed and dripping and chars up real nice. Right, Joey? That's exactly right. Pray for us Pray for us. Three simple words. You know what's interesting here is if you look at the text, it's kind of nonspecific. It just says, pray for us, for we trust we have a good conscience. Then you kind of scratch your head and say, hmm, why would he say that, right? But just from the the three words, pray for us Three three thoughts, three implications come to mind just from thinking that. The first of all is here is somebody who's obviously close to the apostles. He doesn't count himself as part of the apostolic band, but he's close to the apostles But he's delivering a message. He obviously is eloquent, knows how to communicate the gospel. And he himself, a divinely inspired author, is requesting prayer. And that tells me there's no super sheep. There's no one individual in the household of faith that can say Can I pray for you? Don't bother. Right, Jeffrey? I'm sure you've turned away lots of prayer. Now, don't bother. It's all good. You gotta be kidding me. No, there's no super sheep. We all need prayer. And also the second thing is he didn't say pray for me, he says pray for us. What's the difference? Any thoughts between pray for me versus pray for us? Besides the obvious. Yeah. So what's the Lord's prayer says us. Oh yes, Lord's prayer says us okay, good. Give us this day. Uh huh, yeah, absolutely. We all need prayer. Yeah, all right. Um when Um I was at a company, and to this day I still write like this. I write in the plural. I don't say I. I try not to say I too much. I scan my emails and too often I do say I. But you're taught as a corporate executive that's we. You're representing the larger group. We, we do this, we do that, you're just a mouthpiece for the larger. So when he says pray for us, he has a missional focus. He has a collective focus Not a personal one. I'm not asking you to, you know, pray for my gout, although that's not. ill advise, but it is a missional focus that uh pray for us. The Apostle Paul would use that kind of language, pray for us that the word of the Lord may have free course. That is a instructive part about us. Second, the third thing is the prayer requests are coming right after all the coverage of doctrine. You know, this is the first time we have a penman of Holy Writ saying, Pray for us. And this is where you see in Scripture sometimes the lines blur between the human author and divinely inspired inspiration. There are times when you read in Isaiah or David in the Psalms where, boy, that ain't David talking. That's that's that's Jehovah himself speaking. And then you slip back into where you somewhat hear the human author, and that's what you God's not asking you to pray for him, right? So I wouldn't say that that could be the case. case here. But you do see some insight that um that that this prayer request is coming after all of this doctrine. So he's prioritizing the good of the sheep. the feeding, uh, the spiritual feeding before his or the group needs of a prayer request. So this request is subtle, it's nuanced It's not made to repent of secret sin because he says we trust we have a good conscience. But he actually has a tender, loving desire, and that is to be reunited with the Hebrew Christians. He apparently knows quite a lot about the temple, the sacrifices. He's very familiar with Judaism, very familiar with the Mosaic Covenant, very familiar with the Book of the Psalms. He pulls a lot from that But his desire is to just simply be brought back together. Well, he says in the middle, we trust we have a good conscience. Boy, you could make a sermon out of that titled Good Conscience. You know, what is that? What does that mean? A good conscience. That's a worthwhile thing to talk about. A man once preached a sermon and he opened it with, what are you willing to pay for a good conscience? What would you be willing to pay for a good conscience? Some people are played, some people, and I I personally haven't met them, but I've heard some in being encountered saying, well, no, I'm I'm so shot and I'm so far gone. I the the Lord couldn't possibly forgive me. His his conscience is just beating him up. He just can't be good enough for the Lord I don't want to go to church because I'm not good enough. I'd have to dress up. I don't have nice clothes. Yes, we dress nice, but that's not what impresses the Lord before us. It's how our attitude, how the heart is dressed. You know, some say they've on the other hand, some say they've always had a good conscience. They can never think of a day in their life. They've never been troubled by anything. They're not plagued. Everything I'm doing is fine. It's all perfect. Maybe they've never seen their need of a savior. Maybe maybe somebody hadn't turned the light on and showed them that, you know, there's some little dark corners in there that you are trying to hide, aren't you? 1 Timothy says of those who speak lies and hypocrisy and having their conscience seared with a hot iron You know, first degree burn is ouch running under some ice water and tap water for a while. Second degree burn is pretty serious. It is curling the flesh. It's gonna come off, it's dead, but you still have your nerves intact. You can still feel it And second-degree burns are difficult, boy, they hurt bad. Third degree burns are the worst because the nerves are totally shot. They don't feel anything And that's somebody here who has their conscience seared with a hot iron. They don't feel anything. They don't feel the pricks of the Word of God. They don't feel the the the touching of it. It's it's beyond them. They they're lost to it. They don't have a good conscience. Their conscience is seared. You come to them with us saith the Lord, and they're like, sure, whatever. What do you think happens to people who have a seared conscience? What happens to them? A sear, it's like a hot iron. You take an iron and what happens to people with a a burned conscience? Rick, any thoughts? Uh they can No longer uh hear the Holy Spirit while it's it. So just going forward how we hear God's voice. Yeah. There's a great insensitivity and inability to hear the Word of God How about even beyond just the Word of God? What about uh the correction of a a judge or law officer? You know, some of these criminals we deal with in our society today are those who are examples of those who have a seared conscience They've been in and out of the prison system. They know it's a game. They know I'm just going to show up, I hang my head, I say a few right words to the judge who will, you know, dismiss me without bail, and I can get back to doing what I want to do Don't care. Don't care. I'm sorry, Helen, but you probably see a ton of this walking through your store down in DC. The store does does not want to resist people from stealing in the store, and so you have all kinds of people with a seared conscience. They don't think they're doing wrong. They think they're doing right. And so at some point, somebody will stop them forcefully, perhaps with more force than their body can endure, and they find themselves pushing daisies. It's a path of death You need sometimes people to say, curve coming, slow down. You need to turn. That's why we have warning signs on our road. The penman here says he has a good conscience. We're in Hebrews 13. Penman says he has a good conscience. Is that important? Well, very much so. I'd like you to turn briefly, if you will, to 1 Timothy 1. 5, because a good conscience is one of three main goals of God's commandments. A good conscience is one of three main goals that God has for his people. 1 Timothy 1. 5. We read this. It says, now the end of the commandment is charity out of a pure heart and of a good conscience, and of faith unfeigned, non-hypocritical faith. That word end does not mean termination, as in stop forever, we no longer listen to the Old Testament, but it has to do with the sense of That's the goal. This is the point. This is where you're trying to get to. This is the point of the commandment. The commandment, Paul said, was ordained to life. Well what does it look like? Those three things, charity, love out of a pure heart, of a good conscience, and of an unhypocritical faith. Not people who are faking it, they really believe. How do you winnow at people who really believe? Put them in some difficulty. That's what Job's was tempted, unbeknownst to him, when the devil and the Lord had a conversation Job said, sure, touch his flesh. He'll curse you to your face. He doesn't have real faith. Does he trust God for naught? You've given him everything. And so unhypocritical faith. I'm not going to go off on that tangent. I want to talk about a good conscience. You know, the apostles were conscientious. They were very conscientious And they actually seem to have worked at having a good one. I'm going to give you a couple from the Apostle Paul. And one from Acts, one from Corinthians, and another three from Peter. He writes a lot about having a good conscience. What does this look like? Well, the Apostle Paul said in Acts 24, 16, Herein do I exercise myself, I know that's an interesting word, to have always a conscience void of offense towards God and towards men. There are those in our day in particular who have a false God, the God of the Muslims, and they think that what they're doing gives them a good conscience before that false God, but To kill people indiscriminately doesn't bother them a bit. It doesn't plague them. They have a seared conscience. They have a false idol. They're guilty of idolatry, and they have a false conscience. That's why that battle can't be won with military weapons. It's a theological battle that we're dealing with, not a military one. And so we're fighting it with the wrong tools. 2 Corinthians 1, the Apostle says this, for our rejoicing is this, the testimony of our conscience. He rejoices in his conscience. that in simplicity and godly sincerity, not with fleshly wisdom, but by the grace of God, we have had our conversation, our conduct in the world, and more abundantly towards you. He says his conscience is simple. It's godly. One of the things I find in people who have a seared conscience, thinking of these hardened criminals for the moment, those who are in Theological circles with a seared conscience are a little harder to detect because they've got the right clothing on, right? But sticking with the secular criminal for a moment You know, this feared conscience they have. Part of their problem is they live a life of continual lies. And the problem with living a life of continual lies is you have to remember you have to have a great memory. You have to remember what you told so that your lies stand up. I had a boss tell me a long time ago, always tell the truth, it's simpler. It's so much simpler. You don't have to remember a bunch of lies. And that's kind of relieving, really. Sometimes bold-faced honesty say, oh yeah, you did tell me that and I forgot. I'm sorry, I messed up. That requires some humility. That requires some simplicity. But if you have a seared conscience You're you're never wrong. I'm always right. And therefore I always have to be right. And so it's your fault. And that's a problem. Peter said this In First Peter. Three of these are from his uh epistle in the first Peter First Peter letter he wrote, For this is thankworthy if a man for conscience toward God endure grief suffering wrongfully That's a good conscience to say, you know what, I am gonna take one the hard way because I, in conscience for God, can't do this fill-in-the-blank thing. There's been some notable individuals over history and time who have honored God incredibly that way, and God has in turn honored them back. One fellow that comes to mind is a famous athlete during the Olympics many years ago called Eric Liddell, or Liddell, I'm not exactly sure how to pronounce his name. He was a runner, and he was the flying Scotsman, they called him, because when he ran he threw his head back. He liked to run with his head Looking at the sky, you know, that just was his running position and he was lightning fast in the hundred meter dash And so he did well. He was representing Scotland for the Olympics, and he went and he found out that his 100-meter dash and his scheduling fell on the Lord's Day. And he was a devout Christian. In an agony agonizing moments in the hotel, he said, I I I've I've never competed in a competition in the Lord's Day and I'm not about to start now. I can't do that. And so with hat in hand, so to speak, he went to the Olympic Committee and said, I I I cannot run. They said, well This is your event, you're representing the country and all the downside that'll come from it. And he says, well, I'll run any other event Not on the launch day. Okay? 400 meter dash. Four hundred meters? Joey. That's I'm not sure your math skills, but mine are sharp enough to say that that's four times longer. than he's ever run before and he's never trained for that kind of a run. And so that's what he signed up for. But it wasn't the Lord's Day. He won it God gave him the strength, the stamina, everything he needed to endure that race. Marvelous story. Look it up sometime. The story of Eric Little. As a man for conscience toward God endured grief. You know, Peter also writes in 1 Peter 3. 16, having a good conscience, that whereas they speak evil of you as evildoers, they may be ashamed that falsely accuse your good conversation in Christ. A good conscience always comes with a good conversation, a good conduct of life. There's no compartmentalization. You don't put on a facade and walk differently. in my church clothes and church demeanor, but Mondays I'm a devil at work. Beat my employees. I kick my cat at home. No, no, they have a good conduct. And the like one Next one is in 1 Peter 3. 21. He says, The like figure whereunto even baptism does also save us. And he clarifies what he means by that. Not the putting away the filth of the flesh, he says, but the answer of a good conscience towards God. A conscience that's sprinkled, that's made clean. One that's clean before God What do you think happens to people who don't worry about what their conscience tells them? They're not seared. This is a different group. What do you think happens to people who are not worried about what their conscience might tell them? Any thoughts They soon are seared. They risk themselves of soon being seared. Yeah, you keep ignoring it. The uh think of your I think of conscience sometimes like the uh early GPS's, you know, you put the garment up on the dashboard and and you plug it in your route and You know, turn right here, turn right here, turn right here, boop, turn around, turn around, you're you're you're off course. It keeps barking at you how to how to go to the right direction. Keep ignoring that and you get lost I'm a train buff. One of the major train accidents in the investigation they found out the engineers had tied down a signal lever because the signal kept going off warnings. Hm. And when they needed it Yeah. Yeah, so press yeah that's the old story of the little boy that kept crying wolf. Same idea, yeah. False alarms can be bad. Right. Some people's conscience are s overly sensitive to the point where they're they can't function. Everything's a risk and you know we're afraid to do anything because everything's a risk. There's a right level of risk to handle. Our penman continues, he says that rather we are willing to live honestly, and he says, uh Willing in all things to live honestly. So he's clearly, the one who wrote this, is one whose conscience isn't seared with the hot iron, but he is persuaded He says, we trust. Notice the humility there, we trust. He doesn't say we know. I know I got this. No, he just very humbly says, we trust, we have a good conscience, a willing heart. And he desires to be honest to all men. That's one of the obvious products of a good conscience, a good conscience towards God, that you seek to be honest towards all men. I think the last boss I had had worked for uh the company I had had a matrix management system. You had the person in charge of all the particular types of engineers and grade, and then there was the project manager who was responsible to get the job done, kind of like a general contractor, but then you've got the fellow in charge of all the plumbers, the one in charge of all the electricians, et cetera. So My system engineering boss had a sign on her wall that says, character is doing the right thing when no one's looking. Character is doing the right thing when no one is looking. A desire to be honest to all men. You know, I filled out some forms to try to get um of late free medications for my wife because some of them are just too expensive. We don't have insurance. We have a shearing plan, but it doesn't really cover prescription drugs. And when you're sitting down to fill out the income section, it's real tempting to put a different number down. But I think, well Is the Lord going to bless that? And what does that do to my testimony at the back office when they see different numbers coming through? Well he makes this much this year, now he makes this much this year, now he what how much does this guy make? What does he really make? You know, a desire to be honest to all men. You know, what's the old phrase, honesty is the best policy? It's a truism. Romans 12, recompense, repay no man, evil for evil, provide things honest in the sight of all men. I can truly say my father, earthly father, was the most honest man I ever met. He would fill out five additional pages of IRS forms to get five dollars off gas credit for his farm fuel use. to fuel up his tractor. He's going to go the extra mile to justify this. He I have stacks of his records where he kept the canceled check for, you know, yep, I paid this and here's the proof. Here's the canceled check He sought to be honest with all and his clients loved him because of it because he was a rare insurance salesman. He was actually honest. He would work the extra mile. He would short himself on commissions. But God provided for him 1 Timothy, the apostle writes that we may lead a quiet and peaceable life in all godliness and honesty And this kind of touches on a little bit of the question that I'd asked. You know, as you read this, as we thought about this verse earlier, how do you think Paul did this? We read earlier, herein do I exercise myself to have a conscience void of offense. You know, exercise means you go to a gym, you pick up some weights, maybe you get a trainer, maybe you're old, you have to do things a certain way, not overexert things. How would somebody exercise themselves to have a conscience void of offense? Any thoughts? What does that look like? Somebody explain it to me. Rick? actually the sort of you know listening to the Holy Spirit and kind of have self-reflection about like being honest in the ways that I think Knowing that there are areas in my life in which I say I love the Lord, but I have necessarily dedicated my actions to consistently show Yeah, that's you you've you've brought in uh a a pretty good description of uh of an excellent exercise program You gotta sit in front of the mirror. You gotta you know, James uses that illustration. He's like a man who natural man observes himself in the mirror and walks away and forgets what manner man he is. Yeah, if you're in front of the mirror a lot, you know, you women knows best fight. You know, let me ask you women something. I I I know you ladies do this What is I know I'm really straying in dangerous ground here because I want to know where your bravery comes from. I really want to know that. There's certain bravery that women do Uh Helen, you probably sell these. What are they called? The the the mirrors flip. One side is like a regular one, but the other one is like the lens off the Hubble or something? What is that thing? It's It's magnified, you kidding me? Great day. You look in that thing and you think I'm a wreck It highlights every pore to ridiculous size and you think, oh, everybody can see it. No, nobody's wearing telescope. How do you tolerate that? Oh my word. What torture you put yourselves through to look at that thing. Great day. I can give you some grace relief today. Throw it away. It's okay, ladies. Just use the regular mirror. You don't need to amplify it fifty times over. Oh, but when it comes to the Word of God It is a searching thing, isn't it? It's a soul searching thing. It's a discerner of the thoughts and intents of the heart, even. Like Rick was saying, what the heart is, and it searches the heart. Jeffrey, yeah. When we pray to God, you know, He knows everything. He already knows the heart. So how can we pray a certain way? He's going to be there after we finish that prayer So having a good conscience is knowing that God knows everything anyway. Right. Right. What's in your heart Yeah, it's very difficult to have an honest prayer with the Lord when you're hiding something. Reminds me of the time I tried to make my sister lie for me when she was about three years old and I was seven. Oops, it's the time to change the sheets in the house Liz, you tell mom that you didn't change your sheets, and if you do, I'll climb up on the counter and get you a cookie. Well little did I realize that that excuse wasn't going to work Because she didn't have Dallas Cowboy football sheets and I didn't have the little pink princess sheets. So it's pretty obvious to mom who didn't change their sheets Learned a lesson in stupidity that day. You can't hide it from God either. He sees right through you. So you're absolutely right. You're not hiding anything from and you might as well fess up. You might as well fess up and make it short. Did you have a comment or something? You know, not letting something grow in your conscience, you know, until it's a huge problem, but you know when when there's that prick of conscience immediate. Yeah. Yeah. You know, a just man falleth seven times and rises again, but the wicked stumble and fall into mischief. They keep stumbling. They like it. They hang around by the basement door because they want to tumble down the steps The righteous can fall too, but the difference is as they repent and they rise. It's an ongoing thing in life Well, the real request of our penman shows up in verse 19. What he asks for prayer for is that it seems he wants to be back among the Hebrew Christians again. And he uses the word restored, which is an interesting word. Some of you like to restore furniture, old things. You have to strip off all the outer coating, you have to uh bring it down to bare wood again, you have to condition it, maybe fill in some cracks, whatever you gotta do, then you There's a process you go through, and you go through all that because you want to use it and retain it and be around it for a while. To be restored doesn't imply a drive-by visit. And I think this may even hint at, and I won't strain at it too hard, but it hints at that this is not somebody who is evangelical, an evangelist, like the Apostle Paul, who visited, visited, visited, visited If Paul had a home church, I would have called it maybe Philippi. That seems to be the only place he wrote where he didn't have any reproofs. But Um here it says he wants to be restored, he wants to be reunited, permanently attached, not just come for a visit. This restoration is his desire, and perhaps it might imply that he's in prison. Maybe he's in bonds. There's maybe a little hint of that there. I don't again I don't want to strain it too far. That word restored, for instance, shows up in Mark 3, when Jesus said to the man, stretch forth your hand. He stretched it out and it was restored. Whole as the other. It wasn't a Oh, this feels good today and wears off. Mark 8. 25, after he put his hands, Jesus on this blind man's eyes made him look up, he was restored. He saw every man clearly. Acts 1. 6, they ask the Lord, Wilt thou at this time restore again the kingdom to Israel? Again, this idea of restore is more of a longer-term connection. He wants to be connected and rejoined and reunited with this people. And so my final application, and I'm trying to cut it a little short today because you know we have a lot. uh people we want to see and talk to and get ready for is that. There is a time, Bobs, when all the saints will in fact be restored together, reunited. The devil comes to kill To steal, to destroy, to separate. He's a master separator. He loves to scatter the sheep. That's what the devil likes to do. You take coals of a fire You put them all together, they're very effective. They're very warm. You scatter those coals individually, they get cold and they go out. Evangelism has always said, two by two, it's better when you have a partner and you evangelize It's very good to have a help meet in ministry, is it not? Without that, it's very difficult. But someday Someday, and you will see it if you're a Christian, someday all the saints in perfection will be united. No alarm clock, Helen. No alarm clock. No boss telling you, oh, you have to work a little extra for this. There's none of that. Can you imagine, Marissa, you don't have to change diapers in heaven? Just imagine. I know, it's hard. It's hard. This is a stretch. All the saints will be glory. All the struggling saints on earth will desire that day. And while until that time comes, those saints here on earth desire the fellowship of other believers. For them it truly is As one of our online listeners pointed out, a little slice of heaven here and now. This is the hope. Alright, well, we close there for now. It's a little meditation in this section. Jeffrey, could you close us in prayer, please? Hello Father in Heaven, uh we thank you for this little slice of heaven. Uh looking forward to uh that great day that uh you will return. Take your people up to a place that's eternally uh blissful.