Key topic here before we get into another series, but uh today the topic is uh not little. It's about the Sabbath Let's just stop for a moment and just consider, just contemplate the scope. of this subject. Alright, so I've got a few little statistics for you. There is our English word Sabbath And it appears 172 times in 147 verses. There's the Hebrew word Shabbat or Shabbaton. There's over close to 100 verses where that word appears, and close to 120 different times in the Old Testament. Many a times it's doubled up in a verse. In the New Testament, you have in the Greek sabbaton. It's nearly a word-for-word transliteration. The Greeks just took the Hebrew word and interpreted letter for letter into the Greek language 69 times 63 verses. Overall, you've got 119 Old Testament references and 69 New Testament. And on the balance, that means the bulk of it, 63% of the times, basically three out of five times you read about the word Sabbath, it's going to be in the Old Testament, two out of five times in the New Testament. By comparison, so that's a total of almost 200 verses. By comparison, the word baptism is only in the New Testament 115 times in 91 verses. By comparison, you certainly understand how big of a topic baptism is. It's one of these topics that makes big division among churches. It's uh a I mean if you searched, I would dare to venture a guest on sermon audio for a sermon on baptism. You'll probably find a few more than just a few. If you look for church names, you're going to have the word Baptist in the name. You're not going to find Sabbath in a lot of church names. You will find Seventh-day Adventists. They insist on a that's one of their distinctives But by and large, that's not something spoken about much. In the Ten Commandment itself, let me see if I can do this. I'm going to step out on a limb here. Now I'm going to try to quote the Ten Commandments, and I want you to listen to them. And I want you to see how much of the Ten Commandments are devoted to that fourth commandment, the Sabbath. And God spake all these words, saying, I am the Lord thy God that brought thee out of the land of Egypt, out of the house of bondage. Thou shalt have no other gods before me. Thou shalt not make into thee any graven image of any likeness of anything that is in heaven above, that is in the earth beneath, or that is in the water beneath the earth, under the earth Thou shalt not bow down thyself to them nor serve them, for I, the Lord thy God, am a jealous God, visiting the iniquity of the fathers upon the children of the third and fourth generation of them that hate me, but showing mercy in the thousands of them that love me and keep my commandments Thou shalt not take the name of the Lord thy God in vain. The Lord God will not hold him guiltless that taketh his name in vain. Now here it is. Remember the Sabbath day to keep it holy In six days you shall do all thy work, but the seventh day is the Sabbath of the Lord thy God. In it thou shalt do no work, thy son, nor thy daughter, thy manservant, nor thy maidservant, nor thy ox. Thy cattle, or thy stranger that is within thy gates. For in six days the Lord made heaven and earth, the sea, and all that in them is, and rested the seventh day. Wherefore the Lord blessed the Sabbath day and hallowed it Honor thy father and thy mother, that thy days may be long upon the land which the Lord thy God giveth thee. Thou shalt not kill. Thou shalt not commit adultery. Thou shalt not steal. Thou shalt not bear false witness against thy neighbor. Thou shalt not covet thy neighbor's house. Thou shalt not covet thy neighbor's wife. Thou shalt not covet Shall not covet, nor his manservant, nor his maid servant, nor his ox, nor his ass, nor anything that is thy neighbors. Wow, I think I did it. That's the Ten Commandments. What percentage of that do you think is devoted to that fourth commandment? Did you hear how long that was? What percentage? If you were to add up all the words in the Ten Commandments and draw a dotted line around the fourth day Sabbath commandment, what percentage do you think was occupied? Devoted to that Sabbath commandment. Half? A quarter? Third. A third. About a third. You're really close. It's 36% word for word. A third is a very good guess, because that's about what it sounds like. Out of ten commandments, one-third of the words are devoted to the fourth commandment. Adultery. In the Arabic Bible, that's the shortest verse in the Arabic Bible. What does the word in Arabic no adultery mean? Latesni. The shortest verse. It means no adultery. It's one word. No adultery. That's the shortest verse in the Bible. Adultery is huge. You have all kinds of prohibitions against it. You have David violating that and all the things That's a very short very short verse. But the Sabbath, indeed, you had far more references. And so I find that very interesting. So there's a few conclusions I want to make from this kind of the sizing and scoping of this topic. is that it is a topic that's deeply rooted in the Old Testament. You won't read about baptism in the Old, but three out of five times where that word Sabbath shows up, it's in the Old Testament. It's pretty deeply rooted in the Old Testament. But it's not lost in the New, it's in the New. In fact, it's in the new almost as many times as baptism. But it is uh although it's frequent, it's not as popular of a topic as compared to baptism. And so I think there can be some loose and and and shoddy understanding of baptism compared to other subjects, even though it's there plenty of times in the scriptures. There's one other point I want to make about it, and that is if we're going to do a proper study of it, uh it's not going to be consummated in one sitting. I'm really not going to be able to do justice in one uh Sunday school lesson. So we're gonna patiently walk our way through. I don't anticipate this taking more than two additional studies because I want to go at a reasonable pace and I do want to have some interaction. And speaking of interaction, we come up to our first question. So this is Bible trivia time. Where do you suppose in the Bible is the first reference to the Sabbath? The first reference. Creation. Creation? Um that's interesting. I suppose doctrinally it's there. I We'll refine my question. Doctrinally you're correct. I will refine my question to say where do we actually find the word Sabbath? You're spot on target insofar as the doctrine is concerned Yay. First reference. I'm sorry, did somebody raise their hand? Did you? No. No. Oh okay. I've never thought about this before. It could be way off, but was it with Noah after the flood? No. Turn to Exodus 16. And I'm looking at my notes and I'm wondering if I've answered it doctrinally or not. because maybe uh Joey might get the winning answer here. Let's look at Exodus sixteen Yeah, Exodus 16 is the first place we find the reference. It's during the wilderness sojourn when the people were to gather the manna. The first time the word appears. Exodus sixteen twenty-two. It came to pass on the sixth day, they gathered twice as much bread, two omers for a man. And all the rulers of the congregation came and told Moses. He said unto them, This is that which the Lord has said. Tomorrow is the rest of the holy Sabbath unto the Lord. Bake that which you will bake today, and see that which you will see, that which remaineth over, lay up for you to be kept until the morning And they laid it up until the morning as Moses bade them. It didn't stink, neither was there any worm therein. And then you uh go down in 27, it came to pass. Oh, look at 26. Six days shall you gather it, yet referring to the manna, in the wilderness that fell near their tents. But on the seventh day, which is the Sabbath, in it there shall be none. In other words, you're going to go out, there's not going to be anything there. 27. It came to pass, there went out some of the people on the seventh day to gather, and they found none. And the Lord said unto Moses, How long refuse you to keep my commandments and my laws? See, for that the Lord hath given you the Sabbath Therefore he giveth you on the sixth day the bread of two days. Abide ye every man in his place. Let no man go out of his place in the seventh day, so the people rested. The seventh day. First mention of the Sabbath. And a little bit of a historical illustration, a little bit of instruction, a little bit of testing. God pushing back. No, stay put. So that's the first reference. It was interesting. I think there's a couple of interesting observations here. One is that God worked so they could rest. Did you did you notice the giving? He gave it to them. He gave them twice as much bread. It's something he did. It's his work so they could rest. He gave them enough so they could rest. There was plenty of need. He knows what things they had need of. And it's also instructive because it shows that God doesn't make a commandment that's going to violate something else. God never goes, whoops, I never thought about that. If I tell them to rest, but I don't give them enough food the day before, well, how are they going to eat? They're going to, you know. Oh, well, it'll just be a mandatory fasting period. No, he God doesn't say whoops when he makes a commandment. It perfectly integrates with everything else he says. Unlike the laws of our land, which are often working at odds, which never integrate well, God doesn't do that. God's not stupid. Second thing was that uh they pretty much had no excuse to carry out this command. They had no excuse. He gave them plenty. They gathered plenty the day before. They were shocked. Hey look, we're getting twice as much. That's correct. You can lay it aside. It in fact the bread they got on that sixth day would last a full day, extra day, and not breed worms and stink. It wouldn't you know how bread gets, it just kind of gets moldy. Fresh, especially if it's good quality fresh bread Not this stuff with the list of ingredients this long and tiny print, you look like that. You can keep that bread for six years in your grocery, uh in your pantry. It may never rot. It's got enough chemicals in it. Ants won't eat it. That should be your first tip, but it's not real bread. So they had no excuse. They had no excuse to keep this. God provided for them as a miracle. So there's a lot we can learn from that, and there's a lot of things I'd like to talk about it. Okay, so you heard me quote the first edition of the Ten Commandments in Exodus 20 And uh as you may know a little bit in your Bible history, God repeats the Ten Commandments. When did He repeat them? He actually repeated them It was at the end of the wilderness sojourn. All the rebellious people that were over the age of 20, the day they came out of Egypt, are now dead. And the youngsters are alive. These are the people who were 19. 9 years and younger when they came out of Egypt And they are now grown up. They are now 39 to 20 years to whatever years of age. 39? No, they've been mourning for 40 years. So they're now 59 down to age 20. So this is a group of middle-aged folks, children who have only seen sojourning in the wilderness. Maybe a faint memory of Egypt is there for the teenagers. And so he's going to rehearse the Ten Commandments in their ears one more time, and that is in Deuteronomy 5. And if you have your Bible, turn to Deuteronomy chapter 5. Deuteronomy chapter 5 and verse 12. This is the second giving. In fact, that's in the very title of the book, Deuteronomy. Deuter Dus. And honoring the law. Nomas is God's word, God's law. The second giving of the law in Deuteronomy chapter 5, verse 12. He says this, keep the Sabbath day to sanctify it, as the Lord thy God hath commanded thee. Six days shalt thou labor and do all thy work. But the seventh day is the Sabbath of the Lord thy God. And that pretty much repeats the same. Verse 15. Well, let me read it. But the seventh day is the Sabbath of the Lord thy God. In it thou shalt not do any work. Thou nor thy son, nor thy daughter, nor thy manservant, nor thy maidservant, nor thine ox, nor thine ass, nor any of thy cattle, nor thy stranger that is within thy gates, that thy manservant and thy maidservant may rest as well as thou And remember that thou wast a servant in the land of Egypt, and the Lord thy God brought thee out thence through a mighty hand and by a stretched-out arm. Therefore the Lord commanded thee to keep the Sabbath day. Question, what differences did you find between the Exodus account and this one? In the Exodus account, the comparison is to God's labor and then God's rest. Here it is to their labor. Okay, that's interesting. I hadn't observed that one. That's good, yeah. One was pointed to God's rest. Here it's pointing to their rest. What else was different? I'm looking for big rocks, not Smaller things. Hint verse fifteen. Has to do with the reason given The reason given in the Exodus account was that because God rested at creation. The reason given in Deuteronomy is because you were a slave in Egypt. So the reason given in Exodus was rooted in creation itself. But the reason given in Deuteronomy is rooted in the concept of redemption, of the liberty of redemption. You've been liberated So there's two different reasons given that all show, I think, a pretty significant theological footing, if you will, for this teaching You rest because God rested. We are to be conformed to the image of Christ. Whatever God does, we are being brought into the things that He does. If He rests, Or you rest. You read that in Exodus 16. They decided to go out. God says, no, you rest that day. I want you to rest that day. And then he also adds in Deuteronomy, he says, remember you were a slave in Egypt, and the implication is they work seven days a week. What's the longest period of time, straight, without a break? that you ever worked in your life. Who who gets the award here for the longest stretch of time before you had a break? Fifty nine years. Fifty nine years and no break. Well Pastors do get Mondays off unless they choose not to. What's the longest stretch of time? In the oil patch I know that when they There's an old saying, the sun never sets on an oil rig as it works around the clock. Its burn rate is uh you know something like ten thousand dollars an hour, and so nope, you don't sit around, you keep working. And drug use is pretty high because of the amphetamine things to keep 'em awake. Well the housewife is certainly in that category. I was thinking the same thing. No. Right, there is no rest. Well it the implication is that in Egypt that they worked seven days a week. They were slaves. Slaves were not given time off. Slaves are also marked with tattoos and the like and earrings and nose piercings, and so if people want to run around and declare themselves to be slaves in today's modern culture, that's fine. They can. I'm not, I'm free. So those two different reasons given. So I find that also interesting. You know, because God rested at creation. Because he gives us rest from the liberty of redemption. You were a slave. Now you're a son. You don't have to work This is beginning to take on some theological overtones. And one of the best theological overtones comes to us when the Lord Jesus Himself speaks about this rest. He says that in Matthew 11, 28, Come unto me, all ye that are heavy laden, that are that labor, all ye that labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. Take my yoke upon you, and learn of me, for I am meek and lowly in heart. And you shall find rest unto your souls. You see, this is the rest that God gives It's a spiritual rest. And so we find that there's something very significant. Now that word significant, if you break it down to its base form, has the word sign in it If there is a sign on the road, it is significant. You're either going to go towards Baltimore or you're going to go towards Hagerstown. If you're going north on 270, you've got to figure out which way you're going to go. I mean it's east or west. It's a sign there. You pay attention to it. It's a silly little metal sign. A good windstorm will blow it over. Road can hit it and knock it down. But it's significant because it's pointing you to something, and so is this Sabbath. Turn to Exodus 31. We're going to look at a few passages. that talk about this Sabbath in a little broader context as the Old Testament begins to open it up You see, God drips information a little piece at a time. Exodus 16, the wilderness gathering, the Ten Commandments, you rest because God rested. And then here's another little piece they're going to drop in, in Exodus 31, beginning in verse 12. Exodus 31, 12. The Lord spake unto Moses, saying, Speak thou also unto the children of Israel. saying, Verily, my Sabbaths, notice that, Sabbaths, plural, ye shall keep, for it is a sign between me and you throughout your generations, that ye may know that I am the Lord that doth sanctify you. Ye shall keep the Sabbath, therefore, for it is holy unto you. Every one that defileth it shall surely be put to death. For whosoever doeth any work therein, that soul shall be cut off from among his people. Six days may work be done, but in the seventh is the Sabbath of rest, holy to the Lord. Whosoever doeth any work in the Sabbath day, he shall surely be put to death. Wherefore the children of Israel shall keep the Sabbath to observe the Sabbath throughout their generations, for a perpetual covenant, it is a sign between me and the children of Israel forever. For In six days the Lord made heaven and the earth, and on the seventh day he rested and was refreshed. Interesting. He anchors his reason again back in creation It's a creation ordinance. It's something that has been ordained from the very beginning. In Exodus 35, we read again and skip ahead a page or two to the first two verses. Moses gathered all the congregation of the children, verses one and two. Moses gathered all the congregation of the children of Israel together and said unto them, These are the words which the Lord hath commanded that ye should do them. Six days shall work be done. But on the seventh day there shall be to you in holy day a Sabbath at rest to the Lord Whosoever doeth work therein shall be put to death. Wow. God seems to be really keeping up a drumbeat here with this concept, with this Sabbath. And I want to make a few observations. Well, what are your observations? Let me not draw them for you. What are your observations from those two accounts in Exodus? that round out our understanding of the Sabbath so far. Again we're in the Old Testament here. Because uh that that I'm so Salvation is by works. So it would appear that salvation is by works at that time. It appears that way. So certainly a physical salvation, they would remain physically uh intact uh as a people of God, right? All right now Spiritually that's not true, but that's a different topic. But but but you're making an observation, something they had to do to stay alive. Yeah, I g that much I get. Yes. God's very serious about this. Okay. He's very serious about this, and it's a high penalty. You would call it capital punishment, the ultimate penalty. Okay. Um It was a sign between who. For whom was the sign given? Penny? For the children of God, it was between God and the Jews. Gentiles aren't mentioned here. Unless they were a manservant or a man servant to a Jew, but it was specific for the people of God. It was specific for the Jews. It's implicit in the commandment. Okay. Uh The other thing I wanted to point out is that word sign in Exodus 31, that they were a sign. Now that's interesting. Which of the other Ten Commandments is called a sign? Well, if you're coming up short, there's a good reason for it. The other nine commandments are not called signs. They are substantive. They are very substantive. But the Sabbath ever and always was a sign. Let me add another word to it to help round out your understanding. A sign is not the substance. A sign is a pointer. You could also call it a shadow. You could call it a shadow. It's a pointer. But it was a significant one that God was very excited about. But the substance that it was not. In other words, the issue wasn't in the refraining from doing work. And when we get later into the New Testament to unpack this some more, I think this will become a little clearer. It's called a sign. Had the same penalty as murder. Whoso sheddeth man's blood, by man shall his blood be shed. That's a amazing thing to violate a sign. Uh if you violate the sign. Yeah, I'm reminded of a time David was in the wilderness, he was on the run. And he came and across a priest who had just sanctified some bread by putting it in this basket. And now it's sanctified for the use in the congregation. for whatever purposes the showbread had in the old covenant tabernacle. And the priest would do this And David and his men came in, they were hungry, and he said, Hey, I need some food. He says, We don't have anything. The only thing we've got is what we just put in this basket. He said, no, you can't, that's sanctified to the Lord. He says, well, David kind of argued a little bit, well, it was common before it was put in the basket, and we're hungry. And so he did feed David, and the Lord Jesus later used that as an example in the New Testament, I'm grossly paraphrasing phrasing the account, as an example of showing mercy. But that was the time where David understood that showbread was a sign. There was a more weightier matter at hand here. The anointed of God was about to die. He needed some food and his men with him. And so the sign was temporarily set aside with commendation. You know, this sign, there didn't seem to be a lot of commendation uh uh accommodation for it. In fact, there is an account of God's seriousness with this in the book of Numbers. So turn to Numbers 15 and verse 32, and this is the account of the man He wasn't going out to gather bread. He was doing what I did on the driveway before people show up, pick up sticks. Go do forest cleanup. Okay. And we read in Numbers fifteen and verse thirty-two. The following. While the children of Israel were in the wilderness, they found a man that gathered sticks on the Sabbath day. He just figured this is the thing to do. I got time on my hands. I'll go pick up a few sticks. And they that found him gathering sticks brought him unto Moses and Aaron and all the congregation. They put him in ward because it was not declared what should be done. The Lord said unto Moses, This man shall surely be put to death. All the congregation shall stone him with stones without, meaning outside the camp. Oh, this this is not a trivial matter. There are some days that you're not supposed to be cleaning the house. And all the congregation brought him without the camp and stoned him with stones, and he died. As the Lord commanded Moses. That's a shocking account. That's a shocking account. They actually put him in war. They didn't know what to do. They knew the commandment, but he's just picking up sticks. Is that a violation? And God says, oh yeah, kill him. I mean it didn't take a lot of deliberation. The Lord said, he shall surely be stoned, and all the congregation shall do this. He has violated, he has polluted this sign. I find that interesting. The penalty for what was the penalty for adultery in the Old Testament if a man was caught in an adultery? Death. Yeah. Both the man that committed it as well as the woman. Death. That was the penalty for violating the Sabbath. Death. Alright? We just read an account of that Can you name an account where one adulterer was stoned in the Old Testament? How about an account in the Old Testament where an adulterer was stoned anywhere in the Bible? They wanted to stone the woman taking the adultery, but Christ delivered. Yeah, they almost did uh in John 8, a marvelous account that the critical text eliminates and tries to get rid of in scriptures because of their ignorance of what that passage says There isn't any. There is no account in the Bible of somebody actually stoning an adulterer or an adulterer. But there is an account of somebody picking up sticks on the Sabbath day, which was a sign, and God said, absolutely stole them. I hope at this point you're beginning to have some questions and you're probably trying to figure out, well, Brother Vince, which way are you going with this thing? Because I'm a little lost. I'm starting to Put your arms around the elephant, and I'm pointing you up this way a little bit. I'm going to go over this way, and I'm trying to introduce to you that there's some very curious paradoxes There's some very curious paradoxes. Paradox is not a contradiction. A paradox is an apparent contradiction. It looks like it contradicts, but in fact it does not. It does not. Because there are some very curious paradoxes. You we said that adultery is not a sign, it's a real thing, and it's to be stoned, and we would agree it's very destructive to the family, very destructive to the to the relationships, it just is a horrible thing. Um and yet Sabbath keeping, I mean picking up a few sticks, how does that hurt anybody? I mean it just Picking up a few sticks. That can't be that bad. Oh, if you're a child of God and the covenant sign is between God and his children and you're out there doing this on the Sabbath day. You are messing up a sign that God is very jealous for. He is very excited about this sign. This sign has to maintain a certain purity in His sight. Because he's intentionally projecting an image. He is intentionally portraying a truth. He wants a, dare I say, gospel truth to come forward and shine brightly. And if you pollute that sign, he's very upset about it. Let's address two, let's let's now introduce two paradoxes. There's two paradoxes I find in the Bible that are associated with the Sabbath. And the first one, and I haven't been helping you with your fill in the blanks, but this is paradox number one, which is fire kindling. Kindling a fire If picking up sticks was bad, boy, what if you pick up the sticks and make a fire out of it? Now you're really pushing it here, right? We we know that you can't just pick up sticks, and that's probably why the guy was gathering sticks to begin with Maybe he's getting a jump on everybody else. I'm going to go get these fresh sticks before everybody else pops up on on uh Sunday morning. That would have been their first day of the week to go out and gather. I'm going to get a hit. I don't know why. I'm just surmising it Numbers 28 and verse 8, while you're there in Numbers, you can turn a few pages over to Numbers 28 and verse 8, where we're going to read about this first paradox. Numbers 28 and verse 8, we read about what offerings were to be done and when. It says here in verse uh numbers twenty-eight. Let's start in uh verse nine actually. On the Sabbath day, two lambs of the first year without spot, and two tenth deals of flour with for a meat offering mingled with oil and the drink offering thereof. This is the burnt offering of every Sabbath, beside the continual burnt offering and his drink offering. A burnt offering meant burnt over fire. On the Sabbath day, they were to bring this offering, burnt over fire. Well, you don't have to turn there, but I'll read to you what God had commanded in Exodus 35, and in Exodus 35, and in verse 3, he said, Ye shall kindle no fire throughout your habitations upon the Sabbath day. Well, that's interesting, Lord. You killed a man picking up sticks. You said, Don't kindle a fire on the Sabbath day. That's probably why they didn't know what to do with this guy. He picked up the sticks, but he didn't kindle a fire. If my surmising is correct. But the priests were to take your offering of a lamb, and they were to burn it. On the Sabbath day, over a fire, and they didn't have propane tanks back then. They had to have a fire and it had to be kindled and it had to be going. Do you see the little tension that's going on here? The priests, the Levites, the leaders no less, are responsible for making this fire, and God said, don't kindle the fire But he did command the Sabbath ordinance. Ah, we found a contradiction. No, we didn't. You found a paradox. Now let's talk about this. Well Why would anybody want to kindle a fire to begin with? Well, to warm yourself, to cook, but in the case of the priests, they're doing it to offer the sacrifice and the offering. And so on the one hand, you have the death penalty for disobedience. Now, on the other hand, you can't kindle a fire, but fires had to be kindled in order to keep some of the Sabbaths. That's very interesting. I'm just going to leave the tension in your mind for a moment here. I'm just going to leave the tension there, all right? I just want you to kind of think through this. I want that to kind of just Kind of kinda has some soak time. You know, when you take a chicken and you uh you're gonna prepare it for cooking, uh little tip for you should put or a turkey, this works good for a turkey, put a little vinegar on it, kind of eats the gaminess away. And let it marinate a little bit of vinegar and some spices in a bag and just set it there and just let it. I'm going to let this marinate on your mind for a while as you try to figure out what's going on with this curious sign, because it's very curious. It's a very curious sign Second paradox we find is something called soul affliction. It gets more bizarre, folks. This is really strange. Soul affliction, to afflict your soul. You read about this now, and we'll turn to our last section of scriptures in Leviticus. It's before the book of Numbers. In the book of Leviticus. Leviticus chapter 16. In Leviticus 16, I'm going to start in verse 29. Leviticus 16 and in verse 29, we read this. It says, this shall be a statute forever unto you. Notice this forever language, this perpetual business. It's this long-reaching uh sign. That in the seventh month, on the tenth day of the month, ye shall afflict your souls, and do no work at all, whether it be one of your own country or a stranger that sojourns among you For on that day the priest shall make an atonement for you to cleanse you that ye may be clean from all your sins before the Lord. It shall be a Sabbath of rest unto you. And ye shall afflict your souls by a statute forever. Interesting. So There's a couple of things I would like to point out. Number one, this was a Sabbath day that was not on the seventh day. So the first thing we learn with a little initial careful observation about the word Sabbath is that the Sabbath wasn't always and only on a seventh day So our Seventh-day Adventists have some thinking to do because sometimes it was on the seventh month on the tenth day of the month. That was a Sabbath day also. I find that interesting. There were Sabbaths that occurred on the ninth day in some places. There were special Sabbath days, this being one of them You can't say it was just the seventh day. God identified others. The other thing he pointed out is that it's going to be a day to afflict your souls. It's a soul affliction. And it's a soul affliction, he says, you shall afflict your souls and do no work at all. Now, I'm speaking to a room full of what probably are, for the most part, workaholics. We love to work. I love to work. I love to get up and do something. I had a good day if I get everything done on my to-do list. and a few extra things. That was a good day. I see Mrs. Ross shaking her head. You're the embodiment of workaholic. There's this old country western song about uh work all day and work your fingers to the bone and what do you get? Bony fingers. There's just people who like man is designed to work and once he gets on that wagon he discovers that work is good. He kinda likes it. And he likes to keep doing it. And there's people who literally will work themselves to death. But God says, you're going to afflict your souls. You're not going to do any work today. That is about torture for me. Sit around and pretty much do nothing for that day. That's why you feel sick half the time, because you're constrained to a bed and you can't do anything. You can't get up, you can't go anywhere. There were travel restrictions on the Sabbath day It was also referred to as a Sabbath day's travel. It was like just under a mile, mile and a half. And the reason that the Jews put that distance on it was that's about the distance you could walk before you really start to work up a sweat And sweating indicated work. That also ties in into the New Testament when people are trying to deduce what happened during that Passion Crucifixion Week of Christ. because he traveled a Sabbath day from here to there, and so they could draw a radius to figure out where he went. So it was a well-known, the well-known figure. This affliction of the soul was for the people. They were to do no work, but somebody was working. How many of you have butchered an animal before? Quite a few. Oh yeah, I know my son's raised it. Um how many of you have butchered multiple animals in one day? Oh yeah. Uh is that a busy day? Now can you imagine butchering a burnt offering as a priest for the whole congregation on a Sunday? That's a lot of work. That is a lot of work on that day. So God is telling the people, you're going to afflict your souls, you're not going to do any work. But the priest over here is the busiest guy in town. I mean he's busy. He is taking animals. He's sizing it up. Is it is it without spot and blemish? Thumbs up, good. Cut the throat, hang it up, let the blood drain out, into the basin, because we're going to keep that and do something with it. Fillet the animal. Whatever he's got to do, kick take out the innards as a special burning process. Alright, that's family number one. Got them going. Oh, the fire's getting low. Gotta put some more wood in the fire. Gotta get the wood. Getting kinda hot here. Gotta gotta go. Um we're we're getting kinda I am getting hot. This is a good time to take the jacket off. He's got work to do. He's a busy guy He's the busiest guy in the camp. The priest is just cranking it. But the priest absolutely had to guard the word is keep this day. He had to do those things The priest had to do this. And you jump ahead to Leviticus 19. Look at what commandments he was under. Leviticus 19, verse 3. The whole book of Leviticus is instructions specific to the priests, the Levites. They were the keepers of the. The old covenant, laws, and rules and regulations. Leviticus 19, 3. Ye shall fear every man his mother and his father and keep my Sabbath. Now here he's latching it to honor thy father and mother to keeping the Sabbath. He's again anchoring this thing. It's so connected to so many things. I am the Lord your God. Well that's the bottom line reason. Why? Because I'm your God. Look at verse 30. Leviticus 19 and verse 30. Ye shall keep my Sabbaths and reverence my sanctuary. I am the Lord. So he's like, how many times does God tell these priests this? He keeps hammering this point home. They had to guard this day. They had to do what God told them to do, but they also had to reverence that day. They had to make it a holy day. They had to make sure, okay, you people are not working, but he's got sweat marks He is one busy guy. And you know, Nehemiah took this Sabbath observance very seriously. Remember when the city was being rebuilt, we go forward now to after the destruction of the temple And the people were in Babylonian captivity for many years. This is many, many years past this wilderness sojourn. They've become an established kingdom. Kings came, good, mostly bad. A few more good, more bad, very bad. Wiped out by the Assyrians and Babylonians, captivity. King Cyrus says, you may now go back. They went back. And Nehemiah became the first governor. And he was trying to establish an order. And one of the things he saw was that they were not observing the Sabbath. And so we read in Nehemiah 13, uh. . see if I can get my fingers on Nehemiah fairly quickly. Nehemiah 13, it's kind of misplaced in your uh Bible uh historically, but it's reasonably close. Nehemiah 13. We read. The Old Testament order of the books is different than what we have over over time, at least chronologically. Nehemiah 13 and verse 15. I'm not trying to ding the King James for anything, it's fine. Nehemiah 13, 15, in those days saw I and Judah, some treading wine presses on the Sabbath. They got their grapes out. They're trotting the grapes in their press. The juice would flow down into a vat, they'd boil it, make wine. And bringing in the sheaves, and lading asses, and also wine, grapes, and figs, all manner of burdens, which they brought into Jerusalem on the Sabbath day. It was a big mart, it was a sales day. It was Amazon Prime Day every Sabbath day. And I testified against them, and the day therein were they sold victuals. There dwelt men of tyre therein, which also brought fish, all manner of ware, selling plates. This isn't necessary, folks. And sold unto the Sabbath of the Sabbath unto the children of Judah and in Jerusalem. And I contended with the nobles of Judah, said unto them, What evil thing is this that you do and profane the Sabbath day? Did not your fathers thuss, and did not our God bring upon all this evil upon us, upon this city, yet ye bring more wrath upon Israel by profaning the Sabbath. And so he commanded the gates to be shut Told them, don't show up. You show up and lay hands on you. He shut the gate. Some showed up. He goes out there and threatens them, runs them away. And he concludes, remember me, O my God, concerning this also, and spare me according to the greatness of thy mercy. He reinstituted it. He was serious, and he was commended for being a good ruler Alright, I'm going to let that marinate in your brains a little bit until next Sunday, but I want to make a couple of concluding points about these paradoxes. And the first is this is that Pagan business had no business on the Sabbath day. Buying, selling, doing things that were unnecessary, it had no business. It just had no business. There was no reason for it. But good works were commended on the Sabbath day. The priests ordained of God, they were told of God to do certain things And it was a good work to prepare the fire. It was a good work to receive the sacrifice. It was a good work to slay the sacrifice, to make atonement for the people. Again, a picture. That animal was a picture. Blood bulls and goats can't atone for sins. And so there was inherit to the Sabbath day a very curious paradox. Some could work, some couldn't work. There would be a death penalty associated with it, and yet, uh there's a fire kindling. Death penalty was not the part I was talking about, it's the fire kindling. Couldn't kindle a fire, but you needed a fire to take the sacrifice So there are some very interesting things about that that show up. And like I said, I'm going to leave you hanging, and then order willingly next week we'll start to try to resolve some of these things. And I hope you find it of interest. So we'll close with that. I hope I've scratched enough on the surface to let you say, oh, I thought I understood the Sabbath very well. Maybe not. Maybe not. Anton, would you mind closing us in prayer, please? Thank you. Father in heaven, Lord, we look to you. We do Praise you for giving us this hour that we could hear your word, uh expound it upon, and uh give us this season to meditate, Lord, even in the teaching of your scripture as we Uh pray that you would help us uh understand this Sabbath day, this day of rest, this sign, the Um all the ties and implications it has, Lord. We pray, Lord, you would help us in this to grow in grace and in knowledge, even of Jesus Christ, whose word this is, and uh all these signs. uh no doubt are tied to, oh Lord. Please help us to hear Him. And uh we pray that you would bless the time in the upcoming worship service as well. We ask it all in Christ's name. Amen.