Morning, everyone. Good morning. Glad to see you here today. Our uh text is uh Hebrews, the eleventh chapter and the third verse. I'm just gonna reread the opening few and then we'll get to our question for the morning. Hebrews 11 is that fantastic chapter of faith. There's no chapter in Scripture which highlights faith more than Hebrews 11. We get to this marvelous section, one that I'm excited to get into because this is a topic that I really enjoy. Now, faith is the substance of things hoped for, the evidence of things not seen For by it the elders obtained a good report. By faith we understand that the worlds were framed by the Word of God. So that the things which are seen were not made of things which do appear. Now we're just going to pause and really focus and hone in on that third verse. This whole chapter of Hebrews 11 is about faith, and it has to do with things not seen. And we're going to open with a little bit of a discussion question on that It's an easy one today. This is an easy lift. It shouldn't be difficult. If I don't get ten examples, y'all just weren't working very hard at it because it's not hard at all. Give me an example of a thing that's been built that's made, uh, that exists, but it's out of material or some substance that you can't see There were some somebody gave me some really good examples on the phone. I'll open it with that if I can find it here quickly. Um the uh Uh y'all can jump in and and and let me know. I you would have thought I would have been smart and flagged this response, but I didn't. What are some things that are made out of things that are not seen? Freddie said an air ventilator has got air Electrical panel box got electricity. Your cell phone batteries, you got electrons. Has anybody seen an electron? No, we haven't. Carbon monoxide detector detects carbon monoxide. So yeah, those are some examples of things that you don't see. The internet. Yeah, a bunch of electrons flowing through the internet, all the packets, the protocols. You don't really see a wire, but that wire isn't the internet, sure. Yeah, radio waves. Boy, yeah, that's a big one, right? Even cars produce those these days. They're called radar and helps control things. I've first car I've had new car in twenty years, Mrs. Ross. I feel like a Person coming out of prison being given a cell phone, all the technology on the car is overwhelming to me. Lisa, how about the inner working of your body? Oh yeah Yeah, the inner workings of your body, right? Okay. Little things that are going on inside of there. Now you could technically slice it open and look at it, and people have done that. But you can't see it with a naked eye. Yeah. You really gotta get down. Yeah, mitochondrial process. ADP and all these little things, that's pretty well. Any other ideas, things that are made out of things which you can't see. Yeah, the wind, and that can form something like an air balloon. You know, hot air balloons. Why how do they rise? Well it's not the fabric around it, it's the air in it, and it's a certain property the air. It happens to be hot So balloons, yeah, there's air inside of you can't see when you can see the effect of it. But you can see what's there. You're not seeing the air that goes through. Correct. Yeah. No, it's exactly example of what I'm saying. No, you have to build it. It's my example. You just made your first mistake. Yeah, the idea was it it's a thing and I should have said that you can see that's made out of something you can't see So But it's not made out of it. Not entirely. But a a good part of it is I did yeah, it doesn't have to entirely be made out of it. It just has to have a part of it that's made out of something you can't see. Stuff you can't see isn't made. Correct. Unless you figure out who actually did that and that was God. And that's what we're getting into today. So that's a good segue into what we're talking about because the passage that we're going to look at today is this. Through faith. So the penman now is going to begin to give a lot of examples about faith. Faith, I do not believe, is actually widely understood. This biblical definition is very different. And we're going to see some examples throughout this chapter of what faith is and how it operates and what it what benefit it bestows. Because it's substantive. It's real. It's an evidence of things that aren't seen. But it's a real thing. Even though can't see it. Faith, through faith, he says, we understand. So first of all, we have, based on this thing, there's an understanding. that the worlds were framed by the Word of God. And I'm going to stop with that first phrase because I'm a little bit of a a wordsmith. We have two English majors here in the room, and so you'll appreciate an attention to words I really find it fascinating to contemplate word etymologies. Where they came from. How did we get to this word? And I've got a lot of examples, but I don't want to rabbit trail because I want to focus on this Greek word and its etymology. Those of you who are Bible students know that there's two very common words for these two that we're looking at. The word worlds in our text is the word I own. where it's come into the English language as eon, like eons and eons of time. The common word, the common Greek word for worlds is the word cosmos. That word likewise has come into our English language filled with a C double K. But that's not our word Cosmos shows up, for instance, in John 129, behold the Lamb of God which taketh away the sin of the cosmos, the sin of the world. Or um in fact it's in John 3. 16, for God so loved the cosmos. That's that's In fact, the Apostle John uses that word 58 times. He uses cosmos very frequently. It's only used five times in the entire book of Hebrews. It's not the common word for world in the book of Hebrews. It's using this word Ion. Okay, we're going to look at Ion in a moment. The other word that is fascinating is the word word of God. That word word, and I'm being redundant here unfortunately because I can't think of another word for word, is the word Rhema R-H-E-M-A is the transliteration of that Greek word. It's not the word logos that you would normally find. In Hebrews 4. 12, you have an instance of Logos where it says the word of God is quick and powerful, sharper than any two-edged sword. You've uh got it referenced and it's interpreted as doctrine in Hebrews 6. But Logos is all throughout the Bible In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God. That's logos. And in fact, when you see that, most Bible teachers, most Bible preachers, We'll point that out, get excited and say that points to Christ somehow, because he identifies himself as the word, the Logos, that became flesh and dwelt among us. But that's not our word here. It's the word Rema. So I find that to be very interesting. Very interesting. So we're going to start one at a time. We're going to kind of unpack IOM because it says Through faith, we understand that the worlds were framed, and you know what framing is, if you've ever gone by a construction site, you see a bunch of sticks sticking up, a stick-built house, they call it in the industry. That's the framers. The framing. And behind this wall is framing, but I can't see it. There's framing there. There's something substantive and hard there, though I don't see it. Now if I rip this part off, yes I would. Yes, Mrs. Ross. I would see it if I ripped that part off. Okay. Check your box and be fine. So um this word I own here is fascinating. Now, obviously in the whole context, this framing by the Word of God, you've got Genesis 1 that comes to mind, the very opening chapter of the Bible In the beginning God created the heavens and the earth, and uh and they were without form and void, and the Spirit of God hovered upon the waters, the face of the deep, and and then God said And you have it repeatedly all throughout the opening Genesis account, and God said, and God said, and God said. So clearly it's a reference to the very opening chapters of the book of Genesis. Observation. You have a basis for faith from the very opening chapters of the Bible. Through faith, we understand that the worlds were framed by the Word of God. Adam wasn't there. when he saw the earth formed. Adam wasn't there when the stars populated, or the sea came into being, or the creatures began to roam and the flowers. It was a record, it was a message, God said, and he would have obviously told it to Adam later. They walked together in the garden in the cool of the day prior to the fall, and so it would have been communicated to them. But by faith we, oh so far away from that instance, understand that the worlds were framed. That word has a very broad meaning. Cosmos typically is limited to the physical universe And it will be related to things that you can see. It can refer to people, a group of people, known group of people living in a particular location. Later in John 1, verses 10 through 12, the word world is used frequently, but there's four different meanings for that word world in John 1, 10-12. He was in the world. The world was made by him. The world knew him not. Right there there's three different meanings. He was in the world. He was on this planet. And the world was made by him. Well, it wasn't just this planet. It was everything And the world knew him not. Well, the rocks certainly knew him. They didn't rebel. It's the people among whom he traversed and and communicated with. They did not know him. So there's a wide variety of meaning for cosmos, but there's an even broader meaning for Ion, and that's what I want to get to. So we've got some Q<unk>A time here So what I'm going to do is I'm going to read a passage that uses our word I own. Okay? And I want you to tell me what you think it means. I'll point out what phrase it is. Now, I've conveniently put them in your handout so you can follow along. And it's underneath that part, implications of worlds. Alright? So I'm going to read Hebrews, the opening chapter of Hebrews. Verses 2 and 3 says this, speaking of God, hath in these last days spoken unto us by his son whom he hath appointed heir of all things, by whom also he made the worlds. That's our word Ion. Who being the brightness of his uh brightness of his glory, and the express image of his person, and upholding all things by the word of his power. Alright, so he made the world. So what what do you to what do you think that refers? Yeah the cosmos, the the the the the the known universe that we can All the stuff in it, right? More than just rocks and molten lava, you know, it would be handy. Okay, so the thing, the known known universe. Okay, good. Then we get to Matthew 28. 20. Here's that same word, I own. And we're doing this because we're trying to understand how a Greek writer would have used that. And it says in Matthew 28, 20, Jesus talking to the disciples upon his resurrection He tells them, teaching them to observe all things whatsoever I have commanded you, and lo, I am with you always, even unto the end of the world. Now what Is that phrase referencing to the end of the world? The end of the world as we know it, the creation, uh, is Earth. Okay, so you're mentioning end. Judge. Okay, that's the result of it, yeah. It's the end uh what could you say it was the all time from the beginning until whose return Yeah, until his return. It's a time reference. It includes a reference to time. You could render this verse even until the end of the age. And some translations do render it that way. To that end of this current season of human existence. So it's kind of a reference to time. This will show up a little more clearly in the next couple of verses in Hebrews 1. Let's look at the next section here. Hebrews 1. 8. Unto the Son he saith, Thy throne, O God, is for ever and ever. That's that word I own. It's rendered ever and ever. A scepter of righteousness is the scepter of thy kingdom. And then in Hebrews 5. 6, as he saith also in another place Thou art a priest I own forever after the order of Melchizedek. What's that referring to? Forever. Always. Yeah, this world as we know it. Yeah, a period of time even beyond what we know currently. So it's got it can be a measure of time that has a specific boundary end. It can be time that goes on and on and on. Very interesting. Here's another one. Hebrews 6. 5 says, and have tasted the good word of God and the powers of the I own, the world to come. Ephesians 2. 7, that in the ages to come he might show the exceeding riches of his grace and his kindness toward us through Christ Jesus. This is the word ages, in the ages to come, in the Ion to come. The end of Ephesians 3, unto him be glory in the church by Christ Jesus throughout all ages. Ion that word ages there is literally generations, excuse me. That next phrase, world without end, that's Ion. So it says, glory by Jesus Christ throughout all ages, literally generations, I own. World without end. Amen. All right, to what what are those referencing? Tops From the beginning of creation till the end of creation. From the beginning to the end. Um so look at Ephesians 2. So it's a time reference for sure. So time reference for sure Which time which chunk of time is it referencing? Something coming forward. Yeah. Again, and uh it it's It's hard for us to understand eternity, right? But uh these are using Ion to talk to a future age. There's uses of Ion that are all the ages. There's uses of Ion that are the past ages. There's I own that's a physical universe. So what do we do with all that? Well, I would submit to you that this use of the word Ion is, first of all, a very scientifically accurate description of the known physical universe, it can very readily be shown, well not readily, it can be shown, that you cannot have material without time. Matter and time must coexist. And so to speak of matter without speaking of time is a non sequitur. You don't have that. The two coexist. I def I I defer you to read the lighter readings of Albert N. Einstein to uh You have time and you have space. They are a continuum. We talk about a time-space continuum. So this is a biblically accurate reference. But more astonishingly, our text says God created all of that. Stop and think about that for a moment. Maybe your understanding coming into this as a Christian, as someone casually familiar with Christian doctrine. that God spoke the universe into existence. That perhaps all you were thinking that he spoke into existence were things that could be seen. Physical rocks Magma, planets, sun, moon, stars. He did beyond that, he created the very time into which it would exist. How much of it? All of it You just think about that for a minute. Is that a mighty big chunk of time? Yes. Is that a mighty big chunk of real estate over time? Yes. This known physical existence of a planet upon which we exist has a framework that is underneath it. a framing structure. Right? Just like this wall and this house has a framing structure. It has a foundation. It has mud plates and sill plates and The very cosmos has a framing structure called the Word of God. Do you know that In the study of astronomy, in the study of physics, there are known equations that have certain things in them that are not equations, they're called constants. The most popular one is the speed of light, E equals M C squared. Everybody knows C is a reference to the speed of light, and it has a fixed speed. It has been calculated at 186,000 miles per second. Calculated, I say, not measured, because you can't measure the speed of light. You can measure two-way transit, but you can't measure one. So There are that's just one. There are many constants. There are constants that control how The electrons, and we don't fully know this as well. We have models that work, and you were taught some models of little electrons zipping around, neutrons and so forth. There are constants that control that The strong nuclear forces, the weak nuclear forces. There's about a dozen different constants that are fine-tuned in this universe. Who set those? There's a range of settings for those constants. And some physicists, astrophysicists in particular, have gone through and looked at all these physical constants that structure and determine the laws by which our known universe is governed. And they draw a continuum. If the weak physical for if if the weak nuclear force is a little bit stronger, a little bit weaker, what would happen? you wouldn't have heavy elements form or you couldn't get certain masses or the gravitate. And so they've twiddled, pretending as if though they could actually change these physical parameters and what would the effect be And they've plotted it. Alright? They've made these plots. And they all, if you tweak any one of them, throws the possibility of life as we know it today off the charts. It doesn't work All of those physical constants come together at a unique spot, a little tiny dot, and in that dot, life as we know it can exist. That's not fun to change. And that very fact is shaking astrophysicists to their core because they're saying This makes the impossibility of a random chance creation of the universe, we've run out of time. In fact, I can show from biology that you don't have enough time in the universe to even make half a protein. Half. Not a full working protein. And oh, by the way, time works against the evolutionists because they're typing on a typewriter with invisible ink, with fading ink. It types, it's good, and without an infrastructure to support it, it disappears, it's gone. Everything, the atoms zipping around in your body are framed by the Word of God. The magnetic force that circles this planet that shields you from the rays of the sun are letting a little bit get through so you get a little bit of the sunburn. I get a nice tan, Freddy I get a nice head. Probably not now. I'm old and whitey and been underneath the desk for too long and I'll be I'll look like a lobster. If it's just a little bit off, there is no light There's no light. All of those things are framed by the Word of God because God spoke it into existence. I find that fascinating. That's just physics. That's just things you can touch and see. Yes, folks. And constants are only constants. Because he upholdeth all things by the Rhema of the Word of His mouth. Yes. He has said, be still, stay fixed at this value, and fixed it will stay. Because remember, we're the only part of his creation that rebelled. The trees didn't, the rocks didn't, the fish didn't, the birds didn't. that um the earth sets in its axis in such a way before the sun that if it sh shifts a certain way or whatever it will burn up. Yes We would have extreme we would have extreme weather condition. I'll just give you one example of the fascination I have with the way this universe is created. Something as ubiquitous and yet very unique as water. It's all over this planet. But there is a fascinating thing that happens, and you all know this, when water shifts from a liquid to a solid. Those little two oxygen Mickey Mouse ears on top of this monster molecule of oxygen. Oxygen's 32 on the atomic table. Hydrogen is one. It's this little tiny bump. And they move apart a tiny amount. Don't quote me on the amount, but Gabe, it's less than 10%. It's like a 7% shift. That little shift is enough to make it just a little bit more porous so that it floats. If it didn't do that, as soon as you had water freeze, it would sink to the bottom of the ocean where it could never unfreeze. And you would lock up a good portion of the water on this planet in frozen solid ice at the bottom where it could never be melted. But just that tiny shift makes it such that you can have a hydrologic cycle, so that the seasons can exist How wise our God is. Freddie, that's just one of many examples. And the part that made the hair raise up on the back of my neck when I studied this is it also refers to time Mmm. All of it. Freddie, that means all the events in time. All of it. I had a youth group study teacher one time. I don't remember much of what he said, to be honest, but one thing he said stuck that He said, you know, our God is such that the universe is like a big scroll. He's already typed it all up. And it's just unrolling out in front of us. So when Scripture says, My times are in thy hand, are they ever? Well then, why does he find sin? Our God is so wise. that he can actually make that such that there is human choice throughout the whole program, but it's not going to mess up his end determination. Exhibit A. I dare say 99. 9% of you went to your wedding and it wasn't a shotgun wedding, if you know what I mean by shotgun wedding Daddy's standing behind the boy, you better marry this girl. 'Cause she's carrying your baby and mine, son. Say I do, son, or it'll be I done. I'm pretty sure You didn't have that kind of a wedding. I'm sure you were delighted. I mean the happiest The happiest bridegroom I ever saw was Anton. He couldn't wipe that silly smile off his face. I didn't know a smile could go from ear to ear on that guy. Great day. He was a happy camper for sure. And understanding himself Every bride and bridegroom are ecstatic. And yet the Lord Jesus Christ was predicted, his birth was clearly identified in his lineage that he would be the seed of Abraham of Jacob, of David, that that descendancy. Well how does that happen? That Aruth the Mobite Tess would be in that. How does God thread that needle Through all of those events and time. There were real sinners involved in there. You know, it's uh ironic that and I'm really off on a rabbit trail, I'm sorry, but like I said, I get very excited about this topic when The Pharisees came to Jesus and said, We be not for born of fornication. They're trying to slam Christ because Joseph was supposed his father, but he was Christ was born of the Holy Spirit. So there was a little Perscuffle floating around, it was tarnishing his reputation. You know what the irony is? The whole nation of Israel was born of fornication because they came from the lineage of Judah. Judah uh had Pharise from Tamar because she played the harlot by the side of the road. So they forgot a little bit of history there, but that's an aside. So, does our God have all things in his control? Do all things exist by his word? Yes, they do. If you're not in him, that's a terrifying thought. Because the question that will come to your mind is, well, what's his plan for me? And I'm here to tell you right now, not good. If you're not one of his, it's not good But the Lord God says, if you seek me and search for me with all your heart, I will surely be found of you. That's a promise of God. And he's not making an empty, vain promise. He saith not unto the seed of Jacob, Seek ye me in vain. God is sovereign and he in his sovereignty has set up real no-kidding tests. We don't understand that level of thinking. We don't understand that level of planning. We don't, and that's only godlike for that to be the case. Aren't you glad he's got a few tricks up his sleeve? He knows how to govern the universe. That's our word I own He framed it by his word. Jim, it didn't take long. He didn't say sit around with a congregation of angels. What you fellows think? To whom did he turn for counsel? It didn't happen. No committee. There wasn't Thank God there wasn't a committee. I have I had a demotivation poster on the wall in my office. None of us is as dumb as all of us. You want a bad idea, get a committee together, oh yeah. This buzzword compliant and does nothing, right? That was my days at the Pentagon. So that's not relevant for all of you. I'm sure you understand the benefit sometimes of having more than one head. Let's look at the implications of that word framed Um we we that that word word um is it yeah it it the word word is is spoken. There there's uh Uh there there there it is frequently and often rendered spoken, just the spoken word. He just utter it uh iterates uh utters it I told you I was going to look at that word Rema. I'm not. I'm looking at that word framed. The Word of God. Through faith, we understand the worlds were framed by the Word of God. Framed. Framing. Again, I want you to tell me what is meant by this when we read this verse. This is that word frame. Okay? I want you to think about this word frame. The first instance we find in the New Testament is in Mark chapter 1, verse 19, when he, speaking of Jesus, had gone a little further thence. He saw James the son of Zebedee and John his brother, who were also in the ship mending, that's our word framed, mending their nets. Also in Romans 9. Romans 9. 22. What if God, willing to show his wrath and to make his power known, endured with much longsuffering the vessels of wrath, that's speaking about people, fitted, framed to destruction. That's our word frame, fitted to destruction. First Corinthians 1 10. I beseech you, brethren, by the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, that you all speak the same thing. There be no divisions among you, but that you be perfectly joined You know, in carpentry there's a thing called joinery. Yeah. Join together in the same mind, the same judgment. 1 Peter 5. 10, the God of all grace. Who has called us unto his eternal glory by Christ Jesus after you've suffered a while. Here's that word framed. Frame you. Make you perfect. Establish, strengthen, settle you. What does In these verses, somebody talked to me. What sense do you get from that word framed? What's going on in here? Orderly structure? Yeah, you see an orderly structure? Yeah. Order structure. Any other thoughts? Yeah, a creation, okay? Boundaries. Making boundaries? Yeah, that's interesting. Locking it in. Yeah, locking it in, especially mending a net, right? Because if it's not tight. Maybe Go ahead. Just kind of adding to the orderly structure things with a purpose. A very specific purpose for each one. That's a really good insight. Yeah, there's a specific purpose. The net is mended with a specific purpose in mind. You don't want the holes too big, obviously they're all the same size. Yeah, there's a specific purpose. That's very good. Here's an aspect of perfection. There's an aspect of perfection. Yes There's a perfectum. There's a perfection that's coming about. Fitting, mending the net, you're bringing it to a a perfect state, a mature state, ready to be used. Peter renders it that way, make you perfect You kind of see that there's a sense of an ongoing framing for the believer. That we ourselves are framed. He framed time so that we could be framed. There's an ongoing purpose. There's a structure. There's a building. And isn't that true of all construction? You dig out a hole, you do got to do dirt work first. it it's funny, everything starts with the dirt work and the dirt is a picture of the heart. You gotta break up a lot of hard rocks and then you li lay a foundation and then you build on top. It's one step upon another, line upon line, precept upon precept, and that's true even in our lives. It's true in the lives and the development of the child. When the child comes forth from the womb, there's a a time when that baby's brain has got to be fungible because it's got to pass through a mighty small canal And indeed it is. There's a soft spot on the skull so that the skull cap can compress as it goes through the birth canal. It doesn't throw the child into seizures. You do that to an adult, we'll be in a seizure in a heart because you move the brain. The way the bones do grow. They're real soft at the ends at first. I can remember as a young boy, younger than Nate, I would love to run around on the floor, on all fours. I could bounce on my knees. Jim, if I try to bounce on my knees now. Just saying. Just saying it hurts. Now I can remember this don't hurt And it didn't, 'cause it was soft. I know you couldn't bounce on your knees now. Used to. Used to. Yeah. But but now why would God do it so the knees would be soft when you're a kid? 'Cause kids play and they stumble and they fall down. And they hit themselves, but it's not going to break them. There's a wisdom to God in timing everything. The trial you're going through now, Saint, may be there to strengthen you for the next thing, which will be great. And it will bring glory to his name because he's going to perfect you. Establishing. You know what established means? Put it in concrete, you can be moved. Yeah. Unseen things. Well, before I get to that, what's the greatest work of repair that the Lord is doing? He's mending, he's framing, he's joining. What's the greatest work of repair that he's currently doing right now? Mighty close, yes. And that's called what? Salvation. Absolutely. Salvation of lost and needy sinners, the relationship, the restoration. And an improvement of that relationship between God and man, that's the greatest work that He's doing right now. He's continuing to do it. That's why salvation is called a new creation. Right, right You don't want to go back to the old because that'll break again. It's a brand new thing. Unseen things, it says in Hebrews 11, 3, so that the things which are seen were not made of things which do appear. We had a little discussion about that. Now, our penman used the phrase Rema, not logos, because I believe that he's trying to sharply distinguish between an utterance As opposed to the second work of the Trinity who appeared to mankind in the flesh. That's the Logos. There's an utterance versus the actual second person of the Trinity. Why do you suppose because the second person of the Trinity can be seen, he would come, he would appear, we would see him So why do you suppose the penman here is pointing out things that cannot be seen? Why is that important in the context of this argument about faith? Why is he pointing out things that cannot be seen? If you want a hint, you can read the very next verse in your handout, Romans 8. 24. Why is he pointing out something that can't be seen? Well I would think is of course that would indicate that there are certain things only God can do, that the scientists would be as smart as they think they are, they could never think know how to deal with this. Certainly. Yeah, the uh evolutionists will talk about uh laws of physics and nature and over lots of time and and the and the creationist says uh well God says, uh go get your own dirt. Go get your own universe. Go get your own laws. Quit using my stuff. You start with nothing. Make a rose out of nothing. Yeah, right. And in the beginning there kinda wasn't nothing, there was God. Right. God plus nothing can be everything. The evolutionist is says nothing times nothing, caused by nothing, made everything, and that's a scientific impossibility. Yes. What do faith and hope operate on? Things that are seen or things that are unseen? Yeah. Because Romans eight says this, we are saved by hope, but hope that is seen is not hope. For what a man seeth, why does he hope for it? I hope I get a new phone for Christmas. You're holding it in your hands. Why are you hoping for it? You got it. You begin to wonder, is the man blind? Does he not see that he has it So hopefully causes the phone around and make it it's no longer interesting after a point of time. If he takes that phone he wanted and he throws it in the trash, he doesn't trust that it's a real or the real thing, the thing of value. Which thing Israel did when the Messiah came. They hugged the wedding invitation, the letters, the promises of the Messiah to come, rather than the bridegroom who finally arrived. They missed the boat Yeah, good point. You know, we find in Colossians one sixteen and seventeen the Apostle Paul makes this summary statement. He says this for by him Were all things created that are in heaven and that are in earth, visible and invisible, whether they be thrones, that's a position of rulership, thrones plural, thrones throughout time Or dominions, the area and the domain which somebody can exist, the jurisdiction over which a judge may rule. Or principalities, that's a term commonly used to refer to the angelic hierarchy. Or powers, that's authorities. Authorities of no authority but that which comes from God. All things were created by him, and here's the kicker, and for him. What? That wicked man in office, that unrighteous judge, that whatever is there, how does that bring him glory? Because he says, I'm shaming you for your deeds for your evil, wicked deeds. He sets up children. He says, women shall rule over you in a place. I'm sorry, ladies, the Bible doesn't speak positively of female leadership. It's not to be a leader in her home for sure, and that's where a lot of evils start. He is before all things, and by him all things consist. Consist. We have that word consistency. You ladies who are bakers, you stir up your you put your flour, your eggs, your milk, and you stir it up to a consistency where it it's held together. He created it, and by him they even hang together. He's all in all. I'd like to now pivot from this for just a moment to some applications of this business that by faith we understand. God made things exactly the way He has declared that they were created in the opening chapters of Genesis. And we understand it by faith. That you can't Prove it with something that you can physically touch because it was made out of something you can't physically touch. Right? It's outside the realm of science. Therefore science shouldn't dabble with it because by definition you can't repeat it It's not demonstrable, observable, and repeatable. That's the fundamental premise of science. I can set up a set of steps I can assemble the material, I can write out the procedure, execute it, I get a result. I give it to somebody else, they can do the same thing. You can't redo the creation of the universe, therefore it is not in the realm of Physical science. It's in the realm of forensics. You can do some forensics, but it's not observational science, and it ought not to be called as such. Well, some of these observational scientists have made their way into the church and into church leadership, and they have attempted to bring in man's wisdom. And have laid it alongside God's wisdom and beginning to push it like a big elephant and trying to move it out of the room The Westminster Confession back in the 1600s wrote this in their fourth chapter. It pleased God the Father, the Son, and Holy Ghost. For the manifestation of the glory of his eternal power, wisdom, and goodness, in the beginning to create or make Of nothing, the world and all things therein, whether visible or invisible, and there's the kicker, in the space of six days and all very good. So there is a confessional statement, and if you're going to be a minister in many Presbyterian churches, you must subscribe, it's called a subscription, you must subscribe to the Westminster Confession of Faith, or if you're in the Christian Reformed Church, some of the others, they have what are called the three forms of unity, the Belgian Confession, and so forth. We read from them in the morning. It was a good statement and a clear statement in the space of six days. What's the purpose of a confession? To try to put in as plain a language as possible what it is you believe. And if you're going to be honest about it, you're going to give some scriptural references to why you believe what you believe. And the Westminster Confession does that. They put the scripture references there. Say, why do you believe that? They go back and they say, okay. So all your belief is based on the Bible. Yeah, you got it right. That's kind of the point, right? I mean we're kind of consistent with our doctrine. That's I mean that's A good and open and transparent way of helping people understand why you believe what you believe. And you can get through it in a second. You can open the book, you spend a couple of weekends reading through it, and you can understand where A body, a church is coming from. It's very helpful. It's helpful. Well, in 2008, the Presbyterian Church of America's General Assembly received the Creation Study Committee's two-year report on the days of creation. They act these are grown men, okay? They spent these are grown men. They spent two years studying What you supposing in the space of six days means? Okay, Nate, how long is six days? Don't give me a dub, but get well, how long is six days Almost a week. Yeah. It's it's literally what? It's literally six days. Six days. If I asked you hours, you could maybe type in and do your math and come up with six times twenty four and get with how many hours? hours it is. But yeah, six days. Nate knows this. We should have hired Nate. We hired the wrong guy. We paid the wrong guy. Um they particularly focused on that phrase in the space of six days. Now they reject theistic evolution, but they listed four different views that are not really compatible, four different views of the days of creation. And they accept them all as orthodox. They're all good. They all differ. They're all good. Because among other reasons, quote, the PCA has existed for over 25 years five years with a variety of viewpoints regarding creation being accepted. And the committee report concludes that it should be treated as non-binding advice and counsel. So they do the study and they say, this is our studied opinion, but you don't have to listen to it. What value is that? What's the point? And the point was is that they allowed unqualified men who do not believe in Hebrews 11, 3 That it was framed by God in six days. You don't have to go to a PCA committee report to figure this out. You can go to Moses in the fourth commandment and figure this out, right? This is not hard Because Moses, and by the way, they believe that Moses wrote the first five books of the Bible. Well that would include Genesis. And when he got to the book of Exodus, he wrote, and he didn't write it, but God wrote it, he reported In six days you shall labor and do all thy work, but in the seventh day is the Sabbath of rest unto the Lord thy God. In it thou shalt not do any work. Thou nor thy servant, thy manservant, thy maid servant, cattle, axe, ox, ass, stranger, was in thy gates for six days the Lord God made heaven, earth, the sea, and all that in them is, and rested the seventh day, wherefore the Lord God blessed the Sabbath day. Are you telling me, Jim, we gotta work for six million years before we get a day off? The work do you think the Jews were standing on their tent and worked for six days? How long is that? What do you think he meant by that? I I don't know. Man, this is this can you break it down for me? Get a committee. All right, get a committee. Let's go study this a little further. If you're going to believe what the scripture says and you're going to teach what the Bible says, you may be out of lockstep with what the world thinks, but okay, you're putting your feet in a book and you want to be consistent with your book, and your book says in the space of six days. Martin, um not Martin Luther, it was uh Augustine who said, I believe God did it in an instant. And those six days are just a reference. Could God have done it an instant? Yeah But he chose to do it in the space of six ordinary 24-hour solar days. Don't give me this whiny business about well there wasn't a sun. Well all you need is a light and a spinning planet. You got 24 hours. Sun can pop up later. It's just a reflector There's answers to these things. Six days. I um don't get me started. Right. And and when you cannot understand six days And actually follows that you do not know what male and female mean either. It follows. Yeah, because i i if if you if you trip on the first one, you're gonna fall on the second one. And you're exactly right, and that's precisely where the PCA is falling out. Well let's uh let's close in prayer. Father God in heaven, we thank you that you've given us the gift of hearing. You've given us a book which has testified, Lord, we can actually Evaluate this book and we can discern and perceive that even if we take it as an ancient historical document, yet we are stunned at what we find. With the precision, with the accuracy, with the prophecies, with the predictions, all of which have been fulfilled, some of which remain. And Lord, we look forward to that fulfillment of thy coming. Or to bringing your church home. Or strengthen us into that time in Jesus' name. Amen.