Going through the book of Samuel, Second Samuel, chapter by chapter, verse by verse, we find ourselves Second Samuel chapter eighteen this morning, beginning at verse nineteen. The battle has just subsided. David's son Absalon who was revolted and dreaded his father out of Jerusalem and then pursued after his father with his armies and tried to kill King David, his own son trying to kill his father. That battle is over with. We read last week. How Absalom died while hanging on a tree. Cursed is he who hangeth on a tree. We talked about that as well. And now we look into the verse 19. The battle is over. And we have here the uh high priest of Israel, his son, also a priest, then said Ahimaaz, the son of Zadok, Zadak is the high priest, let me now run and bear the king tidings, how that the Lord hath avenged him of his enemies. And Joab said unto him, Thou shalt not bear tidings this day, but thou shalt bear tidings another day, but this day thou shalt bear no tidings, because the king's son is dead. Then said Joab to Cushy, go tell the king what thou hast seen. And Cushi bowed himself unto Joab and he ran And then said Himaaz, the son of Zadok, yet again to Joab, but howsoever let me, I pray thee, also run after Cushi. And Joab said, Wherefore wilt thou run, my son? Seeing that thou hast no tidings ready. But however, said he, let me run. And he said unto him, Run then. And the Himehaz ran by the way of the plane. And he actually overran Cushy. Cushy had left first, but Ahimahaz was quite the runner and he he overcame him and and uh actually he's gonna arrive there before King David first. And David sat between the two gates. And the watchman went up to the roof over the gate onto the wall. And he lifted up his eyes and he looked, and behold, a man running alone. And the watchman cried and told the king, and the king said, If he be alone, there is tidings in his mouth. Tidings mean there must be good news. And he came apace and drew near, and the watchman saw another man running, and the watchman called unto the porter and said, Behold, another man running alone. So now we got two men running alone, somewhat separated. And the king said, He also bringeth tidings. And the watchman said, Methinketh the running of the foremost, or the closer man, is like the running of Ahimahaz the son of Azad. And the king said, he's a good man. He cometh with good tidings. And Ahimez called, and he said unto the king as he approached the gate, All is well. And he fell down to the earth upon his face before the king, and he said, Blessed be the Lord thy God, which hath delivered up the men that lifted up their hand against my Lord the King. And the king said, Is the young man Absalom safe? And Ahemah answered When Joab sent the king's servant and me, thy servants, I saw a great tumult, but I knew not what it was And the king said unto him, Turn aside and stand here. And he turned aside and he stood still. And behold, Cushi came, and Cushi said, Tidings, my lord, the king For the Lord hath avenged thee this day of all them that rose up against thee. And the king said unto Cushi, Is a young man Absalom safe? And Cushi answered, The enemies of my Lord the King, and all that rise up against thee to do thee hurt, be as that young man is. And the king was much moved. And he went up to the chamber over the gate, and he wept. And as he went, thus he said, O my son Absalon, my son, my son Absalon, would God I had died for thee, O Absalon, my son, my son. Is Absalom safe? David repeats it before each man that comes with the message of what has taken place in the battle. We see in verse 19 that Ahimaz, he was the chaplain of the army, so to speak, for King David. He was also a priest, the son of Zadek. He wanted to run and bear the king the tidings. And Joab said, Thou shalt not bear the tidings, because the king's son is dead this day. I will not have you do that. And Joab sent a man named Cushy instead to tell the king what thou hast seen. Cushi, if you go back just a few verses, was probably one of the ten armor-bearers of key of Joab, when we read how Joab drove the darts into the chest of Absalom, and then it says his ten armor-bearers surrounded uh Absalom and they smote him and slew him. And Kushi is probably one of those ten armor bearers who really was there on the spot and dealt the final death blow, as it were. But Hima has he hasn't been there. He wasn't on the spot. He doesn't know all the particulars, but he does know that David's son is dead. And he knows that that will be a heart-rendering message for him to hear. And Hema has having the heart of a chaplain, having the heart of a man of God, feels he can break it to David probably in a in a fashion that won't be as as brutal and as crushing. And so he says, I want to go and and Joab says, No, I'm sending Cushy. And perhaps then David hears uh the sad and the heartbreaking news if he's gonna take it out on the messenger. You know, sometimes people say, Don't kill the messenger for the message. And sometimes that's what a king would do. If he didn't like the message, he would kill the messenger. And Joab did not want the priest, the chaplain. To be killed by David in a fit of heartbreak. So he sends Cushy And Amahas he asks again if he's gone, why can't I go? And he he keeps pursuing and he wants to go and he feels he can bring the message in a way that might land a little lighter on the heart of David And finally Joab says, go ahead and run. By now who she's going to get there ahead of time anyway, and by the time you get there, you won't take the heat of David's broken heart But in verse 23 we find the Ahimaaz he ran and he actually overran Cushi. He must have been known for being quite a runner, because from a distance the man above the gate looking out says, He runneth like Ahimaaz. He was fast. There are some messages that are not easy to digest. And sometimes the message, it depends on who the messenger is as to whether you'll digest it well or not. We think of David when he was coming down the mountains to kill Nabal the fool and everyone there in the household. And Abigail comes out and drops off to her knees and bows with a king and and asks for mercy and and uh We know she must have been an attractive lady because he ends up marrying her, but who else could have brought a message to a king like David? He was so agitated that the way he'd been rebuked by Nabal, he's going down, he's gonna kill 'em all, he says Everyone in the household of Nabal. You'd better send a messenger who can carry a message that will be well received. And Abigail was just the one to send. In the days of Mordecai when he were to kill off all the Jews, the king had already said that on such and such a day you may annihilate all the Jews. Mordecai wanted to get the message of the king, not to kill the Jews. And Mordecai, a Jew, was not the one that takes that message of the king. But what does he do? He reaches out to the wife of the king on beknowns to the king. His wife Esther was a Jew. So important sometimes. Not just the message, but who the messenger is. We find the same thing of Barnabas Here's the Apostle Paul. He's been saved in the road to Damascus, and he wants to go back to Jerusalem. He wants to reintroduce himself to Peter and John and James and say, I was wrong. I've repented. I'm I'm one of you. I love the Lord too. They wouldn't have believed him. In fact, it was hard for a long time to accept what had happened to the Apostle Paul, known as Saul And so Barnabas says in Acts 9, let me go and talk to the apostles first. Let me tell them what has happened to you. Let me bring the message, a message they don't want to hear. And I've I've often felt that way too sometimes. There's some out there so ungodly, uh like a Madeline Murray O'Hare, you know, or or Jane Fonda after two years in Vietnam where I eventually got saved, the one person I didn't want to get saved was Jane Fonda. That's not a message I wanted to hear To date, that is not a message I have heard. But it's hard sometimes to hear a tough message and it needs a special A special messenger. The Lord Jesus Christ was just that messenger. He talked a lot about hell. Who wants to receive a message? But the Lord Jesus Christ, he built it He knew what it was like. He knew how bad it was. He knew it wasn't just a separation from God. You know, I just cringe when a minister says, let me tell you what hell is like after death. You are separated from God forever And the atheist and the agnostic says, Amen. That's what I want anyway. But the Lord Christ, he said the hell is a place of a wailing and gnashing of teeth. It's a place of dry it's a lake of fire he drains the scribes where the with the smoke of the of the incense burn of the the the the the heat and the incense and the torment mounts up into heaven for all eternity. It's a horrible place. Who could bring a message like that? But the Lamb of God. Never a man spake like this man, John 7 and verse 46. So important when the message is hard, that the messenger has a soft heart. A messenger has to match the message. And so here come the messages, and David is between the gates in verse 24. The watchman went up the roof over the gate and he looks and behold there's a man running alone and and the watchman cries and told the king and the king said if he's running alone that's good because you know there's only two things that can happen when there's been a big battle Either you've won and you send back a messenger, we've won, we've won, or you've lost and you're in stampede and a retreat and you're coming back in bunches and groups, and that would not have been a good sign. If they seen fifty or sixty men running together. But when you see one, they knew that was a good sign. That was a that was good word was coming. Many running back at the same time would have been a sign of retreat and defeat. And the watchman saw another running also in verse 27. And the watchman said, Me thinketh that the running of the foremost, the one closest, is Ahimaz, the son of Zodok, the priest. And the king said, Oh, he's a good man. They sent the chaplain back. He's got to be coming with good tidings. Ah, maybe not. I remember through uh some of the wars I've lived through, Afghanistan, Iraq, Vietnam When mom and dad are home wondering how their son is doing, and they see a chaplain walking up the sidewalk That's not good news. Maybe David should have thought about it. Why is the runner that's coming, the chaplain, the priest? I remember a horrible story what the chaplain told. I met him personally, and he said, I was out making calls on homes and letting them know that their son had died in Afghanistan And he said, I couldn't find this one house. I couldn't find the address. So I got out of the car and I walked up and knocked on the door of this lady's house to see if she knew where this address was And she fainted 'cause her son was in Iraq and she saw the cross on my so on my uniform And he said, I I didn't know what why she fainted. I I wasn't at the right address. But he realized when he found out her son was over there and They change the policy after that. If a chaplain cannot find the address, he googles, he map quests, he calls back, he does not go and knock on somebody's door and ask them if they know where such and such address of street is But here comes the chaplain, and David thinks there must be good news. He might have thought a second time about that. He knew that Amahaz was a good man, and he cometh with good tidings. Well, I would ask you this morning, does your approach put others at ease? Sometimes when someone walks to the church, you get a big bright smile, you throw your arms around, you're so glad to see them. And sometimes you see someone at work the same thing and sometimes you're at work or you're at a family union and someone shows up and it's like, oh boy What's gonna happen here? This is not gonna be a normal family reunion. This is not gonna be a good office party. You know, look who showed up Uh beloved, if you're a Christian, your approach ought to put others at ease. I think wherever the Lord Jesus Christ went. Those who love him, those who love the Lord, those who love the scriptures were always put at ease. Even the children came to him, wanted to see him. I'm not saying it put the Pharisees at ease or the Sadducees, but But it put a lot of people at ease. See, it healed them. Showed them a love. And here comes Ahimahaz. And David is at ease. And Ahimahaz calls out to the king, All is well And he said, well how can he say that when the his son is dead? Well for him the hazard, we've won the victory. They were gonna kill you, they're gonna destroy your family, they're gonna They're going to burn you out, there's nothing left. They'd have killed all your children. They'd have killed little Solomon. They'd have killed your wives. He said, it's not going to happen all as well. Ahemahaz is so excited about the victory that the idea of Absalom that that reprobate, that that horrible guy who was a horrible son, uh didn't even phase him, didn't even think about it that this might be a a something that would hurt David. He was just there to say, all is well Blessed be the Lord thy God. That's what a chaplain or a priest would say. Blessed be the Lord thy God, which have delivered up the men that lifted up their hand against the Lord my King. And the first thing we find here is the priest gives God the glory for the victory. That's why I mentioned the Amish people this morning. Give God the glory. He turned the hearts of people that never vote by the thousands to vote. Give God the glory for the victory. And he says nothing of Absalom, just talks about give God the glory. If we're focused on God's glory, especially Christ The crucified Lord of glory. If we can focus on Christ, the Lord of glory, our afflictions will seem light and but for a moment. Himahaz has to know that David's about to find out about the death of his son, but if he can focus on giving God the glory for the victory. But David, he wasn't there. He wasn't there to do that Verse 29, the king says to Ahimahaz, is Abalon safe? I've just come and told you we've got a great victory. We've won. Your wife's safe. Solomon's safe. Your children's safe. The kingdom's safe. And he says, is Absalom safe? David shows no interest in the details of the fight. David shows no interest in how many men did we lose, how many died. How bad is it? Is Joab safe? No thankfulness for the victory or the words of praise for his soldiers, job well done by good and faithful servants. All he says to the Ahima has this is Absalom safe Boy, it's like throwing cold water on the message. Did you hear me? Give God the glory. We've got a victory. It's Absalomon Safe. What about Abishai? What about me? What about the others that are there? What is Absalom saying? Startling words for Ahimahaz to hear, no doubt. Is Absalom safe? Last week we saw 20,000 men died. Is Absalom safe? Do you think a man who's safe who's hanging out where others have fallen? 20,000 men have fallen and Absalon is hanging out among the 20,000 have fallen. Do you really think it's safe to hang out where others have fallen? I mean think about that. You look out on an icy parking lot and you see people falling left and right. Do you think that's a safe place to be? We had a we had a place in Vietnam that was called Ambush Road Everyone knew that's not a safe place to go down. And there's also a place called Windy Edge out there in in Washington State. That's not a place where you want to stand on the windy edge. People have been blowing off the windy edge. We want to avoid the slippery slope where people have fallen. Is Absalon's hate? He's where 20,000 others have fallen. And I would say to you people this morning that sometimes you you may think you're safe, but when you're hanging out in nightclubs and bars, you're hanging out in certain streets and alleys in Baltimore where others have fallen, been shot, knifed, and killed How can you think you are safe? You hang out in malls at night? You think you're safe hanging out in malls? How many here were with us when we were down at Kingsville Elementary School? We used to meet there. How many hands? Remember that? There was a blonde lady working in the office there Her sister was shopping in a mall late at night and she disappeared. They had her on video and the security guard was walking around the car and that was the last they ever saw of her. I went up one day, she was crying. She was in court. They'd caught the guy that they cut her head off. He was a security guard. The guy that walked her out to her car was the one that it's not safe to hang out where people have fallen. You gotta go to the malls, get there in the daytime, and get out when you can. Get out when the getting is good So to ask, is Absalom safe? Are you kidding? He's hanging out. David didn't know this. He was literally hanging from a tree. He was hanging out where others had fallen. And young people, it's not safe to hang out where others have fallen. You think you can go to these nightclubs and these bars where others have fallen into sin, fallen away from a good marriage, fallen away from where God would have them to be at. But you won't fall You won't fall in the icy parking lot or the slippery slope either, right? You think it's safe to hang out in the garden where there's a serpent? Do you think it's safe to hang out in Sodom and Gomorrah? You think it's safe to hang out with the Baal worshippers? You think it's safe to hang out with the blind Pharisees, the blind leading the blind, Matthew fifteen and twelve? It's not safe to hang out where others have fallen. Pilgrim, are you safe today? Depends on where you're hanging out, it's to how safe you are. In fact what what David's really saying here is, is Absalom safe? Because Absalom isn't saved. And the question really is, maybe did Absalom get saved? If if Absalom's dead, what were his dying words? You know what he he wants to know When I ask you if you're safe this morning, pilgrim, I'm not asking you if you attend church regularly I'm not asking you if you read your Bible. I'm not asking you living a moral life. I'm not asking what I want to know is the gospel of Christ grab your heart. Grab your soul. Are you if I say are you safe? I mean are you safe? Are you if you were to die right now in the next moment, would you be in a safe place in eternity? In heaven. Where would you be? Well, I'm not gonna die in the next hour. Really? You better read the bituary. You know what? Young people need to start reading the bituary column. To see how many young people Do you know that the the average age of the people in the inner city of Boldover, they die of a the average person dies of a shotgun wound by the time they're twenty-five? Well, I don't live in Baltimore. But you drive through it. Maybe you work there. Are you safe? Are you saved? I'll give you a little quick checklist of whether you're saved or not. Do you still love the company? You still love the company of the secular society? Do you still love that company of the secular society? You think you're safe? you know, rubbing elbows with the world and going out on the weekends with the world. Do you really think it's it's like taking a coal and tossing it in a barbecue pit, or it's like taking an apple and tossing it in a barrel of rotten apples You're gonna become just like where you landed. You're not safe where that coal falls, it will begin to burn. When that apple falls, it will begin to rot. It'll become just like its environment. If you feel comfortable in the secular society, don't even s To question that you're safe or you're saved, you'll fall You'll fall. You're obviously not saved if you love the secular society out there today I want you to see how cautious Ahimahaz was. The question came to him, is Absalom safe? Ah said, When Joab sent me. I saw a great Tonement, but I knew not what it was. Ahimehaz, he knew Absalom was dead. We find that back in verse 21. But he didn't know all the particulars. He certainly didn't know anything about Absalom's final words or final moments. He didn't know if a you know if he had been there, maybe he could say to David that his son Absalom had repented, uh maybe he could say he made a profession of faith. Maybe he called on God his Redeemer and God his Savior. But Ahimehaz wasn't there. He didn't have all the particulars. He knew that he was dead. He knew there was a great atonement. He knew that Cushi was coming. He knew the Cushy was probably one of the ten armor bearers. He would know. Let him at least I've told him it was it was a bad scene, but we got the victory. And let this other guy, if he wants to add this particulars But there's no way to give those particulars without hurting King David. And so in verse 30, King David didn't have the answer. He didn't have the information he wanted. He told him to stand aside. In verse 31 Cushy came and he said, Tidings, my lord the king, the Lord hath avenged thee this day of all them that rose up against thee. And the king said unto Cushi What, how's Absalom? How many people do we lose? How bad is it? No, he says on the curshi, is Absalom safe? Wow. Again, there's no rejoicing in the safety of his kingdom, the safety of his family, the safety of himself. His only concern is, is Absalom safe? For he suspected he was not saved. So I want him to be safe. I might have one more opportunity. If he's been taken prisoner, you know, if he's in cuffs, if they're marching him down here right now with his hands tied behind his back We'll put him in prison. It's another chance to reach him and teach him and talk to him and get him saved. But he must be saved in order for me to have one more opportunity to give him the gospel. Pilgrim, would your loved ones say today that you are safe and secure if you were in the hereafter? By the end of this day. If he died today, would they say he's safe? I didn't say the funeral homes all the time. Well, he's in a better place now. How do you know? If he's not saved. In fact, you know he's not in a better place if he's not saved. I mean if you believe in purgatory, and I don't, and the Bible doesn't teach it, but if you believe in purgatory, he's not in a better place. According to Catholic theology, purgatory is far worse than this place. There is no purgatory, the Bible, even the Catholic Bible says there's not, but there is a hell. And that's not a better place to be. And if you're not saved, if you're not safe in the arms of Christ when you die, woe is you Ask yourself of your loved ones: Is the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ ever on your loved ones' mind? Is it ever on their mind? Is it ever on their tongue? Is it in their heart? What would the answer be if you asked that of your children or your brothers or your sisters or your mother or your father? Is the Lord Jesus Christ on their mind, on their tongue, in their heart? And if they've already died, what were the details of the laugh last moments? Did the details of the death of a loved one in their last moments leave you with any hope that they were saved? In baseball, when a guy Just sliding into base, and you'll see those frozen frame pictures, you know, and it's so close you look at it, and you gotta look at two or three times or five or six different angles, and you say, oh man, he was almost safe And you know what they say? You know what that you know what you know what almost safe means? You're out. You're out! You lost! But I mean it was almost safe, he was so close Lot's wife was almost out. She was almost safe. Not quite, but boy she was she was close, wasn't she? I mean she was she was just at the edge of the city limit. She just had another step or two to go. I mean she was so close King Agrippa, he said to Paul, oh most thou persuadest me. How close King Agrippa was to salvation Almost thou persuadest me to be a Christian. Almost means you're lost It's a big loss. It's not if you're almost saved, then you're almost lost. No, it's not that way. You're either safe or you're out. You're either safe or you're lost. Twin Towers, Manhattan. Hundred and what seventy stories high? And the people, firemen and people are rushing down the stairs. And they're getting people out. And we now know from the the telephone calls and the radio transmissions that some of them are coming down and they're on the fiftieth floor, thirtieth floor, twentieth floor, twelfth floor, and the building collapses. You wanna know something? They were almost out of the building. Almost! They'd made it down over a hundred floors. They were almost out of the building. And you know what that meant? They were lost. Almost, are you almost saved? And you're lost. Now Kushi, he answers, King David, the enemies of my Lord the King, and all that rise up against thee to do thee hurt, be as that young man is. Well Cruci here, he he doesn't describe Absalom hanging by his hair, tangled in a tree, a dart in the heart, pitched into the pit, the stacking on the stones. He doesn't go into all those details. But he certainly doesn't share either that there was a repentant heart, a broken spirit. That would have been good to hear. Those details are absent from Scripture because as far as we know, Absalom did not repent. Absalom had heard some good preaching. He'd been around the man after God's own heart, the sweet psalmist of Israel I mean, you what more could you ask for? I mean you're almost it would be like hearing the Lord Jesus Christ preach for three years, Judas Iscariot. Wow, what more could you ask for? I mean, Judas was scared. He must have been almost there. He attended more services of Jesus than anybody you'll ever meet. He heard better sermons than you'll ever meet here. He even had the power to heal and raise the dead. I mean Judas was scared. He was so close. To Jesus. He even leaned on his side at the Last Supper, shared a piece of bread with him. The last meal that Christ ate here on earth. Wow, before his crucifixion. That's close. But we're not playing horseshoes with our souls. Close doesn't count. So the king in verse thirty three says he was much moved Some of you here have lost someone you love very much. Much moved. Couldn't add enough adjectives to this. Much moved. He went up to the chamber over the gates. He didn't go back inside the city. He just he was looking for a place of solitude. He needed a place where he could quickly go in, close the doors and break down. And it says he was much moved and he went up to the chamber over the gate and he wept as he went. He's not inside the solitude. He's not inside the confined walls. The doors aren't closed yet. And the people here they're king. Not rejoicing over the victory, not giving God the glory. They hear him weeping. He is much moved and he is weeping, and they hear him say Oh my son Absalom, my son, my son Absalon. His agony is so intense. It's the kind of intense agony you would hear from someone who's almost totally convinced they will never see their son again. That's the kind of intensity this year. That's the kind of hurt this year. That's the kind of broken heart this year. He says, my son, five times he says in this verse And Absalom is mentioned three times. He weeps because you'll never see his son again. Young people, if you're not saved, and one of you dies tonight or tomorrow or next month, do you know what it will do to your parents' hearts Do you know how they'll weep? They will sorrow as those that have no hope of ever seeing you again. Much weeping here. David was ready to die for him, but he apparently doubts that Absalom was ready to die. David said, I'd rather die than him I'm ready to go, David. So I can die. I know where I'm going. He's not ready to die. I'll die for him instead. Would he say in verse 33, Would God I had died for thee, O Absalon, my son, my son, I would have died for thee. There's so much pain in this pain I hope nobody here ever, ever feels David's pain is intense because, first of all, he knows that having killed Uriah, murdering Uriah, so he might steal his wife Bathsheba, he knows that that sin is responsible for some of what's going on in his family He has this guilt that he has he has brought this upon his own family. Nathan the prophet was son of a god and said to David, Because you've killed Uriah, you had him murdered. And because you took his wife as your own wife, because of all this the sword shall never depart from mine own house. 2 Samuel 12 So here's the prophecy. Because of what you've done, David, your sin, though you've repented of your sin, there are going to be some consequences because you are the king, the sweet psalmist of Israel. You're going to pay more for your sins than somebody else Even though you've repented, the sword will not depart from your house, and shortly thereafter the his infant dies In 2 Samuel 12. And after that his son Ammon is murdered in 2 Trump 13. And now we've got Absan dead in 2 Samuel 18. The prophecy is true, and it's not over with yet. More will die in David's household. David's grief was bitter because it was the fruit of his own sin. When we think about sinning, if only we could see the consequences that follow I suspect there's much that every one of us here, self included, would never have done. Because we now sit with our consequences. sometimes. And we wished we'd seen the consequences in advance. And we just know if we had, and probably if we had, we wouldn't have done some of the things that we've done in our life. So let me give you the consequence of your sin that I know is there for you. A lake of fire. A wailing and gnashing of teeth. Place the blackness of darkness forever. Torment that rises up for all eternity. And don't believe the separation of God thing because I'll tell you what, God's in hell. His wrath is there for all eternity. Think about that. is a consequence of sin. David is driven by his guilt as he sees those dying in his own household because of him. He also sees the bitter fruit of his own uh indulging of his unruly children. It's called in scriptures, in Colossians 3. 5, inordinate affection. We can so indulge our children. That it may have an effect on their souls for all eternity. Spare the rod and spoil the child. That's a scripture verse. David had done that, and Absalom was so spoiled. Look at the children of Aaron who were burned up by fire for bringing in strange fire before the altar. Aaron had indulged them Eli's two sons were lying with the women at the door to the tabernacle, ungodly men. Eli should have removed them, fired them, replaced them. But the high priest Eli did not do that. And Samuel, his sons were taking bribes. They were crooked judges. They should have been removed. We find it all through scripture, parents indulging their children, inordinate affection We overlove them and when we overlove someone, we will over-grieve them. I know we're to love our children. I know we're to love our spouses. But do we love them more than the Lord God? Do we let them dictate to us, let's not go to church this Sunday and said let's do this, let's not have uh Bible study or scripture reading, let's not have prayer at the dinner. table or or go to go to sleep at night or where let's just put that aside because we gotta get to the ballgame or we gotta get here or there or whatever. Do you let our children dictate out to to just remove Christ in the Bible And worship from your life because there's something special going on in ordinary affection towards our children. Set your affections on things above. Colossians 3 and 5, not on the things on earth. Set your things on the affections on the things above. The Lord Jesus Christ sitting on his put your affections on the Lord Jesus Christ. And no matter what happens down here, it's nothing. Talking to uh girl Greta, some of you know Greta, this week and she said when her whole business burned to the ground and the house was on was catching on fire basically and the car was burning up She said, Mom, the kids came running around. She's got I think she's got seven or eight kids. Mom, how can you be smiling? The whole business is destroyed and the windows in the house are melting and the car's melting and the all the fiberglass. How can you be smiling? And she said Because you're all okay. And we still got the Lord. Set your affections on things above And the things down here. You've seen it, hurricanes, houses or or tornadoes are destroyed or hurricanes, and the people outside and they're picking up a photograph or or s a broken chair and and they're they're they're laughing and they're saying, Well, nobody was hurt. God bless my family, they say. God bless my family. Nobody was hurt. Their effects are on things above. We'll avoid many heartaches if we set our affections on things above and on things on earth. And if we see God's hand in the loss of things, we'll receive it a whole lot better as well. But if we can see God's hand in it, it'll it'll it'll set with us better. Job saw that. He says the Lord gave, the Lord had taken away Blessed be the name of the Lord. He's lost all ten children. And he says the Lord has given and the Lord take it away. Talk about a man who has his affection set on things above. He's lost ten children. He said the Lord gives, the Lord take it away He well that's Job. I mean Job could do that. He's a great man of God. I've stood in funeral homes where father stood up with a twenty-five-year-old dead son laying in the coffin and after I got through preaching the message He came up and he said, Can I say something to these people? Broken, you couldn't find a man more broken hearted than losing a twenty-five good-looking son with a future and a fiance going to get married. All that going together. And he says, The Lord gave and the Lord take it away. Blessed be the name of the Lord. You could have heard a pin drop. We can still do that today. Not just Job. Job started, but we can we can we can do that if our affections are set on things above. But David wasn't there yet. He just wanted Absalom safe. He just wasn't there yet. He says, Would to God that I had died for thee. David, the father, the king of Israel, he's willing to die in Absalom's place as a substitute. This king would substitute his life for another. Ah pilgrim, there is a king. Christ the King. The King of Glory. He was the one to die. And you're place. A substitute for you if you're a repentant sinner. David would have died for his son. Oh, to have someone who would die for me in my place. You do pilgrim if you're a repentant sinner, Christ died for you. Does that describe you? A repentant sinner. If that describes you, you are saved. You are safe. And if it doesn't describe you, oh my sinner. Son, my son, my son, Absalom Let's pray. Oh Lord, this world is full of heartbreaks, anguish, some that will never go away until the day our hearts stop beating. And then in eternity, Lord, how could we ever be happy? How can we still not have sorrow if our sons and our daughters, our brothers and our sisters are not saved, not safe? And you have that answer too. We're told that our Lamb of God, our bride, or we're the bride, but our bridegroom will wipe away all tears. Oh Lord, I look forward to the day when you'll wipe away all our tears. Praise the God that can wipe away all the tears. And all God's people said, Amen.