Turn with me to First Samuel chapter ten. Refresh your memory just a bit. Last week in chapter 9, Samuel had informed Saul that he was going to be the captain of the host of Israel. that he was going to reign over Israel, that he was going to be the very first king of Israel. And this morning in chapter 10 we find that Samuel anoints him as the captain of Israel or as the the King of Israel. And so that's what we're picking up this morning. Chapter ten of First Samuel. Then Samuel took a vial, kind of like a little test tube, a vial of oil, and poured it upon the head. and kissed him that has kissed Saul, and said, Is it not because the Lord hath anointed thee to be captain over his inheritance? And so he is symbolizing by anointing him with oil what the Lord is going to do to him. When thou art departed from me today, then thou shalt find two men by Rachel's sepulchre in the border of Benjamin at Zelzah. And they will say unto thee, The asses which thou wentest to seek are found. And lo they father hath left the care of the asses and sorrows for you, saying, What shall I do for my son? So the asses were back home, but Saul wasn't, and the father Kish thought maybe something had happened to his son, and he was sorrowing. Then shall thou go on forward from thence, and thou shalt come to the plain of Tabor, and there shall meet thee three men going up to God to Bethel, one carrying three kids or three lambs. That would have been a difficult, cumbersome thing to do, three little lambs under your arms. And another carrying three loaves of bread, and another carrying a bottle of wine. And they will salute thee. That is a welcome thee, or give you a shalom, and give thee two loaves of the three breads, which thou shalt receive of their hands. And after that thou shalt come to the hill of God, where is the garrison of the Philistines? And it shall come to pass when thou art come thither to the city, that thou shalt meet a company of prophets coming down from the high place with a psaltery, alright, and that's uh something like a a violin, alright? And a tabray or a taboine and a pipe with holes in it. We call it a flute today and a harp. So they have these four instruments that this company of prophets are carrying with them and playing. And they shall prophesy, and the Spirit of the Lord will come upon thee That is upon Saul. And thou shalt prophesy with them, and shall be turned into another man. And let it be when these signs are come unto thee, that thou shalt do as occasions serve thee, for God is with thee. And thou shalt go down before me to Gilgal, and behold, I will come down unto thee to offer burnt offerings, and to sacrifice sacrifices of peace offerings. Seven days shall thou tarry till I come to thee and show thee what thou shalt do. And it was so That when he had turned his back to go from Samuel, God gave him, that is Saul, another heart. And all those signs came to pass that day. And when they came thither to the hill, behold a company of prophets met him, and the spirit of God came upon him, and he prophesied among them And when it came to pass when all that knew him, that's the lots of people knew this fellow Saul before time, they saw it, behold, he prophesied among the prophets, and the people said one to another, What is this? That has come upon the son of Kish. Is Saul also among the prophets? And one of the same place answered and said, But who is their father? Therefore it became a proverb. Is Saul also among the prophets? And when he made an end of prophesying, he came to the high place Samuel took the vial of oil and he poured it out upon the head of Saul, and this signified that God would soon pour out the gifts of God's Spirit upon him. and fit him for the office of king and commander of the host of Israel. This pouring out of an oil upon the head, uh requesting or asking or the blessing of God to pour out uh some special uh unction upon an individual was also done among the Levite priests. We read about that in Exodus 29 and 7 when Moses would anoint Aaron. And Aaron would anoint his sons with oil as well. It was a sacred anointing. and appointed to the anointed one someday. Christos or the Christ. That's Greek, but it means in the Greek, it means the anointed one. We're talking about Jesus Christ. We're talking about Jesus the anointed one And so this anointing of Levite priest, Christ is our high priest. This anointing of King Saul, Christ is our king, our King of Kings, the King of Israel. And so this is all pointing to Christ here. In fact that as we go on we'll see even more of Christ in this in what is going on here. For Christ would be the eternal king and will have the anointing, of course, far above just a vial of oil that is here poured upon Saul, far above the horn of oil, even more oil was poured upon King David or 1 Samuel 16:3 Christ would have a whole alabaster box of oil poured upon him in Matthew fourteen three. In fact he'd have a Holy Ghost and power poured upon him. Acts ten and thirty-nine. Without measure would Christ be anointed with power in the Holy Spirit, Psalm or John three and verse thirty-four. So we see this anointing is all foreshadowing the anointed one that would come with a far greater anointing than anything that was ever done uh prior to that. Now Saul's anointing by Samuel is a testimony that Samuel reverenced the king. He would hold the title of king and he would he would honor that title that God had bestowed upon him. And he would be in subjection to Saul. In fact he does that as we see here. Samuel not only anoints him, but Samuel kisses him. And we know uh in the those countries uh we even see the French children, they kiss on one cheek and then on the other cheek, or brush cheeks It's a form of kissing or a form of greeting. Greet the brethren with a holy kiss, and that's what it was uh it was established all the way back in the Old Testament And so here is is Saul. He's not only anointed by Samuel, but Samuel shows that his heart is in it. Even though Samuel's being replaced as the judge of Israel. He's being replaced by the king, even though the people no longer want somebody who's leading him by the Word of God, leading him by the Spirit of God, and is setting Samuel aside. Samuel, as we said last week, he would say Speak, Lord, for thy servant heareth. And he does whatever God wants him to. And so Samuel, completely in subjection to this, anoints his replacement. Kisses his replacement, as it were. And this display of the kiss and the affection of a king, kiss the son lest ye perish from the way when his anger is kindled but a little. We are to kiss the Son of God, the King of Kings, kiss him with our heart. He's not here, so we can physically kiss him at this time, but we kiss him with our lips. We kiss him with our hearts. We kiss the Lord Jesus Christ. with our spirit. And he's the King of Kings, the King of Israel. And so Samuel does this here, thinking that someday the King of Israel, the true King, the King of Kings will come and Samuel will We'll kiss that Lord, the Lord Jesus Christ as well. What if Samuel's heart wasn't in this? But it was Samuel's a man of God. He did what God asked. But what if Samuel's heart wasn't in this? What if Samuel had another plan? What if Samuel had some of the other prophets coming down? He said, Look When you see me kiss this guy, seize him, arrest him, imprison him, torture him. Wouldn't that have been terrible? What a horrendous, horrible plan. But isn't that the plan that Jews performed on the king of Israel? I don't know sometimes we really recognize the historical, horrible way that the King of the Jews, Christ, was betrayed with a kiss Samuel could have done that here. And it would have been abhorrent. We would have thought it was a terrible, terrible thing that Samuel had done. How much worse is it that Judas does it? To the Lord Jesus Christ. The King of Kings, according to Revelation 17 and 14. Here Samuel's kiss was genuine. And his directions for Saul that's following verses two through seven were prophetic directions. We find in verses two and four, When thou depart thou shalt find two men by racial seplica Saying the asses are found, thou shalt meet three men later on, one carrying three kids, three lambs under their arms, another man carrying three loaves of bread, and another carrying a bottle of wine, and they will give you two loaves of the three. We don't read a whole lot about the first two prophecies, uh, at Rachel Sepakha and then meeting the men with the lambs and the bread. But I want you to think about this. Back in chapter 9, Samuel had already told Saul, the asses are fouled. You're free after the anointing and after sacrifice to go back to your father and see and tell and do whatever the Lord will do with you. But the asses are found. And so as he's leaving, Samuel says to Saul, by the way, when you come to Rachel Sepulchre, You're going to find two men standing there at the cemetery? And they're going to tell you, the asses are found. Go back to your father. You see, for all that's going on here Saul is not really convinced he's the king of Israel. He's not really convinced that his father's ass has been found. He appreciates the meal and the sacrifice and the communion and the kiss from the prophet Samuel But he's still not sold. He says, bye, Samuel. He should be heading back north up to his father. But he's heading south. He's still looking for the asses. He heads down south and he comes to Rachel Septica. And I wonder when Samuel said, Look, when you come to Rachel Sepaka, How does you know I'm still looking for the asses? How does you know I'm not hitting back to my father yet? When you come to the racial sepulchre down in Zilzah, when you come there to be two guys standing there And they're going to tell you, as I already have, that the asses are found, your father's sorrow. He's worried about you. Now go back up north. How does he know these things? Because God has revealed them to Samuel How does God know these things? Because God can read the heart of Saul, which means he probably can read your heart too. He knows what you're thinking right now, such as, oh my goodness, so much time I got left before I got to get out of here. Oh well, I got something planned this afternoon. You know, guys, it reads your heart right now. I don't want to be here. Well that's my heart, I'm sorry. Yes, you know, he reads Saul's heart. He knows he doesn't read trust and believe everything that Samuel is saying. He's going to keep on looking for the assets. And he goes down south. And it's interesting he stops in the area by Rachel's Septica. He maybe didn't think it was, you know what, he probably wall I'm down and I'm gonna stop off at Rachel's Septical. Now why is that significant? Because when Rachel died giving birth to Benjamin. And Saul is a Benjamite. This is his great-great-great-great-grandmother. He'll stop off the cemetery. You know, it'd be like you checking in. You're looking for your dogs are lost. You can't find your dogs. And someone says, Hey, just got a call. Your dogs have been found. They're okay. Uh, I'm not sure. There's probably a dog that looks like my dog, but I don't know. I'm going down, I'm gonna keep looking And I might just stop off and see my great-great-grandmother's cemetery. And so you walk into Moravia Cemetery down here in Baltimore, and you walk up to the stone with your great-great-grandmother's, and there's two total strangers. You don't know them from Adam And they look at you and they say, Oh hi Saul. Uh your dogs your dogs have been found. How do you know me? How do you know my dogs? How do you know this not we don't have cell phones there, we don't have telegraph, we don't have telephones. How do they know this? How did Samuel know I was going down to Rachel Cemetery? To her separate. How did Samuel know there'd be two guys there? Two guys that I don't know. How do these two guys find out about? I mean, how does all this happen? Because God is sovereign. God knows everything. God sees it. You know, he looked he doesn't have to look in the future to see what's gonna happen. He already knows the future. He's planned the future He has destinated everything that goes on in the life of Saul, including Saul's not going to play Samuel. Saul is going to head down to the tombstone, down to the sepulchre, and Saul's going to run these two guys who know It's just, it's gonna boggle his mind. Samuel, he was right. Well, okay, I'm gonna head back up north and back home with my father then And he runs into, as we're going to find out, three guys. Three guys carrying uh one guy's carrying three kids, three little lambs under his arms. They are small, they're but like a full-grown cat or something and and uh and one g one guy's carrying three loaves of bread and another guy's carrying a pitcher of wine. He says, Well I bet that won't happen. So he's he's walking up there and all of a sudden he runs these three guys And you're carrying three lambs, and the other guy's got three loaves of bread, and the other got a bottle of wine. Whoa. Well, I'll just walk on by them. Oh, and one guy stops me. What's that? You want me to have two of your loaves of bread? How does Samuel know this stuff? How did God know I'm gonna walk across these guys and they're and they're gonna it's it'll be like you going down the grocery store because you're as you're on the parking lot, some guy comes walking out carrying three puppies under his arm. Now you may have seen that before Another guy walks out with three loaves of bread, another guy walks out with a bottle of wine. Now some of them might say, hey, you'll kind of that could happen to me. And so you're walking by these guys and one guy stops, say you're having next loaf of bread. I bought one too many. Or sit back, take two of them. I only need one How does Samuel know this? How does God know this? I want you to know that God has got our destiny planned out way in advance. He's laid everything out before us. Nothing we can do can change it. And for those who are saved, all things are for our good for those that love the Lord, right? Well we don't read a lot about these first two prophecies, except that they're going to happen. The third encounter in Saul's joy in Saul's journey is far more amazing. And so although it talks about the sepulchre of Rachel, and though it talks about the bottle of wine and the bread and the and the three lambs and the You know, it we don't we don't it doesn't go into disclosure and and show you how that happens. But the third thing that is prophesied here in Saul's journey, it's so amazing that we have that in detail here In verses five and six, and thou shalt meet this is the third thing Samuel tells Saul, you shall meet a company of prophets with a with a psalter, it's a violin. uh a a tab tab or a a taboine, a pipe, a flute, and a harp, and they shall prophesy. And the Spirit of the Lord will come upon thee, and thou shalt prophesy with them, and be turned into another man Wow! Saul's gonna prophesy? That is really bizarre. Saul's not interested in religion Saul doesn't read the Psalms of the Bible, and this is really bizarre. And so the Hebrew usage, by the way, the word prophecy, it can mean a lot of different things The context will tell you what it means by how you find it in the sentence. Like the word spring. If I say the word spring, you don't know what I mean a bubbly water. You don't have to mean a kangaroo springing across the ground. You don't have to mean springs that are attached underneath by by your your shocks and your springs of your car. You don't know. You've got to look at the context and see how it's used. And so the word prophecy, it can mean something that tells future events. Alright Now in a sense everyone here, if you tell someone the Lord Jesus Christ is coming back someday, he's going to judge the earth, you are prophesying. You are telling a future event to somebody, aren't you? So that's prophecy, foretelling a future event to somebody. And then also a prophecy can mean preaching, prophecy can mean praying, or prophecy can mean one who sings psalms and praises the Lord. The context always tells you, alright? And in all probability, these prophets who had a psaltery, a tambourine, a flute or a pipe and a harp with them, they were probably prophesying in song. They were praising the Lord. They were singing They weren't talking about future events, they were just singing psalms, and that's how it's used in scripture also. We read in um uh first Kings ten and twelve Harps, Psalteries were for singers So they were singing, no doubt. And also it says the sons of Asap prophesied, they were the singers, the sons of Asaph prophesied with harps and psalteries and cymbals, first Chronicle twenty five one So the form of prophecy here was probably singing of the Psalms, rejoicing in praising God as they came down off the mountain. The music was used by the prophets and the priests for praising the Lord Have you ever been told? It doesn't matter what kind of music you listen to, it doesn't matter what kind of music you use in your worship service, music is neutral. Ever been told that? Yeah, well, you just pick up the flavor, the type you want. You know? Music is neutral. But you know, when you look at scripture, music's not so neutral. In fact, when you look at the world, music's not neutral. I'm not going to ask for a raise of hands, but there are people here that do not like to ride in elevators. Claustrophobic, they don't like to ride in elevators. And so you know what the people who have the elevators built do? They install in there music music It is soothing and comforting and relaxing. See they know music's not neutral. They install a music that will take that claustrophobic person that doesn't like being inside the elevator, especially when it stops and it won't start back up and you're stuck there for five or ten minutes. They've got this music piped in. They know that music's not neutral, that music can be a very comforting thing uh for an individual. They know that. And and then they also have uh uh people when they're dealing with music Well when you go in the food stores, they have music. The food stores know what makes you cause you to want to purchase. And they set the music up in the different departments and it's written in in in such a way played uh to do that. When you go into a funeral home, same thing. What kind of music do you hear? I mean have you ever gone to a music home, you've lost your mother or your son or your daughter's lying there dead in the casket and you walk up and they're playing Led Zeppelin and Pink Floyd and I no, they're not. That that shows you how old I am. I don't know what the what the names of groups are today. They're not doing Madonna, right? I mean they're not doing Britney Spears. I mean you you've lost a loved one. And so they know that music has a great deal of effect on people And so if if if you're in a funeral home or a hospital, how about you take your girlfriend out or your fiance or your bride, you know, out to an Italian restaurant and they're playing uh When the Sai Stars hit the moon like a big piece of pie. Romantic sets the mood, right? Music not neutral And the world knows it's not neutral. So why do you believe when the world tells you it doesn't matter what kind of music you have in the church? Music's neutral, it doesn't matter what you use in the church. You know, it it it it really doesn't matter If you if it matters about the grocery store and the elevator and if it matters about the restaurant, why wouldn't it matter in the sanctuary of God? It should, shouldn't it? Shouldn't the music be there to glorify God? And the scriptures tell us what we should look for. Primarily, the music in the sanctuary ought to be Audible. And that is, you ought to be able to understand the words. The music, the instruments shouldn't be so loud that you can't understand the words that are being sung. Alright? That's the primary thing. The primary thing in glorifying God is to praise God with words of understanding. And in fact, Paul says in Corinthians were to sing with understanding. So the music shouldn't be so loud and so chaotic and so so uh uh just you know screechy and so forth that you can't comprehend what the words are that are being sung. And that's that's that's that's really primary. And then it not only that, but so the words be audible and recognizable, they ought to declare scriptural truths. I mean if you're gonna praise God in the sanctuary, the words in the music ought to ought to declare scriptural truth. It shouldn't just sound like some I I've seen some of these uh gospel singers and they're singing a song and they're just about foaming over the microphone of the love of the one that they love who's more lovely than the other. And never mention Christ's name at all. It sounds like they're singing to their boyfriend or something. It ought to be scriptural truth. It's very, very recognizable. Ought to be scripture in the words Audible scriptural truths, and it should be, Isaiah 51, 3 says, it should be a voice of melody. Alright? Now, melody means that it should be a pleasant, sweet sound. That's a melody, is a pleasant, sweet sound. That's what Isaiah 51. 3 is. So if you and I think when these men came down off the mountain and they're playing the harps and they're playing the tambourines, it was a there was a melody. It was a sweet sound. Now that doesn't sound like Black Sabbath or Led Zeppelin or Pink Floyd or these hard metal Christian rock groups, you know. Does that is that a sweet sound? That's what melody is. It should be a voice of melody, of of sweet sound. And then it says in Psalm sixty six two, uh it should it should that we should praise God gloriously. That is the music ought to be there ought to be a s Splendor to it. If it's going to be glorious music, it ought to have a splendor to it, it ought to have pomp, grandeur, and all about it. He says, reverence my sanctuary, Ludicus 19, 10. So what kind of music goes in a sanctuary? Music that has splendor and pomp and grandeur and awe and it's audible and scriptural truths and recognizable verses. Now does that sound to you like rap, bop, and rock in today's uh music? Is that what they sound like? So these musicians came down off the mountain. They were prophets, and they were playing music on their harps. And Saul is overcome by the Spirit of God. By this melody, by these scriptural words. Music that you would play in a sanctuary. And by the way, do you want to guide the music you play in the church sanctuary by Isaiah and by the Psalms and by the You want you should we guide the kind of music we have in the sanctuary during a worship service by what the Word of God says, or should we just let the world and the culture put in whatever is their fancy at the moment, right? Whatever they fancy to be the right kind of music, let them just put that in the sanctuary. So here we have this music coming down off the mountain. It's sweet, it's a melody, it's it's uh it's truth, it is psalms, and it's words you can understand And we said say to ourselves, okay, but did the prophecy really come Did all the prophecies recome to truth? Well, we talked about the first couple. But rather than just taking my word for it, look at verses seven through nine. Because in verses seven through nine, It says of these prophecies, and let it be when these signs are come unto thee that thou shalt do as occasions for thee, for God is with thee, and thou shalt go down before the Gilgal, and behold, I will come down with thee the burnt offerings And uh then on verse nine, and it was so that when he had turned his back to go from Samuel, God gave him another heart, and all those signs came to pass So yes he did run into the uh the two men at the septic with Rachel. Yes, he did run into men with the the three lambs under the arm and and the the the wine and the and the three loaves of bread And yes, as he predicted, Samuel's going to be overcome by the Spirit. And he's going to begin to sing these sweet melodies and these psalms with the prophets. And it's just, that is the most amazing of the signs. I mean what if what if these prophets came down and he said, Oh my, here comes these prophets and they are singing, ah, I don't see a harp anywhere, no tambourine, Samuel missed it No, there was a harp, there was a tambourine, there was a flute, everything Samuel said, and as he sees it, he begins to join in and sing the Psalms with them, and he's exuberant, he's excited What on earth has happened here? When God declares an event in such minute detail, you're just gonna have to believe that God's really in control, aren't you? That God's really sovereign I mean when we can see here in Samuel, or rather in Saul's life, how detailed all these prophecies were, and they were filled in up to three loaves of bread, getting them to Uh up to the fact that they're singing songs, they've got a flute, they got a champ, and we see all these minute details. You realize that God has destinated all of this for Saul. And it says that the that if we love the Lord all things were for the good of our of us as well. So the God is destined all things but or here's that nasty word that some don't like, or predestinated what's about to happen to Saul. And predestinated what's going to happen to you. I mean when we see all this And we realize that God is in control of every minute detail of Saul's life and your life, then why do we still worry? Do we not believe that all things work together for good to them that love God? Romans 8. 28 Maybe it's when we don't love God that we worry, or maybe it's when we don't love God enough that we worry. But if we love God, we really love God, there's no sense in worrying. God's working it all out so that Saul will be king. God's working it all out so that someday if you love the Lord you'll be in heaven. Regardless of what's going on in your life right now God says he has designated and predestinated all events for our good, so let's stop the needless worrying I'm not saying we're not going to worry sometimes about whether our kids get saved or not. We're not going to worry sometimes when it's three o'clock in the morning and our daughter's not home and whether there's been a car accident. I'm not saying there's not sometimes when we're going to worry. That shows that we have concern and love for one another But there is a lot of needless worry out there. Such as what's going to happen next from the White House. Who cares? Do you know a hundred years now that won't really matter? In fact, the Lord comes back this week, it won't really matter at the end of this week, will it? It's needless worry what's going on in this country or in any other country. You know what's nice about knowing that God is in sovereign control of our destiny? Because he says in John 18, 9, Christ says that, of them which thou gavest me, Father, I have lost Ton. Isn't that great? If God saves you you can't lose your salvation. If God saves you you are gonna go to heaven Doesn't mean you're going to be flawless and perfect and not still sin once in a while, but it means that as we sin and repent and ask for forgiveness, he'll always forgive us and we'll still go to heaven If it if them which thou gavest me I have lost none. That should be a comfort to know that Christ has determined to save you and he will save you and you cannot lose your salvation. Now, here we observe that this third thing really does happen. The third and the final prophecy that Samuel gave Saul. God gave Saul another heart. Alright, let's stop and think about that for a second. God gave Saul another heart. What did Saul get? Another heart. Who gave it to him? God. So what so what can we do as sinners to become saints? Can we just change our own hearts? No. Are we in control of our own destiny? No. God's got to give Saul another heart. God's got to give us another heart. We can't just say, you know what, I can really get into religious stuff someday. I can see, you know, finally praying and maybe going to church more regularly. I can I can see that not right now, I've got a lot of stuff going on, you know. But when I get older, maybe thirty five, forty-five, the kids are I can see getting in that religious thing someday. No you can't. No you won't. Because unless God gives you another heart, you'll never get into it. And so here he gives Saul another heart in verse 9. We cannot change ourselves from sinners to saints. No. Salvation is of the Lord. Jonah says that in chapter 2 and verse 9. Salvation is of the Lord. And the Spirit of God is as you came upon Saul. And Saul prophesied, that is all of the Lord. And the people said. And maybe some of you remember this when you got saved. Maybe you didn't say it right in front of you, but it came back to him from somebody else. You got saved. Your whole life changed. You stopped drinking, you stopped carousing, you stopped cussing, you stopped swearing. He started going to church every Sunday and people around you are saying, What is this? Right? I mean you shook him up, didn't you? I mean if you're really saved, you really change, and you really stay changed. And people start saying, What is this? Don't invite him to the family affairs anymore. We don't want the preacher here. Some of you have been there and you've been through that And so these people they see Saul and he's prophesying, he's singing the Psalms, the Spirit of God's upon them, and the people say, What is this? Is Saul among the prophets? Has he become a preacher too Stahl had never been instructed in the Levitical ways of life. He was not inclined towards the religious Levitical ways of life. And now he's singing psalms. He shouldn't even know the words But he's singing them like he does. And he shouldn't know the melody and he shouldn't know the tune. How is it possible he can do all this Because the Spirit of God came upon him, just like Samson, tearing a lion in half of his bare hands. How is that possible? Or carrying the gates of God's all up to the top field. How is that possible? Samson's not some big bulked up guy like Arnold Schwarzkopf, or Schwarzenegger rather, he's not a big guy. How is that? Because when the Spirit of God comes upon you, you can do amazing, miraculous things that you know you couldn't have done before And so they're just taken back. But the change in Saul is so dramatic. People couldn't believe it was real, as dramatic as it was. And sometimes those quick dramatic changes, they aren't real. And they don't last that long. The Lord Jesus Christ is familiar with that. He talks about it in Matthew 7 and 22. He says, Many will say, Lord, Lord, have we not prophesied your name? Have we not cast out demons in your name? Have we not healed in your name in the Lord Jesus Christ? And I will say to you, Depart from me, you workers of iniquity, I never knew you Oh, you've seen people get really on fire for the Lord for a week, a month, a year, and then you'll run to them a couple years later and say, Hey, where have you been? I haven't seen a church. Where are you going to change? I don't just I'm not into that anymore. That's harder to hear than I was never into that. To have been into that and to the bachelor and the apostasized, oh So is King Saul saved here? Was King Saul saved? It says in verse 6 he's become another man. It says in verse 9, He has another heart, that the Spirit of God has come upon him. He has certainly another heart, and that he has the heart of a king, he has the heart of one who can boldly assault the Philistines and the enemies of God But is he not just not just another heart, not just another man? Does he have a new heart? Is he a new creature in Christ? Second Corinthians five and seventeen. That's the real important thing Saul's actions years later have left many to question if his conversion was genuine. First Chronicles ten, the last verse says this of King Saul. Saul died. For his transgressions which he committed against the Lord and against the word of the Lord. Which he kept not, and also for asking counsel of a witch with familiar spirits Would you want that on your tombstone? That you died because you had turned your back on God and done things against God and against his word. Is it any wonder that theologians are still grappling with the idea, was Saul converted on that day as he sang with the other members of the Church of Christ? Sang with exuberance, saying with devotion, saying with emotion, but was he saved? I have a better question. Ask yourself, Am I saved? Are you saved? Am I a new creature in Christ? That's a better question to ask ourselves, isn't it? And you can settle that question right now Where do you sit? With a quiet prayer of repentance from your heart. A prayer just now quietly between you and the Lord Jesus Christ can settle it for all eternity. Can you pray? that prayer. Have you ever prayed that prayer? You can do it before we close today. Father, we thank you this day For the testimony of a great man like Samuel, who stayed the course, would respond always Speak, Lord, for thy servant heareth. And he would do whatever you said. Oh Lord, it wasn't Saul's position, but it was Samuel. Raise up among us Samuel's today Give us not just another heart, give us a new heart. May we become new creatures in Christ. And someday we'll join these men coming down off that hill with harp and flute and tambourine. We'll join them in heaven, praising them that we and our conversions were identical. and genuine. May it be said of all sitting here this morning that you have prayed, you've repented, you've asked God to send the Holy Spirit into your heart. To really, really change you forever. And it's the name of our King of Kings, our great God and Savior, Jesus Christ, we pray. Amen.