This is a most curious passage, and it's one that I didn't think I would have that much trouble with, but it actually really stumped me. It really just slowed me up a bit. Maybe you'll see why as we get into it. Hebrews 11. 20 we read this. By faith. Isaac blessed Jacob and Esau concerning things to come. It's a curious passage because maybe your Like me, and you go through it the first time, you're Isaac blessed Jacob, blah blah blah blah blah by faith. But you don't think about the fact that Isaac blessed Esau And that he blessed both of the boys concerning things to come. And that's the part that puzzled me when I began to investigate it further. So my thought-provoking question is this. What do you have of spiritual significance to pass on to your children? And I'm not talking about your last will and testament. That's just stuff. Is there a New Testament promise of God which worked in your family's legacy of faith? And you plan to pass to your children, what was it and why? So I'm going to start with some of the responses we got back by way of email. One was this, I really like this one. I remember four things that impacted my life. Number one, I remember as a very young girl, my mom sat on the side of the bed with me, kneeling and praying before bedtime at night. Number one. Number two, I remember my mom telling me that Jesus was crucified and died on the cross. Number three, I remember my mom having me read the Lord's Prayer from a red letter New Testament Bible And number four, I remember my mother singing hymns and rocking my brother to put him to sleep. I was never told to remember these things, but they left an indelible mark on my life It was her way of life, I remember. She later died when I was sixteen. So that was the extent of the time that her mother got to impress upon her young daughter uh gospel truths. And uh as a young woman says she shared with her brothers that Jesus was crucified and died on that cross. They believed me. We weren't perfect, but we were told the truth. Mom wasn't able to live to see our lives in Christ, but God was faithful to my mother. He heard and answered her prayers. He is faithful to his people. That's I think really marvelous. Others commented about various passages of scripture that talked about faith, not superficial faith. uh being a Berean, that there's no other name, not storing up treasures, all very good and impactful things that are worth sharing. Any of you, what would you share? Yeah, I remember my grandfather, my grandmother, uh every time when we go to sleep she has to say to tell us to say, Come Jesus and live in my heart, Amen Hmm. So it was a prayer from your grandmother that she embedded in you. Very good. What would you pass on to your children that you've learned What spiritual blessing is worth? One with the thought provoking ideas over here. Um with my parents, which I look at them as a whole it would be the idea of praising the Lord always for all things And and that went everything from like we're riding down the road and they're still like this. And they will be looking at a sunset or a rainbow or just the flowers. And their first comment is always the wonder of creation. and our God who created such beauty and praising him. So what we see too, my dad had a picture on the wall that had this cute little boy holding an ice cream cone, but the ice cream's lying on the ground And it wasn't scripture, but it says, Praise the Lord anyway. And that's the way my parents lived. No matter what happened, whether it was good and beautiful or seemed bad, their attitude was always one of praising the Lord and trusting That really is a great demonstration of faith. You know, it's that forgotten grace of thankfulness, to be thankful. By nature, we're complaining people. It's encouraged in this land to grump and complain and grumble and but that ought not to be the habit of the Christian. To praise him in all things is also to say, I recognize his sovereignty So far you just add to that like today you guys know the situation with my dad, two strokes, stuck in a wheelchair, he's got cancer, he's he's got all these things he's dealing with, but every week. Like, how are you doing today, Dad? You know I'm always doing great. God is good and I'm doing great. I see it in Mrs. Ross too. But it's that kind of attitude. Yeah. I hope I can pass that up Right, right, absolutely. One last one. Yeah, I've shared this with you all before, but um after my dad died in his Bible, besides Psalm thirty-seven twenty-five He had written Tom, John, Joe, is that the verse. And that verse is I've been young, but now I'm old, yet have I never seen the righteous forsaken over his seed begging bread. And uh dad claimed that that promise for his kids, you know, that we'd be taken care of. Yeah, that's wonderful. That's wonderful. Well very good. So yeah, just thought provoking to bring the uh lesson today kind of forward into our lives and uh maybe Some might think, well, I'm not quite sure how this really would apply. So let's let's get into it here. So um we're going to spend a fair amount of time in Genesis 27 and 28. So if you'd like, go ahead and turn in your scriptures to Genesis 27 and 28. I'd like you to follow along. I'll begin in verse 27. But uh for now I'm just going to give a little brief background of Isaiah's life, Isaiah, Isaac's life after Mount Moriah. Last week we covered that Abraham took him to the mount to kill him. Uh God rescued him and uh they came back safe and sound. Now what happens? Well the narrative in scripture continues that uh Abraham eventually dies, and now we focus on Isaac and his life. And frankly If you want to live the life of a Christian, you want to have the life of Isaac. Because to a high degree it was uneventful. There weren't really too many catastrophic things. Except for the Mount Moriah thing with dad hauling you up and threatening your life. Uh I suppose that'd be a little catastrophic. But if you get past that and thanking the Lord for Rams, then uh y you get to the rest of his life. He dug a well that became the city of Beersheba. He had a hundredfold success in the land of the Philistines, but he also had some complaints with the Philistines who liked to steal all the wells that his dad had dug, so we had some waterright disputes. He uh uh raised contrary twin boys, came from the same wound, but boy were they as different as night and day And in fact, it turns out the son that he loved was the one that his father hated the most uh that God the father hated the most. And it also turned out that uh his um His firstborn son, the one he loved, ended up marrying two very ungodly women, which were a grief of mind to them, to his parents, to Isaac and Rebecca all the days of his life But near his deathbed at age 160, Isaac speaks he's 160 at this point. Uh he died at 180, and then he was a hundred there was a twenty-year journey after Laban had fled, so that's how I get to one sixty, about that age. Our text says Isaac now speaks of, quote, things to come. Things to come. And that would be based on the promises that he had. So let's review what he had. Now, you've got your Bible. You're in Genesis 27. So set that down. Take your bulletin and look at the center. the center portion of your bulletin. There's a portion that's in purple. These are the five promises that he had. And I've labeled them A, B, C, D, and E. Alright? So there's five promises, A, B, C, D, and E. Now as we Begin to read, and we're going to read the blessing that Isaac gave. We're going to try to figure out which promise he took that from. So we're going to answer it A, E, D, whatever. Okay? So let's see what Isaac had from God. Remember, he couldn't go to the bookstore and buy a New Testament or an Old Testament. He was carrying the testament of God in his mind. I'm sure he would have written it down. He probably had much more profound memories than we have now, Mrs. Ross accepted. And he remembered a lot. Well here's what he had. He had from Genesis twelve inherited this promise from his father, Genesis twelve three. God says, I will bless them that bless thee, and curse him that curseth thee, and in thee shall all families of the earth be blessed. That was one promise that he had. You could call that the blessing-cursing families promise. I'm just going to kind of summarize it with that. Then later in Genesis 15, God said, Fear not, Abram, I am thy shield and thy exceeding great reward. The reward promised, great reward. Now you may say, Vince says to Abram, ah, yes, but God passed all the blessings of Abram down to his seed, as we see in the next line. Promise number three, Genesis 15, 18, unto thy seed have I given this land And it was more than that. In Genesis 17, God told Abraham in verse 4, Thou shalt be a father of many nations. I'll make thee exceeding fruitful. Oh make nations of thee. Kings shall come out of thee. Well, Isaac is a descendant of Abram, so that means he would be a king, and if not him, then his sons. Kings. It didn't say when, it just says kings. Plural I'll establish my covenant between me and thee and thy seed after thee and their generations for an everlasting covenant. Sometimes God tacks on that word everlasting, sometimes he doesn't And then the last promise was one that he directly received. It was when Rebecca was pregnant. And I know all mothers think, yeah, when you got twins, they they kind of kicked and they're or any baby in the womb kicks and Especially at 2 a. m. when you're trying to sleep. That's when it's playtime and they start dancing around on your kidneys. Well, but this was unusual because these boys were always wrestling. It was a constant, nonstop wrestling match And she's like, what is going on? And God clued her in and said, two nations are in your womb. Now I know every woman thinks, Ha ha but how did I get so big and and deliver so little and all this weight still behind me? God said, No, two nations are in your womb Two manner of people shall be separated from thy bows, the one people shall be stronger than the other people, and the elder shall serve the younger. That's interesting. One will be stronger than the other, the elder shall serve the younger. So this was Some insight and a promise of God concerning things to come given to Isaac directly by the Lord. So for he inherited from Abram slash Abraham and one directly from God. Got it? A through E. So I've boiled all that down for you. I didn't want to flip a lot of pages and and go through that and make it a uh a survey of Abrahamic promises, because we're kind of focused on Isaac, because he's now going to bless his sons, and you know the account when it comes time for the blessing. Isaac is old, he's blind, he's decided it's time to give a blessing to his son, and he wants to start with Esau, and he tells him, go out and get me some venison that I may bless you. And you know the rest of the account Rebecca hears it, runs over to Jacob. Her father's going to give the blessing. Hurry up, sneak in and go get it. Because she remembers this promise. But Jacob knows that there's a radical difference between Jacob and his hairiness and his um I don't know, lifestyle that would betray him. He smelled more like a baker and bacon in the tent rather than the smell of, you know, slaughtered animals in the field She slays an animal, covers goat's skins all over him, including the back of his neck. He goes into old blind Isaac and the ruse works. So Isaac ends up blessing Jacob first unknowingly. And that we turn to our text in Genesis 27 and verse 27. And he, that is Jacob, feigning to be Esau, came near and kissed him, kissed Isaac. And he smelled the smell of his raiment, that his Isaac did, and blessed him, and said, See, the smell of my son is as the smell of a field which the Lord hath blessed. Therefore, God give thee of the dew of heaven, and of the fatness of earth, and plenty of corn and wine. Let people serve thee and nations bow down to thee. Be Lord over thy brethren, and let thy mother's sons bow down to thee. Cursed be everyone that curseth thee, and blessed be he that blesseth thee. Alright, that was the first blessing of Isaac to Jacob. Catch that? Alright. Kind of packed. Let's look at the components. I find four components of this blessing which I think can map to the promises. And this is going to be a little pop quiz. You get to help me fill in these blanks Okay, first thing he blesses them with is the dew of heaven. And I find this significant because God grants to him The blessings, the spiritual blessings first, above all others. He wants these spiritual blessings to be given to this firstborn, the right of the firstborn, above and preceding all others. Now, where might that have come from? And it's either A, B, C, D, or E. What would have informed him I will say C. So C. Uh this seed have I given this land. Well that would be a land blessing. This was a spiritual blessing blessing, the dew of heaven. I'd like to make it set Jeopardy, but I can't. So in my thinking, I mapped it to A. The all families of the earth shall be blessed. That may not work because that's of the earth. You have Well, you know, Jeffrey, you know now they think about it, because we did look at sea before, and when God talked about giving him this land, when we studied that, we showed that that was a a a new heaven and new earth from Romans 4 So I can certainly see how C would be in that. Yeah, I don't think I can rule out C. I'm gonna s I'm gonna retract my uh uh remander here. Well, let's move to the next. We look at fatness of the earth, corn and wine, some abundance of physical blessing. That was the next thing in this blessing. What might have given that? An abundant physical blessing. That's a question. So the uh second part of the blessing was the fatness of the earth, corn and wine. And Jacob is passing on what he received and inherited from Abraham. So which of those five promises, it can be multiple, would have informed him of this. I would say C again. Okay. If if a field is fruitful but it belongs to your neighbor, it doesn't do you any benefit. Right. Yeah, absolutely. And it was a good land, it said. C was in there, yep I could see B in there as well. I am thy shield, thy exceeding great reward. God is richly blessing. He is the reward, and he also richly blesses. Okay. Next one. It says, let people serve thee. Let them bow down to thee. Be Lord over thy brethren. This is a promise of leadership over the Canaanites once Israel becomes a nation. What would which promise would that have been informed by? D, D. Yeah, D, clearly. Uh kings. If you're a king, you're not subservient, you're ruling over. Yep. Um I also saw E in that as well. The one of them s the one will be stronger than the other. Um and now maybe he's not thinking of that because uh uh Jacob was the firstborn, he may not realize it at this point who he's actually blessing. But um uh certainly God is tacking on E. And then that last part part, this covenantal curse, cursed be he that uh uh everyone that curseth thee and blessed be he that blesseth thee and that should be a pretty easy one to see where that comes from. What do you think, Messaba? But where would that one come from? That blessing, cursing, promise. Look at A again. Yeah, that could be too. Yeah, that's almost a straight identical language. I will bless them that bless thee and curse them that curseth thee. And this is the same almost a word for word repetition of it So, yeah, it's uh a little hard maybe. It was even hard for me because I corrected some of my thinking on this just as I was going through it. But you can see that there's much in this blessing he gives to this whom he thinks to be the firstborn, but is actually Jacob, that is informed by what God has told him. He's conveying this spiritual blessing to him to include earthly material blessings. Compare this now to Isaac's understanding of what he just did. Once the ruse is known, Esau comes in late because Jacob got there first, his mother cooked something that was already slain was able to prepare it very quickly, exactly the way her husband liked it, because you wise know exactly how to cook something the the perfect way that your husband likes. And he was amazed that Whom he thought to be Esau came in so quickly and when the real Esau came in, because you know it takes a while to hunt and to skin it and trap it and kill it and drag it back and all that is involved with it Old blind Isaac's concerned and nervous. And he's like, uh-oh, what happened? Now, Esau begins to whine and cry and moan. Of course it's not going to be effectual. We'll read about later in Hebrews. But Isaac understands what he just did. And so Isaac's understanding of what he just did is in verse 37 of Genesis 27. Isaac answered and said unto Esau, Behold, I have made him thy Lord, and all his brethren I have given to him for servants. And with corn and wine have I sustained him. And what shall I do now unto thee, my son? So he shows that he has passed on in Isaac's thinking the right of kingship, that right of the supreme king, the one that is not going to be subjugated to others. That's what he has passed on to his son. And I want to pause at this point just as we consider these blessings that Isaac gave, is there's one individual that we find in Scriptures that meditated. Guess who that was? Isaac. We read that Isaac was in the field meditating when his unseen bride Rachel first appears. He was in the field meditating. He was a meditative individual And he meditated on the promises that God had given to him by way of inheritance and by way of a direct illumination, if you will. And I asked, what about you? Do you meditate on the promises of God? Do you even know what you have? Have you made an index of them? If you buy an insurance policy, a homeowner's insurance policy, and you want to place an addendum and a writer for the stuff inside your house. They say to make it easier for your claim to go around and take a picture of everything you own in the house so that, God forbid, your house becomes a smoking pit in the ground You can present that to the insurance company. Say, yep, here's proof that I actually had all these expensive tools, etc. Have you made an inventory of the promises of God that He's given to you And do you meditate on them? You know, I believe that many of life's ills will melt away when we think oft upon the promises that God gives us, as Mr. Langle does. He thanks God for everything because Anchored somewhere in his understanding is that his God is on the throne and nothing happens to him apart from his father's will. And he recognizes that this is what God wants to happen to me. You know, I have a habit of grumbling about the weather. But in reality I'm grumbling about God because who controls the weather? I can assure you it's not the weather, man, because they can't get it right after seventy-two hours, after forty-eight hours, they can't even nail it sometimes in twenty-four hours. They've misc complete snowstorms in the nation's capital no less. You know, life's ills milt melt away when we think about them. Just in your spare time Go search for that word meditate in your little electronic Bible and see how many times it shows up in Psalm 119. Here's one, I remembered thy judgments of old, O Lord, and have comforted myself. Look up, meditate, look up, remember, remember You know, frankly, we're in a better position to help others when we can quote these promises of God. Other Christians can be encouraged by that. So that's a little bucket list spiritual bucket list assignment for you to do is go take an inventory and again if you want uh and you're interested let me know and there are in fact resources out there that talk about promises of God that have already been written down. You can go and look at those. I think it's better if you go dig them up yourself. Or keep a little running list in your Bible to the side so that as you come across one, hey, I'm going to add this to my list Uh it can be very helpful. Well, we then get to the next blessing because our text says that Isaac blessed Jacob and Esau concerning things to come, and Esau comes next. He's bloody. He's washed off maybe a little bit. He's cooked it real quick. He's raced into his father's tent to get the blessing. And old blind Isaac has something left for him. And we read in Genesis 27, 39 through 40, we read this. Isaac his father answered and said unto him that is Esau, Behold, thy dwelling shall be the fatness of the earth and of the dew of heaven from above, and by thy sword shalt thou live. And shalt serve thy brother. And it shall come to pass when thou shalt have the dominion, that thou shalt break his yoke from off thy neck. This is a very short one, and it's a very curious one. And that last one is the one that causes us to really scratch our head. But let's take it out into three pieces here. Alright, which promise is Isaac potentially drawing from when he promises him the fatness of the earth and the dew of heaven? Now notice That um it's just what Esau wants. He wants this world first and heaven second. Notice Isaac flipped the order. He didn't say dew of heaven first and then fatness of the earth. He gives them the fatness of the earth and then the dew of heaven. And that's fine with Isaac. What do you think is informing Isaac of this promise, fatness of the earth, dew of heaven? Yeah, same concept as before. I've given thee this land, except uh uh Isaac's put a little spin on it Because he's probably thinking of some other um things that are that are there. What about the one where it says, uh living by thy sword and serving thy brethren? Where what promise did he have that would have informed that? Yeah. Yeah, the elder shall serve the younger indeed. He's he's gonna have to serve his brother. That's very much there. Uh Joe? Well in E, it is uh two peoples. You know, and so even though Jacob gets the greater blessing, Esau will have a people. He will have a people. He still will have a people, but it'll still be a subservient people. And curiously enough, history records that that was the case because The Esauites, except we don't call them Esauites, we call them Edomites, because Esau is Edom. And the Edomites lived in the Transjordan area So think of the Dead Sea and go south of that, and tucked in between Israel and Jordan. That was Edom, that territory down there They were subjugated to the Israelites, to the Jews, and particularly the kingdom of Judah, pretty much all their days. They were subject. And Isaac then says this that when thou shalt have dominion, you shall break his yoke from off thy neck. Now that's interesting. When thou shalt have dominion, that threw me for a loop Edomites? Dominion? First of all, God is sometimes uses the word everlasting, sometimes he does not. And in this case, he did not talk about an everlasting dominion For Esau. This means at some point in time he will break it, break that dominion. And in fact, we read about that It actually is something we read about, and it occurs in 2 Kings 8 and verse 20. There we read this. In his days, Edom revolted from under the hand of Judah and made a king over themselves. Edom revolted from under the hand of Judah unto this day, meaning that time that it was written. So there was a time when the Edomites in fact did did revolt and did gain some ascendancy. They did break that dominion off. It wouldn't be an absolute one. I can't map it to uh a Canaanite um promise. Uh Too far forward. That's as far as I think I'm comfortable going. But that was a very strange blessing. I do want to comment on this phrase, and by thy sword thou shalt live. Many in the Middle Eastern countries will say, yep, that's a clear reference to the Muslims. Boy, if anybody lives by the sword, that's the Muslims. And indeed they do. But The uh the though the the Muslims, once they're in control, can be violent to others, I don't believe that the Muslims can be traced to an Edomite origin. Because the kingdom of Edom would have been a thousand years BC and Muhammad came along in 600 A. D. Uh and so and he was Arab. So that's not they were Edomites or not Arabs. So th this is a different people group and and I don't uh think we can use that to say this is prophesying of the Muslims. I don't believe it maps. It's it's specific to the Edomites. Might find other passages in the Bible that point to that, but I don't think the Bible references Muhammad anywhere in Scriptures. I don't believe he's there at all. Some of the craziest things I've heard is A phonetic spelling of the word blessed or peaceful in the book of the Song of Solomon is used as an adjective to say that's a prophecy of Muhammad. It's the most ridiculous thing I've ever heard If you take the Hebrew word, it's so it's Mahmed, but Muhammad's name is Mohammed, and it's a complete mangling of scriptures to try to jam Muhammad into the scriptures when he's simply not. Found in the Bible. He's not there. He's just not there. He's not a prophet. He doesn't count. Alright. Then we get to Isaac blesses Jacob again. Do you realize he blessed Jacob twice? It's very interesting because we get to the next chapter. This is where we find that now old blind Isaac realizes what has happened. And as Isaac and Rebecca talk, she fills him in further. on Esau's horrible plans to kill his twin brother. He's livid. He is exceptionally angry. And she concocts a plan. Jacob, you've got to go flee to my brother Laban. You've got to get away from here. And flee he does, and she will never see him again. It's the last time she sees her son. And off he goes. And so as Jacob is about to depart. Isaac comes one more time, and he gives another blessing to Jacob. It's fascinating. It's in Genesis 28. We read in the first verse, Isaac called Jacob and blessed him. And then he talked about his imminent journey. And then in verse 3, he says, God Almighty blessed thee. And make thee fruitful, and multiply thee, that thou mayest be a multitude of people, and give thee the blessing of Abraham to thee and to thy seed after thee. Excuse me, to thy seed with thee, that thou mayest inherit the land wherein thou art a stranger, which God gave unto Abraham. Where does this Blessing come from. Which promise does this principally stem from? I kind of it does seem like a nice summary of all of them, which would D. D. C and D. C and D. You said C, I heard D. And A through C as well. Yes. It is a it's a it it's it really it really is a great amalgamation of all of 'em. In my ears it sounds most like D, that Genesis 17 one, and uh, but indeed it's all But principally, what you're finding, I think, is now Abraham realizes with knowledge, he's now blessing Jacob. With knowledge, he now understands that God wasn't kidding that the elder shall serve the younger, and the younger is the blessed of God. He now understands that Jacob is the one who in fact will get it. He's lived long enough now to see that Esau marrying these Two women that were an abomination to him and were a grief of mind. That though he was a favored son, yet he's beginning to realize, no, God was right. It really was Jacob. And so now he passes that spiritual blessing on. That great blessing that God gave to him. He's now passing that on. He's giving him that blessed promise. You know He now begins to serve as the torchbearer in a long line of faithful patriarchs that are going to run with this promise. He and all who look for the promised Messiah by faith indeed will inherit the kingdom of God. This is the promise, folks, and you're seeing the first passing of the torch in this long relay life, relay of life. Known as the Christian sojourn, because it's been passed to you as well. You've received it whether it was physically pronounced over you or not, but God Almighty has said to you the same thing I will make you will be a father of many nations. You'll be exceeding fruitful. Nations of thee. Kings will come of thee. I'll establish my covenant between me and thy seed after thee, and their generations for an everlasting covenant. They shall be my people, I will be their God. That phrase, they shall be my people, I will be their God, is the capstone summary of all those other little blessings. That flowed from that. And that exact phrase is used in the New Testament. Second Corinthians 6, 16. I will be their God. They shall be my people. It repeats it again in multiple places. The Apostle Paul makes much of that saying, we are children of Abraham by faith. We enter into those promises. And so it's something to you. And so you have the baton in your hand now while you're alive. Will you pass that on to your next generation, whether it be physical seed or to someone else, to others who will be sons and daughters, true sons and daughters of Abraham? Because you're in the race. Whether you've got legs that are wobbly and they can't work, whether you've got a spine that functions or not, whether you've got good running shoes or not, a knee that works or not, you're in a race And it's a race to give this baton to the next generation who will carry it on until the Lord Jesus returns. This is what we've got. And there are some, like Esau, who will not inherit it. They may have that blessed promise in their hand and drop it. They may have this wonderful set of scripture in their minds from their youth, and they think nothing of it. Jesus said of those that there shall be weeping and gnashing of teeth When you shall see Abraham and Isaac and Jacob and all the prophets in the kingdom of God and speaking to the Jews who nationally had these promises given to them. Tangibly had them in their hands and fingers, could arguably insist that they were physical sons and daughters of Abraham Jesus says that you'll see Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob and the prophets in the kingdom of God, and you yourselves thrust out. Just like Esau. who despised his birthright, who dropped the ball, he will be thrust out. And so I have two conclusions from this and we'll kind of wrap it up a little early. That You know, even though Isaac for the most part had a relatively quiet and peaceful life. He had a good marriage. He had two boys. He enjoyed time with them. He was able to dig a lot of wells. He had a thousandfold increase. Can how would you like to have a thousandfold increase in investment, Jeffrey? You you put in a hundred thousand dollars and you get ten million out of it. I mean or a hundred million. That that's a nice rate of return, wouldn't you say That that would be a nice deal. You know, he did not forget the divine promise of God. He had a different challenge of a walk of faith. The things of this world didn't move him. He counted a greater blessing, the blessings of God. rather than that thousandfold increase he had in Philistine territory. That he didn't count as a great thing. And his blessing at the end of the sojourn validates his entire walk of faith He doesn't pass on, like some of the Hiltons, all their wealth to their children who become even more debauched than their peers. He doesn't do that. He has his eye on the ball. He has his eye on the Messiah to come. He's a meditator. He meditated on the promises of God, and he wasn't moved by the successes of this world. And he was able to convey it to his sons in that blessing. It validates at the very end of his life where his mind actually was at. And that's a marvelous, marvelous thing. Pastor Mahan made a statement where he said about those who were saved in the storm and lost in the calm. I think it's a good statement. There are some when they get past that rescue, oh yes, I'll be at church. Oh yeah, get me through this horrible time. Where are they? They're not here Are you finished? Because I want to send us down a rabbit trail if you don't mind. Uh I've got one more concluding point, and then you take us down a rabbit trail. Esau, however, he aimed for earth and he missed heaven. Jacob aimed for heaven. But he got earth and heaven. Don't forget that. That was very relevant. Actually this is going to go right along with us. I don't know if you studied this out at all. But it's very interesting there in our text in um twenty-seven our Yeah, uh 2727. Um it says, um, see the smell of my son is the smell of the field which the Lord hath blessed. Very good. The Lord's blessed the field. And of course with with Adam, cursed be the ground for thy sake. Thorns. I don't know if you've had the reference, but where was it that God blessed the earth for Abraham's sake? that have been cursed for Adam's sake. Yeah. Yeah. Right. There's a lot there. It really is. That that's good good insight. Okay. Alright, well thank you, everyone. Uh Pastor, would you mind closing this purpose? Absolutely. Gracious Father, Lord, we thank you for the depth of thy word. Lord, if we spend a hundred or a thousand lifetimes studying the Word of God, we would only begin to scratch the surface of its depth And Lord, again and again it confirms itself within itself to be true and to be the Word of God. There is no contradiction here. Lord indeed we are blessed to have thy word, to have it preserved for us, to have it in a language that we understand And Father, as as our brother has mentioned today, meditating on the promises and the blessings of God, may we indeed meditate upon thy precepts day and night as we read night Bless thy truth to our hearts. I thank you, Father, for your anointing on our brother this morning. And pray, Lord, that as we proceed to the worship service, that the word of the Lord uh might have free course and be glorified in the midst of thy people. I pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.