Turn with me in your Bibles, please, this morning, to the book of Genesis and chapter 48, the 48th chapter of Genesis. Isn't the Word of God wonderful? Isn't it precious and amazing? Does it thrill your heart and your soul the way that the Old Testament and the New Testament speak the same message those centuries apart? The way that the various authors writing in their own cultures And in their own time periods, not knowing one another in many cases, yet speak the same truths. And does not it amaze you that passages you've read time and time again can suddenly jump out, not with new truth? For the truth is always there. But you can see it in a new way, through a new lens, and see coordination between passages that you had never imagined before. This book truly was not written by man. It is indeed the Word of God. I'm going to read this morning in Genesis 48 from verse 10 through 20 And then we're going to do a brief exposition in our Old Testament passage, and then we will go back to Luke chapter 15 to make application. Genesis 48 and verse 10. Now the eyes of Israel were dim for age, so that he could not see. And he brought them, that's Ephraim and Manasseh, and he brought them near unto him, and kissed them, and embraced them. And Israel said unto Joseph, I had not thought to see thy face, and lo, God hath showed me thy seed. And Joseph brought them, that again is Ephraim and Manasseh, and Joseph brought them out from between his knees, and he bowed himself with his face to the earth. And Joseph took both Ephraim in his right hand toward Israel's left hand. And Manasseh in his left hand toward Israel's right hand and brought them near unto him. And Israel stretched out his right hand and laid it upon Ephraim's head, who was the younger. And his left hand, and laid it upon Manasseh's head, guiding his hands wittingly, for Manasseh was the firstborn. And he blessed Joseph and said, God, before whom my fathers Abraham and Isaac did walk. The God which fed me all my lifelong unto this day, and the angel which redeemed me from all evil. Bless these lads, and let my name be named on them, and the name of my fathers, Abraham and Isaac. And let them grow into a multitude in the midst of the earth. And when Joseph saw that his father laid his right hand upon the head of Ephraim. It displeased him. And he held up his father's hand to remove it from Ephraim and s to Manasseh's head. And Joseph said unto his father, Not so, my father, for this is the firstborn. Put thy right hand upon his head. And his father refused and said, I know it, my son, I know it. He also shall become a people, and he shall be great. But truly his younger brother shall be greater than he, and his seed shall become a multitude of nations. And he blessed them that day, saying, In thee shall Israel bless, saying, God make thee as Ephraim and as Manasseh. And he set Ephraim before Manasseh. We have to pray, folks, before we open God's Word. Let us pray Oh great Father, our gracious God, now show us the treasures of thy word. Open our understanding to receive thy truth. Open our blinded hearts, blinded by all the cares of the world, blinded and distracted by the things around us. Open our the eyes of our hearts to see thy truth. Father, may the Spirit of God be the exegete this morning. May your Spirit guide us into all truth. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Throughout Scripture, we find account after account of God setting a younger brother before the elder. Now, culture, cultural mandates always put the oldest before the younger. And I was delighted when my firstborn child was a son, a firstborn son. Scripture emphasizes that throughout And yet, we find to a greater degree Scripture emphasizing the younger above the elder. Cain and Abel. Abel was the righteous one. Seth, or sorry, Shem was younger than Japheth. And yet Shem was exalted above his brother Jacob. Isaac was blessed over Ishmael Jacob was chosen over Esau. Joseph was the next the youngest in his family, and yet he was promoted above all his brothers. Judah was blessed above his younger brother Reuben. David was the youngest of his brethren. Look not on the height or the statue God looketh on the heart. And so this morning we're going to consider Ephraim and Manasseh. Manasseh was the elder brother. And when Joseph brought Ephraim and Manasseh to his father Jacob, who was renamed Israel, He very wittingly guided the elder to the right hand and the younger to the left hand. And we find Jacob very deliberately crossing his arms. What a beautiful picture. Crossing his arms to bring the blessing to Ephraim the younger. And oh yes, Manasseh the elder is blessed, but the greater blessing is to Ephraim. And so we find there in verses 10 and 11 that the eyes of Israel, the eyes of Jacob, are old and he cannot see And oh how history repeats itself again and again. For it was this same Jacob who came to his father Isaac. when his father's eyes were dim and he could not see. And Jacob, whose name means the supplanter, Jacob puts on the clothing of Esau, and he puts fur on his arms because Esau was a hairy man. And he comes into his father and he says, Oh, I am Esau. Bless me. Bless me. And his blind father is deceived, and he receives the blessing. And so the younger is blessed above the elder, not in that case by the will of the earthly father, but oh how certainly beyond any contradiction by the will of the Heavenly Father. What a beautiful picture. And so here or now is Isaac himself, or is Jacob himself His name Jacob means the surplanter, but God said, thy name shall be Israel, because as a prince thou hast wrestled with God. And so now, though his eyes are blind, yet he guides his hands wittingly. And oh, I contemplated and meditated with such joy this week, the blind Israel crossing his arms. Going beyond custom. Going beyond the norms to bless the younger son. For that was the will of God. So we find in verse 12 that when Joseph comes to his father, he bows down to his father with his face to the earth. This is a great picture of hum humility and godly submission to his parents because the vision had come The vision had been given to this same Joseph by God that his father and his mother would bow down to him. And yet Joseph humbly bows before his father. And so we find there in verse 15 and 16. And he blessed Joseph, that is Israel, that is Jacob, blessed Joseph and said, God, before whom my fathers Abraham and Isaac did walk. The God which fed me all my life unto this day, lifelong unto this day, the angel which redeemed me from evil, bless. these lads. And there are three descriptions of God here which are vitally important for us to contemplate. First of all, we find that Israel, Jacob, describes Jehovah God as the God before whom my fathers, Abraham and Isaac, did walk. This is not the gods of Egypt. Remember where they are. They are not in Canaan land. They are in Egypt. The gods of Egypt were the cats and the crocodiles. We have the images that have been dug up by archaeology. And the plagues which would come on the land of Egypt a few hundred years later would all be rebukes of their gods, for they worshiped the Nile, and the Nile was turned to blood. They worship the frogs. And the frogs overtook the land, and so on. But here, when Jacob Who we better know is Israel is going to bless Joseph and his sons. He blesses them by the God of his fathers. And we find in Hebrews chapter 13, or chapter 6 and verse 13, when God was swearing his promise to Abraham. Because he could swear by no greater, he swore by himself. When we go to court, we're asked to put our hand on the Bible and raise our right hand that we declare that we're going to tell the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth. Why do we still do that even though we've rejected the Bible in this land? Because it's an acknowledgement that this is truth, and this is greater truth than me. You see, when one swears, he must swear by something greater and outside of himself. But when God made his oath to Abraham, he could not find one greater, and there was none outside of him. I am God and there is none else. And so when God made oath to Abraham, God made oath upon himself And now when Israel comes to bless Joseph and his sons, there is no greater than the God of Abraham. And so he says, the God before whom my fathers walked. And remember what God had told Abraham, walk before me and be perfect. That is first of all the God by whom Jacob blesses Ephraim and Manasseh. But then we find also there in that 15th verse. The God which fed me all my life long under this day. Oh, what a beautiful phrase that is. Remember how this Jacob Who is giving this blessing got the birthright? A mess of pottage Esau came in from the field and Esau says, I'm hungry, I'm hungry, I'm about to perish with hunger. And Jacob says, well, he says, give me some of this pottage that you have. Give me your soup. And Jacob says, I'll give you my soup for your birthright. And so Esau chose the immediate food of the world and sacrificed for it the blessing of God. He sacrificed the eternal for the sake of the immediate. And oh what a picture of salvation that is! What shall it profit a man if he gained the whole world? And lose his own soul? Or what will a man give in exchange for his soul? And so here for a mess of pottage. For a little bit of food. Esau, the elder, has surrendered the blessing to Jacob Oh, indeed, this is the God that has fed me all my life long. And then as Jacob is fleeing into the wilderness from his brother Esau He lays down his head upon a stone in the land. And he has that great vision. Of the ladder in Genesis 28 extending from earth to heaven. And on that ladder he sees the angels of God. ascending and descending, and he sees the Son of God at the head of the ladder. He sees Jehovah at the head of the ladder. And the voice that speaks to him is from God in Genesis 28-15. He says, Behold, I am with thee, and I will keep thee in all places. Whithersoever thou goest, and that phrase I will keep thee in all places literally means I'll provide for you. I will be your provider everywhere you go. And so Jacob says the God that has fed me all my lifelong. And then again we find that this Jacob, when he's dwelling with Laban, and there's a time for the division of the cattle, and God tells Jacob, just take the spotted. Take the ring-shackled, take the grizzled cattle, and lo, in the providence of God the strong cattle that leaped upon the ewes. It was the ringshackled and the spotted. And so by God's provision, Jacob got all the cattle. I bless Ephraim the younger and Manasseh the elder. I bless them with the blessings of the God that has fed me all my life. And why is Jacob in Egypt in the first place? A famine A famine. And why did he come to Egypt? Because God, not his brothers, because God had sent Joseph into bondage. That Jacob might be brought from Canaan to Egypt to be fed and sustained through the famine? Ah, what a great God this is, the God that fed me all my life long. I have been young, and now I'm old. Yet have I never seen the righteous forsaken or his seed begging bread. And I've told you several times before, but it's such a blessing to my heart, I have to tell you again. In my father's Bible, at that verse was written Tom, John, and Joe. He wrote the names of his children by that verse. And I can tell you from personal testimony, I have never missed a meal. I have never lacked anything. And when Christ said to the disciples, When I sent you out without purse or script, lack ye anything. And they said, nothing. Oh, to these grandchildren, to Ephraim and Manasseh, the blessing of the God that has provided my every need, all my lifelong. That is the blessing. But oh, dear friends, if it were not enough that he blesses them by the God of Abraham and Isaac, the God who swore by himself And he blesses them by the God who has fed him all his life long. Then in verse 16, he blesses them by the angel that redeemed me from all evil. And my friend, there is only one redeeming angel, and the redeeming angel is Jesus Christ Himself. He is the messenger of the covenant. He is the messenger of Jehovah who comes to redeem. He came to seek in the lost the seek and to save that which is lost. He came to give his life a ransom for many. And here, hundreds of years before, Jacob is blessing Ephraim The younger, keep that in mind. And Manasseh, the elder, he is blessing them with the blessing of Jesus Christ, the redeeming angel, the angel that saves. Oh, friends, it's glorious. If it doesn't thrill your soul, you need to be saved. The Word of God is so clear and so precious and so glorious. And so the blessings of God And look specifically in verse 16 what this blessing is. The angel which redeemed me from all evil blessed the landlads. And let my name be named on them. Israel says, let my name be named on Ephraim and Manasseh. Where were Ephraim and Manasseh born? Egypt. Have they ever seen Canaan? No! They have never seen the promised land! They were born to their father who was expelled from the promised land, or sold out of the promised land They were born to their father. They have grown up in Egyptian society. They are the grandsons of the Pharaoh. For Joseph has been brought into Pharaoh's inner circle. They are mighty men in this land. And here Isaac The blind elderly man, I'm sorry, Jacob the blind elderly man who's now known as Israel, he says, Oh no, not the world for my grandchildren. Not Egypt, but Canaan, not the world, but Jerusalem The city of God. We read in our responsive reading this morning about the beauties of Jerusalem. And though the beauties of Jerusalem spoken of were the beauties of the earthly Jerusalem, yet the psalm speaks of the beauties of the heavenly. The peace of the place of God Let my name be on these bo children who were born in Egypt. And I said that they were the grandchildren of the Pharaoh because of Joseph's position. Throughout Scripture, Pharaoh is a picture of Satan. Throughout Scripture, Pharaoh is a type of the devil. And here, when Jacob is blessing Ephraim and Manasseh, he says, may they not be of Egypt, may they not be of Satan. But oh, may they be of the God of my father and of my grandfather. Let the name of my father, Abraham and Isaac be upon them. But then look further there in verse 16 and let them grow into a multitude in the midst of the earth. A multitude in the midst of the earth Remember that phrase, highlight it in Scripture because it's going to be very significant when we go back to Luke 15. In Malachi chapter one, we read, From the rising of the sun, even to the going down of the same, my name shall be great among Israel? No. Malachi one eleven says among the Gentiles among the Gentiles. And so we find in verse seventeen and eighteen that the thing displeased Joseph. He wanted the blessing for the elder son, but the thing displeased Joseph, but it was right in the father's eyes. And in verse 19, or in verse 18, and Joseph said unto his father, Not so, my father, for this is the firstborn. Put thy right hand upon his head. And his father refused, verse 19, and said, I know it, my son, I know it. This is no mistake. He says it twice. This is not a mistake, Joseph. This is what is to be. I know it. I know it. He also shall become a people. That's Ephraim, or Manasseh the elder. He also shall become a people and shall be great. But truly the younger, Ephraim, shall be greater than he. And his seed shall become a multitude of nations. Ephraim's seed will be a multitude of nations, not just Israel. Multitude of nations indicates the Gentiles as well. Many nations will come from the younger brother from Ephraim. Verse 20. And God blessed him that day, saying, In thee shall all Israel bless, saying, God make thee as Ephraim and as Manasseh. And he set Manasseh before Manasseh. Now go across the page with me to chapter 49. And chapter 49 records Israel, Jacob, bringing before him all of his sons. This blessing was to Ephraim of Manasseh. They are the grandsons that are blessed. in verse forty in chapter forty-eight. But in chapter forty-nine we find all of Jacob's sons Coming before him one after another after another, and receiving from him a blessing. And here we come to verse 22, and we find in 49, verse 22 Israel's blessing on Joseph. Joseph, verse 22, is a fruitful bough. Even a fruitful bough by a well, whose branches run over the wall. Joseph's a fruitful bough. He's a branch, a vine that will bring forth a multitude of fruit. Who are Joseph's children? Ephraim the blessed younger, Manasseh the blessed elder. He's a fruitful bough by a well, by an unfailing source of water. Out of your belly shall flow rivers of water. He shall be like a tree planted beside the rivers of water. Who bringeth forth his leaf for the s season, and whose branches run over the wall The confinement will not limit him. The confinement will not keep the progenity of Joseph in, but rather it will go over the wall. The archers have grieved him and shot at him and hated him and his proginity. The archers have been after Joseph and his children. They have shot and they have grieved. But his bow abode in strength. And his arms of his hand were made strong by the hand of the mighty God of Jacob. Notice it doesn't say Abraham and Isaac. It says Jacob, because Abraham and Isaac's blessing is now in Jacob, and it is now going to Joseph and Ephraim and Manasseh. The mighty God of Jacob from thence is the shepherd and the stone of Israel. The shepherd and the stone of Israel. It comes from the mighty God of Jacob. Notice this is not the blessing given here to Ephraim and Manasseh, it is not the blessing of Judah. Judah's line was blessed with Messiah. But Ephraim and Manasseh's line has a different blessing. It's a blessing that spreads over the world. Verse 25, even by God the Father, who shall keep thee by the Almighty, who shall bless thee with blessings of heaven. the blessings of the deep that lieth under, the blessings of the breast and of the womb. The blessings of thy father have prevailed above the blessings of thy progenitors, even under the bounds of the everlasting hills. They shall be on the head of Joseph. and the crown on the head of him that was separated from his brethren. And so we find this blessing on Joseph, which extends to his children. Now, with that exposition from Genesis 48, let's return to the New Testament And to the book of Luke and chapter fifteen. I like to hear the sound of turning pages. I know a lot of people now use their phones and their their computers for the Word of God and it is handy to have it always in your pocket. But I like to hear pages turn too. This fifteenth chapter of Luke, Christ gives us parables of the lost being returned. And we find in verses one and two that the publicans and sinners The publicans are Jews that have joined themselves to the pagans, to the Romans. They're outside of covenant. And the sinners are Gentiles who never had any relationship to the covenant, and they are rejected by the righteous scribes and Pharisees and Sanhedrin who looked down on them and who love to stand on the street courts Corners pray. And so we find that the publicans and sinners drew near for to hear him. Faith cometh by hearing, and hearing by the Word of God. And the Pharisees and scribes murmured, saying, This man receiveth sinners and eateth with them. And then the chapter continues in verses 3 through 7 with the parable of the lost sheep. And then in verses 8 through 9, the parable of the lost coin. And we find in verse seven, Christ says, I say likewise, there shall be joy in heaven over one sinner that repenteth. And again in verse ten, there is joy in the presence of the angels over one sinner that repenteth Over one sinner that is brought from death in sin to life in Christ. But the Pharisees, no, no, no, it can't be Just as in Genesis 48 we saw, not so, my father, not so. And the father says, I know it, I know it. I have guided my hands wittingly. This was the eternal planet of God. And so we come Down to verse 12 of Luke 15, and we find that the younger brother says to his father, Give me the portions of good that fall to me, and he divided unto him. His substance is living. The younger brother, remember Ephraim the younger, and Manasseh the elder. The younger brother Says, give me that which comes to me, and he takes his journey. He goes out into the world. The Gentile nations, the unbelievers who would someday make up the church. have received all the blessings of God. The sunshine. We can't live without sun. Rain can't live without rain The earth that brings forth fruits, we need to eat. The air that we breathe in all comes from God. In fact, the heavens declare the glory of God and the firmament showeth his handiwork. All around us are the beauties of creation. And here, the younger brother, he receives that which he needs to live. He receives a substance from his father, and he goes out into the world, just as we find that Cain went out from the presence of God. And as we find that Jonah tried to run from the presence of God, so the younger brother receives the blessings of God and he goes out into the world. And I often think of that beautiful missionary hymn from Reginald Hebert, What though the spicy breezes blow soft On silence isle, where every prospect pleases, And only man is vile. In vain with lavish kindness the gifts of God are strove The heathen in his blindness bows down to wood and stone. And oh I I I repeated those words in my heart so many times. in Jamaica, coming down off a certain mountain from Fairview. There's a space where the trees would open up and you could see all across the plain of Savannah, the plain of Savannah Lamar where we were ministering. You could see acres and acres and acres. It was beautiful and it was gorgeous. And I often thought of those words where every prospect pleases. Ah, how the blessings of God, the substance of the living of the Father, was given to mankind, and yet man departed from God. And man wasted all the blessings of God with righteous living. As the brother would say, he has spent his living with harlots. And so the elder brother who stayed at home and the younger brother who squandered it all, the younger brother who departed from the father. And so not many days after the younger took his journey, and there arose a mighty famine. The wage of sin, his death There's a way that seemeth right unto a man, but the ends thereof are the ways of death. And so God, in his mercy, sends a famine Let me say that again. That's not a mistake. God, in his mercy, sends a famine. You see, if there had not come a famine, the younger brother never would have returned to the Father. If there had not been a famine, the younger brother would have been satisfied enough. To live in a foreign country and serve a citizen of that country. But God sent a famine. In Amos chap 8, verses 11 and 12. Read, Behold, the days come, saith the Lord God, that I will send a famine in the land, not a famine of bread. Nor a thirst for water, but of the hearing of the word of the Lord. And they shall wander from sea to sea, and from north even to the east And they shall run to and fro to seek the word of the Lord, and shall not find it. God said there to Israel, I'm going to send a famine, not a famine for bread and water, but a famine for the Word of God. I'm going to make you hungry for it. Because until I make you hungry for it you won't desire it. And until the famine came, this young man was happy enough to live in righteous living. But now he joins himself to a citiz citizen of that country. He joins himself to Pharaoh. He joins himself to Satan. And remember the blessing that we saw on Ephraim and Manasseh. They're not the sons of Pharaoh. May Pharaoh's name not be on them, but by the name of Jehovah God, who has sworn by himself. May that name be on Ephraim the younger and Manasseh the elder. And so, how many religions has man created? Brother Vince mentioned this somewhat in Sunday school this morning. How many religions has man created? Because it's been said man has a God-sized hole in his heart. Man was created to worship God, and yet man lost the ability to worship God in the fall. And so man comes up with many devices. How many cults have man created? How many antichrists have claimed to have special revelation? How many denominations are there? How many of men have set themselves up as rulers in the house of God? You see, man is seeking for something, but man can never find that which he satisfies until he goes back to the Father. And so this young man comes to himself, the Spirit of God awakens his heart, and he says, How many servants in my father's house? Have food enough to spare, and I'm here serving a pig farmer and suffering and starving to death. How many servants in my father's house have bread enough to spare and I perish with hunger? I will arise and go to my Father and say, Father, I have sinned against heaven and in thy sight And am no longer worthy to be called thy son. Make me as one of thy heart servants. And so we find this younger brother who through the famine has been drawn back to the Father, no man can come unto me. except that we're given him of my Father. No man can come unto me except the Father which has sent me draw him. John 6 And his father sees him a wit great wolf, and his father runs to him and embraces him and kisses him. And the son says, Father, I've sinned against thee. And before heaven, and I'm no longer worthy to be called thy son. And the father says, kill the fatted calf, bring the white robe. Put a ring on his hand, kill the fatted calf, for this my son was dead and is alive again. He was lost, and he is found. And he's received back to the Father. I would submit to you, my my friends, that in Genesis 48, with the younger being promoted before the elder. I believe we have there a shadow, not a not a hard type that is Spelled out for us in Scripture. But I believe we have a reflection of the Church and Israel. For when we come to Luke 15, it is very clearly the lost, the rebellious, those who are the Pharisees, the publicans, and sinners. who are departed from the Lord, that are returned to the Father and receive with joy. And we find the younger being exalted above the elder. And we find the scribes and Pharisees saying, He eats with publicans and sinners. And we find the elder brother saying, I never left you and you didn't give me a kid. I didn't wander out in the world like the Gentiles. And yet today we find the church exalted above Israel. With all the blessings of Israel, we find the church bounding over the walls. As we saw in Ephraim, in Ephraim would be many nations. Go ye into all the world and preach the gospel to every creature. And so we find the glorious truth that God has exalted the church, which is the newcomer. The church, which is now promoted to honor and providence, and glory above Israel. Carrying with it all the blessings of Israel. God chose the younger over the elder. And today we find Israel saying, Not so, my father. Not so, my father. We will not have this man to rule over us. And so while poor Israel still looks for a messiah, Just as the elder brother would not go into the house. So the church stands today with all the blessings of the Lord. And as we saw in chapter 49 of Genesis, the archers have shot at the church. And the archers have hated the church, and the archers have oppressed the church. But we find, looking back to Genesis chapter 49, But is Beau abode in strength? The gates of hell have not prevailed against it. But his bow abode in strength. The arms of his hand were made strong by the hand of the mighty God of Jacob. Who is the God who is the God of the church? It's the God who swore by himself. It is the mighty God of Jacob. Even the God of thy fathers who helped thee, and by the Almighty, who shall bless thee. The blessings of heaven above, the blessings of the deep that lieth beneath, the blessings of the breast, and the blessings of the will. The blessings of children And what is it that the church does? It reproduces and reproduces and reproduces. Born of God. Born into the family of Christ And so we find that today the church who is younger than Israel is blessed above Israel. We find that the church, who is the newcomer, is blessed with all the blessings of Abraham. And the church has risen to prominence and even leadership over the elder brother. Israel. Christ hath redeemed us from the curse of the law, being made a curse for us, for it is written, Cursed is everyone that hangs on the tree. That the blessings of Abraham might come on the Gentiles through Christ. That we might receive the promise of the Spirit through faith. Oh my brethren, my dear friends, doesn't that make you love this book? Doesn't that make you rejoice that God's word is so rich and plain? And oh my friend, if you're here with us in person or listening online, if you don't know the God of Jacob. If you are still like that younger brother living in riotous living, it's not going to take you anywhere but to famine. Come to the father's house where there's enough. Let us stand as we pray. O great Father, our Heavenly Father, Jehovah God, we rejoice in thy word, we rejoice in thy great salvation. We rejoice that you've given us a place of honor in your family. Father, may we be faithful to proclaim the gospel of Jesus Christ throughout the world. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.