Turn with me to First Samuel chapter sixteen. First Samuel chapter sixteen, verses thirteen through twenty-three. Then Samuel took the horn of oil, and Samuel anointed him, that is David, in the midst of his brethren. And the Spirit of the Lord came upon David from that day forward. Never left him. So Samuel rose up and went to Rama. But the spirit of the Lord departed from Saul. And an evil spirit from the Lord troubled him. And Saul's servant said unto him, Behold now, an evil spirit from God troubleth thee. Let our Lord now command thy servants which are before thee. To seek out a man who is a cunning player on a harp, and it shall come to pass when the evil spirit from God is upon thee, that he shall play and with his hand, and thou shalt be well And Saul said unto his servants, Provide me now a man that can play well and bring him to me. Then answered one of the servants and said, Behold, I have seen a son of Jesse, the Bethelmite That is cunning and playing, and a mighty valiant man, and a man of war, and prudent in matters, and a calmly person. And the Lord is with him. Wherefore Saul sent messengers unto Jesse and said, Send me David thy son, which is with sheep. And Jesse took an ass laden with bread and a bottle of wine and a kid, and sent them by David his son unto Saul. And David came to Saul and stood before him. And he that is Saul loved him greatly, and he became his armor bearer. And Saul said to Jesse, saying, Let David, I pray thee, stand before me For ye have found favor in my sight. And it came to pass when the evil spirit from God was upon Saul, that David took at heart and played with his hand. And so Saul was refreshed and was well, and the evil spirit departed from him. Ooh, how tempting to talk about music in the church today with these verses. But we won't say much about it, somewhat, but not a lot. Verses 13 and 14 we read quite a parallel between two individuals. The Spirit of the Lord came upon David. But the Spirit of the Lord departed from Saul. There's now a very big difference between David and Saul. There may be a very big difference between you and someone sitting next to you, or in front of you, or behind you. There was certainly a big difference between them. And I want you to note this that the Lord, the Spirit of the Lord came upon David. The Spirit of the Lord departed from Saul. The Lord was in charge of whether the Spirit came or departed. I love in Corinthians 4. 7, it says, who maketh thee to differ one from another? It is obvious that God has made Saul and David To differ one from another. And that's the same case for all of us sitting here. If you're saved or you're not. If you're a saint or an eighth. God has made the difference God has made the determination. What hast thou dost not receive? It says in 1 Corinthians 4 and 7. If you receive the Spirit of God, if you're born again, you've received it from God. You had nothing to do with it of yourself. What have you received that does not come From the Lord, 1 Corinthians 4 and 7. The body of a believer is called the temple of the Holy Spirit, 1 Corinthians 6 and 19, and that's because the Holy Spirit, if you're saved, dwells within us or in our hearts. Uh the Bible also tells us that Christ, if we're saved, dwells in our heart as well, Ephesians 3 and 17. So we are a building, we are a temple, and the Holy Spirit either dwells in there and we're a temple, or he doesn't dwell in us. And we're just a body. Now, when the building is occupied by the owner, by the Holy Spirit, by God, what a difference. You know that when you're outside and you look at a building, you can tell if it's occupied or not, especially at night. There's lights on inside, right? There's illumination to a building that is occupied. So you see the interior by the illumination, by the brightness, the sparkle in someone's eye, and and uh the smile on her face. Even the exterior of a building tells you whether it's occupied or not, whether it's well kept, whether the launch cut, whether the mailbox is stuffed with fifteen newspapers, and uh you can tell whether a building is occupied. You can tell when a person is saved for the most part as well. But when the building is not occupied, it's no it's not a temple of the Holy Spirit, you can also tell Because especially at night, the building is dark, dark inside And if you're not saved, your building is dark inside. And the exterior is oftentimes unkempt. Dilapidated and rather than a nicely cut lawn on the outside of a building that is unoccupied are weeds, overgrown grass, old newspapers scattered across the lawn. It's not hard to tell when a building is not occupied. And then the sad thing is, when a building is not occupied, it isn't long before intruders break in. Vagrants, or scripture tells us, demons. The spirit of the Lord departed from Saul, and an evil spirit from the Lord troubled Saul. If you're not saved this morning, Your temple or your building is empty. It's dark. It's dilapidated. You don't see it, but there's a s there's a sign on the outside of you, uh you can't see it. We can't see it But the spirit world can. And you know what your you know what the sign on the outside of your of your body or building says if you're not saved? Vacancy, vacancy, vacancy, flashing. And the demons will eventually see that sign and and they'll enter in. And that's what happened with Saul. The Spirit of the Lord departed from him and there There was a vacancy. There was a vacuum. And this troubling spirit, this evil spirit, came into him. If you're not saved this morning, I want you to think about that vacancy that's being broadcast spirit world and what the vagrants and the demons that will be attracted to you. It is of the Lord, however, whether the spirit comes upon you or whether it leaves you or in fact it even says here that that the spirit of the Lord departed Saul and an evil spirit where the evil spirit come from? The evil spirit from the Lord. God will send an evil spirit As you did to Saul here. Your building won't stay vacant long before you'll have intruders that you never dreamed. He cannot trouble us without God's permission. We know that. We know that in the book of Job, when the devil came and Or Satan, and he wanted to trouble Job. God said, Consider my man Job, a righteous man is he. And Satan said, Yes, I've been going to and fro about the earth, but I'd like to give him a little uh headache or two, I'd like to create some problems with him until he curses you. And God says, You have my permission But you may not touch the soul. And so we know that the evil spirits, uh the satanic spirits, the demons, they cannot do anything to you without God's permission. But if you're an empty building, God often gives the permission. Maybe not to possess you, but to obsess with you and make your life miserable. It was with King Saul here when this spiritual, filthy, spiritual company arrived and entered into Saul. It says he had a troubling spirit and encompassed him with fears. uh fears about his kingdom being overthrown and fears about himself being uh tossed out and replaced. Samuel told him he would be replaced. He became paranoia. He was filled with depression. He was filled with rage at times. He wanted to kill his own son. We read that just a few chapters back. If the Spirit of Christ is not occupying our hearts, demons will gladly fill it with eternal misery. And this is where we find Saul this morning. And so I asked you this morning the first question: Does the Spirit of Christ reside in your heart? What a what a you talk about a security system. I mean most robbers will not enter your home if they know you're there That's why if you go away on vacation you leave some lights on. You don't want them to know that you're not there. If they know Christ is in your heart They're not even going to try to possess you. They may harass you. They may agitate you and irritate you, but they cannot possess you. They will not even attempt to enter in So is the Spirit of the Lord Jesus Christ residing in your heart? That's a great security. And if he's there, the scripture tells us, he will never leave us. or forsake us. And our title of semester this morning is of the Lord, so let me just say in the beginning that the Spirit of the Lord came upon David. The Spirit of the Lord came upon David. It was of the Lord, was it not? The Spirit of uh so left King Saul, that was also of the Lord. And then when the evil spirit came upon Saul, it was also of the Lord. Everything that takes place in our life, it is of the Lord. And if the Lord has come upon you, if the Lord Jesus Christ is in your heart, it's of the Lord, and holiness will begin To subdue your flesh. You'll notice some changes in your life. Your ears will begin to obey the word of God. Your eyes will begin to enjoy looking upon purity. And your tongue will begin to say things that are edifying And uplifting and encouraging and godly. And your tongue will finally at some point in time be able to say, Bless the Lord, all my soul, and all that is in me. Praise His holy name That's what your tongue will do. If the Lord Jesus Christ is in you, things really change. King Saul's life was just the opposite. Just the opposite. Even his advisors recognized, and we will see this several times in Scripture, but the advisors, they they recognized that an evil spirit had come upon Paul. Or Saul rather, King Saul. They they recognize that. They we can recognize that sometimes when someone you you just feel that there's something evil about them. You just feel that there's something that's uh It needs to be avoided. You pray for them. And his advisors, they they offered him a solution. We read in verses 15 and 16. It says Saul's servant said, An evil spirit from God troubleth thee You know, I don't know how spiritual these advisors were, but they at least recognized that the things about Saul had changed. He wasn't what he used to be. He was different and it wasn't good And and they said it was it in fact the change was so dramatic, they didn't just say he got moved become a little bit of a sour puss. They didn't say we he's just dealing a little bit a little bit of depression. Uh they didn't they say why he's having a bad day, he got on the wrong side of bed. It was a dramatic change, so dramatic that the servants said an evil spirit from God troubled them. They couldn't see anything else to cause such a dramatic change in his life, except that an evil spirit Troubled him. And they said, Seek out a man who is cunning player on the heart that he shall play and thou shalt be well. And Saul said, Bring him to me. So you know Saul was willing to have anything to get rid of this this this this this fear he had and this hatred and this rage that he had and and the what this whatever is boiling up inside of him. Sometimes people were saved. They don't like the way they are either. It's it's so easy to hate the unsaved. We shouldn't They've just been taken over by the demonic world. They're prisoners of war. They're in chains. They're in prison. They're in bondage. Does anybody hate someone that's in prison? We've got a pastor in in prison over there in Somalia and and other Nations, Muslim nations, do we hate the guy because he's in prison? No. We pray for him. And we need to pray for people. If someone's in bondage to sodomy, we need to pray for them. Not hate them. They're in bondage Someone's into drugs, we need to pray for them. They're in bondage. And here with Saul, he was He was definitely in bondage. He was hurting. And Saul said, if you've got a guy that can play music and drive away the evil spirit, you bring him to me. And this is not the only time we see something like this where where music was to edify and lift up and encourage. We we find when Elijah uh sought the Lord, there was a there were Israelites who they would they joined you know with with the uh the tribe of judah and and they were and they were fighting the Moabites and and Jehoshaphat. He shouldn't have even gotten a line with the Israelites but he did and And Elijah was asked to help out and Elijah uh he says, uh, you know, I wouldn't even help you. I wouldn't even help this h this this warrior fighting with the Moabites, except that King's Jehovah's a godly man is with you and so he said, I will pray for you and I will see what God would do for you But he said Bring me a minstrel. Bring me a minstrel. Bring me someone who can who can play an instrument that will set my mind in such a manner that I can approach God in a in a in a spiritual manner. And and pray and ask what God might share with me that would deliver us. Saul wanted to be delivered. Bring me a minstrel, bring me David the harp player And Elijah wanted to see the people of Israel and Judah delivered from the Moabites. So he said, bring me a minstrel. Music uh can be used uh in many ways, many good ways And so has anyone here ever sought the Lord? The Lord Jesus Christ for deliverance Elijah wanted deliverance from the Moabites, Saul wanted deliverance from evil spirit. Have you ever sought the Lord Jesus Christ for deliverance from Satan? Or yourself or sin. I say from yourself. He's he's out there and one day he's on his knees in this cartoon. It's it's about four caps of a cartoon. And Reverend Wilbiedone he's he's really a he's a super liberal but he's he's he's also humorous and he's always getting caught by the Bible believers, you know, nailing him with different different situations. And so we'll be done. He's trying to be very godly. He drops down in front of his congregation on his knees and says, Oh God, deliver me from my worst enemy. And a lightning bolt strikes him and turns in the dust, you know Sometimes we are our worst enemies, our sin nature in us. So if you ask God to deliver you, the Lord Jesus Christ to deliver you from Satan, sin, and yourself. Had to think about Elijah ordering a minstrel before he prophesied. and explain how God would deliver Israel and Judah and and so the minister came and I just had to think that he If he's going to really encourage Elijah, if Elijah's really getting any kind of direction at all, he had to have been playing and singing the Psalms of David, right? I mean the Psalms of David were written by Second Kings chapter three verses fourteen and fifteen. And certainly in those songs, in the Word of God, as he was singing those Psalms, he got uh some spiritual direction and leading and and he shares with them. how God is going to deliver them. Music, godly music, can embolden the soldier as it emboldened the army. Armies of Israel in the days of Elijah, it can embolden the soldiers, it can it can relax someone in the dentist chair. Did you know that? Type of music. You ever go in a dentist chair or in the dentist office or or you ever go into a hospital and you ever notice when you're in the in the dental office and you know they're gonna do that rut canal or gonna take out that wisdom tooth, you know and And the music playing, it's not Metallica, you know. Have you ever noticed that? It's not the Beastie Boys, it's not Guns N' Roses, right? I mean it's it's it's relaxing music Who wants to get caught in an elevator stuck between the 17th and the 18th floor and you're listening to Guns N' Roses and Metallica? I mean you don't need that Or in a hospital elevator, we could go in to visit loved ones. Or have you ever heard BC Boys at the funeral home? Or for the older folks, Pink Floyd, Black Sabbath, all these groups. They don't play that at the funeral homes, do they? They don't play that at the funeral homes Because music is never neutral. Music is never neutral. There is godly music. And there is music. That has an effect all the time. My wife and I, I guess that's why we like the hymns and the psalms, because We don't want music. We've been in an auto church where they got the drums and the bands, the snare drums, and uh 15 electric guitars. There's never a harp there. Why why don't these why don't these bands in these churches ever have a harp or a piano? You know, or a trumpet. A trumpet, Joshua used a trumpet of Jericho. You know, they don't do that. When we walk into those churches and we see and we listen to the music, uh see my wife, we came from the world. We came out of the nightclubs. We feel like we're back in the nightclubs. It doesn't do anything for our souls To hear the same music that we heard in the nightclubs. Music's important. And Saul needed godly music, but you know something? He needed music. More than that. His advisors didn't really advise him of his real need. Job 42 and 6 understood it. He needed to abhor himself and repent and dust and ashes before God and ask God to forgive him. That's why God had left him An evil spirit was troubling him. His advisors knew that, and they don't ask him to repent and to pray for forgiveness and to fall before the mercy of God. They don't nothing It's just like the world said. Is the world still offering us ill advice? Because this was just worldly advice. Let's get some nice soothing music, you know, and maybe drive the demons away and Boy, if you're coming to the church for the music and not the message, and not to be told of what you need to repent of and And how God is forgiving and gracious and loving and can forgive you for anything, no matter how many times you've done it, no matter who you've done it to, even if you've done it to God, He can forgive you. I mean that's what we're we're coming here to hear and and and to be encouraged and to understand that That God is merciful. God is great. He is more merciful than your parents. He's more merciful than your spouse. He's more merciful. Forget about the spouse. He's more merciful. He's more Percival than your grandparents He's more merciful than Grammy and Poppy. I mean he is just merciful. Turn to him if you're a sinner. But they didn't tell us all that. They said, oh, we're gonna bring in some music. You know, the world still is giving us a lot of bad advice, isn't it? What do they tell you today? You tell people you're struggling with you can't sleep at night, you've got insomnia, something's wrong with you. Psychiatrists say that the most things are wrong with people when they can't sleep If something's troubling them, something's bothering them, sometimes they say, this is what the psychiatrists say. It's the only time I ever agree with psychiatrists. They say the majority of people come to us after we had been psychiatrist for a number of years, we discovered that their biggest problem is They're they're they're conscious of some sin they've committed. That's what the psychiatrists say today. And what do you do? Well we we give them drugs to We give them drugs to dull the conscience. That's not good advice. Or we recommend a couple stiff drinks to wash their sorrows away. Or we fill their heads. And their hearts with Freudian concepts. Anything but the gospel of Christ. That's what the world will give you. Anything. They'll give you anything but the gospel of Christ. Gestalt theory, some of you remember we grew up gestalt theory. Saul should have been advised to ask the Lord for mercy. You know why you should have been advised to ask the Lord for mercy? Because the evil spirit, it is of the Lord, right? That's what it says. The evil spirit came from the Lord, so what do you do? You ask God to get rid of the evil spirit. The evil spirit is of the Lord, just the spirit that came across upon David, that blessed David. It was of the Lord. And so Saul needs to ask God for mercy because the evil spirit, it is of the Lord. However, one of the servants, or perhaps several of them, in verse 18, they said, I've seen the son of Jesse, cunning and playing, a mighty valiant man, and the Lord is with him. I think it's amazing that Saul does not suspect that David, the young shepherd boy, was His replacement. Remember Samuel had said, King Saul, God is through with you. The Spirit of God is going to depart from you, and you're no longer his anointed, and he's going to replace you with someone from another tribe. And Saul had to start thinking, from another tribe. What tribe? Well, if he knew the scripture all he'd know it'd be from the tribe of Judah. But here he is. He needs to have someone come in and play the harp and ease him. And here comes the Jesse son David. From another tribe. And he never seemed to think about the He's a godly man, he's a valiant man. And Saul just doesn't seem to have a clue that this could be my replacement and I'm bringing him into my own household. And David must have been thinking, he's out there in the field with the sheep and spend it's probably been months. Maybe years since Samuel anointed him and said you're gonna be the king of Israel and and he's wondering if it's gonna happen tomorrow or next week or next month. When's this gonna happen? And nothing happens. He's still out there sheep and his brothers are still making fun of him and thinking he's a nobody and a nothing And all of a sudden he gets a call from his father, and he comes and says, Yes, father, what is it? He says, You need to go to Gibbyah, the king wants you in his court. Wow. Oh, he found out. I'm the one Sam the anointed. He found out on replacement. He's going to kill me. Dad, you know what's going on here? He says, well, take some wine, take some bread as a peace offering. Hey, isn't that what we're doing today? The wine and the bread? To recognize that we have peace, we're reconciled. It'll reconcile you to soul. Doesn't this reconcile us between God and found and saw that the pieces of your life that seem so fragmented that one day all of a sudden he starts coming together and you know why this happened and that happened and And you you just can't understand while some things are happening like your whole world's falling apart and there's pieces everywhere. And then all of a sudden they all start to come together. Wow. David must have thought, some of the pieces of my life are coming together after all these years out in the pasture All these years out to be made fun of by my brothers? Have you ever given God the glory for your favorable circumstances? Have you ever given God the glory for where you are today or something you're going through that's really wonderful and just fantastic? And rather than saying I'm I'm here, my my brain's got me where I am My skill got me where I am. My gifts, my natural gifts got me where I am. Or had we ever said, it's of the Lord. It's of the Lord. Low heart Is of the Lord the Lord Jesus Christ What scripture tells us in Romans 11:36 of Christ, that everything is of him, through him, and to him are all things to whom be glory forever. So if you're in a great circumstance and things are wonderful, It's of the Lord. It's not because you got that degree from Harvard. It's not because your next door neighbors are Some super guy that can help you out, you know, when the plumbing doesn't work. It's always of the Lord. Everything in your life is always of the Lord And that was the mind that David had here. He must have thought, I don't know if Saul's got. If Saul's found out that Samuel's anointing me and Saul's going to kill me, well It's of the Lord. I'm going to go. I've been called by the king if I say no, that can't be done. If I say yes, I may be dead, but I've got to go He thought that it was of the Lord. Everything was of the Lord. Saul was of a different mind. He didn't think everything was of the Lord. He said in verse 19 and 20, send me David. And Jesse sent David onto Saul. And David agreed to go. Psalm 13 and 6 says, The Lord is my helper, and I will not fear what man or what King Saul shall do unto me. Right? That's Hebrews 13 and 6. The Lord is with me. The Lord is my helper, and I shall not fear what man will do to me. Now that's Hebrews 13, 6. We don't really know that David thought, the Lord is my helper. Unless you read David's Psalm, chapter 54, and verse 4, which says, The Lord is my helper. Wow. The writer of Hebrews must have been quoting Psalms. David did believe the Lord is his helper. David did believe it was of the Lord. David wasn't afraid to go. He wasn't afraid of man. I will not fear what man shall do unto me. The Lord is my helper. We need to be there real soon, not to fear man In this country. We had it in Sunday school class this morning talking about how prejudiced the world this country has become against Christianity. They don't want to hire for jobs. They want to shut down your companies if you own a company. They'll keep you out of the military. They won't let you pray in Jesus' name. You know, Bible's out of school, prayer out of the school. We need to get to the point where the Lord is our helper, that it's of the Lord whatever happens to us, and not fear what man shall do to us. to us. So in verse 21, David comes. David came to Saul. And it says that Saul loved him greatly and he became his armor bearer. Wow. Wouldn't you just love it if if someone in high authority like the Prime Minister of England or the Queen of England loved you, you know. She wanted you to be her armor bearer or or if the uh the President of the United States or some Congress senator just says they just loved you and brought you in and they wanted you to work with them in the center of the House of Congress and I mean, how does that happen? That someone's heart just turns to someone and loves that person. I mean, David didn't have much of an education. He's a shepherd boy. Why would a king love a shepherd boy? The same reason, guys, the some of your wives love you. I mean we talk, ladies, we talk when we're by ourselves, the guys. Most of them will admit that we have married up, you know. We we know we got we know we got the best of the deal. Why did they fall in love with us? I mean, really, I saw guys out there. They were better looking, they were richer, they were talented, they were gifted. Why me? It's of the Lord. It's of the Lord. You saw lots of you're out there and you're you see some good looking guy, oh I hope I get his attention. I hope you'll like me. Oh I finally got a date with Johnny and I went out with Johnny. I hope he liked me. And then Johnny doesn't like you, and he wondered why Johnny doesn't like you. You wore your best dress and you had your makeup just right, and your hair was done, and you were so clever that night, and you made him laugh, and it just didn't go. Why? It's of the Lord. It's of the Lord. And here Saul, he loves David greatly, it says in verse 21. Greatly. David is now in the court of the king, and he's in the court of the king, and what's going to happen while he's in the court of the king? He's going to learn the decorum and the diplomacy expected of a king. He's getting an education. He's getting training. He's being trained by the king who loves him greatly. Here ain't God employs Saul to train Saul's replacement. Wow, you Can you see that? It's of the Lord. I mean it's just it's amazing. Man thinks he's in control of his destiny. Everybody tells, I've got free will, I can do what I want, I can go where I want, I can be what I want, I've got free will. But when you read up the scriptures We're not in control of our destiny. It's always of the Lord. Proverbs 16, 9 says, a man's heart deviseth his way. I'm going to go to Harvard. I'm going to go to Yale. I'm going to become the CEO of a company someday and I'm going to be rich someday. It doesn't work out that way. Lots lots of people from Harvard and Yale never became rich, never became CEOs I mean it says a man's heart deviseth his way, but the Lord directeth his steps. Proverbs 169 Let me just rehearse you just quickly here how it's always of the Lord, alright? An evil spirit from God troubles a king. It's of the Lord. Second thing. Saul's advisor for Paul Saul sent for a musician. It's of the Lord. Third thing, Saul agrees to send for the musician. Fourth thing, they choose David. It's of the Lord. Fifth thing, Jesse agrees to send David. Sixthing. David agrees to go. I mean, it's just go on and on. God has predestined this plan. It's going as he ordered it. It's going as he shaped it. It's going and it's going to be fulfilled because it's of the Lord. Everything in our life is of the Lord. You're not in control of anything. I mean, from where we stand, it looks like we have free will. We're doing what we want God is in control of every event, every encounter, and every experience you will ever have, including your salvation. Let me say that again. God is in control of every event, every encounter, and every experience you will ever have. You you run to some of the store in a different town, a different state, or you know, whatever you What a coincidence you never believe life walked into. It's not a coincidence. It's of the Lord. Have you ever heard someone say, Where is God in a time like this? I can't believe what's happening to me. Where is God in a time like this? He's in the minutest of the details. And where is God at a time like this? First off, friend, it's of the Lord. He's there. He's been there long before you got of that situation. And note, Saul said, David, he goes that not only as he greatly loved the Saul, but Saul says, David had found favor in my sight. And this too is of the Lord. For the king's heart is in the hand of the Lord, or in the hand of the king's heart or Saul's heart, is in the hand of the Lord as the rivers of water He turned it with us over he will. Proverbs twenty one one. Why does David found Favor in the eyes of Saul? Come on, it's of the Lord Do you really think people like you? Because you're so spiritual? Do you think they like you for your spirituality? You think they like you for your personality? You think they like you for humility? Do you think they like you for your good looks? They like you because it is of the Lord. So if your employer likes you, your neighbor likes you You know, some of the relatives like you. If the customers like you and you're a great salesman, it's of the Lord. Give God the glory for everything, friend. So David came and he played on the harp. And the evil spirit from God that was upon Saul, when David took the harp in verse 23 and played, Saul was refreshed, and the evil spirit departed. That's what good godly music will do, we could say, but that's not the application I'm going to make here. Why did the evil spirit depart? It was of the Lord that David might be endeared to Saul. If he had played and the evil spirit had not departed, he wouldn't have loved him, he wouldn't have favored him. And so it was of the Lord that the evil spirit departed. It endeared David to Saul's heart. For a season we'll learn, not forever. Far better, far better if Christ's sacrifice on the cross Has endeared your heart to him for all eternity. And if that's the case this morning, we ask you to join us in our communion. service. Ask if our elder would come forward and and amend that he has set aside to help in the distribution of the elements. Ask uh Dan if you would ask the blessing on the bread before we distribute it, please.