We're back in the book of Mark this morning, Mark chapter four. I think it's probably one of the most familiar passages in all of Scripture. You've probably heard numerous sermons on it. And we're going to hear another one. That's a challenge. Mark chapter 4, verses 1 through 12. And he began again to teach by the seaside, and there was gathered on him a great multitude. So they entered into a ship, and sat in the sea, and the whole multitude was by the sea on the land. And he taught them many things by parables, and said unto them in his doctrine Hearken, behold, there went out a sower to sow. And it came to pass, as he sowed, some fell by the wayside, and the fowls of the air came and devoured it up And some fell on stony ground, where it had not much earth, and immediately it sprang up, because it had no depth of earth. But when the sun was up it was scorched, and because it had no root, it withered away. And some fell among thorns, and the thorns grew up, and choked it, and it yielded no fruit. And other fell on good ground, and did yield fruit, that sprang up and increased and brought forth some thirty, some sixty, some a hundred. And he said to them, he that hath ears to hear, let him hear And when he was alone, they that were with him, or were about him, with the twelve, asked of him the parable. And he said of them, Aunt Judas given to know the mysteries of the kingdom of God But on them that are without all these things are done in parables, that seeing they may see and not perceive, and hearing they may hear and not understand. Lest at any time they should be converted and the sins should be forgiven them I know you say this morning and you're thinking, oh boy, been there before. Heard this message how many times now? And by the end of the message, some of you are probably saying, don't go there. Why did he have to go there? It seems like a harmless passage. There's some hard sayings here. Title of the Message this morning It's Given Unto You. This parable is recorded in Matthew 13 as well and Luke 8. We'll stick for the most part with Mark 4 this morning. Where there was a large gathering on him, a great multitude, in verse one. And verse two, he taught them many things by parables. Now the definition of a parable is that you take an ordinary event like sowing seed, an ordinary event, And you make a spiritual application to it. Or you take an earthly story, not a vulgar story, but you know, an earth story. Something happens on the earth, and you present it with heavenly meanings. Parables are not new. I think we think about parables all the time in the teaching of the Lord Jesus Christ. I hate just saying Jesus. It just bothers me when people talk that way. He's the Lord. Jesus Christ. But we think about parables as that's something the Lord Jesus Christ did, and and uh what a unique way to teach and instruct you know earthly things, physical things, and give a spiritual application. That's kind of unique. Ordinary event becomes something very heavenly as he applies it. But parables didn't start with the Lord Jesus Christ. The Old Testament prophets use them as well. Job did in chapter 29. David did in Psalm 49 and 4, where David writes, A parable, I will open my dark saying upon. Parables are dark sayings. Parables are things that when people hear 'em, and unless they are saved, unless God gives it to them, uh it is given unto you, we read here in the title of the message, and we read in Mark 4. It was given unto those to understand the parables because they're dark sayings. And David says in Psalm 49, 4, A parable I will open my dark saying upon my And Solomon in Proverbs 26 and 79 used parables. And in Ezekiel, Ezekiel 17, 2, Ezekiel says he would put forth a riddle and speak a parable. Riddles aren't easy to discern or to figure out, are they? And yet there were times when the prophets like Ezekiel and David, they share these parables With the elect, with the chosen, with the sheep, and nobody else got them because they were dark sayings. They were riddles. And now when the Lord Jesus Christ comes here and he begins to use the parables, we're going to find that Not everyone understood that. The Lord Jesus Christ was the one that never man spake as he spake, remember that We read of that in John 7 and 46. He would speak and astonish the doctors in the temple at the age of twelve. We read about that in Luke 2 and 42 through 47. He is a twelve-year-old could astonish the doctors answering their questions and asking them questions that they could not answer. Never a man's fake is Christ fake And he would also console the bereaved Martha when her brother John uh r brother Lazarus was dead in John eleven and twenty-three. And he he consoled her and he said, Thy brother shall rise again. Wow, what a what a consoling thought that is when we lose loved ones that they will rise again. And so he could astonish the doctors, he could console the bereaved Martha He could bewilder King Herod and Caiaphas the high priest with his speech. He could predict future events, the Lord Jesus Christ. He could rebuke Pilate We repeat of that John nineteen or verse eleven. He commanded the weather, diseases, demons, and the dead even obeyed him his voice. Never a man spake as he spake. There was no problem with his communication skills by any stretch of the imagination. And yet here he begins to speak in parables, in dark sayings or riddles, and some are not going to get it. Why wouldn't he speak more clearly? In verse 3 it says, hearken, listen, pay attention. The words of Christ demand our attention. He has the words of eternal life we read in John 6:68. If he has the words for eternal life, we ought to hearken. We ought to pay attention to them. And my question to you this morning would be, do his words ever grasp you to the point where you cannot but hearken to them? Do his words ever seize you? Do they ever grab you? Do they ever captivate you? Because he says, Hearken unto me, I have the words of eternal life. And so many people out there, it's never grabbed them, grasped them, captivated their heart. They know the stories. A lot of unsaved people know the story of the sower that went out to sow seed. They know some as parables. One of the commentators I was looking at, when it says, hearken and behold, or hearken and look Pay attention. Look up here. I'm talking. He's standing on the ship. They're on the shore. He says, he says, hearken, listen up, hear, and behold, look at me. I'm telling you something that's important. Look Behold, when the commentator says, well, in the modern vernacular, he's saying, Once upon a time That's an introduction to a fairy tale. That's an introduction to something that's not true. Why on earth a commentary would say that the word behold can be translated once upon a time I found that disgusting. Commentaries treat the Bible sometimes like it's a fair He says there, behold, there went out a sower, that is an evangelist, a preacher, a minister, a Christian who was sowing seeds, sharing the gospel with somebody. And it came to pass that he sowed some fell by the wayside and the fowls of the air, if you've ever seen a farmer out there plowing and seeding his field, following behind the cedar Birds, seagulls, ravens are just all over the place and are landing in the plowed field behind him because it's digging up worms and he's dropping seed. And the fowl do gather where he sow her seeds And it came to pass as he sowed some fell by the wayside in the fowls of the air. Now, the the tough part about talking about this passage in Mark 4 is commentators love to come up with all kinds of ideas and make all kinds of applications. But the problem here with Mark 4, 1 through 12 is if you read the rest of verses, Christ gives his commentary. He explains it to us. There's really I I could read as we read verses one through twelve, I could say, now let's read verses uh thirteen through twenty. And then I could sit down and we'd be done. Because Christ gives a commentary here. We don't really have to read a lot of commentaries to find out what he's saying here. But he says the fowls of the air came in verse 15, he said the fowls of the air represent the prince of the air, or Satan himself. He says in verse fifteen. Satan came and devoured it up. So when you're out there preaching or teaching or sharing a track with somebody and you give them the word and they they may take it and stick it in their pocket or as they're walking away looking at it Satan comes into their into their presence or one of his demons and the wind blows it out of the person's hand or the person just chucks it over their shoulder. It it doesn't take long. But it says here in verse fifteen, the fowls of the air, uh the prince of the air. Satan, it says in verse fifteen, is that the f he is represented by the the fowls of the air. And he came and devoured it up. And so of course the seed didn't germinate. Nothing grew from it. And then we read here that as it came to pass, he so some fell by the wayside, why already said that, and it uh it was devoured. But What we learn from this verse here, what we're going to learn from the other verses as well, Pilgrim, is not every egg that is laid hatches. Not every seed that is sown germinates or grows. Not every faithful witness converts a wandering Soul. Have you experienced that? You've given out tracts, you've witnessed a lot of people, and you don't see anything come of it. Not much comes. We've got four different types of soil here and you know one out of four gets traction. One out of four we have fruits. We can give out a lot of traction, witness a lot, share Bible verses, and become very discouraged. But here we're being told to expect that. And verse five, some fell on stony ground where it had not much earth. If I were to fill a flower pot with a lot of stones and just a little bit of dirt and plant carrots seeds in that, it's not going to go anywhere, is it There's no soil. It's just a stony base with a little bit of soil and it'll try to grow and then the sun comes out and heats up that topsoil so bad it just shrivels and withers away. There's no depth, there's no foundation. And when the sun was up, it says in verse six, it was scorched from the affliction, it says in verse seventeen. What does it mean to be scorched? You give out the word And there's no foundation. It's a stony bu base with just a little bit of dirt. And as the sun comes out and it's scorched. What does it mean? What does it mean it's scorched? Well, in verse 17, Christ defines what's going on here Christ says in verse seventeen that the word was planted, but affliction came, trials came, and people said, I wanted to be a Christian, but boy, it's getting pretty hot in the kitchen here. Persecution and and all this affliction. And that's what Christ says that the scorching of the sun represents. The affliction. Can't take the heat. We get out of the the kitchen as it were. Because it had no root and it withered away. And so some people uh they start to appear to grow quickly, but there's no foundation. Uh no substance. They don't read the Bible. They hear a Bible verse and they think they're saved. And maybe they start uh praying a little bit and going to church, but there's no foundation laid and it withers under Persecution, people making fun of them at home or at work. And so Christ defines here the scorching of the sun as the affliction and the persecution. That's the shallow foundation. People with a shallow foundation will not take the heat and the persecution. They lack moisture, they lack living water. There's no place for the water to be absorbed. The level of soil is so thin and all rocky base. In verse 7, some fell among thorns. Wow, what could we do with the thorns? Well, we don't have to worry about verse 7 because Christ explains what the thorns are in verse 19. Worldly cares, riches, and the lust of the flesh. These thorns, they they grow up. What happens when you have a thorny field? By the way, if you want to know if there's any thorns in your yard or your field, remember what the curse of Adam and Eve was? When they said in the garden, he said that the ground would bring forth thorns and thistles. I mean, unless you're out there weeding and spraying chemlon or something out there, you're gonna have thorns and thistles thistles and weeds and unsurprisingly maybe, maybe not to some of you, weeds and thorns and thistles, they grow faster than anything you plant. Then now they grow faster, they absorb all the nutrients out of the soil. And so when you combine, you plant something, and the thorns and the thistles are there. There's no nutrients left. It's been all absorbed by the thorns and the thistles. And it says here that they fell among thorns, and the thorns grew up and choked it. And it yielded no fruit. And so the thorns and thistles, they choke or they smother what you've planted. They choke it and it doesn't grow. And Christ defines here what chokes us as we start to grow in grace and knowledge of the Lord. Christ says in verse 19, worldly cares. Riches get in the way, lust for things that we want. If we abide not in Christ, we will be found among the thorns, the thorn-cursed world, and we're not going to produce fruit if we spend time with the worldly segments of society. We won't produce fruit. We won't produce another generation of sheep. That's what will happen to us if we spend too much time in the world and lusting after the things of the flesh. And so I'd ask you today, are you distracted by and do you lust after the things of this world? Because if you are, you are encompassed about with the thorns that Christ talks about here. And it's going to smother you. It's going to destroy you. It's going to quench you. It's going to prevent you from producing fruits. Your children won't follow you. No one will follow you. In fact, if you wonder if you're distracted too much by the world today and the lust of the things, if you're wondering if these things are suffocating you Ask yourself this. Is the worship service a delight to you? Do you look forward to coming to the Lord's house and meet the Lord's people? Or is it A boring hour of your life that you just put up with. I'm not going to ask for a raise of hands, but if it's not a delight and if it's a boring thing to you, the world is smothering you. The lusts of the flesh are smothering you. And that's why it's not a delight to you. Now in verse 8 we find after after three poor soils samples, three out of four so far, nothing has gone right with all the sowing. But in verse eight, and others fell on good ground and did yield fruit, and increased some thirty, some sixty, and some a hundred. There is a success in preaching and in evangelizing and witnessing But the Lord's in control of how successful we are. The success of a preaching will vary. Well, I've heard uh years ago on Family Radio, there was a preacher on there. His name was William Downing. Guy was fantastic. Reformed Baptist preacher. I have never in my life, uh maybe Adrian Rogers, about the second best I've heard of the Baptist preachers in my day and life. Adrian Rogers is superb. He died maybe eight, nine years ago. If you've ever heard of Adrian how many ever heard of Adrian Rogers I think that's fantastic. Uh just some dynamic, fiery people. But I went to uh William I've never been to Adrian Rogers Church, but we went to William Downey's church out in California And San Jose. And I just knew with his preaching, and we had all his tapes, all of them were so good. I just knew he must have had a gigantic church. His church was about the size of our section over here on the left. You see, the success of preaching will vary. And then you'll listen to some preachers on the radio and oh they got some good points, you know, might listen to 'em again. And then one day you hear they're on TV, you turn on the TV, we have five thousand, ten thousand people there. You go, whoa. You never would have thought that would God determines the success of the ministry. In verse 9 he said, He that have ears to hear, let him hear. He's already given them the parable, and now Christ says, He that has ears to hear, let him hear. Christ repeats this phrase, by the way, probably more often than any other phrase that he uses in Scripture. He that hath ears to hear, let him hear. You'll find that in Matthew 11, 15. You'll find it in Matthew 13, 43. You'll find it in Mark 4. 22 You'll find it in Luke 8. 8, Luke 4. 35, Revelation 2. 7, Revelation 211, Revelation 17, Revelation 2, 17, and 229, Re Tabulation three six and three thirteen and three 22 and on and on we go. It's probably the most common phrase that we'll find in Scripture. Let him that have ears, let him hear. If you've got ears, hearken, listen to what Christ has to say. Now I know he's not on a ship in front of you this morning, but we're reading his words. Hearken. Listen. How many people you sit in front of a TV set and you're watching some movie or show you really like and the commercial comes on and you just sit there and you listen to the same stupid commercial. And about halfway through it you'll wonder why you're still sitting there listening to this dribble. You'll hearken onto a commercial And I on the word of the thrice holy God. So he tells us time and time again, he that ears to hear, let him hear. Ears can't be better employed than to listen to the words of Christ. Ears can't be better employed than to listen to the gospel, to listen to the words of God. Listen, hearken. Behold. And when he was alone, they that were about him with the twelve. Now I want you to you to look at that verse or uh because verses uh nine and ten says that they that were about him with the twelve. So what this next scene is the twelve disciples come with Christ, but also they were about him. There were others that came with the twelve, all right? There were others that still had an interest in hearing what more he had to say And it says that they asked him of the parable. Not just the twelve disciples, but those that came with the twelve disciples. They wanted to know more about this parable. And then the verses that we alluded to here from verse Verse 13 on up to 20, he explains more clearly the parable. Makes sure they want to get it. In fact, he puts it in their heart that they want to have it explained. They they followed him and said, Look, we want to ask you about this parable. He puts it in their heart. Most of the multitude, but the great multitude, they went their way. But there was also a group here who came with the disciples and they wanted the parable more clearly described. Because parables are riddles, parables are dark things. They want to know if they've grasped everything or is there more in it or not. And then he explains it in the following verses. Do you believe it's beneficial to keep company with those who are intimate with Christ? Because these people here, it says, and they came with the twelve. It's it's it's important that we are intimate with people who are intimate with Christ. It's in it's important that we keep company of those people who want to dwell Delve deeper into the word. Is that the kind of friends you have? People who want to delve deeper into the word. That pays great dividends, friends And these people who followed the twelve disciples and asked of the Lord Jesus Christ, not just the 12, but those with them, they asked him of the parable. It is beneficial to keep company with those who are intimate with Christ, those who want to delve deeper in the Word. So now this is where I get in trouble. maybe. Let's delve deeper into the word of what Christ said. First ten verses. Everyone's familiar with that I don't think they're so familiar with what Christ said when they wanted to dwell, delve deeper into the Word. Verse 11. And he said unto He said, the others are satisfied. Oh that's a cute little story, those sore, we don't associate, but they're gone. But he said, You Verse eleven, it is given to know the mystery of the kingdom of God. Do you know you can't get in the kingdom of God? You have no interest in going to the kingdom of God. No interest in heaven at all unless it is given to you. He said unto you, It is given to you to know the mystery of the kingdom of God, the gift of knowledge To understand the scriptures, not to read them and say, Oh, Jesus was born of a virgin and he healed a leper, he healed. That's not wisdom. That's just having some knowledge. But the real gift of knowledge that he gives unto us It can't be earned. It can't be deserved. It can't be merited. It is disclosed unto those whom Christ will disclose it. to. And he discloses it to the 12 here. He said unto them, unto you it is given to know. And you meet a lot of people out there and they don't know, do they? Oh, they've read some of the Bible, they've been to church a few times, maybe a lot of times, but they really don't know in their heart. They really don't love The Lord Jesus Christ in our heart. Like Adam knew Eve, he loved Eve, and we are to know Christ, we're to love him. It is given to you to know or to love the mysteries of the kingdom of God. I like what the psalmist writes in chapter forty and verse six. My ears have thou opened. You may be saying this morning and God hasn't opened your ears. And all you're hearing is a sorrow without the soci. Okay, is this almost over? Oh, so look around a little bit. If he's opened your ears. Oh The psalmist found that a great blessing. Mine ears hast thou opened. And you perceive. Paul writes in 1 Corinthians 4, 7, Who maketh either different from another? God doesn't open everybody's ears. Who hath made thee to differ from another? God doesn't open everybody's eyes. Who hath made thee to different, Paul says, God doesn't open everybody's heart And what hast thou that thou dost not receive? If you have received an open ear, an open eyes, and an open heart that that loves the Lord and loves his word, if you've received all this Where did you get it from? Every good gift, every perfect gift. And it is a good and perfect gift to have your ears open to the word, your eyes open, your heart open to Christ. It is a good and perfect gift. And where where does this come from James 1 and 17 says, this is a gift. You didn't earn it. Don't deserve it. It is a gift from above. And it cometh down from above. The Father. Oh, that you've opened my ears. Who opened my ears? The Father opened my ears, opened my eyes, opened my heart, and now I know the mystery of the kingdom of God has been given unto me to know. Everybody here know? Everybody here love? The word of God Is given unto you to know. Kind of implies it's not given unto all to know, doesn't it? Is this knowledge given to all? Well, you know it's not. You talk to people and they are just bored to death if you start talking about the Bible. It hasn't been given to them to know Christ continues in verse 11 and 12. Oh, this is hard. But on to them that are without. They're not a part of you his flock. They're not a part of his church. But to them that are without, all these things are done in parables. To them that are without, these are done in riddles. These are done like dark sayings. It's not given unto them. To them that are without, these things are done in parables. Matthew 13 and 11, the same story. He says to them, it is not given. What if God doesn't give you the knowledge of the mysteries of the kingdom of God? What if God doesn't give you an open ear, an open eyes, an open heart? If God doesn't give it to you, why would he speak in parables? Parables are dark sayings Parables are riddles, they're not gonna get it. I thought Jesus Christ was not willing to ancient parish and all will come to knowledge of the Lord. What is going on here I thought Jesus Christ loved everyone. But then why is he saying John 79, I pray not for them of the world, but for them the Father has given me? I pray not for the world Why wouldn't Christ pray for everybody? Why wouldn't He give this to everybody? Why speak in parables and keep it from some people? What is the result? When on to them that are without were these things done in parables. What's the result? Well, Christ continues in verse 12, where he says, that seeing they may see and not perceive. That's the result. If I speak in parables and somebody's who are without, they won't see. Seeing, they'll see me on the ship, they'll see me out there, speaking to them, they'll see the crowds around them They may see a sower going out to sow a seed, but they will not perceive what I am teaching from that parable. They got 20-20 vision, but they will not perceive the spiritual. And hearing they may hear. They may have perfect hearing, but they will not understand. Lest oh listen, lest at any time they should be Converted. You're sitting here this morning, you're not saved. You know why? You're still in darkness. Your ears and eyes and heart have not been opened. And we don't know why that has not happened to you yet. That's God's prerogative to do it. And you're not converted. And he uses these parables, he says, that they be not converted. They are without, that they be not converted. To them it is not given, Matthew 13, 11. And Paul says in Romans 11:8, God has given them ears that they should not hear. We were all born with two ears. As little babies, we didn't know, did we? If we'd ever, if they how good they could hear. And then we got older and and we could hear music and we could hear our mother calling us for dinner and and we were teenagers and we heard music and we heard a lot but we still didn't know what we could hear. And there are people who are 70, 80, 90 years old, and they still cannot hear the word of God. They cannot perceive it. They cannot understand it because they haven't been given ears to hear And if you're sitting here this morning, you have ears to hear, you know exactly what I'm talking about. And you are so grateful that you have ears to hear. And if you do not have ears to hear at this moment Boy, is this one boring, boring message. It talks about the mystery of the kingdom of God in verse 11. You know the Bible's full of mysteries? Did you know that And did you know that there are other mysteries that those without, those who are without, those who not have ears to hear, they don't believe the other mysteries either And there are important mysteries to believe. I show you a mystery. We shall not all sleep, but we shall all be changed. In a moment, in the twinkling of an eye, at the last trump, the dead shall be raised incorruptible. Through our Lord Jesus Christ. 15 Corinthians 15 and 50 through 57. Wow, that's a mystery. The dead in Christ should be raised incorruptible. And you talk to they don't even believe the resurrection of Christ Why don't they believe in the resurrection of Christ? Their ears are not open, their eyes and heart have not been opened. They just think that's one of those Old Testament stories. Maybe it's true, maybe it isn't. Who cares if it's true? Because if it's not true, you're not going to be raised incorruptible either. This is a major foundational doctrine. It's a mystery. I will show you a mystery. And most aren't going to believe this. You tell people, when you die, while you die, that's it When you die, you're in a better place. Is that heaven? You mean like where Jesus is? No, not where Jesus. Just a better place. They have no concept that there's a resurrection coming of those in Christ. Mysteries, they are major doctrines, and they are mysteries to those whose ears have not been opened. Here's another mystery. The mystery of his will, according to his good pleasure, being predestined according to the purpose of him who worketh all things After the counsel of his own will, Ephesians 1, 9 through 11. There is a mystery. God has a sovereign will. He works his own pleasure. You don't believe God is sovereign, then why pray that somebody else gets saved? Oh God, I would you could do something to step in there by knowing you're not sovereign. You're not going to go against this man's will and save him. Everybody got saved against their will If that is saved. Because before you're saved, you have no will. You're dead in trespasses and sins. He has to impart a will in you, a willing will. He has to breathe life into a corpse If God isn't sovereign, nobody can get saved. And if God is sovereign, a great doctrine. We believe in a sovereign God who does his own good pleasure. And his own good pleasure was to send his son to die on a cross and shed his blood in a horrible, painful way, physically and spiritually, that you might live for all eternity. Did you hear that? Did you hear that? We can live forever. And the loved ones we lose if they also have hearing ears. We'll see them again, hold them again, hug them again, spend all eternity with them. of the Lord Jesus Christ. What a mystery. People don't have that. Who don't have hearing ears. How about the mystery that the Gentiles should be partakers of his promise in Christ by the gospel? Oh, you tell the story to the Jews in the Old Testament, but God's going to save the Gentiles. No, I don't think so. He said the Gentiles are going to be a part of it. The Gentiles, that's the mystery. It's the promise in Christ by the gospel. The Gentiles are going to be a part of the church. And today you talk to the Gentiles, you say We've got to have a church and the Jews who believe and have hearing ears are going to be the church too. And there are some people they don't like the Jews. They can't think, oh I'm going to have a church, we're going to be in heaven with the Jews. I don't like well the saved Jews, yes And they don't like that either. There are people who are so anti-Semitic. They don't want to be in heaven if there's any Jews there. Well guess what? The first one you're going to meet, the carpenter from Nazareth, he's a Jew I mean you think he's the only one there? Any Jew with hearing ears? Matthew, Mark, John, they're there That's a great mystery. And if you don't believe that mystery that the Jews and Gentiles with hearing ears are going to be together in heaven, wow And then great is the mystery of godliness. God was manifest in the flesh and received up into glory. You don't believe people don't believe that Christ was God. They don't believe that God came down and was manifest in the flesh. These are fundamental doctrines. If you don't believe in the resurrection You can't be saved. If you don't believe that Christ is manifest in the flesh and that he was God in the flesh, you can't be saved. Fundamental doctrines, the mysteries, and God calls them mysteries and are taught in parables, and only those of the hearing ear. And He says, What are the hearing ears? Those are the people to whom it is given. To know the mysteries. The parables were used to reveal spiritual truths. Or spiritual mysteries to those whom it was given. The parables were used not only to reveal spiritual truths to those who was given, they were used to conceal spiritual truths and mysteries to them that are without. You're sitting here this morning and you say Wow, this is really boring. Wish I could get out of here. I think you might be talking about me. I'm one of the without. That's okay with me. Well maybe it's not okay with me. Maybe there are some things hidden I should know about. Why would God do this? Why would God not reveal some things to some. Why would God keep something? Why would God teach in parables so that those without would never get it, wouldn't understand it? Why would he do that? God doesn't tell us why. He doesn't owe us an explanation. But we know this. We know this. God is righteous. God is just. And those he hardens, those he Doesn't give hearing ears to though those who be blind are certainly deserving damnation. It may not be so evident to us. We look out and we see people who are philanthropists, they're doing wonderful things, great things, and they talk about God of some sort or another. They're very they're spiritual, they're kind of gaudy, they don't love the Lord Jesus Christ with the gospel, but but they seem like just good people. That's all we see. But God sees the heart. He sees the mind and their thoughts, and he knows they're deserving of hell. Everybody sitting here was deserving of hell, but he had given unto you a hearing ear Why do you cherish that? Christ says in Matthew eleven and twenty-five I thank the old Father. What was he thanking the Father for? Lord of heaven and earth, because I was Hard saying, because thou hast hid these things from the wise and the prudent, and hast revealed them unto babes. If God hides the truth from you, keeps your blind, keeps your ears closed, keeps your heart closed, the gospel If he hides these truths from you, if he says, I pray not for the world, but them the Father has given me, if he does all this, there are those without they haven't got a plan prayer and you're sitting here this morning you may not be saved. And I don't know if you're one of the ones without or if you're one of the ones that God just hasn't touched yet. I don't know that. But I know there are some out there that He will never touch And he says elsewhere in First Corinthians, not many wise, not many mighty are called That no flesh might glory. God says, I got some rich people out there, some powerful people out there, and we all know the names. I'm not going to run through them now I do a couple of them, Soros, George Soros. And at this point uh Bill Gates and a lot of rich people out out there really billions and billions of dollars. Do you know of any of them that are born-again bloodwashed Christians? He says not many wise Not many mighty are called. Why? If I call all these rich and these mighty people, you know, King Henry VIII and and uh Prince uh Prince uh uh uh Charlemagne or where I'm not no not Charlemagne I mean, uh what was the one from the the Emperor during the time of Luther? Uh these powerful people and and and popes if I call the the mighty and the wise Then the flesh can glory. I'm saved because I understood. I'm saved because I'm smart. I'm saved because I'm intelligent. I'm saved because I've done so much worldly good with the people. I'm a philanthropist No, God says, I don't call the mighty, I don't call the rich that flesh might glory. I call whom I will, and I open up the ears of those I will. Luther was a little nobody monk So, believer, do you cherish your salvation? Your open ears. Because God hath from the beginning, Second Thessalonians 2. 13. God has from the beginning. You know how far back that is? That's before your parents were born. God is from the beginning. You know how far back that is? That's before the pilgrims came to America. God has from the beginning. Beginning. That's before Christ died on the earth. on the cross. God has from the beginning. That's back in the Garden of Eden. Before the beginning of the Garden of Eden, it says here. That God hath from the beginning chosen you to salvation. You didn't do anything to warrant it. You weren't even born You were even a glisten in the eye of your parents or your grandparents. Nothing. From before the foundation earth, Christ was a Lamb of God that would be sacrificed for us. Or as Jonah put it in 2. 9, salvation is of the Lord. Your free will had nothing to do with it. If you think you have free will, that's a whole nother topic, but salvation is of the Lord. The understanding heart, the ears that hear, the eyes that see, they're a gift from God. The gift of God is eternal life. It's a gift. It's given unto you, or it's withheld from you. If it's withheld from you, if you're a father without you're an unconverted sinner. That's what Christ said calls him here. Let me just speak to the person here whose ear has not been opened. Hearken. Hearken hearken You've seen some providential things take place in your life, coincidence, accidents of just phenomena, you run into something you never expect to And you you've got to see the problems of God and something has happened in your life You you've heard of the biblical archaeological finds approved the Bible. Uh you you've seen uh prophecies fulfilled, people talk about prophecies fulfilled in the Bible, and you know what some of them are? And the gospel, numerous times you've heard it, and yet your heart's not changed. And consider this. You may belong unto them that are without To them of whom it is not given. And I'd ask you to pray That it be given unto you. Just because it hasn't reached your ear yet doesn't mean it won't. But if it hasn't, you need to start praying, oh God I don't want to be one of the without. I don't want to be the one that it's not given to. Start praying that you would be the one that these mysteries are given to. Let's pray. Father, we thank you today for the sower who went out to sow seed. A message we've all heard so often. It seems like that's a harmless message, but the Lord tacks on to the end of it. That he used the parables that the unconverted wouldn't be blessed, wouldn't be read. Wow. May this simple story of the sower, and may the warnings of Christ here touch the heart that really Has not been touched before. Touch an ear, eyes that they might see, and that they might cherish from this day forth. All that Christ has revealed to them. And it's in his name we pray. Amen.