Turn in your Bibles with me this morning to the Gospel of Matthew. Matthew, the tenth chapter. And if I give a wrong reference, as I frequently do, please bear with me. I knew exactly the verse that I intended to read for the call to worship. And when you begin Reading, and you're realizing no, this isn't right, and your mind starts racing, and your eyes are trying to follow the verse you're reading, but find the verse you're seeking. Uh it gets confusing in God's providence. I didn't realize, oh no, it was one verse earlier. Earlier than where I began. The lips of men are feeble and frail. Paul said that he came not with excellency of speech. I don't pray to be the preacher with excellency of speech because the preacher of excellency of speech can so easily fall into giving speeches. And I pray that I never stand before a congregation and give a speech. Uh I frequently pray, Lord, protect this congregation from me. So today, as we look at God's Word, it is my prayer as always, that the Spirit of God will be the exegete. That the Spirit of God will preach something to your heart that I didn't say. But that the Word of God will be alive and quick to you, that it will jump out, and there will be blessings far beyond anything that any man could ever show your heart. But that the Spirit of God Will preach truth. The text I've chosen for today is verses 24 and 25 of Matthew 10. And we're going to compare this entire chapter closely with Isaiah. Isaiah 53. But I'm only going to read those two verses, verse 24 and 25, as we begin, and then we'll be reading the chapter extensively in the course of the message. Matthew ten twenty-four. The disciple is not above his master nor the servant above his Lord. It is enough for the disciple to be as his master, and the servant as his lord If they have called the master of the house of Beelzebub, how much more shall they call them that are of his household? Let us pray. Great God, our Heavenly Father, Lord. Intercede on our behalf this morning. Teach us thy glorious truth. Bring glory to thy precious Son. And Lord, we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. The servant is not above, the disciple is not above his master. master. And the servant is not above his Lord. This uh context that we have here in Matthew is actually found in the Gospel of Luke as well, and in two times in The Gospel of John, we find these same words. The servant is not above his master. In John 15 and verse 20, remember the word that I said unto you, the servant is not greater than his Lord. If they have persecuted me, They will persecute you. If they keep have kept my sayings, they will keep your sayings. And so what is The view of mankind of our master. How have they treated our Lord? He is despised and rejected of men, a man of sorrows and acquainted with grief. He was oppressed and afflicted, yet he opened not his mouth. He is brought as a lamb to the slaughter, as a sheep before his shears is dumb. and so he opened not his mouth. He was taken from prison and from judgment. He didn't get a fair treatment before the courts. Who shall declare his generation? For he sli was cut off out of the land of the living. For the transgressions of my people was he stricken. And he made his grave with the wicked and with the rich in his death. It is enough for the disciple to be as his Lord. And so what does it mean? It is enough. What does that word teach us? Well, this word enough that we find here in our text in Matthew ten and twenty-five is a word that literally means it will content him. It is sufficient for his aims and wishes. It will content him. It's sufficient for his aims and wishes. In other words, it's enough. He has all the equipment. It's sufficient to do that which is harmful. Now the word that is used here in Matthew chapter ten is an adjective. It is a descriptive word. It says, it is enough and describes the condition, it describes the supply of the disciple. It's enough for him. Interestingly, in John 14 and verse 8, Philip uses the The same word, but he uses the verb form of the word as opposed to the adjective form. Here in Matthew, it's the adjective form, it's a form, it's a descriptor. But John records Philip saying, Philip says unto him, Lord, show us the Father, and it suffices us. Okay? So that's the verb form. There's an action there. If you show us the Father, that's enough for us, but it's an action. And so this word, it's enough, in this context shows us the description of what it is. In other contexts, it shows us the action of what it is. It's enough, folks. It is all we need. What do we need that Christ does not have? There you go. What do we need that Christ cannot supply? What do we need that he has not promised? Ah many times the problem is not with supply. Rather, the problem is with our definition of the need You see, I need this and I need that and I need the other. No. It's sufficient for the disciple to be as his Lord. Now When we talk about Christ-likeness, there are so many varied avenues that we can examine. To be like Christ is to live in his righteousness. To be like Christ is to walk the way that Jesus walked. And I I do not use the phrase, you know, WW Jesus do, because I do not believe in initializing the name of Christ. To me, that is a misuse. I don't want to give our subject here, but the word of God, the name of God is is used in three ways. In prayer Praise and proclamation. Remember that. Prayer, praise, proclamation. If you're using the word of God in prayer, using it the name of God in prayer, using it properly. If you're using it in praise, you're using it properly. If If you're using it in proclamation, using it properly, if you're using it any other way It's improper. I believe that every proper use of the name of God can be put into those three. But I don't do that WW Jesus do. Because it's his name. And yet I understand the sentiment. We are to walk as he walked. That is part of Christ's. Like this. But to get into our subject today, the context of this passage here in Matthew 10 is not the context of us molding ourselves after Christ, but rather the context of suffering. It is the context of the world hating him. It is enough to be like him. And if we look at the context, look at the last part of verse 25. If they have called the master of the house of Beelzebub, how much more shall they call them of his household. If they say that Christ is of the devil, how much more will they say those of his household and we are his household The world will not love us and we cannot expect the world to love us, but it's enough to be like him. It's enough to bear his reproach. Even more it is a pleasure and a privilege. To bear the reproach of Christ. If you look back to Isaiah 53, and I would recommend you probably keep your ribbon in there or your finger in there because we are going to bounce back and forth between Matthew 10 and Isaiah 3. Isaiah 53 frequently. But in the second verse of Isaiah 53, for he shall grow up before him as a tender plant and as a root out of dry ground. He hath no form nor comeliness, and And when we shall see him there is no beauty that we should desire him. He is despised and rejected of men, a man of sorrows and acquainted with grief, and we hid, as it were, our faces from him He is despised and we esteem him not. And so Christ was rejected of men. What do we find here in Matthew 10? Well look with me to verse 16. Back to Matthew 10 and verse 16. Behold I send you forth as sheep in the midst of wolves. Be therefore wise as serpents and harmless as doves. Christ is warning the disciples, I am sending you out into danger. I am sending you out into the wolves. They are going to be out to get you. You are sheep. Yea, ye are my sheep. And I am the good shepherd, Christ says But I'm sending you to the woods. What was the example Christ set for us? He left the glories of heaven. The God of heaven became a lamb. And Isaiah 53 is all about Christ. the lamb. He was led as a lamb to the shot slaughter, as a sheep for his shears is dumb. He was sent from heaven among men who would crucify him, who would put him to death. And because Christ Christ was the very Lamb of God. Now he warns his own sheep. I'm sending you out like sheep. I'm sending you out as sheep among the wolves. If we are to be like Christ. We're going to be sheep among wolves. We're not going to dwell in a place of great safety. We're not going to dwell in a place where everyone loves us. We shouldn't expect those things. Oh, we may have calm times. The body of Christ in the United States of America has enjoyed 200 years of calm times How many people have been beheaded in this land? How many people have been arrested for having Bibles in this land? How many people have been burned at the stake in this land? Folks That's not the norm. God has blessed in this land with great peace in the body of Christ. But our brethren in foreign lands today are not enjoying that peace. And we shouldn't expect to enjoy it forever. Because the Lamb of God gave his life that we might be his sheep. And now he says it's enough for the disciple to be sent out as sheep among wolves. And so In verse 16 of Matthew 10, were to be therefore wise as serpents and harmless as doves. And I've mentioned before those therefore's in scripture are very significant. The word therefore isn't just stuck in the sentence to make it hold together. The word therefore is the causing action. Because we are sheep among wolves. We're to be wise as serpents and harmless as doves. What does it mean that we are to be wise as serpents and harmless as doves? Well The serpent knows when to be quiet. I was out in the woods. this week. And we were actually in a truck driving down a gravel road back through the woods and a good friend of mine who was driving saw a snake on the road and he stopped right away. And he backed up and he was running ready to run over it And I said, no, no, no, no, no, no, run over it, I'll move it, I'll move it. So I got out and I picked up a snake and I put it on the side of the road. I got back in the truck and he went. A snake news How to stay on the way. A state knows how to be quiet. We're to be wise as serpents. There are times when we as the people of God just need to be quiet. Keep our head down And we find that in the example of Christ in Isaiah 53, yet he opened not his mouth. As a lamb before it's just shears is dumb. So you'll put it on now. There are times as the body of Christ when we need to have the wisdom to be quiet. Just to go about our worship without making a huge fuss. And we've we've spoken in passing that uh right now, you know, God has not given us a building and a steep bricks and a steeple, a building of steeple. And if someday The Lord desires this congregation to move in that direction. If it's his will, we'll follow him. We dare not ever rush ahead. But God may have placed us in a place right now when the persecution comes that we're We're wise to worship, to evangelize, to sing, but not have what the world views as a church, the outward trappings which are whitest sepulchres anyway We're sheep among wolves. We have to be wise as serpents. In Ecclesiastes 3, verses 7 and 8, we read: a time to rend and a time to sow, a time to keep silence, and a time to speak, a time to love and a time to hate. a time to make war in a time of peace. But also, notice that the wise serpent knows how to give warning. The wise serpent will hiss. The wise serpent will shake his rattle. The wise serpent is not always silent. There is a time and a place to speak. Nevertheless, what saith the Lord, what saith the Scriptures? Go back to our text in Matthew 10 And look at verse 7. And as you go, preach, saying, The kingdom of heaven is at hand. Even though there's times for silence, it's not dead silence Oh, we may not have all the outward trappings of a church which could attract the attention of the government who says, You can't have church today, you can't sing today, or whatever untoward regulations. The outward may try to put upon us, and regardless of that, we constantly say, the kingdom of heaven is at hand. Repent For the day cometh. And so our silence is not a dead silence. Our message is always there, even though we're sheep among wolves. And that's what Christ was saying. Look down the verses 19 and 20 of Matthew 10. But when they deliver you up, take no thought how or what ye shall speak For it shall be given you in that same hour what ye shall speak. For it is not you that speak, but the Spirit of your Father which speaketh in you. Isn't that glorious truth? Even the hasting serpent has a message. Even the rattle of the rattlesnake, it's a warning Look out! There's danger. Ah, we are to be wise as serpents and harmless as doves. We need to know when to speak and when to be quiet. We need to know what message to speak. And notice there in verse twenty, and th the verse twenty is hard for us to understand. It says it's not us that speak, but the Spirit, and we do not claim inspiration. We do not claim that we are speaking scriptures, except when we claim that thus saith the Lord. And so everything we say has to be from the Word of God. And you hear you hear some church leaders that get themselves into big trouble and they're spouting off things that they can't support from the Word of God. But when we are called before the government, may God give us grace to quote the scriptures. To quote the word of God again and again. The serpent, being wise, has me also has ways to be aware of man. You know, they the the old story, four men walk through the weeds. The first one wakes up the serpent. The second one startles him. The third one makes him mad. And the fourth one gets bit. Well, the serpent, the the serpent As the way means to be aware of man. He will slither off when it's time. He will avoid the fight whenever he can. Look down the verses 17 and 18 of chapter 10 of Matthew. But beware of men. Isn't that an important word there? Beware of men, for they will deliver you up to their counsels, and they will scourge you in their synagogues. And ye sh ye should shall be brought before governors and kings for my name's sake for a testimony against the Gentiles. Beware Part of being wise as serpents and harmless as doves is being aware of what they're going to do. But also we're to be harmless as doves, as much as lies in you live peaceably with all men. We're not out picking fights. We're not out trying to cause trouble. I knew of some people that started a church, quote unquote, and claimed ordination Simply to avoid paying taxes. They were not a church of any shape or form, but they claimed that they were house church because they didn't want to pay taxes That is a total abuse of the name of Christ and of the Word of God. That's not what we're talking about at all. We're to be harmless as doves. We are not to give the government just reason. To be angry with us. Why were they angry with Peter and John? We told you to stop preaching. Right They had to do it. True. Don't heal people on the Sabbath. He was doing his father's will. What know you not that I must be about my father's business even when Christ was twelve. And so we must be about the father's business. We're to be harmless as doves, we're to be lights in this world, we're not to go out burning abortion clinics, even though we hate abortion. Yeah, sorry. God has given us the example. Flip over with me quickly. I know our time is getting away and we're still in the first point here. But uh flip with me to first Peter chapter two. First Peter chapter two, and I'll start reading in verse twenty one. First Peter chapter two, verse twenty one for even hereunto were ye called, because Christ also suffered for us. leaving us an example that we should follow in his steps, who did no sin, neither was Guile found in his mouth, who, when he was reviled, reviled not again. When he suffered, he threatened not, but committed himself unto him We could read further down that chapter. I'd recommend you mark it and read it later. But we have the example of Christ. When he was revolved, he revived not. In other words, he wasn't out there, you're doing me wrong. He was Out there preaching truth. And that is the way we are to be. And so, first of all, if we are to be like Christ, uh we are to be wise as serpents and heartless as doves, we're sheep among wolves. Secondly If we are to be like Christ, we must expect to be betrayed by those closest to us. Look at Matthew 10, 21. And the brother shall deliver up the brother to death, and the father, the child. And the children shall rise up against the parents, and shall cause them to be put to death. He came unto his own, and his own received him not Recall David in Psalm forty-one, verse nine, yea, my own familiar friend in whom I trusted, which did eat of my bread, hath lifted up his heel against me. In Psalm 55, David said, If it was an enemy that had reproached me, then could I have borne it. Neither was it he that hated me that did magnify himself against me. Look down to verses 34 and following in Matthew 10. Think not that I am come to send peace on earth. I came not to spread peace, but a sword. For I am come to set a man at variance against his father, and the daughter against the mother, and the daughter-in-law against the mother-in-law. A man's foes shall be of his own household. He that loveth father or mother more than me is not worthy of me, and he that loveth son or daughter more than me is not worthy of me. If we are to be like Christ, if it is sufficient for us to be as his master, we have to be prepared to be hated by those we love the most. We have to be prepared to give of ourselves wholeheartedly for the benefit of another and then have them turn around and smack us in the face. For it was enough for Christ to be just that way. And I know many of us, many of us have suffered very painful situations among people that we have loved and continue to love. And yet they have betrayed our trust and turned on us If you look up to verse four of chapter ten of Matthew, in the first verses we have the list of the disciples that he's talking to when he says that the disciple is not above his Lord. And look who's in the list. Simon a Canaanite And Judas who betrayed him. Isn't that interesting? Judas was right here in the crowd when Christ said, You're going to betray, be betrayed of your own. Those that betray you will be of your own household. Remember when Christ's brothers were outside and he said, Your brothers are here, and he said, My brother and my sisters are these Here we are. To be like Christ is to be betrayed by those closest to him. We covered this somewhat already, but to be like Christ is to be rejected of men. He was despised and rejected of men, a man of sorrows and acquainted with Look at verse twenty two of Matthew ten. And ye shall be hated of all men. Why? Because you're mean? Because you're nasty. Because you're a thief? No. None of those things. And ye shall be hated of all men for my name's sake. But he that endureth to the end shall be saved. Why do the wicked hate the church? Are we awful people that hate us? They hate us because of our Christ. They accuse us of being awful because we say men should marry women and women should marry men. And anything else? But you know what I'm saying? The world, the world hates us when we say those kind of things But it is the truth of God, and it's not us that they hate. It's Christ. And here, it's enough for the disciple to be as the Master, and the Master is hated of all men for the truth. And they will hate us for his sake. Matthew 10, verse 21. And twenty-two, you should be hated of all men. He was taken from prison and from judgment, and who shall declare his generation. And Matthew 10 verse 17 In our same chapter, beware of men, for they will deliver you up to their councils, and they will scourge you in their synagogues. You should be brought before governors and kings for my name's sake. Look down to verse fourteen. And whosoever shall receive you, or shall not receive you, nor hear your words, when ye depart out of the house or city, shake off the the dust of your feet. For really I say unto you, it shall be more tolerable in the land of Sodom and Gomorrah in the day of judgment than for that city. Look down to verse 26 of chapter 10. Fear them not, therefore, for there is nothing covered that shall not be revealed, and hid that shall not be known. Isn't that a wonderful verse? You know, people can say all kinds of things and even people that call themselves the body of Christ can make all kinds of accusations, but it'll all be made right before the name before the throne of God. That which is done in secret will be known publicly at the judgment. Verse 27, what I tell you in darkness, that speak ye in light, and what ye hear in the ear, that preach upon the housetop. Fear not them to kill the body, but are not able to kill the soul, but rather fear him which is able to destroy both body and soul in hell. If we are to be like Christ, if it is enough for us If it is sufficient for a disciple to be like Christ, then we cannot be consumed with the things of this world. We cannot be controlled. by the things of this world. We cannot be constrained by the things of this world. Look at verse two of Isaiah 53. Isaiah fifty three, verse two. For he shall grow up before him as a tender plant and as a root out of dry ground. I know there's some here that have what we call a green thumb. I don't have a green thumb, but I enjoy gardening and I enjoy flowers. And I think anybody that enjoys flowers knows that dry ground is not Good for the plant. Except less the cactus, dry ground, will kill it. But then imagine that you have a plant, it's kind of wilty and withered because the ground's all dry, and instead of pouring water on the ground, you pull out the root out of dry. ground. Now what's gonna happen to it? It's gonna be going pretty quickly. Christ was a root out of dry ground, a tender plant and a root out of dry ground. The most unlikely success you could ever imagine. Are you kidding me? Born of a virgin? Ah, can't be. Can't be. He didn't grow up in the palace of the king, he grew up in poverty. He despised and rejected. There is no beauty that we should desire him. But he's the king of heaven. He's the Lord of the universe. He's the one who spoke all things into existence. These silly little Christians. Remember when they were rebuilding the walls of Jerusalem? If a fox runs up on it, it's gonna fall down. God uses his people in the most unlikely situations We're not to be consumed with the material things of this world. Having food and raiment, therewith be content We don't need the shiny, we don't need the fancy, we don't need the expensive, the glit and the glitter makes no difference to the child of God. We're not big and fancy and the things of this world were the unless the most unlikely existence you could ever imagine. We live by faith. And my God shall supply all your need. And I think every one of us that have lived a few years could give testimony to that fact. That the Lord has supplied and supplied and supplied over and over again. Like Christ, out of the most unlikely beginnings, great things have been done. Look at verse nine of Matthew Ten. Provide neither gold nor silver Nor brass in your purse, nor script for your journey, neither two coats, neither shoes. Nor yet staves. For the workman is worthy of his meat. In other words, we've got to be diligent. We can't just sit in the corner and say the Lord's going to send me a hundred bucks today. You know, that's that's what the prosperity gospel preaches. You know, you you put your seed money in and you're gonna get a check. The mail. No, gotten work. The workman is worthy of us hired. Says it right there. The workman's worthy of his meat Verse eleven, and into whatsoever city or town ye shall enter, inquire who that is worthy, and there abide till ye go ye go thence. And when ye come into a house, salute it, and if the house be worthy, let your peace be upon it. Uh let your peace come upon it, but if it be not worthy, let your peace return unto you. In Luke chapter nine, let me read the verses there. Luke nine, fifty seven, it came to pass as they went into a certain city, the man said unto the Lord, Whither uh I will follow thee whithersoever thou goest. And Jesus said to them, Foxes have holes, birds ears have nests, but the Son of Man hath not word lay his head. Now we need food and raiment, we need a house of a rip overhead, we need a vehicle and things. But those are not the things that concern Zoom The servant. And it's enough for the servant to be as his master. If we are to be like Christ, if it is enough for us to be consumed of Him. Then we must give ourselves entirely to the cause. You see, the servant of Christ is not a servant on Monday, Tuesday, and Wednesday and a servant of himself on Thursday, Friday, Saturday. I knew a man once who was in an argument with a neighbor This is back in Jamaica. And someone said in the midst of this big fight that was going on, Aren't you a Christian? And his comment was, I'm not a Christian today. And I went to the dear man later and I said, you know, brother and I called him brother, because he was he was a child of God. I understood his anger by calling himself You see, it's not you put on a suit suit for Sunday and now you're a Christian and you take off the Sunday clothes when you go home and now you're Not. It's all or nothing. He was wounded for our transgressions He was bruised for our iniquities. The chastisement of our peace was upon him, and with his stripes we are healed. What did Christ do? He gave himself entirely. to the task that God the Father gave them to do. It was a total commitment. Matthew ten, verse seven and eight. And as you go, preach, saying the kingdom of heaven is at hand. Heal the sick, cleanse the lepers, raise the lepers, raise the dead, cast out devils. Freely ye have received. Freely give. Here's my all. What do we have that we haven't received of the Lord? Spiritually? Monetarily? Intellectually, everything we have is a gift from God What's that mean? What does the servant really own? Nothing. The master of the servant owns the master's possessions as well. And that is our picture in Christ. Remember the testimony of Paul. Yea, and if I be offered upon the sacrifice and service of your faith, I joy and rejoice with you all. Paul said, if the sacrifice and service of your faith is my own sacrifice, I joy and rejoice. I give myself to that work. Paul said in Romans 9:3, for I could wish myself a curse from Christ from my brethren, my kinsmen, in the flesh. Moses in uh uh Exodus thirty-two and verse thirty-two, yet now if thou wilt forg uh wilt forgive their sins, uh sorry yet now if thou wilt for wilt forgive their sins, and if not Blot me, I pray thee, out of the book which thou hast written. In other words, Moses' commitment to the sheep that God gave him care over The children of Israel in the wilderness was so great, they said, Lord, forgive them if you will, and if you won't forgive them, then blot me out. Let me be in their place. Christ suffered in my place. As a child of God, our commitment is complete. It's all. And it's enough. It's sufficient. It sufficeth us. But then one more thing it happens to see from this passage. Like Christ, the servant is always under the care of the Master. Always under the care of the master. Turn back to Isaiah 53 and verse 10. Yet it pleased Jehovah, and I know your King James says Lord, you know, this is all caps, so I'm putting the name in there. Yet it pleased the Lord to bruise him. He has put him to grief. When thou shalt make his soul an offering for sin, He shall see his seed, he shall prolong his days, and the pleasure of the Lord shall prosper in his hand. It pleased the Lord to bruise Christ, and the pleasure of the Lord prospered in his hand. Now you're probably scratching your head saying, Pastor, you've confused us already. Now you've confused us more. How is that us being on Under God's care. Was the crucifixion of Christ an accident? Was the temptation in the wilderness not in God's plan? No. Was Christ hungering and thirsting not what God intended? What was there in the life of Christ that was not governed by the Spirit of God? Nothing Christ was always under his father's care, even on the cross, up until one single point. My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me? That point when all the sin of my of the elect was poured out on Christ is the only time he was forsaken of his father. And yet, what is the promise that we have? I will never leave thee nor forsake thee. Why is it he will never leave thee nor forsake thee? Because the sin which caused Christ to be forsaken of the Father is not the same. Now gone. It is removed. And so every aspect of the life of Jesus Christ here on earth was ordained and directed by God the Father. And after The temptations the angels ministered unto him, and he could have called the angels to deliver him, but it was not the Father's will. And in the garden he prayed, if it be possible, if there's some other way, God the Father, if there's some other way, remove this cup from me. But if it's not possible, not my will, but thy will be done. It's enough for the disciple to be as his master. It's enough for the servant to be as his Lord. It is enough for us today to say, Lord, thy will be done, even when it's painful. Even when it is difficult, even when we suffer for the cause of Christ, it's enough, Lord. It's sufficient. It sufficeth us. To be as Christ. Look back to our text in Matthew ten. Verse 29 Are not two sparrows sold for a farthing? And one of them shall not fall on the ground without your father Isn't that beautiful? But the very hairs of your head are all numbered. You know I used to miss that word all. Now you read a verse a hundred times and missed one word that's so used to being. hairs of our head are numbered, or the hairs of her head are numbered. But it's all the hairs of our head. Every single one. And I knew that before, but that all is very significant. The hair hairs of your head are all numbered. Fear not, therefore, are ye not of more value? You then many sparrows. Remember when the wind throw Christ off a cliff and he disappeared out of their midst? He's able to deliver. He's able to deliver. Look down to verse 39. He that findeth his life shall lose it. He that loseth his life for my sake shall find it. Is it enough to be as our Savior He that receiveth you receiveth me. He that receiveth me receiveth him that sent me. He that receiveth a prophet in the name of a prophet shall receive a prophet's reward. He that receiv With a righteous man in the name of a righteous man, so receive a righteous man And whosoever shall give to thee give unto oh sorry, and whosoever shall give to drink unto one of these Let me get the verse right. And whosoever shall give to drink unto one of these little ones a cup of cold water only, in the name of a disciple Verily I say unto you, he shall not lose his reward. Dear ones, it's enough for us to be as Christ. It's sufficient for us. We are sheep among wolves. But he was a lamb to the slaughter. We are betrayed by those closest to us. He was betrayed by one of his own disciples. We are rejected of men. Christ was rejected of all men. And only the grace of God overcomes any rejection. We are not to be consumed with the things of the this world and Christ had not a place to lay his head. We are to give our all to the cause, for Christ bore our transgressions none of his own. We are always under the Master's care. Is it enough for you to be as your master? Is it sufficient for you to be as your Lord? Let us stand for prayer.