Turn with me in your Bibles this morning to the first chapter of Genesis, to the beginning of the Word of God, the first chapter in all the Bible. I would venture to say that if I asked this morning, how many of you have heard a message from Genesis chapter 1? Just about every hand would be raised. I would also venture to say that if I were to ask how many of you have heard ten or more messages from the first chapter of Genesis, many hands would be raised. I believe if I ask how many of you heard the story of creation in Sunday school as a child or as a teenager, again, many hands will be raised. And yet how glorious is the Word of God that we can go back to these passages that we know so well and still find food. Remember when Ruth went into the fields of Boaz and she was to gather the grain that had been missed by the reapers And Boaz, realizing that here was a faithful woman who was caring for her mother-in-law Naomi, and Boaz instructed his Servants to leave grain on purpose. And of course, we know in that story that Boaz stands in the place of the Redeemer. And I believe that God by his spirit has left handfuls of grain on purpose. In these passages, no, not a new truth. No, not some new revelation. But the word of God is so rich and full and intricate. That we can look at passages we've looked at again and again, and there is something we hadn't seen before. And so this morning I would like to share with you the blessings that my heart has received. Going through this famous old passage again, and trust that we might find rich feeding in the Word of God. Let us read together. I reading aloud, you reading quietly. In the beginning, God created the heaven and the earth And the earth was without form and void, and darkness was upon the face of the deep. And the Spirit of God moved upon the face of the waters. And God said, Let there be light, and there was light. And God saw the light, that it was good. And God divided the light from the darkness. And God called the light day, and the darkness called he night, and the evening and the morning were the first day And God said, Let there be a firmament in the midst of the waters, and let it divide the waters from the waters And God made the firmament and divided the waters which were under the firmament from the waters which were above the firmament. And it was so And God called the firmament heaven, and the evening and the morning were the second day. And God said, Let the waters under the heaven be gathered together into one place, and let the dry land appear. And it was so. And God called the dry land earth, and gathered together the waters call and gather And the gathered and gathering together the waters called he seas, and God saw that it was good And God said, Let the earth bring forth grass and herbs yielding seed, and fruit trees, yielding fruit after his kind, whose seed is in itself upon the earth. And it was so And the earth brought forth grass and herbs and yielding seed after his kind, and trees yielding fruit, whose seed was in itself after his kind, and God saw that it was good. And the evening and the morning were the third day. And God said, Let there be lights in the ferment of the heaven to divide the day from the night and then let them be for signs and for seasons and for days and for years. And let them be for lights in the firmament of the heaven, to give light upon the earth. And it was so. And God made two great lights, the greater light to rule the day, and the lesser light to rule the night He made the stars also. And God set them in the ferment of the heaven to give light upon the earth, and to rule over the day and over the night And to divide the light from the darkness, and God saw that it was good. And the evening and the morning were the fourth day. And God said, Let the waters bring forth abundantly, the moving creatures that hath life, and the fowls that may fly above the earth in the open firmament of heaven And God created great whales, and every living creature that moveth, which the water which the waters brought forth abundantly, after their kind, and every winged fowl after his kind, and God saw that it was good. And God blessed him, saying, Be fruitful, multiply, and fill the waters of the sea, and let the fowls multiply in the earth And the evening and the morning were the fifth day. And God said, Let the earth bring forth living creatures after his kind. cattle and creeping things and beasts of the earth after his kind, and it was so. And God made the beasts of the earth after his kind, and the cattle after their kind and everything that creepeth upon the earth after his kind. And God saw that it was good. And God said, Let us make man in our image. after our likeness, and let them have dominion over the fish of the sea, and over the fowls of the air, and over the cattle, and over all the earth, and over every creeping thing that creepeth upon the earth So God created man in his own image. In the image of God created he him, male and female created he them. And God blessed them. And God said unto them, Be fruitful and multiply, and replenish the earth, and subdue it. And have dominion over the fish of the sea, and over the fowls of the air, and over every living thing that moveth upon the earth And God said, Behold, I have given you every herb bearing seed, which is upon the face of the earth And every tree in the which is the fruit of the tr of the tree, yielding seed. To you it shall be for meat. And to every beast of the earth, and to every fowl of the air, and to every living thing that creepeth upon the earth, wherein is life, I have given every green herb for meat And it was so. And God saw everything that he had made. And behold, it was very good. And the evening and the morning were the sixth day. Let us pray. Oh God, we thank you for thy word. I thank you for the glorious blessings that this passage has been to my heart. And the glorious blessings that this truth of thy word has been to thy saints throughout the ages. Lord, entire ministries of the gospel are built on this one chapter. Father, bless thy word to our hearts this morning, we pray, in Jesus' name. If we were to choose a key text or key passage from this chapter for our consideration this morning. It would be that 31st verse. And God saw Everything that he had made, and behold, it was very good Throughout the chapter, we find God seeing things and declaring it is good. But here, at the end of the chapter, God declares it is very good. God saw everything that he had made, and it was very good. God looked upon his creation. As the most skilled artist looks upon the painting that he has completed and God says, it is good. Every detail is in place Nothing is left out. It is good. God looked upon his creation as a wise master artist architect. views the building that he has designed and gathered all the materials and now everything has been put together and constructed perfectly. The building is beautiful. The building is strong. Everything is in its place. And the architect looks at this building he has made and says, It is good God looked upon his creation as a master composer who has written a beautiful symphony. And he sees that the bass and the tenor and the melody all work together. The sound is perfect. It is beautiful. There is not a note missing. There is not a note that can be added. There is not a note out of place. The timing is right. It all works together. And he says, this is very good. God looked at what he had made, and step by step through the process As he assembled the earth, one vital piece after another, he said, it is good, it is good, it is good. And when he was finished, he said, It is very good. God is a quality inspector. And when the project was finished He stamped very good on it. Most of you know that I collect antique Lionel trades. And inside the Lynel boxcars, there would be a little inspection slip that was put inside each Lionel boxcar before it left the factory. And it would have the name of the inspector on it And kids got those boxcars as toys. The first thing that was lost was the inspection slip, and the second thing was the box that tore up. I have a few cars that are in their original box and they still have the inspection slip. Very rare. But what did that slip mean? It meant that someone looked at that product and said, Yeah, this is good. And there were others that they looked at and said, No, that's no good. And it was thrown aside. God looked at his creation and he said, it is very good. He declared good. But folks, God didn't just look at his creation and walk away. God continues to look at his creation every single day. There is a belief of apostasy that is what's called the clockwinder theory. That God started creation like a man who winds up a clock, but then he got just walked away and he doesn't pay any attention to it anymore. There is another theory of apostasy, of departure from truth, that believes that They call it theistic evolution, that God started it all, but then evolution took over and it all grew by itself. There is a yet another that is called the day age theory that that God uh Yeah, he created in six what we call six days, but each day was millions and millions of years. And so evolution is kind of true because God started this and then millions of years later this happened. And God was in control of all of it, but no We just read that in six days God made the earth. And at the end of the sixth day, God said it's very good. Very good. And so God continues to view his creation today. In Proverbs 15, verse 3, the eyes of the Lord are in every place. Beholding the evil and the good. Second Chronicles 16, 9. For the eyes of the Lord run to and fro throughout the whole earth to show himself strong on behalf of those whose heart is perfect toward him. Job twenty-eight, verse twenty-four, he looketh to the ends of the earth and seeth unto the whole heaven. Proverbs 5. 21, the ways of man are before the eyes of the Lord, and he pondereth all his goings. Hebrews 4, verse 13, Neither is there any creature that is not manifested in sight, but all things are open and naked under the eyes of him with whom we have to do Folks, God looked on his creation and he said, it is very good. God looks on his creation today. But he no longer says it is very good. Keep that in mind because that will be important later on. But also we find from this first chapter of Genesis that God is not absent. God is present. God was there every step of the way. God views his creation. He continues to view his creation. And God is not absent from from his creation. In Genesis chapter 6, verse 5, and God saw that the wickedness of man was great in the earth. And every imagination of the thoughts of the heart was only evil continually. God saw everything that he had made and he said it's very good. And then five chapters, six chapters later, God saw the wickedness of man, and God said, It is very bad. It is not very good. God saw the wickedness of man and he said, I'm going to destroy it all. I'm going to wipe man off the face of the earth. But Noah found grace in the eyes of the Lord. God is not absent from history. The king's heart is in the hand of the Lord, as the rivers of water he turneth it whithersoever he listeth. Folks, things are a mess. But God is still in control. Turn with me, if you will, to Daniel chapter 2, the second chapter of the book of Daniel. If you need help finding it, someone I'm sure could be glad to help you turn the pages. The second chapter of Daniel, I'll give you a moment to find it. We're going to consider Daniel chapter 2. verses 20 from 20 uh 20 and 22 and see that God controls history. God did not simply walk away In Daniel chapter 2, and verse 20 and 21. Daniel chapter 2, verse 20 and 21. I think I said 22. There's a lot of twos. A lot of twos in there. Daniel chapter two, verse twenty and twenty-one. And Daniel answered and said, Because the name of God, blessed be the name of God forever and ever. For wisdom and might are his. He changeth times and seasons. He removeth kings and setteth up kings. He giveth wisdom unto the wise, and knowledge to them that know understanding. But what is it Daniel declares here? First of all, he says God changes times and seasons. God changes times and seasons. Do you remember? Back there in Genesis chapter 1, where we read that God made the stars and he made the moon, the lights, and he said it will be for times and seasons and days. And months. You see, God did not stop changing times and seasons in the book of Genesis We know that God made the sun stand still. We know that God has sent great droughts on land We know that God has declared famines. We know that God has blessed lands with the abundance. God controls these things. He changes times and seasons. And in Acts chapter one and verse seven, I made reference to this verse actually during Sunday school because there the disciples come to Christ after the resurrection, and they say, At this time will you restore the kingdom of to Israel. And in Acts 1 verse 7, and he said unto them, It is not for you to know the times or the seasons. Which the Father hath put in his power. And what's that say about climate change? What's that say about droughts and famines? What's that say about the Dust Bowl in the twenties God controls these things. He's not absent. And in this passage, there in Daniel, the word times means long periods of history. the vast expanse of time he's put those in his power. And seasons means the specific individual events. That take place. God is not a clockwinder. God is present in his creation. And Satan Through his emissaries? Yes, he is all through the world, and he is doing wickedness. But God still is in control. He controls times and seasons. And so we find in Daniel 2 that God changes times and seasons. Also we find in Daniel chapter 2 that God removeth and setteth up kings. Look at verse 21 again. He changeth times and seasons. He removeth kings and setteth up kings In Proverbs 8, we find that by me kings reign and princes decree justice. In Psalm 75, verse 6: promotion cometh neither from the east nor from the west nor from the south. But God is judged. He putteth down one and seteth up another. And again the book of Daniel, chapter 4, verse 17, uh when Nebuchadnezzar testifies before Daniel. Nebuchadnezzar says these words, this is a matter by decree of the watchers. And demand by the word of the Holy Ones, to the intent that the living may know that the Most High ruleth in the kingdom of men And giveth it to whosoever he will, and setteth up over it the basis of men. I don't want to get into politics, but but most of us here today would probably agree that the last election was stolen. But folks, did you ever consider that God controlled that? It would not have happened. It would not have happened. It may be God's judgment on the church. Because look at the iniquity that has been justified. Look at the evil that has been called good and the good that has been called evil in the last few years. And if the church of God was what it should be, God would not have brought that judgment on us. But folks, the point is this: we're having an election coming up. And the person that is elected will be elected by God and not by man. You see, folks, this all goes back to the book of Genesis in the first chapter. He made it. He controls it. And then finally, there in Daniel, we find that God giveth wisdom to the wise in the last part of the verse. Wisdom and might are his. The fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom. And so we find, first of all, that God saw everything that He had made, and He looked on it, and He said, It is good. But then I would like to consider that word very. God looked upon his creation and he said, behold, it was Very good. The heavens were very good. The firmament and water was very good. The dry land and the plant life was very good. The sea creatures and the birds were very good The land creatures of man that God created were very good. And that word very good. That we find there in Genesis. I have a whole page of verses on it. I'm not going to take go through all of them, but we need to understand that that word very good means excellent It is a word that means greatly good. It means exceedingly good. Let me share with you just a few other times we find that same word very. Genesis 7, 18 and 19. And the waters prevailed and were increased greatly upon the earth. Talking about the flood. This was not a regional flood. They prevailed greatly upon the earth, and the waters prevailed exceedingly upon the earth in Genesis 7 verse 9. It's the same word. And then again in Genesis thirteen, verse thirteen, but the men of Sodom were wicked and sinners before the Lord exceedingly. And it's the same word. Very they were very, very wicked. The earth was very good, but now we find that men are very exceedingly wicked. But in Genesis 17 and verse 2, God speaking to Abraham says, I will make my covenant between me and thee, and will multiply thy seed exceedingly. Multiply thee exceedingly, and it's the same word. In Deuteronomy 4, only take heed to thyself and keep thy soul diligently, and it's the same word. Diligently defend thy soul. Joshua 23, 11, take good heed therefore to yourselves, and it's the word diligently. In Psalm 93, verse 5, thy testimonies, talking about the Word of God, thy testimonies are very sure. And it's the same word, very, they're very sure. Tell me that we've lost Scripture. No, God said it's very sure. And it's the same word he used for creation. It's very good. It's very sure. We haven't lost a single jot or tittle of God's word. And again in Psalm 119, verse 4, thou hast commanded us to keep thy precepts diligently. Psalm 119, verse 40. Thy word is very pure. And it's the same word, exceedingly pure. God saw all that he had made, and it was very good. God's creation was very good in that it was perfectly complete. There was no evolution to take place. There was no change needed. There was nothing else to be added. God saw the light and it was very good. God saw the firmament and it was very good. God saw the waters and it was very good. God said it and it was so. But not only was it perfect and complete, God's creation was in perfect order. And I touched on this a little bit when we were talking about the composer. And we were talking about the artist and we were talking about the architect. It was in perfect order. Everything worked together perfectly. Every aspect of creation. Perfectly corresponded to the other. Everything was in cooperation for the with the other. There was no chaos There was no confusion in God's order. Each created element had that which it needed to sustain it. Well this is very important today because man is doing this and we're causing this and then No. God created a world where every element had what was necessary to sustain it. Consider this In verse 3, God said, let there be light, and there was light. Light is essential to the plant life. Okay, without light, the plants die. If this was an evolutionary process, the plants would have died long ago. If this was some day-age theory, the plants could not have been sustained because they would not have had the light. In verse 6, and God said, let there be a firmament. The firmament was essential for the watering of the earth. If you did not have the firmament, you would not have the plant life. Uh those of you that have gardens know that we've had some dry days. I came back from being away for a few days and my plants all needed water. Why? Because they will die without it. Well, plant life could not have been sustained without the firmament. God created the plants on day 3, Genesis 1. 12, but God did not create the bees until day 6, Genesis 1. 24. Let me say that again. God created the plants on day three, and God created the bees on day six. What is significant about that? You realize without bees you won't have apples. You won't have peaches. The clover in my yard that I'd love to get rid of, it depends on the bees. God created trees, and it's emphasized three times whose seed is in them But that seed will not produce another tree without a bee. Folks, that can't evolve. If that took millions of years, it can't happen because the bees would have to evolve simultaneously with the plants. And even evolution itself says, no, the bees didn't come to 120 million years ago. No, folks, God created the world. That was created by a wise master builder, and everything was in unity. Everything was in perfect cooperation. The thing that this that the trees needed was there, the bees, the water that they planted was there. Everything was working in perfect order. And verse 26. And God said, Let us make man in our image after our likeness. This is Genesis 1. 26. And let them have dominion over the fish of the sea, and over the fowls of the air, and over the cattle, and over all the earth, and over the creep every creeping thing that creepeth upon the earth. So God created man in his own image. In the image of God created him, male and female. Created he them. And God blessed them, and God said unto them, Be fruitful and multiply and replenish the earth. Folks, this is why we totally reject transgenderism, homosexuality. It's not productive, right? God created everything in perfect unity. The male has his female. The tree has his bees. The birds have their the pollinating birds the the hummingbirds. It all was created in perfect unity. And so it was good because it was perfectly complete. And it was good because it was in perfect unity. There was no confusion or chaos. In what God created. But thirdly, it was perfect because it was created in perfect peace. There was perfect unity. No one was killing anyone. Cain didn't rise up and kill Abel until after the fall. God had created man to live forever, and there was perfect unity Wherefore, as by one man sinned entered the world, and death by sin, so that death passed upon all men. For the all of sin. Do you ever think about that? God warned Adam and Eve, in the day that you eat thereof, thou shalt surely die. And I pointed out to you before that that man did die in the sense that he lost that fellowship with God, and that fellowship is restored in Christ. If any man be in Christ, he's a new creature. He's created again. He is brought from death to life in Christ. But did you ever think about the grief of Adam and Eve when Cain killed Abel? They had seen the death of animals. The animals had been slain and sacrificed to make clothes for them. They had seen blood. But now suddenly they are for the first time encountering a dead human. And it is their firstborn son. They knew the consequence of their sin. Do you ever think about that? They are confronted with a dead body. And they want to hug him, they want to hold him, they want to cling to him because he's their own child, but he's starting to stink. And his body is starting to swell. And God says to Cain, where's Abel? His blood cries from the earth. God created a world where there was no death. It was in perfect harmony, perfect peace There was no war. From whence cometh wars among you. They come hence, even from your own lust, which war against you Your soul. There was no war, there was no killing in that which God created. It dwelt in perfect unity. But not only that, God's creation was very good because it was a perfect habitation. It was perfectly designed for man to live forever. Today there are such a multitude of things that are killing people. The patriarchs in the next century and few centuries lived 300, 500, 600, 900 years. But even that has been will down to our fourscore and ten, and if by reason of strength. I commented to my wife this morning On the age of my mother when my father died. She was a very young woman. I didn't really hadn't really contemplated that. How young my mom was when my father dies. But she seemed older to me when Dad died Now that I'm past the age that she was when my dad died, I start to realize, you know what, this life is indeed a vapor. God created a world that was the perfect habitation. There were no carnivious beasts. We read there in verses twenty-nine and thirty that God gave the beasts of the earth the herbs of the field for their meat, and he gave to men the herbs of the field for their meat. There were no poisonous plants The thorns and thistles don't come along till chapter 3 in verse 18 when God curses the ground for Adam's sake and brings forth pain and uh thorns and thistles. There was no pain and sickness. In the perfect world that God created. And yet in Genesis 3:16, and unto the woman he said, I will greatly multiply thy sorrow. and thy conception in sorrow thou shalt bring forth children, and thy seed, uh thy desire shall be to thy husband, and he shall rule over thee. That word bring forth that God used there in Genesis 3. 16 is the word travail. It's a word itself which carries the idea of pain. Women travail in pain. Isaiah 13, 8, he shall be in pain as a woman that travaileth. Isaiah 42, 14, now will I cry like a travailing woman. Jeremiah 6, 24, Anguish had taken hold on us, and pain as of a woman in travail. But there was none of that before the fall. Before man's sin, a woman did not have pain in childbirth. And God told Eve, I will greatly multiply thy sorrow and thy conception. Eve was designed to live forever. Eve did not have a monthly cycle. She was not fertile once a month. But rather, she would be having children throughout eternity because she was eternal and ageless But not one after another after another after another. God greatly multiplied her sorrow and her conception, and God gave her pain along with it. Folks, God created a world which is a perfect habitation. There was nothing to give people cancer There was not a sun that would would I had a skin cancer removed from my head because of the sun shining on my scalp as a as a missionary in Jamaica. These are all things that are a result of the curse and of the fall. God created a world that was a perfect habitation There was no death. In chapter 2 of Genesis, verse 16, and the Lord God commanded man, saying Of the tree of the gar of of every tree of the garden thou mayest freely eat. But of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil This is chapter two, verse seventeen. Of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil, thou shalt not eat of it. For in the day that thou eatest thereof, thou shalt surely die. Adam and Eve don't eat And so God created a creation that was very good because it was perfect and complete. It was very good because it was in perfect order. It was very good because it was in perfect peace. It was very good because it was had a perfect hab God's creation was very good because all creation willfully obeyed. It was very good. The animals obeyed. The stars and the moon, they obeyed. Man obeyed God. Man lived in perfect righteousness. And so folks, so what happened? God created a world that was not just good, it was very good. But when we look at the world today, it is not very good. We hear of murders happening all the time in Baltimore, and even in Harford County, even in what used to be a rural farming country. My parents never had keys to the house because the house was never locked. We would go away sometimes for a month at a time because dad would have three or four uh evangelistic crusade meetings. over a month period in in various places and we'd be away for a month or more. And the house wasn't locked. And nobody was going to bother it. We did not have keys to my parents' house until my father died, and my brothers and I decided in 1991, Mom, maybe you better start locking the house. And so we took off all the old doorknobs that who knows where the keys had gone from 1957 when the house was built. And we put locks on the house for my mother. Why? Because this world is not very good. Because every imagination and thoughts of men's heart is only evil continually. Because there are many places that you don't go in safety. In this world today, what happened? Well again in verses 16 and 17 of chapter 2 we find the answer And God, the Lord God commanded the man, saying, Of every tree of the garden thou mayest freely eat. But of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil, thou shalt not eat of it, for in the day that thou eatest thereof, thou shalt surely die. God gave man one commandment Do not eat of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil. Now let's talk about that tree for a few moments as we we bring this all together. First of all, we have to understand that it was an actual literal tree with leaves and fruit. It's not just symbolism. It is symbolic, but there was an actual tree. It says in God planted the trees. And the trees God planted. We're good. So the first thing we find is God planted the trees. That's in chapter 2, verse 9. God planted the garden. And that this tree that God planted was good because he had declared everything is good. Some try, the Catholics know they try to say well it was a poisonous tree, what had poison apples on it. But no, it didn't have poison apples on it, because God created it, and it's before the fall. God said it's good. So why would God say, don't eat of the tree of that one or that one tree of the garden? Faith. For God said, In the day ye eat thereof, thou shalt surely die. And Satan came along and said, What? Thou shalt not surely die. It was a matter of faith. Adam, don't eat of this tree. Are you going to believe God or are you going to believe Satan? Our brother in prayer meeting this past Wednesday very beautifully showed us that when Abraham was quote-unquote tempted, it means he was tested on the mountain. This was the first test of mankind. God says, don't eat, because the day you eat you'll die. Satan says, thou shalt not surely die. And man believed Satan and disbelieved God. Eve did not believe that she would die in the day that she Folks, it was a normal, average tree, no different in appearance from every other tree in the garden. Eve saw the fruit that was pleasant to the eye and to make one wise. And should believe Satan when he said, no, that's not the truth. Folks, what is evolution but Satan saying, no, that's not the truth? What is all man's philosophies as how we have to do this and do that? But man's saying, no, that's not the truth. And folks, we find this test of faith in the Garden of Eden, and it continues all through Scripture. Abraham on the mountain, will you obey me or disobey me? The days of Noah. Only one man and his family were obeying God, it was Noah. Noah found grace in the eyes of the Lord Believe on the Lord Jesus Christ, and thou shalt be saved. No, that can't be the truth Oh, Jesus, he's just a fairy tale. This book isn't really the Bible. This is just some made-up story. No, this is the Word of God. Jesus Christ is the Son of God. Remember Satan, if thou be the Son of God. Folks, it all comes down to one thing. Are you going to believe God? Or are you going to believe Satan? In the day you eat thereof, thou shalt surely die. Thou shalt not surely die. And Eve followed Satan. And so, what is the solution? Well, wherefore if by one man sin into the world, and death by sin, so that death passed upon all men. For that all have sinned, for all have sinned and shall come short of the glory of God. Believe on the Lord Jesus Christ, and thou shalt be saved. The remedy is available. For God declares in Revelation 21 and verse 1, and I saw a new heaven and a new earth. For the first heaven and the first earth were passed away, and there was no more sea. God created the first heaven and earth, and it was very good. God is creating a new heaven and earth, and it is very good. And verse 4 of Revelation 21, and God shall wipe away all tears from their eyes, and there shall be no more death Because of sin, death came upon man, and tears, and sorrow, and sickness, and trials. Nor crying, neither any more pain, for the former things are passed away. What is the solution to this world which was once very good and now filled with pain and chaos? God's making a new one. And he that sat upon the throne said, Behold, I make all things new. Therefore, if any man be in Christ, he is a new creature. Old things are passed away. Behold, all things are become new. And so folks, Adam and Eve were given one command, don't eat, because the day you eat you'll die. Satan came along and said, Thou shalt not surely die, and man followed Satan. Today there still is a tree of life. It's not here on earth anymore. It is in heaven. We read that in Scripture Jesus Christ is the way to the Tree of Life. And we saw in Revelation several weeks ago when we considered that passage that those that believe have right to the tree of life. And so Jesus came into the world to seek and to save that which was lost. Jesus declared that he was the way, the truth, and the life, and no man comes to the Father but by him. Will you believe what Christ said about himself? Or will you believe what Satan says? And so it all comes back to the garden of eating. Believe on the Lord Jesus Christ, and thou shalt be saved. Let us stand for prayer. Father, we thank you for the beauty and the completeness of thy word. Lord, may your spirit take thy word and apply it richly to our hearts. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.