Opening your Bibles with me, please, to the book of Matthew and chapter twenty-seven, twenty-seventh chapter of Matthew. And our companion text this morning will be from the Book of Lamentation, chapter 1, and verse 12. But for our scripture reading this morning, I'm going to read Matthew 27, verses 33 through verse 50. Matthew chapter twenty-seven, and I'll begin our scripture reading with verse thirty-three. And when they were come unto a place called Golgotha, that is to say, a place of a skull, they gave him vinegar to drink mingled with gall. And when he had tasted thereof, he would not drink. And they crucified him, parting his garments casting lots, that it might be fulfilled which was spoken by the prophet. They parted my garments among them, and upon my vesture did they cast lots And sitting down, they watched him there. And set over his head an accusation written: This is Jesus, the King of the Jews. And there were two thieves crucified with him, one on the right hand, and the other on the left. And they that passed by reviled him, wagging their heads And saying, Thou that destroyest the temple and buildest it in three days, save thyself. If thou be the Son of God, come down from the cross. Likewise also the chief priests mocking him with the scribes and elders said, He saved others, himself he cannot save. If he be the king of Israel, let him come down from the cross, and we will believe him. He trusted in God. Let him deliver him now, if he will have him. For he said, I am the Son of God. The thieves also, which were crucified with him, cast the same in his teeth Now from the sixth hour there was darkness over all the land until the ninth hour. And about the ninth hour Jesus cried with a loud voice, saying, Eli, Eli, Lama Sabakhtanai! That is to say, My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me? Some of them that stood there, when they heard that, said, This man calleth for Elias. And straightway one ran and took a sponge and filled it with vinegar, and put it on a reed, and gave him to drink. The rest said, Let me, let's see whether Elias will come down and save him. And Jesus, when he had cried again with a loud voice, yielded up the ghost. Let us pray. Gracious Father, now as we approach Thy precious word, As we consider the sacrifice of our Savior on our behalf this morning, may you bless our hearts. O Father, may you break our hearts, for though you have broken down the stony heart and given us the heart of flesh, to believe. Lord, it is so easy for us to become callous to this passage of Scripture. It is easy, especially for those of us who have had the privilege of growing up in Christian homes and some of us who have known thee from early childhood to take for granted the suffering and the sacrifice of our Lord. And yet, Lord, this is to the believer everything. And so Lord, may you bless your word to our hearts. May you open our hearts to receive thy truth. May you open your truth to us. Lord, may the Holy Spirit or the Comforter guide us into all truth And Father, we pray this morning that Jesus Christ might be exalted in our hearts, minds, and admiration. And we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Our companion text this morning is Lamentation chapter 1 and verse 12. And I would have you turn to that text. I'm not going to read extensively from the chapter. Lamentation is one of those not minor prophets, but shorter books of the prophecy. I'll give you a moment to turn, and as you're turning, I'll give you a bit of the context. Lamentation was written by the prophet Jeremiah. He is called the weeping prophet because of the sorrows that he saw. Lamentation chapter one is a lament over Jerusalem, and it is Jerusalem personified. And here the weeping prophet, when he says, Is it nothing to you that pass by? Yes, there were those that passed by the prophet and mocked him, but even more so it is Jerusalem. That is saying in chapter 1 of Lamentation, verse 12, Is it nothing to you, all ye that pass by? Behold and see Oh sorry, they uh s but let me read it properly, excuse me. Is it nothing to you All ye that pass by. Behold and see if there be any sorrow like unto my sorrow which is done unto me Wherewith the Lord hath afflicted me in the day of his fierce anger. Now, in the context in which Jeremiah was writing He was writing over the sad, destroyed state of Jerusalem, and the enemies around Jerusalem, the nations which should have been driven out. We're mocking Jerusalem. Ah, this is the city of God, but we have overrun it. This is that which God established, but it is nothing before us. And yet, in these words, we also find the personification of Jesus Christ. And we read in our reading this morning. In verse 39 of Matthew 27, and they that passed by reviled him, wagging their heads. And the glory of comparing these two passages is this. Jerusalem was in a terrible state because they had rejected Jehovah. Mankind today, Jew and Gentile alike, are in a terrible state because they have rejected the Messiah. And to those that pass by it is nothing. I've observed before Brother Vince gets time to clean up beer bottles out beside the church side. And if you drive past a good, solid fundamental church, you're very likely to see that very thing. My father had to pick up beer bottles and beer cans around the church sign for years. And I think it's deliberate, frankly. Right. You see those that pass by Think nothing of it. Those that passed by Jerusalem destroyed in its sin thought nothing of it. They mocked and scorned. Those that passed by the cross of Christ mocked and scorned. We've read of their mockery and scorning. And yet, here we find Jerusalem personified in his sorrows, and yet Christ bore our sorrows. And hallelujah, what a savior, for we find the voice of Christ in Lamentation 112. And when they passed by and mocked him, They did it because my sin was upon him. When they passed by and scorned Is there any sorrow like my sorrow? My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me? The simple answer is God had turned his back on his own son, because his own son bore my sin And just as Jerusalem suffered being overrun by its enemies because it rejected Jehovah, so Christ suffered being overrun. By the enemies, by the scribes and Pharisees around him, but not for his sin, but for mine. And so this morning I would like to go back to Matthew 27 and consider What Christ did for us, and observe that it meant nothing to those that passed by. But it means everything to the child of God. It is all or it is nothing. And Jesus Christ is to you everything or nothing at all. That's right. There is nowhere in between And so we find, first of all, that Jesus Christ's speech, his words, meant nothing to the multitude. But it means everything to us. If you look further up in the chapter than our reading, the verse eleven, we find in Matthew 27, verse 11, and Jesus stood before the governor And the governor asked him, saying, Art thou the king of the Jews? And Jesus said unto him, Thou sayest. Now that little phrase, thou sayest, is easy to read past quickly and not understand the import of what Christ's answer was. It is deliberately a bit vague, just as Scripture is understood by the hearing of the Spirit of God. Blessed are your ears, for they hear, and your eyes, for they see. He doesn't say, Yes, I am the Son of God, though he could have said that, but he responds, Thou sayest. And yet that term, thou sayest, implies what you're saying is true. You've said it. It is true. Thou sayest right. I am exactly what you say that I am. I am the king of the Jews. These simple words are an acknowledging of his sonship. He is declaring himself to be the king of the Jews, and because he is the king of the Jews, he also is by implication and certainty their Messiah. He is the deliverer. They were looking for a a deliverer from Roman oppression. He came to deliver from a greater oppression. What shall the prophet a man to gain the whole world and lose his own soul? If Christ had delivered them simply on this earth, it would mean nothing. But Christ has delivered his people from all eternity, for all eternity. By declaring himself to be the Messiah, he is declaring that he is the Son of God. And by declaring himself to be the Son of God, he's declaring that he is God in the flesh. Now, this simple statement meant nothing. Pilate washes his hands with water. Folks, you can wash your hands with water all day long. But it is the blood that cleanses. What shall wash away my sin? Nothing but the blood of Jesus, we used to sing when I was a child. In Paul's charge to Timothy in 1 Timothy chapter 3 and verse 6 uh thirteen or sorry, 1 Timothy chapter 6 and verse 13. Paul says this to young Timothy, I give thee charge in the sight of God, who quickeneth all things, and before Christ Jesus, who before Pontius Pilate witnessed a good confession. Christ didn't say much, did he? Just brief words. But Paul recognized he witnessed a good confession. And remember the declarations of the woman at the well in John 4, verse 25 and 26. The woman said unto him, I know that Messiah cometh. Which is called Christ. When he is come, he will teach us all things. Jesus said unto her, I that speak, unto thee am He That one phrase meant everything to the woman with the well. She left her water pots. She went and told others. She was transformed by those words. Consider the mockery we read up there. Look at verse 27, chapter 27, verse 43. He trusted in God. Let him deliver him now, if he will have him, for he said, I am the Son of God. That's like someone taking John 3. 16 and using it for mockery. It's essentially the same thing. He saved the Son of God. And then again in the chapter, in verse 46, at about the ninth hour, Jesus cried with a loud voice, saying, Eli, Eli, Lama Sabatai, that is to say, My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me? And they run off to get a sponge and some let's wait and see if Elias is going to come They mocked his very word. You see, to the child of God, the word of God is everything. But to those that pass by, it is nothing at all. The preaching of the cross is in the parish foolishness. But unto us that are called, it is the power of God. So then faith comes by hearing, and hearing by the word of God. Then Simon Peter answered and said, Lord, to whom shall we go? Thou hast the words of life And we believe and are sure that thou art the Christ, the Son of the Living God. Never a man spake like this man. That's right. My dear friends, is the Word of God everything to you? Is the Word of God that which you long to read? I I read the news. I don't read it every day. Uh I enjoy reading books. I I minored in English. I love literature. But is the Word of God everything to your soul? Is it that which you long to hear? Or do you mock it? And how we can mock the Word of God by neglect. You see, to the child of God it is everything. But to the world, to the unbeliever, it is nothing at all. And we see secondly, first his speech was nothing to them. Secondly, we find that his suffering was nothing. Going back to our parallel text in Lamentation, is it nothing to you that pass by? And in our primary text, verse 39, and they that passed by reviled him, wagging their heads. Have you ever seen something foolish? You know. One of those what was he thinking moments. You know. Um even even sometimes with with our kids they'll do something that's like Yeah. The old the old pra phrase you gotta be tough when you're dumb. You know, we we we we see someone do something foolish and what an idiot That was the view of Christ. He is hanging on the cross. He is there suffering for my sin. And they're shaking their heads. You see, the sufferings of Christ are everything to the believer, but they mean nothing. to the world. They are a source of mockery. His name is nothing but an expression for cursing. And yet there's none other name under heaven given among men whereby ye must be saved. And so they mocked his suffering. Previously in the passage we find the soldiers in verses 27 through 30. mocking him and putting a robe on him and in verse number thirty and they spit upon him and took the reed and smote him on the head. Who made the spittle in their mouth that they hurled in his face? Who made the reed with which they smote him? You see, they were totally ignorant of all that was taking place. Their his suffering meant nothing to them because they were inflicting it And yet, folks, his suffering made means everything to us because we inflicted it. He was wounded for our transgressions. He was bruised for our iniquity, and the chastisement of our peace was upon him. The mockery meant nothing to them, but it means everything to us. His humiliation meant nothing to him. We read there in Psalm 22 the prophecy, and they that see me laugh me to scorn. This is Psalm 22, 7 They shoot out the lift, they shake their heads, saying he trusted on the Lord that he would deliver him. Let him deliver him, seeing that he delighted in him. If you look at the historic paintings of the crucifixion, let me say first of all it is not a picture of Christ. There has never been a picture of Christ, other than the picture of Christ that is found in the Word. We don't have a picture of Jesus anywhere around us because there are no pictures of Jesus. But when you see the artistic depictions of crucifixion, we always find him crucified in a loincloth. But that's not reality. That was the modesty of the artist. The man crucified was fully exposed. He was hung in absolute shame. The writing of the superscription over his head was a mockery in itself. The crimes of the criminal would be placed over his head, so all that would come by and see his humiliation crucifixions were public. It was a public spectacle that was taking place. He suffered that humiliation for me And yet his suffering meant nothing to the multitude. And yet there was a group of women there at the feet of the cross. And to them it meant everything because they loved the one on the cross. We find further that he suffered extreme physical torture. The victim of crucifixion was tortured to death He was beaten. Beaten to the point that he couldn't carry the cross himself. Scourged. There was the law that they could only lay down 39 stripes because it was believed and had proven true that the forty could kill a man. He suffered that for us. But there's an interesting element in our text. If you look down to verse 36, Chapter twenty-seven verse thirty-six. And sitting down they watched him there. We are blessed to have veterans in our congregation. When does a soldier sit down on duty? The soldier on duty does not sit down. He stands his watch. But these soldiers would sit for the crucifixion because it's going to take a while. This is not going to be quick. This is not going to be over soon And we know from the passage that eventually they would break the legs of those being crucified. The reason being was that crucifixion I I read an article from the National Institute of Health actually that said crucifixion alone could take days because there's not enough bloodlet from the hands and the ankles to kill a person But rather the person crucified would eventually suffocate because hanging that way they could not breathe, and they would push up with their legs and get a breath and then slumped back down. And so it was not the bleeding that killed, but it was the suff suffocation that would eventually kill. And the soldiers would come along and break the legs. But folks were not just talking about a bone that's broken. They would break the legs so that the person could not push up again. That's a compound fracture, folks, with the bone sticking through the legs, through the skin. And the reason they would break the legs was not mercy. The reason the soldiers would break the legs was because they couldn't leave till the person was dead. The watch of those soldiers would continue to the death of the person. And so it's often portrayed that they'd break the legs out of mercy. No, they broke the legs because they wanted to go home. They'd had enough fun for one day But it was prophesied of Christ, not a bone of his body, we reckon. And the last verse that we read this morning, it says, And he gave up the ghost. That's right. His soul did not leave, the soul he did not die because they drove nails in his hands and feet. He died because he came for that purpose. And though man taketh my life from me, I had the power to take it up, and I had the power to give it, and I had the power to take it up again. But folks, his suffering, his suffering means nothing to the world. There's a a vile Jamaican slang that I won't repeat, but it uses the term blood in it. And it's essentially a mockery of the sacrifice of Christ. You see, my friend, the speeches of Christ, his words mean nothing to the world, but they mean everything to the child of God. And the suffering of Christ means nothing to the world, but it means everything to the child of God, because with the stripes we are healed. And it follows that his sacrifice means nothing to them. He was wounded for our transgression, he was bruised for our iniquity. The chastisement of our peace was upon him, and with his stripes we are healed. But look again in our chapter, verses we didn't read, up chapter 27, and verses 24 and 25. Verse 24, when Pilate saw that he could prevail nothing, that is he's trying to be able to take Barabbas instead of Jesus. Then he could prevail nothing, but rather a tumult was raised. He didn't want to have a riot, because that wouldn't look good for him. He took water and washed his hands before the multitude, saying, I am innocent of the blood of this just Person, see ye to it. It didn't work, Pilate. You're not innocent of that blood. It didn't work. But look at verse 25 Then answered all the people and said, His blood be upon us and on our children. Folks, this blood's on me, but in a totally different way than it's on them. They are guilty of the sacrifice of Christ. I am guilty of the sacrifice of Christ. But for me, his sacrifice means everything. It means nothing to them, but it means everything. to me. Folks, it is all or nothing. His sacrifice is all for you. Or is is nothing for you. And it's interesting by comparison in Acts chapter 5, when Peter and the Apostles were thrown into prison for preaching Christ. And they were told not to preach in his name again. And God sent an angel that delivered them from prison, and they were they sent the soldiers to bring them out of the prison before them for trial, and they weren't there, and they found them in the temple. preaching Christ. And in Acts chapter 5, verse 27 it says, and when they brought had brought them, they set them before the council, and the high priest asked him, saying, Did we not straightly command you that ye should not teach in this name? And behold, you have filled Jerusalem with your doctrine, and intend to bring this man's blood upon us. They said to Peter and the Apostles, you're trying to bring his blood on us. No, no. You brought his blood on you For before Pilate you've declared his blood be upon us and our children. You see, the blood of Christ was upon me as a lost sinner. But today the blood of Christ is upon me by application. Because remember in the Passover when they would dip the reed. in the blood, and they would take the blood and they would put it on the two sides of the door and on the top of the door, and those that were behind that blood were saved. They were spared. But those that were outside of that blood, the death angel, marched his wrath upon them. You see, his blood is on my heart by application. It has been placed there by Christ. And so his speech is everything or nothing to you. His suffering is everything or nothing to you. And his sacrifice is everything or nothing for you. This is the blood of the New Testament. Which is shed for remission of sin. His sonship was nothing to them He had declared himself to be the Son of God. And yet they said, if thou be the Son of God, come down from the cross and we'll believe you. No, they wouldn't They wouldn't have believed if he came down from the cross. They were set against him. He that hath the Son hath life. And he that hath not the Son of God hath not life, but the wrath of God abideth on him. It is everything, or it is nothing. You have the Son of God and you have life, or you have not the Son of God, and you have wrath. There is nowhere in between. It is all or it is nothing. And to the child of God. The sonship of Jesus Christ means everything because he is the Son of God, and now we are become the sons of God. By faith. We find the rejection of his sonship throughout his ministry in John 5, verse 18. Therefore, the Jews sought the more to kill him, because not only had he broken the Sabbath, but he said also that God was his father, making himself equal with God. There is only one that is equal with God, and it is Jesus Christ. There is no other. He is the only one. Search the scriptures. If you find another one in the scripture, you would believe it, but it is not there. He is the only Son of God. In John 10, verse 30 and 31, he said, I and my father are one. Then the Jews took up stones against him to stone him, again to stone him. He said, I and my father are one. I am the Son of God. I am equal with God. And all they wanted to do was stone him. You see, the sonship of Jesus Christ is everything to the believer Because nobody else could pay for my sins. It had to be the only begotten Son. He was the only spotless Lamb. It means everything to me. But it means nothing to the unbeliever. For God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son. 1 John 5, verse 10. He that believeth on the Son of God hath the witness in himself. He that believeth not hath made him a liar. The world makes God out to be a liar because they do not believe in his son. Gloriously we find, if you look down the verse 54 of the chapter. Now when the Centurion and they that watched him, were with him, watching Jesus, saw the earthquake. And those things that were done, they feared greatly, saying, Truly this man was the son of God. This Centurion who came for a spectacle Got more than he came for. He got the knowledge of God. His sonship means everything to us. But finally, his salvation meant nothing to them, but it means everything to us. Their cry was, he saved others. Himself he could not save. I saved me. By staying on that cross, he saved me. By rising from the dead, he saved me. Ah, his salvation means nothing to the world You go out in the streets and begin to witness the people and they will mock you. You pass out tracks and you can go back down the sidewalk and pick 'em back up again because they have no care for it at all. Ah, but there are a few who say, What must I do to be saved? And here we find if you turn with me to Luke chapter twenty-three, one of the parallel passages as we conclude this morning. In Luke 23 and verse 39, we find a the beautiful story of the repentant thief. And in Luke 23, 39, and one of the malefactors which were hanged, railed on him, saying, If thou be the Christ, save thyself and us. If it's true, he doesn't believe. If thou be the Christ But the other answered, rebuking him, saying, Dost not thou fear God? The fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom? Dost not thou fear God, seeing that thou art in the same condemnation if we confess our sins, he's faithful and just to forgive us of our sins? You see the fear of God? Do you see the confession of sin? And we indeed justly. I deserve to be in hell, folks. If God gave me justice, I would be in hell right now. But hallelujah, he's given me mercy through his grace. We indeed justly, for we receive the due reward of our deeds. But this man hath done nothing amiss. He's righteous. This one is not guilty as we are. And he said unto Jesus, Lord, remember me when thou comest into thy kingdom And Jesus said unto him, Verily I say unto thee, today thou shalt be with me in paradise. The speeches, the words of Jesus Christ meant nothing to the world, but they mean everything to us. The suffering of Christ means nothing to them, but his suffering means everything to us. His sacrifice means nothing to them, but his sacrifice paid the full price for me. His sonship means nothing to them, but his sonship has made me a son of God. And his salvation means nothing to them. But what shall it profit a man if he gained the whole world and lose his own soul. Folks, it is everything or it is nothing at all. Is Jesus Christ everything to you? Let us pray. Father, we thank you for thy word and thy truth. Father, bless thy truth to the hearts of thy people. Cause us, Lord, to rejoice in it. Father, we pray for any that hear this message today or in years to come. To whom Christ is nothing. O Father, may He be made their all. And Lord, we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.