Our gracious Heavenly Father, we thank you that we are bidden to come boldly to the throne of grace. We thank you, Lord, that you indeed have given to your people a rest. We rest in the merits of Jesus Christ, and we come apart ourselves to rest on the Lord's day. to seek thee in prayer, to praise thee in song, to listen to thee as your voice speaks to the Word of God. And Father, today we pray that you would bless our assembly to our edification, to our admonition, and to the glory of our great Savior Jesus Christ. Lord, we pray these things in Jesus' name. Amen. Reading from the 105th Psalm Seek the Lord and his strength. Seek his face forevermore. Remember his marvelous works that he hath done, his wonders and the judgments of his mouth. Amen. Good morning everyone. Good to see everybody. We turned our opening song in our blue hymnals, Be Thou My Vision, a familiar tune, number 143, in your songbook. And if you're able to rise, feel free. If not, that's okay that you sit. 143, be thou my vision in all circumstances. No more of my heart, nor see all those do me say that thou art thou By day or by night, waking or sleeping thy presence by life. See thou my wisdom and thou my true word I ever with thee and thou with me. Lord, thou my great bother, I thy true son, thou in me dwelling and And I with the wall precious I need not for an empty grace thou mine. Never tense now and go away now and thou only percent by cause King of heaven, my treasure thou art. My king of heaven, my victory. May I reach have a choice all bright and song part of my own heart was ever. The people still be my vision of ruler. Amen, female. Thank you very much. Please be seated. Gorgeous hymn, timeless classic hymn from the Christian church. And uh you know it doesn't hurt for you to memorize hymns. We are to teach one another. By way of singing, the scripture says in Colossians. And so there's a lot of doctrine that's contained in good, timeless hymns that the faithful have kept and in memories of the services over the years. Well turn to the back of your bulletin as we now consider the Belgian Confession. I'll be covering these for the next few weeks while our brother is traveling abroad visiting There are saints spread across the U. S. And uh look out your window, you may see them come by as the Mission Bible Church bus makes its way around America. We uh start with the Belgian Confession and we're looking at the second half of the rather lengthy confession for reason's sake of the space. I'm going to repeat the first sentence of the confession and which you've heard before, and then the next part which begins with this doctrine. Christian, in what do you believe? We believe that this good God, after he had created all things, did not forsake them or give them up to fortune or chance. but that He rules and governs them according to His holy will. This doctrine affords us unspeakable consolation. Since we are taught thereby that nothing can befall us by chance, but by the direction of our most gracious and heavenly Father, who watches over us with a paternity carefully. keeping all creatures so under his power that not by hair of our head, for they are all numbered Nor a sparrow can fall to the ground without the will of our Father, in whom we do entirely trust. Being persuaded that he also restrains the devil and all our enemies, that they cannot hurt us without his will and permission. Therefore, we reject that damnable error of the Epicureans, who say that God does not concern himself with anything, but leaves all things to chance. Boy, if ever there is a section of the confession that you'd want to highlight and hang it on your wall, this might be a pretty good candidate. When you consider the panoply of all of the false gods that are running amok, whether they be the high priests of academia with their ridiculous psychological and philosophical ideas as to how the universe is run. to the quasi-religious deist who thinks that God's the watchmaker. He sort of started it all up and stood back and just let it roll forward. to you name it, all of those false gods fail because at the end of the day, they can't help you Whatever happens to you, oh well just suck it up and take it and do your best. Tell me how that helps somebody who's recently been diagnosed with some form of cancer, or someone who is suffering great economic financial loss. A parent facing the loss of a child. Very hard things can hit us in life where, you know, when a sucker punch is, you're not expecting it, and you just get hit right in the solar plexus and you double over because you can't breathe. Sometimes life sends us a few sucker punches, doesn't it? Yeah it happens for ministers too. You ever heard of that? Maybe you've seen that a time or oh yeah, you've seen a few things How does those false gods help? Well, they don't, and they're useless. And if you're a Christian, you have no business even entertaining such a thought as to how the God of the Bible operates. The God of Scriptures is not a God playing chess with the devil. Oh, he's a tough opponent. He's on one side and he's sly and he's clever and he's whooped everybody else, but Oh, Jesus will outsmart him. No, no, that's the devil is a piece on God's chessboard. You're not playing against him. And you say, how does that comfort us? Well it comforts me greatly. Because whatsoever happens, I know it had to pass through the permissible hand of God's will first. He among all knows our frame, for he knit us in our mother's womb. Before there was A grandparent or a great-grandparent. Before there was a flicker in your parents' eyes, he knew you and he knew you by name. You know, when Scripture says he numbers the very hairs of our head, the engineering side of me scratches it and says, how does that happen? Hairs come and go. There's all kinds of growth cycles. There's some that are starting, there's some that are graying and falling out of every hair. Every every hair, Jim. You ain't got much, but you got hair, and it's still there. And God's got a number for it, and it's sitting on his desk. And he's not sweating it to figure out how many are there. And not one falls out And if he knows the least of the details, we may care about the color and what it looks like. But if he is so concerned About that tiniest detail in your life, bless my soul, how can he not be concerned with the big things that are And so for the Christian, the comfort it gives is to know that whatever comes your way, failures or successes, Griefs and great joy, headaches and heart throbs. Whatever comes your way is divinely ordained for your good. in some way, shape, or form, or fashion. And you will learn a lesson. And it may take a while. 1986, and I'll get off my stage here because I don't want to preach a whole nother sermon. This is a spectacular doctrine and you don't want to lose sight of it. You don't want to let go of the sovereignty of God. 1986 is the worst year of my life. It's a year I graduated from college. I was I'm going to be sailing right into a great job as an oil man with Union Oil Company. I knew the vice president, and that name was Vance Lynch. He's long since dead, I'm sure. I'd already had an internship with them. I knew where my office was going. I knew who my secretary was going to be for crying out loud. And that was the year the oil industry tanked and I couldn't get a job to be a uh as anything. People were fleeing the state of Texas and for one whole year I was unemployed slash underemployed and barely surviving And when I flew out to Southern California for my job interview with the company that I eventually be with, I went there with six dollars in my wallet. That was it. It was all I had And that was a tough, tough, tough year. No income. If it wasn't for dad, and I don't know how dad managed to keep the boat afloat. But if it wasn't for those life support checks, I don't know where I'd be. When I came out of that, I was no longer an arrogant, pompous individual. I was humble and I was patient. And he was allowing me to reap the fruit of my ways early. And reap I did. And it was gravel in my teeth. So that when the gospel came, Brother David, I was ready. It was good news. When that preacher said, man's not on the ocean floundering, down two times, up a third, waiting to grab the life wrap, call Jesus. No, no, man's at the bottom of the ocean, he's dead, and the sharks have eaten his heart out You don't need a life raft, you need a resurrection. And I was like, yeah, that's me. I could use that. That's me And so God Almighty in His providence allowed the most powerful. I'm not going to repeat that year. I don't want to do that again. That was rough. Yeah. Right. That was a rough, rough, rough year. Every third day something bad happened. An apartment got broken into. Three days later car got stolen. Three days l I mean it was boom, ba boom, ba boom, ba boom, ba boom. It was just raining down But God had a purpose in it. And so in your life, when the rains fall and the storms come and the winds blow, no. God is still there. And he's there on purpose. So be comforted. Be comforted with the doctrine of God's providence. No, it's my turn to continue the sermon. First on a hair of her head falls. You know how much they can tell about you by one hair? Oh my. They can tell what you've been eating. They can tell many diseases. They can tell your age. They can tell your ethnicity. They can tell what region of the world you've been in, by what chemicals have got there is so much that they can tell just from one hair. And yet not one hair falls. But God knows about that hair. Just amazing. The watch care of our God. Who who can comprehend such great truth? The sparrows, how many you it's the time of year when you see great flocks of birds flying over and the the huge flocks of blackbirds. God knows about every one of them. I saw a meme this week of a flock of geese flying and the caption was telling me by here comes the Canadian Air Force they're upset over tariffs. I shouldn't have brought that in into a serious discussion. We have much to rejoice in, but we also have much to pray for. Let us go to prayer. Father, we thank you for the uncomprehendable watch care of our God Oh Lord, we care for our children. We care for our parents, for our siblings, for those that are family to us on this earth. And yet, Lord, our care of our own children and family cannot compare with the knowledge and the care that God has for his children. Such knowledge is too wonderful for me. It is high. I cannot attain to it. Whither shall I go from thy spirit, or whither shall I flee from thy presence? Lord, we are ever under the loving watch care of the God who spoke all things into existence. And Lord, you know every cell and molecule of our bodies. You know of the sicknesses that are known to the medical profession within us. You know of the sicknesses that we are unaware of ourselves. Yea, Father, we make plans for the future. But you know the day of our death. It is all ordained with thee. And Lord, there is no plague, nor illness, nor accident, nor situation. that can remove us from this life before the day of your planning. And there is no doctor or medication or procedure of man that can keep us here a second beyond your planning. And so, Father, we pray for the healing of the sick, and we pray in faith believing, and we know from thy word that the prayer of faith shall save the sick. Lord, we see in thy word where Hezekiah pled with you and you added years to his life. We also see where David prayed for his ailing son, and you ordained to take him. Father, we thank you, Lord, for what we've heard this morning already. And that sure knowledge that the heart of your people can safely trust in our God, who is a God like unto thee. The gods of the heathen are wood and stone, but you made the heavens. And so, Father, we do lay before you very serious physical needs within the congregation. Lord, yeah, even some that have just been diagnosed this week, and further treatment will be going on this week, Father. In these situations, bless and work according to your will. Lord, we have health situations in the congregation that have been known for some time and have been laid before you day by day. And we have seen some improvement in cases. We have seen the status quo in others. But Lord, you have worked in all. And so, Lord, we pray that your will would be done. Father, we do pray for our families. Lord, we know that many within this congregation deeply grieve over children, siblings, parents, loved ones that do not know Christ. That are wandering on the pathway of their own destruction. And their only hope can be found in Jesus Christ, in redemption through Him. And so, Father, we pray that you would bring into their lives thy word, for faith by hearing, and hearing by the word of God. Bring into their circumstances the their situations, the circumstances Which as our brother even mentioned a moment ago, uh drove him to thee. Uh, Father. Uh we we hate to see our loved ones in hard times, and yet, Lord, it may be hard times which drive them to their knees. And so, Father, we pray for their salvation. Lord, we do pray for those of our congregation that are traveling at this time. And those with whom they will be visiting, Lord, that you would strengthen and encourage, Lord, that you would bring your fellowship along with them Lord, to those who are in spiritual deserts, in spiritual weary lands, Lord, where they are unable to find a congregation with whom to worship in person And yet, Lord, you have provided us in these days this means for us to join together. Lord, even when we are over the Internet, we are indeed Not forsaking the assembly. And we are joining together as touching, uh agreeing together as touching these things. And so, Father, we pray that you would bless both those that are here present and those that are unable to be here. Father, we thank you for allowing us the freedom to worship. We have no fear of who might attend, of who might hear, of who might enter the building, Father. Lord, we meet in peace and we meet in freedom and we thank you for that. And Lord, we do pray for the persecuted church in the world, Lord, that that cannot meet openly, that cannot meet without fear. Father, we pray that you would bless them, Lord, today with thy blessing in thy spirit. Lord, we pray for our young men in college. Lord, that you continue to bless them in their studies. Or that you would prosper them and prayer for the prepare for them areas of service that they might, regardless of what professional tag, may be placed at the end of their name May they indeed be servants of the Most High God. Father, we uh pray today that you would be with the employment situation and the financial situation of the congregation, or it is hard times. And Lord, we have uh business people within our congregation that struggle because of the economy, struggle because of interest rates Lord, we pray that you would bless them. Indeed, Lord, open the windows of heaven and pour out a blessing that they cannot receive. Lord, we pray that you would bring the business to them which is necessary. Lord, not that we may lay up for ourselves treasures on earth. But, O Lord, indeed, that we might have treasure in heaven. For Lord, you have promised to give us our daily bread, and you have told us to cast our bread upon the waters. And so, Father, we pray that you bless your people, that your people may be a blessing to others. Father, we do pray for our President and for all who are in authority. We pray that you would give them safety. We pray that you would give them wisdom. We pray that you would grant to them morality in their decisions. But Lord, above all, we pray that you might indeed reach them with the saving grace of Jesus Christ. The hope of this nation is not better treaties The hope of this nation is not stronger military. The hope of this tra nation is not even removing the fraud and waste. The hope of this nation is revival It is the salvation that comes through the grace of Jesus Christ. We have read in our history how England was on the verge of its own destruction. Until you sent a mighty revival across the land and the the beer joints and the dens of iniquity were closed down because they had no patrons. Lord, you could do that even in our own land today. Father, we we indeed love you, not because there's any good or merit in us. But Lord, we love you because you first loved us. We love you because you've shown us the way of salvation. You have revealed your truth to us. You would have been fully just to allow everyone here this morning to have continued in our own iniquity to our own destruction on the pathway of hell. Lord, the folks in this congregation can testify of the iniquity from which you have delivered them and can testify of the pathway of glory on which you place them. We rejoice in you. Bless our assembly. This day we pray. We thank you, Lord, though we pray for your presence with us. Lord, we do not need to pray for that presence, for it is promised. But O Lord, may we pray, Father, remove the scales from our eyes. Help us to look deeply into thy word today. Help us to drink the full from the well of eternal life. And Lord, send us away from our assembly today, loving you more, hating our sin more, desiring to pray more. Hungering and thirsting after righteousness more. Today, O Lord, improve us by thy grace. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. If you would, please locate Psalm 63 in your Bible for our responsive reading today. We will be reading the entirety of the Psalm, all 11 verses Psalm 63 is our responsive reading, and once you locate that, if you're able, please rise up for the reading Psalm 63, a psalm of David when he was in the wilderness of Judah. O God, thou art my God. Early will I seek thee. My soul thirsteth for thee, my flesh longeth for thee, in a dry and thirsty land where no water is. To see thy power and thy glory, so as I have seen thee in the sanctuary. Because thy loving kindness is better than life, my lips shall praise thee. Thus will I bless thee while I live. I will lift up my hands in thy name. My soul shall be satisfied as with marrow and fatness, and my mouth shall praise thee with joyful lips. When I remember thee upon my bed, and meditate on thee in the night watches. Because thou hast been my help, therefore in the shadow of thy wings will I rejoice. My soul followeth hard after thee. Thy right hand upholdeth me But those that seek my soul to destroy it shall go into the lower parts of the earth. They shall fall by destroyers. They shall be a fortune for foxes, but the king shall rejoice in God, everyone that sweareth by his glory. But the mouth of the seek lies shall be stopped. May Lord and God add a rich blessing to the reading and hearing of this holy word. Please now turn to our sermon psalm. That is Psalm 35A in your red soldiers. That's 35A would be sung to the tune of When I Survey the Wondrous Cross. And at the end we will sing the Amen. We will sting all four standos. We Lord are just contending. And by taking And of shill twice up and might Your all the spirits up the way. With me to my soul, and mercy is there I am self- Tem selfie humble chase dele. And turn back to our division almighty Let them be challenged, shall I? Shout out, Thank you. You may be seated. Thank you, David, for your participation this morning. Glad to have you. With the song leading. Aren't those powerful words? Ah, what a glorious psalm that is, what Consolation it brings to the heart of the believer in all our trials. Turn with me in your Bibles, please To the book of 2 Corinthians and the sixth chapter, 2 Corinthians chapter 6. And I'm going to read verse 14 Through verse 1 of chapter 7, chapter 6, verse 14, through the first verse of chapter 7. Second Corinthians, and we begin in chapter six 6 and verse 14, be ye not unequally yoked together with unbelievers. For what fellowship hath righteousness with unrighteousness? And what communion hath light with darkness? And what concord hath Christ with Belial? Or what part hath he that believeth with an infidel? And what agreement hath the temple of God with idols? For ye are the temple of the living God. As God has said, I will dwell in them, and walk in them. And I will be their God, and they shall be my people. Wherefore, come out from among them and be ye separate, saith the Lord And touch not the unclean thing, and I will receive you, and I will be a father unto you, and ye shall be my sons and daughters, saith the Lord Almighty. Having therefore these promises, dearly beloved, let us cleanse ourselves from all filthiness of the flesh and spirit, perfecting holiness. In the fear of God. Let us pray. Gracious Father, we thank you for your word this morning. We thank you for the sound instruction that is contained therein. Lord, we recognize that the natural man receiveth not the things of the Spirit of God, neither can he know them, because they are spiritually discerned. And Father, we who are believers are not simply the natural man, for you have made us new creatures in Christ. And yet, Lord, we do not understand your word by the natural man. In other words, it's not the amount of education or the understanding of English or the study of grammatical structures That give us the truth and insight into thy word. But rather, your word is understood as the Spirit of God opens the spiritual understanding to thy truth. And so, Father, today, as we so often prayed, may the Spirit of God be the exegete. It is assigned to me this morning to be the expositor, to stand and open thy word and proclaim truth to thy people. And yet it is left to the Spirit of God to take the stammering words of man and apply them to the hearts of people. And so, Father, may your Spirit have liberty and free course to do your perfect work in our hearts and lives this day. And Lord, we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. That first verse which we read, verse 14, and be ye not unequally yoked together with unbelievers, is a theme which I grew up with. My father was one of the men who were referred to as the fundamentalists. He was one of the men who separated from the old Methodist Episcopal Church. took a stand against the encroachment of liberalism, the denial of the inspiration of Scripture, the denial of the virgin birth. And there was a generation of men in the last century who were called fundamentalists. And the word had a good meaning. The word has been co-opted. uh over the years and now when you hear fundamentalist you hear Islamic fundamentalist or this fundamentalist. But the original understanding of that term fundamentalist was someone who stood on the old doctrines of God. The old doctrines of the word. Our sisters talked to us about her pastor that she grew up under who was a fundamentalist He was one who did not follow his peers and the denial of truth. This verse was one of the touch Let us come out from among them and be separate. Let fellowship be not unequally yoked together, etc. And those folks viewed that linking with the World Council of Churches and so on was an unequal yoke, and they were correct in so doing. But if we look closely at the passage, it is talking to believers, and it is not speaking as much about that ecclesiastical separation. As it is about the personal separation of the believer. And I have shared with Brother Vince that I'm not big on titles to messages. But the title of the message stays, it's not enough to be right. God's called us to be righteous. It's not enough simply to have right doctrine, we're also to have a right manner of life. It's not enough simply to know the truth, but rather the truth must be influential in the way that we live. In fact, if we know the truth, then our whole life should be different. Because there's a lot of old creatures that know a lot of truth. But if any man be in Christ, he's a new creature. Old things are passed away. Behold, all things are become new. And so the first verse of our reading today, there in verse 14, says, Be ye not unequally yoked together with unbelievers. Now we don't talk about a yoke much today. But most of us, I'm sure, have seen or maybe at some demonstration have seen pictures or at some demonstration have observed oxen that are in the yoke. The yoke is that bar that goes across the necks of two oxen, and there's a loop piece that comes down around the neck, and the two oxen are put into that yoke And together they pull against the load. When Elijah called Elisha to labor with him. There in 1 Kings 19, we read that Elisha was plowing with 12 yoke of oxen And a yoke would be two oxen. It showed that Elisha was a man from a prominent family. He was a man with a degree of wealth because he had 24 oxen pulling his yoke But when Elisha was called to the service of the Most High God, he took his plow and he chopped it up for wood. And he slew a yoke of oxen. He killed two of the oxen and he offered them to God. Now, why was that significant Well it was a picture that Elisha was leaving, Elijah, no Shah, sorry, Elisha was leaving the service of the plow. To be yoked to Elijah, the prophet of God. And the two of them would be in the same yoke in the service of the Lord. The Apostle Paul in Philippians 4 and verse 3 referred to a unnamed, we don't know the man's name, but an unnamed true yoke fellow. Another servant in the ministry of Christ, who was a true yoke fellow to Paul, their heads were in the same yoke. They were pulling the same plow. They were plowing the same ground. They were true yoke fellows And we find in Scripture that in Ecclesiastes 4 and verse 9 that two are better than one. And we find when Christ sent out the disciples, he sent them two and two. And when we think of the name Paul, what do we think of? Timothy. Or Paul and Silas. Paul and Barnabas. We find throughout Scripture Peter and J and James, or um sorry, sorry, um Peter and John. Peter, James, and John, a trio, but we find throughout Scripture that God often has yoked together two of his servants for the service of God. A marriage is a yoke situation. You're you're pulling the same plow. Your aims are the same, and that is why a young believer should not marry an unbeliever. It's an unequal yoke. It's a linking together that is not profitable. But here we are warned of the unequal yoke. We've talked a little bit about some some lauded yokes in Scripture, but what about the unequal yoke? Well in Deuteronomy chapter 22 And verse 10, in the instructions that God gave to the children of Israel, he said, thou shalt not plow with an ox and an ass together. Don't put the ox and the donkey in the same yoke. In Jamaica we had some donkeys that were much bigger than German shepherds. I mean these things, they were cute as they could be. They weren't really miniatures And I remember one guy that went by our house just about every morning on the way to his bush where he worked, and he was riding his donkey, but his feet were only about this far off the ground. Because this donkey was short and I I joked to Penny different times, I think he ought to carry the donkey. That would be more That would be more fitting if he would pick up the donkey and carry the donkey. Of course he would come back in the evening and the donkey had his produce that he had gathered in his in his garden that he would take to to market in the saddle But an ox is a big, strong, burly, muscular animal. And a donkey, though it can bear a burden, is small and unfitting. And so God said, don't plow with the ox and the ass together. Why? Well, because it just didn't fit. It just didn't work. But folks, there's a multitude in that same passage of other instructions that God gave to his people that we could say that doesn't make sense. They were not to mix uh two animals in a yoke. They were not to mix fabrics in a garment. They couldn't wear polyester in our modern sense. Because it was two different fabrics mixed into the same garment. They were not to mix the seeds which they planted in the fields. Now, why did God put these seemingly Meaningless restrictions and laws on the children of Israel. Well, the purpose that God was giving there in Deuteronomy chapter 22 was to show them that they were to be separate from other people. They were to be different. They were to be distinct. And that brings us right back here to 2 Corinthians chapter 6. God's people are to be different. You see, it's not enough to be right. It's not enough to know the law of God, but then carry the law of God with you into the dens of iniquity. It's not enough to know the truth of God, but then live like the world. The old old saying, a a praying foot and a dan uh a dancing foot and a praying knee don't grow on the same limb. You know, there's there's to be a difference, a distinction with the people of God, and that is what the Apostle Paul, under the instruction of the Holy Spirit, is teaching the Corinthian believers. Be not unequally yoked together with unbelievers. You see, God has given us a different yoke. Come unto me, all ye that labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. Take my yoke upon you. And learn of me, and ye shall find rest to your soul, for my yoke is easy, and my burden is light. And so in these verses we have this morning, we're going to find first five rhetorical questions which show us the folly of an unequal yoke. And then five glorious promises to those who reject the unequal yoke. Five glorious promises, I'm sorry, five rhetorical questions They illustrate the folly of the unequal yoke. Now what's a rhetorical question? Well a rhetorical question is a question that has an obvious answer. You don't really have to think, yeah, I know the answer as soon as I hear the question It's not a question that is looking for you to respond verbally, but a question rather that makes you stop and think, yeah, yeah, okay. I get it, I see You see, these are not new concepts. These are not things that, as brand new revelation to the church at Corinth, rather it was things that they knew, that they understood, but they weren't following. You see, it's not enough to be right. You also need to be righteous. And so, as we go there to this fourteenth verse Be ye not unequally yoked together with unbelievers, for what fellowship hath righteousness with unevers Righteousness. That's our first question. What fellowship does righteousness have with unrighteousness? And that word fellowship is a unique word. In fact Actually, three of the words we find in this passage are only found in their form in this same passage. The word uh fellowship, the word concord, and the word agreement Are isolated from all the rest of the Greek New Testament in their use right here, the form of the word that's used. This word fellowship means participation, it means sharing of values. How does righteousness share with unrighteousness? How does righteousness and unrighteousness participate together? They cannot And therefore, how can a believer claim to be a servant of Jesus Christ, claim to have taken Christ's yoke upon him, and yet you've got their head in one side and their head in another side. They're trying to live both ways. They're trying to pull two different plows What fellowship hath righteousness with unrighteousness? James 4, verse 4. Ye adulterers and adulteresses Know ye not that friendship with the world is enity with God? Therefore, whosoever shall be the friend of the world shall be the enemy of God. You've all heard the old old uh saying the enemy of my enemy is my friend. You know. Well, you know, if you are the friend of God Then you're going to be a servant of God. If you're a friend of the world, you have become the enemy. of God. Turn with me to Ephesians chapter 5. It's over just a few pages back towards the Gospels from where you are there in 2 Corinthians. We'll go back to 2 Corinthians again, of course But in Ephesians chapter 5, uh I'd like to look at verses 3 through 7, and we'll actually refer to these same verses again later on, so you may want to kind of Put your Bible ribbon in them or put a piece of paper there because we'll flip to them another time. But in Ephesians chapter 5, and beginning in verse number 3, But fornication and uncleanness or covetousness, let it not be once amained among you as become a saints. Okay. If you were saints, then uncleanness and covetousness and fornication, those things shouldn't even be On the radar. They shouldn't even be mentioned. Those things are not a part of the yoke which Christ has said, take upon you. Verse 4, neither filthiness nor foolish talking, nor jesting, which is are not convenient, but rather giving thanks. For this ye know that know who are among her Brother Vince mentioned some of this in Sunday school this morning. No whoremonger, nor unclean person, nor covetous man who is an idolater hath any inheritance in the kingdom of Christ and of God Let no man deceive you with vain words. It's not enough to be right, you need to be righteous. Let no man deceive you with vain words, for because of these things cometh the wrath of God upon the children of disobedience. Be not ye therefore partakers with them. Don't be partakers. Don't have a part in what they're doing. All unrighteousness Is sin, there is no middle ground between righteousness and unrighteousness And so the first question we have is what? Fellowship hath righteousness with unrighteousness. But then looking again at the last part of verse 14, our second question And what communion hath light with darkness. Now we talked about that word communion a few weeks ago. It is indeed the same word that we use for the Lord's Supper. It's also a word which means sharing or uh abundance, sending money abroad. It was used of sending relief funds to another church What communion, what fellowship, what overlap is there between light and darkness? Folks, light and darkness ever meet. Ah, yes, I know. This morning, by some miracle, the sun rose an hour earlier than it did the day before. Yeah, I I know that dusk and dawn cycle in my office this morning. It occurred to me that my fish tank didn't understand the change in time because the the light in the fish tank was off when I went in the office this morning and it didn't come on until an hour after it should have. We understand dusk and dawn because our earth rotates, but folks the sun never goes out. It is always light. See, light and darkness are polar opposites. They do not meet. And so we had the second question here: what communion, what sharing Does light have with darkness? Ye are the children of light, walk as children of light, in whom is no darkness at And so we're not to be half light and half dark, because we cannot be. In fact, Christ said in John eight, verse twelve. I am the light of the world. He that followeth me shall not walk in darkness, but shall have the light of light. And then again in 1 Thessalonians 5, and starting with verse 5, ye are the children of light and the children of day. We are not of the night, nor of the darkness. Let us not sleep as do others, but let us watch and be sober. For they that sleep sleep in the night. And they that be drunken are drunken in the night. But let us, who are of the day, be sober, putting on the breastplate of faith and love, and for and helmet the hope of salvation. The second rhetorical question is: what communion does light have with darkness? If the light of Christ is in your soul Then what are you doing playing around with darkness? Light and darkness cannot mix, for ye were sometimes darkness But now ye are light in the Lord. Walk as children of light. Ephesians chapter 5 and verse 8 Our third question is in verse 15. And what concord hath Christ with belial or belial, whichever I believe Belial is actually the proper pronunciation, but I grew up hearing it as Belial. Belial. What concord hath Christ with Belial? And this word concord is the second of our words that is a unique form found in the Greek only in this passage. The word concord is a word that means agreement or harmony between two groups of people or individuals. The Greek word there is Siphonius and you hear the word symphony in there. A symphony where the strings And the woodwinds and the brass and the percussion are all bringing forth music in harmony, a glorious power of the symphony. Bring out the music in full throat. If you love music and if you have a musical ear, you understand the cringing at a bad note. You understand that when when one part of it is out of tune, the whole thing is destroyed. Well, that's what's being spoken of here. What symphony, what concord hath Christ with Belial? And this word Belial means wickedness or worthlessness, and it is an Old Testament name for Satan. You see, what concord, what symphony, what harmony can you find between Christ and Satan? Jehovah's Witnesses would try to tell you that they're brothers. But Christ's response was, get thee behind me, Satan. Thou shalt worship the Lord thy God, and him only shalt thou save. That's Luke four, verse eight. I'll read it to you. Jesus answered and said unto him, Get thee behind me, Satan, for it is written, Thou shalt worship the Lord thy God, and him only shalt thou serve. There can be no harmony or fellowship between Jesus Christ and the devil. And there can be no harmony or fellowship between the believer in whom Christ dwells and Belial, Satan. And yet, folks, sadly, how many who know the right dabble with the fruits of Satan? Find pleasure in the thing, in the works of the devil. Want to look at this over here. Want to show some curiosity. this. What is what are they what are they saying? What are they putting online? What are they doing over there? Folks, it's not enough to be right. God's called his people to be righteous, to be different, not to mix the seed that is sown. Not to mix the fabrics of the garments, I'm not saying those literally, but figuratively. We are to be different. What concord hath Christ with Belial? The next question, what part hath he that believeth with an infidel? Can two Amos chapter 3 and verse 3 Can two walk together except they be agreed? Can two animals have their necks in the same yoke, except they be equal? Can they plow together or will they plow in two different directions? What part hath he that believeth with an infidel. I mentioned to you that we'd return there to Ephesians 5. So if you have your Bible ribbon or a marker there Look again at Ephesians 5 verse 7. Be ye not therefore partakers with them. And I kind of broke the word up earlier. Let me emphasize, to be a partaker is to be a partaker. What part has the believer with the infidel? The infidel is the faithless or the unbeliever. What part do you have with him? You see, you'll be like your friends If your friends are those who are profane in their language before long, their language will creep into your lips because you hear it through your ears. If your friends are those that have no value or use for the Lord's day before long, when they say, come with us, you will go with them. When your friends love the dirty jokes, before long your mind will be filled with the dirty jokes rather than the word of God. It's not enough to have the right theology. An unequal yoke is the believer linking himself. Our best friends cannot be infidels. Right. Our life mates cannot be infidels. It doesn't mean that we go into a monastery and we don't have co-workers that are not believers, but that's not the people we hang out with after work. We're not partakers with them. But we're still there in Ephesians 5, verse 7. Be ye not therefore partakers with them. And then verse 11. and have no fellowship with the unfruitful works of darkness, but rather reprove them. Rather than having fellowship with the world, it is the job of the believer to reprove. the world. So that is the fifth question. My son, if sinners entice thee, consent not thou. But then the fourth of the question. The fifth question is found in verse 16. And what agreement hath the temple of God with idols? For ye are the temple of the living God. As God has said, I will dwell in them and walk in them, and I will be their God, and they shall be my people. Question number five: What agreement? hath the temple of God with idols, and this is the third word in this passage that is unique, only used in uh this passage, this particular form of the word agreement. What agreement does the temple of Jehovah have with the temple of Baal? Remember Elijah on the mountain? When the prophets of Baal cried till noon and they cut themselves and they jumped on the altar and they cried, Oh Baal, hear us, and there was none to answer, and Elijah began to mock them. Maybe your God's asleep, maybe he's on a journey. And then finally we find that Elijah repaired the altar of God and the fire held from heaven. What agreement was there with those two? There was not whatsoever. Folks, the God of this world who blinds the minds of them who believe not is very prevalent. You cannot worship the God of this world and worship Jehovah at the same time because there is no agreement between those two temples You cannot worship Baal during the week and worship Jehovah on the Lord's Day. It's not enough to simply have the right theology. The right theology in the believer will bring about right practice as well. It's not enough to be righteous. Right. God has called us to be righteous. What agreement can the church have with a brothel? What agreement can the church have with a crackhouse? Well then what agreement can the believer have with Because you see, we are the temple of God. The temple of God dwells within us. Look at the verse again For ye are the temple of the living God. As God has said, I will dwell in them and walk in them, and I will be their God, and they shall be my people. Back one book. You're in 2 Corinthians chapter 6 in 1 Corinthians chapter 6. There's two books of Corinthians, of course. In 1 Corinthians chapter 6, verses 19 and 20, what? Know ye not that your body is the temple of the Holy Ghost? which God um Holy Ghost which is in you, which ye have of God, and ye are not your own. For ye are bought with a price, therefore glorify God in your body and in your spirit. Which are God's. Glify God in your body. That's hands, feet, mouth, etc. But glorify him in your spirit as well. You see, as a man thinketh in his heart, so is he. To commit adultery in the heart is as sinful as committing adultery in the body. And so five rhetorical questions. What fellowship hath righteousness with unrighteousness? What communion hath light with darkness? What concord hath Christ with Belial? What part hath he the believeth with an infidel? What agreement hath the temple of God with idols? But then we'd now like to look at five glorious promises to the believer who rejects the unequal yoke. And the first one is found there in that sixteenth verse of chapter six of Second Corinthians. He says there, I will dwell in them. As God has said, I will dwell with will dwell in them. I almost said with, because we often think about with But that's not what the text says. I will dwell in them. Isaiah chapter forty one, verse ten. Fear thou not, for I am with thee. Be not dismayed, for I am thy God I will strengthen thee, yea, I will help thee, I will uphold thee with the right hand of my righteousness Psalm 91, verses 1 and 2, He that dwelleth in the secret place of the Most High shall abide under the shadow of the Almighty. I will say the Lord, He is my refuge and my fortress, my God. In him will I trust. You see, folks, to those that truly reject the yoke of Satan, that truly reject the yoke of the world. that reject the unequally yoking of themselves with the unbelievers, with the infidels, with the temple of idols. Christ dwelleth in me. I will dwell in them. In any temptation, in any danger, in any aloneness that I may face God is with me. In Psalm 115, verse 2, wherefore should the heathen say, Where is now their God? No, no. He dwells within me. And in Deuteronomy thirty one, verse eight we read this And the Lord, he it is that doth go before me. He will be with me. He will not fail thee, neither shall forsake thee. Fear not, neither be dismissed. Folks, it's God that's with me. It is God that dwells within the believer. No, I am not deity, but deity lives in my heart. And so, folks, it's a glorious promise. It's not enough to be right. We're called to be righteous. But in the unequal the yoke person Does the Spirit of God truly dwell there? Does he truly live there? Or do they just have the right words? It's not enough to be right. God's called us to be righteous. And Psalm 3725. The psalmist says, and I've mentioned to you before that my dad had my name and the names of my two brethren, brothers, written beside this verse in his Bible. I have been young, and now I'm old, yet have I never seen the righteous forsaken or his seed begging bread. God does not forsake his own Promise number two. God has said, I will walk in them This is also there in that sixteenth verse. God has said, I will dwell in them and walk in them. God walks in his people. God walks in the believer. I am in you, go ye into all the world and preach the gospel to every creature, and lo, I am with you always, even unto the end of the world. Link two per link two verses of scripture together there, but God dwells within his people. Psalm 23 verse 4, yea, though I walk to the valley. of the shadow of death, I will fear no evil. Why? Because I'm big and strong? Why? Because I'm great and mighty? No, because thou art with me Thy rod and thy staff. What a glorious promise, folks. We don't need the temple of Satan. We don't need the filth of this world Christ walks in me. He dwells with me, and he walks in me. And so Isaiah 43, verse 2, when thou passest through the waters, I will be with thee. And through the river, they shall not overflow thee. Do you feel like you're drowning? I think most of us do sometimes. Feel like this world is just washing us over like the waves of the sea They shall not overflow thee. There hath no temptation taken thee, but such as is common to man. When thou walkest through the fire, thou shalt not be burned, neither shall a flame kindle upon thee. And another verse we could bring in a thousand shall fall at thy side and ten thousand at thy right hand. Yet it shall not come nigh thy dwelling. Promise number three. God has said, I will be their God, and they shall be my people The last part of the verse there, I sh they will I will be their God, and they shall be my people. I've actually felt sorry for the prophets of Baal on the mount. Karmel cutting themselves with knives, leaping on the altar themselves, from morning to noon and noon to the time of the evening sacrifice, and there was no one to hear I've seen pictures of people climbing up steps on their knees, trying to gain favor with God. They the the Romanists count their beads day by day. They go through all these rituals and all these things. We find cultures all around the world that at one time or another practice human sacrifice and even sacrifice their own children. Some of the folks in in in Hawaii used to throw their firstborn into the volcano. Folks It's a great blessing that Jehovah is our God. See, Jehovah is distinct from all the other gods. The gods that man had created are angry gods and vengeful gods that demand of you a sacrifice. Jehovah alone is the God of mercy and love who set his own son to be the sacrifice. Now, that does not mean that Jehovah is not an angry God. an eventual God. God is angry with the wicked every day. God will rebuke and punish sin in eternity in hell. But to those to whom he is their God, there is great mercy. And folks, how did I search so well that I found Jehovah? Here's a rhetorical question for you. I did not search out Jehovah. Jehovah searched out me. Jehovah found me. Oh, what a glorious thing. He is my God. And I am his child. What a great blessing. I do not need to scab my knees climbing upstairs. I do not need to count beads. I do not have to give all my possessions to someone. I do not have to sacrifice my son He sacrificed his son. Oh, what a glorious yoke. Oh, what a blessed freedom not to be yoked to this world, but to take his yoke upon me. He is my God, and we are his people Verse 17, wherefore come up from among them and be ye separate, saith the Lord, touch not the unclean thing. And number four, blessing, I will receive thee. He receives me. Huh. What a glorious truth that is. I am cast off from the world because I do not participate in their iniquity, because I will not accept their yoke, but he receives me. You see, the world rejects us. The world hates us because it hates him. The world hates the light that is in us because they are darkness. But he receives me. What a glorious truth that is. Come out from among them, and I will receive you. Come out from them, but come into me. Looking there again at verse seventeen, it says, Wherefore come up from among them and be ye separate, saith the Lord, and touch not the unclean. Remember all the instructions and regulations that were put on Israel as far as clean and unclean beast, clean and unclean circumstances, clean and unclean dead animals, etc. Don't touch the unclean thing, don't mix your seed, don't mix your garments, don't mix your yoke. All those things were illustrations and pictures and types for the children of Israel who were coming from Pegganness. had never known what it is to serve Jehovah. Touch not the unclean thing, and I will receive you. Lot came out and was spared. Rahab came out from among them and was spared. And we find in Hebrews six verse eighteen we have a strong consolation who have fled for refuge to laid ho hold upon the hope of That is set before us. Be ye separate, saith the Lord, touch not the unclean thing, and I will receive you. But Achan didn't heed. And Achan did touch the unclean thing and paid a terrible price. And so to review the first four of these promises God has said, I will dwell in them. I will walk in them. I will be their God, and they shall be my people. I will receive you. And then finally in verse 16 And will be a father unto you. And ye shall be my sons and daughters, saith the Lord Almighty. He's my father. We're called to cry, Abba, Father. Now are we the sons of God Behold what manner this is first John three verse one and following Behold what manner of love the Father hath bestowed upon us that we should be called the sons of God Therefore the world knoweth us not because it knew him not. They can't understand why we don't do the things they do and say the things they say. Beloved, now are we the sons of God And it doth not yet appear what we shall be. But we know that when he shall appear, we shall be like him, for we shall see him as he is. Every man that hath this hope in himself, in him, purifieth himself even as he is pure. And that's exactly what we've been talking about here. And so our concluding verse there in chapter 17 verse 1, having therefore these promises Dearly beloved, let us cleanse ourselves from all filthiness of the flesh and the spirit, perfecting holiness in the fear. Folks, it's not enough to know right theology. God has called his people to righteousness. We cannot love the world and love the Savior. At the same time, prayer for everyone that loveth the world, the love of the Father, is not in him. Let us stand for prayer. Father, we thank you for this very instructive passage of your word. I thank you, Lord, for the blessing and rebuke it's been to my own soul. Lord, I pray that you would make it a blessing to your people. Lord, from the from the youngest Saint to the oldest, Lord, this message is pertinent to us all. For Lord, temptation does not dim with age. Father, the temptations sometimes may be different, but while we live in this life, Satan, our adversary, walks about seeking who we may devour. Father, bless your word to our hearts. Lord, may we be convicted by thy spirit. Lord, may you chop down the old man that you may build the new man within us. And Lord, we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. We turn to our closing hymn and the uh Blue song book. It's number six hundred and seventy. Be strong in the Lord. 670 in the Blue Song Book near the back And I'll ask Victoria to play it through once. It may not be a familiar song to you. So she'll play it for us once and then give us a lead in and we'll sing all three stanzas. Be strong in the Lord, and be your good service. Your IT defender is always the same. Mouth of things as the evil standing victory is sure. For when you call on his name, be strong, be strong, be strong in the Lord, and be of good words for him. Is your guy be strong, be strong, be strong in the Lord and rejoice for the victory is yours. So Put off the armor the Lord has provided and place your defense in his unfailing care. Trust here for him. Willing with you in battle, lighting your path to the board every sharp. Be strong, be strong, be strong. In the Lord and be of good courage for his guy. Be strong, be strong, be strong in the Lord and rejoice. For the victory in yours. Be strong in the Lord and be of good grace Your mighty commander will vanish your fall. Fear not a battle for the victory is always Israel. Wherever you go. Be strong, be strong, be strong in the Lord. Send me a good courage for healing. Sir guy, be strong, be strong, be strong in the Lord. Thy goes for the victory is yours. Amen, Ibn, please be seated