Kind of going, as you might have guessed it, topic at a time, patriarch at a time, but it really is a great springboard back into the Old Testament. And today we read this in Hebrews 11. 21. And by the way, you didn't get a discussion question because unfortunately I couldn't think of one. So you didn't miss anything. But I do have questions throughout, so we'll try to pepper them later rather than sooner. That maybe will help keep you awake in the middle of all this. We read in Hebrews 11. 21 this. By faith Jacob, when he was a dying, blessed both the sons of Joseph and worshipped, leaning upon the top of his staff. I find that interesting. You know, the whole eleventh chapter of Hebrews is a famous one for being known as the Hall of Faith. It's trying to use Old Testament examples to illustrate to you and I Why and how faith operated in the life of the believer, believers, and how it enabled them to continue on Or it will be illustrative of how we know they were believers. And some of these examples we're finding of late have to do with those at the very, very, very last stage of life. Here it says Jacob, when he was dying, and it points that out as evidence of his faith, you know, reminds me of a verse of scripture, he that endures to the end shall be saved. It's not how you start the race, it's how you end the race. If you even end the race, and if you have the baton in your hand and you cross the finish line, that is something that is notable in scriptures, and so I really appreciate For our mostly elderly church, the way that Scriptures deals with the elder, they're not discounted. Maybe they feel useless. Oh no, you're not useless You can be a man or a woman of prayer. Oftentimes the widows are women, and they can pray. They can do a lot of praying, and indeed their prayer requests, more often than not, are for their family. And that does get us back to Jacob He's blessing both the sons of Joseph. You know, we're going to look at Jacob's life, kind of a survey of it, just very brief. We're going to be spending some time in the book of Genesis. We're going to look at Genesis 47 and 48. And if you want to turn there in advance, you can, but I'm going to just give you an oversight of his life. We're going to look at the three blessings that Jacob gives. Only one of them is recorded here in Hebrews as a pointer to his faith. We're then going to look at A doctrine, a key doctrine that Jacob believed in, in order for him to bless these two grandchildren. So Jacob, boy, you know, he is such a huge figure in scriptures. I don't know if you realize how big of a deal Jacob is. But nearly 23 chapters of the book of Genesis are devoted to the life and times of Jacob. I don't know of any other biblical character that has that many chapters devoted to him Certainly the life of David you read a lot about. Solomon you read a lot about. You would think well, I read a lot about Abraham, but Not nearly as much as Jacob. Jacob, you read a tremendous amount. Nearly half the book of Genesis focuses on Jacob. There's 50 chapters in Genesis. So he's a seminal figure. I'm going to try to condense all of those 23 chapters, hard for any preacher to do. into a short thumbnail sketch of what we know about Jacob. Because we last left off, Isaac, old blind Isaac, Inadvertently blesses Jacob with the birthright and then knowingly passes on the Abrahamic covenant and as a reiteration to him. What happens to him after that? Well He flees after he steals Esau's blessing. Esau is ready to kill him. He does that at about age 40, and we can deduce that when we have the age of Esau mentioned, and we know they were twins, so Jacob would have been about forty when he left. As he flees, he sleeps on a rock, he has this vision of a ladder angels ascending and descending. He then finds the love of his life, Rachel, with for whom he has to work twenty years for his uncle Laban. Twenty years. Whew I know some people who have waited three years for their bride, but twenty. My goodness, that's a stretch. And it worked twenty years. He fathers thirteen kids, twelve boys, one daughter names Dinah. Some pronounce it Dinah, not sure which is correct. But of those thirteen children, only two sons, Benjamin and Joseph, come from this beloved bride, Rachel. He departs Syria, uh, which is where Laban lived, it's referred to as Syria. Uh at the age of ninety He wrestles with God, who changes his name to Israel. Well he doesn't depart at 90, but when he's wrestling with God, he's about 90 years old. Got that from a sermon Pastor preached on it some time ago His jealous sons sell Joseph into slavery. God exalts Joseph to the throne, age 30, and there's a fair amount, of course, about Joseph as well. Uh Joseph uh begets Manasseh and Ephraim after he is asserted to the throne. He has uh at the point in time when Jacob is sending his sons for food There's been seven years of plenty and now two years of famine. And then the father sends the sons there. They don't recognize Joseph. You know the story. Joseph reveals himself, Jacob moves the family to Egypt. He is now 130 years old Jacob lives in Goshen for 17 years, and he ends up dying at the age of 147. So I think the most significant parts about this Uh for our purposes of the text here is these two grandsons, that Joseph begets two sons, Manasseh his firstborn, followed by Ephraim. Now this Manasseh is not King Manasseh, later, much later in Israel's history, they would reuse names of patriarchs. This is the firstborn of Joseph, Manasseh, followed by Ephraim. Well But our text in Hebrews eleven points out Jacob's worship even in old age. So we're going to talk about that first because that actually precedes things. So turn, if you will, to Genesis forty seven. We're going to look at the last few verses of Genesis 47 beginning in 27. Genesis 47. We're actually going to begin in 28. We read this. And Jacob lived in the land of Egypt. 17 years. So the whole age of Jacob was 147 years. And the time drew nigh that Israel, that was the name that God renamed him, Israel must die. And he called his son Joseph. Now he's in Egypt now, so he's under the vizier, the great prime minister of Egypt, Joseph, and said unto him, If now I have found grace and eyesight Put, I pray thee, thy hand under my thigh, and deal kindly and truly with me. Bury me not, I pray thee, in Egypt. But I will lie with my fathers, and thou shalt carry me out of Egypt, and bury me in their burying place. And he, this is Joseph, he said, I will do as thou hast said And he, Jacob, said, Swear unto me, you better give me an oath. I want this to happen. And he swore unto him. And Israel bowed himself upon the bed's head. uh that is on top of the staff. That's the insight that we're we're given here. I like the comment that Jameson Fawcett Brown puts to this that he's worshiping this worship of Joseph. What we find is that the assurance that Joseph would bury Jacob and Canaan must have filled him with a pious gratitude to God. which he expressed by rising himself on his bed to an attitude of worship. You know it's hard to get up. The older you get, the less inclined you are to want to do things. Activities just don't seem to make much sense. It's not worth doing. You just lose the drive and the energy to want to get up and go. As they say, your get up and go is got up and gone. And here, though he will rise up on the bed to worship. Isn't that marvelous? I love that phrase. His faith as Joseph's, consisted in his so confidently anticipating the fulfillment of God's promises of Canaan to his descendants as a desire to be buried there as his proper possession. He says, yep, you pulled me out of Egypt to keep me alive. Yep. I know that's where God's got your job at this time. Yep, I see God has gone before you to preserve posterity. Yep. I had a dream of God and on my way here. God said, Fear not, Jacob, to go to Egypt. But he says, I want to be buried in Canaan. That's where my home really is. That's where the place that God said I would inherit, I want to be there. You know, that's an act of faith. He could have abandoned everything. He could have said, you know, there's famine back in Canaan, been walking around, it's been a hard lot You know, work my fingers to the bone and what do I get? Bony fingers. He's really beginning to he could really begin to question the benefit of life Egypt seems to have it all right now, and his son is in charge of it. What's wrong with staying here? No, he believes the promises of God. I will be buried in Canaan because that is where God says my progeny will be. And so he proceeds to give three blessings, not at this same time. But there are three blessings I find that Jacob gives. Anybody venture a guess what the first blessing was? It might not be intuitively obvious. Look at Genesis 47. 10 to see the first blessing. You'll have to be in your Bible at that point. Somebody just belted out. Who was the first person to be blessed by Jacob? Pharaoh. Pharaoh. Pharaoh. Yeah. Why Pharaoh? Why Pharaoh? That's interesting. Well let's see what he does. So he's been brought now to Pharaoh. And Pharaoh has been very kind to his son kind to his favorite son, promoted his son over all the land. So he wants to, as it were, bring a gift. But he's departing out of a place of famine. What are you going to give? Jacob is a prophet. Jacob is a man of God. And so we read in 47. 10, Jacob blessed Pharaoh and went out from before Pharaoh. This is a marvelous gift of God to Pharaoh, that he would receive a blessing from the patriarch. Because I assure you, the greater the two standing there isn't Pharaoh, the greater the two standing there is Jacob. We don't read Pharaoh did anything by faith. The subsequent lineages of Pharaohs would eventually forget who the people of God were. So while Pharaoh and Jacob were alive There was peace in the land. It was well with Pharaoh. And this would favorably dispose Pharaoh towards the people of God. That's the first blessing, but that has nothing to do with an act of faith We also read a whole third set of blessings that Jacob gives to each individual son. And I'm not going to review those, but that's covered in the entire 49th chapter of the book of Genesis. Genesis 49 is all about. Jacob blessing each of his twelve sons to include Joseph. That's not pointy to in Hebrews 11 It doesn't point to that. That's a large section of Scripture. He says that's not by faith. This is by faith. When he's dying, he's worshiping on his staff, and he's blessing both the sons of Joseph. That He said as an act of faith. Well, that's curious. Doesn't that strike you as a little unusual? You know, when you start to dig up some of the historical aspects and then consider the New Testament commentary on it. God is poking you. He's prodding you. He's presenting to you a conundrum to make you scratch your head. Why is God focusing on this? Why the two sons of Joseph? Well, we're gonna look at this and let's go Read that, and this is where I've got my questions. So we're gonna march our way slowly now through the 48th chapter of Genesis. I hope I've piqued your interest in this. He's got these twelve sons. Uh he's blessing them, but that's not Pointed out in Hebrews 11, 21. Alright, we read in Genesis 48 the first five verses. If I could have a volunteer reader, Joe, would you mind reading the first five verses of Genesis 48 And it came to pass after these things that he told Joseph, Behold, thy father is sick. And he took him with his two sons, Manasseh and Ephraim. And one told Jacob and said, Behold, thy son Joseph cometh unto thee. And Israel strengthened himself and sat upon the bed. And Jacob said unto Joseph, God Almighty appeared to me in love in the land of Canaan and blessed me, and said unto me, Behold, I will make thee fruitful and multiply thee And I will make of thee a multitude of people, and I will give this land to thy seed after thee for an everlasting possession And now thy two sons, Ephraim and Manasseh, which were born under thee in the land of Egypt, before whom I came uh before I came under thee into Egypt, are mine, as Reuben and Simeon are mine in the end. uh and Simeon, they shall be mine. Well, let me start to poke into this some. What is the what's different about these two grandsons From all the others. They were not born in Canaan, they were born in Egypt in Israel in Egypt. Yeah, they're not of Canaan descent, at least in terms of territory, they're Egyptian. Isn't that interesting? But how is Jacob regarding these two sons of Joseph? It's that last phrase. It's choicest among them. As choicest among them? Not disagreeing, that's correct. What's the text of the scripture? That's a correct statement I want to pull that from. How did you get to that conclusion? Why did you identify as choices? He says they're his. They're his, yeah, he says they're his. And they were from his favorite son. From his favorite son? They're his? Yeah. This may be uh it's I'm poking a little bit of a history question. He says it there in the text. It's that fifth verse of Genesis 48, as who Which of his two sons, as who? Reuben and Simeon. Reuben and Simeon. Well who's Reuben and who's Simeon? Any idea Yeah, first two sons. Reuben is his firstborn. Firstborn. Firstborn. He just said this grandson of my lastborn son is identical to and is being promoted to my firstborn son and this other grandson, I'm promoting him to the secondborn son. He's taking these two grandchildren And throwing him to the head of the line. He's looking at his own two firstborn and saying, demotion. Really? Really? That's I mean, I don't know, Jeff, I'm a firstborn. I'd be a little miffed if uh, you know, grandma came up to to um to Gabriel and said, Yep, you're you're the firstborn, you get you get all the inheritance over my my firstborn son. Give it to him instead. I mean that's really quite and it's not even at least for Gabon I it's a direct father-son lineage. This is The youngest son's grandson are being leaped way ahead. I mean he's this is uh this is a Large families with many children, there's a substantial age difference between the first and last. Um and there's at least twenty years difference. And then now Joseph Going into Egypt at the age of 17, being presented before Pharaoh, I think what, at about age uh uh forty, is or thirty is when he's at the throne, so thirteen years later. So You know, this is this is taken like a and when it says the the sons of Ephraim, uh Ephraim and Manasseh, they're not little children like our brother has here, they're young men They're young men, you can calculate that that age range. This is being jumped over a great uncle. This is really being promoted high up the chain. I want you to read these next as we read these next two verses, folks, I want you to visualize what's happening, okay? Let's imagine you're an actor or an actress. and you're trying to play this scene out. I want you to visualize what's going on, okay? Alright, so I'm going to read it and I want you to visualize now 13 and 14 of Genesis 48. Uh uh I'm gonna start um uh in verse nine. Joseph said unto his father, They are my sons whom God hath given me in this place. And he said, Bring them, I pray thee, unto me, and I will bless them. Now the eyes of Israel were dim for age so that he could not see. And he brought them near unto him, and he kissed them and embraced them. And Israel said unto Joseph, I had not thought to see thy face, and lo, God has showed me also thy seed. Wow, what a Tremendous answer to much prayer. And Joseph brought them out between his knees and bowed himself with his face to the earth, and Joseph took them both Ephraim in his right hand toward Israel's left hand, and Manasseh in his left hand toward Israel's right hand, and brought them near unto him. And Israel stretched out his right hand and laid it upon Ephraim's head, who was the younger, and his left hand upon Manasseh's head, guiding his hands wittingly, for Manasseh was the firstborn. Well somebody tell me what did Jacob do as you visualize this scene? What's going on Yeah, you crossed your arms. So you're facing another person. Their left is your right, their right is your left. And so he's pushing Manasseh and Ephraim towards Joseph such that the oldest, Manasseh, would fall underneath Ephraim Jacob's right hand, which means he's got him on Joseph's left hand. But what does Jacob do? He crosses his hands. Now he's blind. He's practically blind. So the old boy can think. He can figure out what his son is going to do. And so he in fact stretches the hands differently. Well, we read now in verses 15 and 16 the following. And he blessed Joseph, his hands are now on the boys. He blessed Joseph and said, God before whom my fathers Abraham and Isaac did walk, the God which fed me all my life long unto this day. The angel which redeemed me from all evil blessed the lads. Do you see a life of faith right there? You see how he's testifying? Man, I've been through some hard road. That's one of my Texas sayings when you come up to an old friend you haven't seen in a while. Shake their hand, look them in the face, says, Boy, you look like a hundred miles of bad road. You've had some hard, hard times. But Jacob says, the God which fed me, the angel which redeemed me from all evil, that God, bless the lads. And let my name be named on them, and the name of my fathers, Abraham and Isaac, and let them grow into a multitude in the midst of the earth. Now, I want you to notice for a moment that he has his hands on these two fellows, but he gives them both the same blessing. Right? There's no distinction there. He he gives it to both. It's the same word But his hands are crossed. This is all very curious. This is all very curious business. And then we read in 17 and 18 that somehow, even though they still both got the same blessing, Joseph's a little upset. Joseph's a little tweet. He says in verse 17, and when Joseph saw that his father laid his right hand upon the head of Ephraim, It displeased him, and he held up his father's hands to remove it from Ephraim's head unto Manasseh's head. And Joseph said unto his father, Not so, my father, for this is the firstborn. Put thy right hand upon him. You know, it's interesting because Joseph does understand something. He learned well his 17 years in his father's house. He learned well about the God of the Bible. He learned that there's something significant to what is known as the right hand of blessing. We give to each other in church the right hand of fellowship. I've been to some churches where you get the left foot of fellowship. Be get the ends. But Joseph knows the significance of the right hand of blessing. I'm just going to read to you two Old Testament Psalms and a passage from the book of Matthew. It's there in your bulletin if you'd like to follow. Psalm 1611, Thou wilt show me the path of life. In thy presence is fullness of joy. At thy right hand are pleasures forevermore. Oh my goodness, folks, when you get to heaven, you want to be at the right hand of God. There's pleasures forevermore. Nothing is removed. He says, when he comes Your joy will be full, and no man will take your joy away. No one will take it away. Psalm 60, verse 5 says, Save with thy right hand, and hear me, salvation is at the right hand of God. The angel who redeemed me from all evils, that same God at thy right hand. Of course, when the Lord Jesus comes, he's going to separate The entire plan. All who have ever lived throughout all time, those in existence when he returns, all the way back to the pre-flood days, all will be raised from the dead And they're going to be set before him as sheep and goats. And he's going to say to them on the right hand, Come ye blessed of my Father. Inherit the kingdom prepared for you from the foundation of the world. The right hand of blessing is a significant thing in scriptures. It is the best. It's the only one of enduring value. Pharaoh just got blessed by Jacob. But here, Jacob is blessing the sons. He says, may God bless you. May the Lord God give you this blessing. Jacob is going to continue with his explanation. He is now going to tell Joseph, the vizier of Egypt, the great prime minister, with all of his pop, I'm sure he didn't Put on his work clothes. He didn't have work clothes. He commands people. Nobody could do anything in Egypt unless Joseph said, Do it. Pharaoh sent people to Joseph. Whatever he says, you do. And Jacob explains in Genesis 48. 19, his father, that is, Jacob, refused and said, I know it, my son, I know it. I know what I'm doing. I may get crossed up in some things, but this is an intentional cross-up. He also, that is Ephraim, shall become a people, and he also shall be great But truly, his younger brother shall be greater than he, and his seed shall become a multitude of nations. And he blessed them that day, saying, In thee shall Israel bless, saying, God make thee as Ephraim and Manasseh. And he set Ephraim before Manasseh. Folks, what could have caused Jacob to do this? Any ideas? I'll entertain any and all ideas right now. Understanding a divine divine appointment. Yeah, understanding a divine appointment, all right. Maybe you're thinking of his own history, how he was blessed rather than Esau. Which um yeah, if I remember correctly, Esau was the older brother. So he was thinking, Well, I appreciated this blessing being the younger one, maybe this one will too. That's true. He certainly reflected upon his own history. Um Other this was there another hand over here? Yeah, I kind of independently came to similar type conclusions. Um in some respects he seems to be role-playing what Isaac unwittingly had done to him. Another point to keep in mind, you you mentioned understanding divine blessings. You know, Jacob was a prophet, right? God did come and speak to him. Now we're not told But somehow God would have informed Jacob that, yep, in the foreseeing of events to come, indeed, Ephraim would be greater than Manasseh. We find this from Because let's say if you add to that chapter forty nine, all the blessings for his sons are very prophetic. So it would make sense that this one would That's a very good point. I think one of the foreshadows of Christ to come was found in Genesis forty nine. Yeah. Yeah, they were all very prophetic. Thank you for that. That's a good observation. I like what Matthew Henry I'd say Matthew Henry hits it out of the park in the book of Hebrews. He does a nice job from the pastoral application. He writes this, it's a couple of sentences. Jacob knew what he did. Manasseh should be great, but truly Ephraim should be greater. When the tribes were mustered, were numbered in the wilderness, Ephraim was more numerous than Manasseh and has a standard. You read about that in Numbers 1 and Numbers 2. Ephraim, in fact, is named first in Psalm 80 in verse 2. Joshua came from the tribe of Ephraim. So did Jeroboam. The tribe of Manasseh, however, was divided. You remember? One half was on one side of the Jordan River, another half on the other side You're split, and that would of course make it less powerful and less considerable. In the foresight of this, Jacob crossed his hands. So he's prophetically pointing out the difference. Now, I can't but help to think about this act of faith that uh Jacob has in blessing his two grandsons, promoting them to the first and the second, and this curious business of crossing the hands. And it's Jacob no less. Jacob who From his own personal history, understood something. Some of you have life verses. And I think that's great. would be hard pressed to pinpoint a a life verse. I just I I have uh foundation verses, verses I know which impacted me very deeply foundationally, you know, Romans 5, salvation being a package deal. Romans 8. There's two laws, the law of the spirit of life in Christ Jesus, the law of sin and death. Just certain passages were just deeply impactful to my thinking and shaped my understanding of Scripture. But Jacob was deeply impacted, folks, by the doctrine of election. Of all the patriarchs who got election, Jacob did. In fact, Scripture points that out as well. You can't get around the concept of God's selective choice. God is particular. And it betrays and defies understanding at times. You know, the very seminal example given by the Apostle Paul Has to do with Jacob at his birth. It's in your handout. You can see in Romans 9, 10 through 13, we read this concerning election. It says Romans 9 and verse 10. And not only this, but when Rebekah had conceived by one, even by our father Isaac, and he goes on parenthetically to explain something. For the children being not yet born, they're in the womb. They hadn't come out yet. They're not old enough to vote. Not even in a Democrat, well, maybe in a Democratic problem. For the children being not yet born Neither having done any good or evil, they didn't do good, they didn't do bad. So you can't point to their works. A child in the womb is not doing good, a child in the womb is not doing bad. That the purpose, the plan, the intention, the design, the curious counsel of God, the purpose of God according to what election might stand, not of works. But of him that calleth, it was said unto her, the elder shall serve the younger. As it is written, Jacob have I loved But Esau, how I hated. That's probably one of the sharpest slaps on the face of all scripture to those who believe God loves everybody. The Bible doesn't teach that. God's pointing out an individual in the womb, and he says, this individual by my testimony has done neither good nor evil, and his name is Esau, and I hate him. That really causes us to cringe. It causes us to cringe, and the common accusation is this is to impeach God. Well, let's impeach him. What you're doing is simply not fair. Based on my judgment and my assessment, what you're doing is absolutely incorrect. Well, is that just the Apostle Paul? I've had some gays tell me, oh Jettison, uh Paul You know, listen to Jesus. They don't want to listen to Paul because Paul speaks vehemently against the homosexual, the sodomite movement. They say, well, I'd rather hear Jesus never said anything about it. Yeah, he did. He said to repent. What do you think he meant to repent from? He's laying down basic principles. Repentance would be according to all the law of God that have been revealed, and of course that would include sodomy. But Jesus himself also spoke about election. Yes, brother. I listened to the Lord Jesus But he says, if you believed on Moses, you would not be some raised from the dead. Well Moses wrote about homosexuality. So I I I listened to the Lord Jesus Absolutely, absolutely. It's just a show. It's trying to pick and choose who you'll listen to. Yeah Jesus spoke about elections, says many that are first shall be last and the last first. Not a few, many. And that use of that term, last, first, first, last is broad. It's a big application in scripture. And the first place it lands at is the doctrine of election. You don't expect the person who's last in the race to be first. You don't expect that You don't expect somebody who's at the bottom of the dung hill of life to be promoted to the throne of heaven. Joseph himself understood this. He was in a prison, an Egyptian prison, where they didn't give him college degrees and workout gyms and No, it was a real, no-kidding, old-style, nasty, rat-infested prison. Joseph himself was promoted from the depths to the height. He was indeed the last, made the first as well. The Lord Jesus says of election in Matthew 24. He says he'll send his angels with the great sound of the trumpet, and they shall gather together his elect from the four winds. From one end of heaven to the other. He's gathering his what? And the Bible defines the word You just can't dodge it. You have to work overtime to make it into a plan, make it into something other than it is, which is God's prerogative, God's specific uh discriminating choice based on his divine counsels and foreknowledge. He doesn't answer to anybody When's the last time anybody had a session meeting and invited God to the meeting? When's the last time you went to the polls and God's name was on the list? He's not up for re-election. He doesn't ask you for anything. In fact, one of the prophets records him as saying If I were hungry, I wouldn't tell you. His need of us is basically zero. We are entirely dependent on him. The Apostle Paul assumes election as he analyzes Israel's future. He says in Romans 11, 5. Even so, then, at this present time, there's a remnant according to the election of grace, speaking of the Jews. There's a remnant. You ladies know what a remnant is, especially those of you who are seamstresses, those of you who have worked with bolts of cloth. If you have a small job, maybe you're trying to patch one of your kids' pants, and you don't need a large piece of material, you're trying to upscale some clothing and you just want a strip of a certain color, you go to a fabric store and you look in the remnant section. Because there's just a few cuttings there, just the leftovers, the things that weren't considered worthy of a whole bolt of cloth You're looking for a remnant. Well, why did you pick that remnant? Why didn't you buy the whole bolt of cloth? That's not fair. Why should you just buy the remnant? Because it was what you needed. It's what you wanted. You didn't have to give an answer for that So this business of the hands crossing, this business of election, is just all throughout Scripture. If election is unfair, then all of creation is unfair, because there are carnivores and herbivores He ordained it that way, absolutely. You know, there's a couple of concluding points points that help us put this in mind Maybe you're thinking I'm presenting God as a despot. He is just a cruel ruler who is unreasonable. And it makes no sense as to why he does what he does. Doctrine of election turns some people away. I understand it. Doctrine of hell does too. How can a loving God cast people into an eternal damnation? And that's Frankly, hard for me to understand that there is an eternal damnation. How can somebody abide under the wrath of God without recourse? And be made to endure it for all eternity. It sh it blows my mind. It registers off the charts. His love deports some of us. Yes, his showing love and mercy. His love is discriminating, and hell is another argument against God loving everybody. Because at the very time you would need God's love, he stands to you and says, Depart from me ye that work iniquity. What kind of a love is that that's so fickle? The very time and the moment that you need it is when he turns and says, Depart from ye that work iniquity and never knew you. But I do have some concluding points for us to try to get our head around this idea to rightly apprehend of God rather than just to kind of say, well, that says it, oh well, I I I don't know, but I just don't think it's right. What is election? Election is God's eternal purpose to save some of the human race in and by Jesus Christ. Folks, election in and of itself is not salvation. Election is unto salvation. There has to come a point in time when the individual repents and believes. But repent and believe they will. The flip side of election is reprobation. This is God's eternal purpose to pass some men by. With his special operation of grace. As it were, he withdraws his hand from them, and he justly punishes them for their sin. He's not active in their life. They don't want him in their life. And they're quite content to not have him in their life. And he's quite content to not be in their life. And he allows them to grow forth and prosper and multiply. But he has not been involved. They're not looking for him. They're not interested in him. Whatsoever. All God had to do to harden Pharaoh's heart was to remove his hand of restraint from him. God didn't have to go in and crush it. Pharaoh's heart was hardened to begin with. Scripture says Pharaoh hardened his heart. God hardened it further. How do I harden my ground out here? Withhold water from it? Put it under a lot of heat? That's how you harden it. Just keep water away. It'll get hard. And frankly, the more I think about it, I praise God that election is not fair. I do praise Him for that. If God were to judge you and I on the basis of fairness, God is going to give us exactly what we deserve. We've earned it, every bit of it. I've had some tell me in my youth that, you know, when you meet Christ at the Bhima Seat There'll be a set of scales and I think the good that you've done will outweigh the bad. This idea that, yeah, we've done some bad things, but we've done some really good things. And, you know, that's gonna that's gonna tip the balance. And God actually uses that illustration. He does use an illustration of that. He says that there is a balance And he says, he puts all the nations in a bucket on this balance to see how much goodness is going to be there. He says, nothing They're not even a drop in the bucket. They don't move anything. The Pope, every good person you can can think of. Because God's standards are so high that men do one of two things. They drag his standard down, or they make God into a man like you and I. And they say he'll judge like men do. And that is a idol an idol. That's idolatry. Yeah, and Daniel, thou art weighed in the balance and found wanting. Yeah, you don't want God to weigh you in the balance. I'm telling you, that's not going to work in your favor. It will always fail. It will always fail. Why is that? Because here's the standard God has The standard is nothing less than his Son, the Lord Jesus Christ. You've got to be a God man to pass that standard. God wants nothing shy of perfection. I understand perfection. I'm a bit of a perfectionist. I drive people crazy with it. You should see me in here arranging the chairs Every inch matters. I know you're laughing, isn't this crazy? I'm a good mule. I pay attention to inches. They have to be separated some because I don't like chairs jammed so close that you're sitting there like that. So we've got to give a little elbow room. There has to be a place for the Hindles to sit. I understand perfection. But all of my perfection counts for zero before God It it doesn't weigh out because I'm not as good as his son, and that's the standard, and that's why you don't want to go before God on the basis of fairness, because it's only fair that he set the rule. Anything as good as my son gets into heaven. And I'm not him. Sorry folks, I'm not Jesus. And the Angela will be the first one to jump up and say, Yay man, can I hear it, huh? I can hear it through the internet right now So fairness is God giving us what we deserve. You don't want to go down that path. Mercy is God not giving us what we do deserve. That's mercy. And grace is God giving us more than we deserve. That's this morning's call to worship. The two sons of Joseph. They never could have imagined that they just got a promotion. I mean, frankly, insofar as Egypt is concerned, these are the next prime ministers All of Egypt and his glory is lined up for you. Your father's up there. He saved everybody. We love Joseph. I love Joseph. You love Joseph? Yay, Joseph, we love Joseph. And old Jacob, 147 years old, he looks like a million bucks, green and wrinkled. And he shows up and he blesses these two and he promotes them They received a far better blessing than Egypt ever could have offered. So folks, if you became saved It's because God placed his right hand on your head and said, No, this one is mine This one is mine. As Reuben, as Jesus Christ. No, no, no. This one. This one is mine. You want a divine appointment. That's what you want. And that is the faith of Jacob. Alright, we close with that. I uh hope that helps. And uh next week we uh look at Joseph. Yes. Also the the concept of one-of-a-family You know, we talk about the promises to the third and fourth generation and so on. And yet often that one that is that fourth generation is one among uh slew of grandchildren. Yes. Yeah, yeah. Blessing of God. Let's close in prayer. Father in heaven, we thank you that you do all things well according to the purpose of your counsel Lord, we confess many of your counsels we don't understand and they are a mystery to us. Lord, help us to be obedient, as it were, to the heavenly vision and to confess that thou and thou alone art God. We ask this in Jesus' name, amen.