Turn in your Bibles with me, please, to the book of 1 Samuel and the second chapter of 1 Samuel. 1 Samuel chapter 2. And as you're turning, let me just refresh your memory a bit about the first chapter of this book of 1 Samuel. In the first chapter, you find Al Kanah and his wife Hannah and his other wife, Panaya. And you find that El Kanah with his two wives have come to the tabernacle there to worship. One of his wives has a multitude of children. Hannah has none. And she goes into the tabernacle and she is praying there And her lips are moving, but no sound is coming forth. And Eli the priest comes to her and rebukes her, Why are you drunken? And she says, My Lord, I am not drunken. I am one of a sorrowful heart, for I long for a child. And her prayer is heard, and God gives her a child. And so in the last verse of chapter one, she brings the young child Samuel. To the tabernacle. And she leaves him there. Those of you that have children know how you long for a child, and especially an infant child that just weaned. And I'm sure all of us have had the experience in a store or somewhere where that child has slipped away from our hand and is certainly very close by and yet that panic, what will happen to my child, where are they? But here we find this mother who has just weaned her son, and now she is bringing him here to the tabernacle to leave him. To leave him behind according to her vow to God. Most mothers in that state would have eyes filled with tears We'll be taking our youngest son back to college very soon. And it is a frequent thing on college campuses with People who now are young men and young women, they are no longer children, and yet you see parents crying at the parting. Because of that dear love bond. But here as we come to this second chapter of 1 Samuel And we find a mother who was leaving her toddler son behind her. We do not find her tears, but rather this First ten verses of chapter two of 1 Samuel are a glorious song of praise to Jehovah. And here Hannah, pouring out her heart to God in praise, is speaking prophetically under the inspiration of the Holy Ghost. Now I say those things before we read it to set the stage for you. Because when you understand what is taking place here and the background behind this hymn of praise. Our hearts too must be raised and praised to the great God who is being extolled. And so may we read very carefully the first ten verses. of chapter two of 1 Samuel. And Hannah prayed and said, My heart rejoiceth in the Lord. My horn is exalted in the Lord. My mouth is enlarged over mine enemies, because I rejoice in thy salvation. There is none holy as the Lord. There is none beside thee. Neither is there any rock like our God. Talk no more so exceeding proudly. Let not arrogance come out of your mouth, for the Lord is a God of knowledge, and by him actions are weighed. The bows of the mighty men are broken. And they that stumbled are girded with strength They that were full have hired out themselves for bread, and they that were hungry ceased. So that the baron hath borne seven, and she that hath many children is waxed feeble. The Lord killeth and maketh alive. He bringeth down to the grave and bringeth up. The Lord maketh the poor and maketh the rich He bringeth low and lifteth up. He raiseth up the poor out of the dust and lifteth up the beggar from the dung hill. To set them among princes, and to make them inherit the throne of glory, for the pillars of the earth are the Lord's, and he has set the world upon them. He will keep the feet of his saints, and the wicked shall be silent in darkness, for by strength shall no man prevail. The adversaries of the Lord shall be broken to pieces. Out of heaven shall he thunder upon them. The Lord shall judge the ends of the earth, and he shall give strength unto his king and exalt the horn of his anointed. Let us pause for prayer before we begin to examine this glorious passage of God's Word. Heavenly Father, Lord, this is such a marvelous And deep and rich and full passage of thy holy word. And O Lord, every line here has glorious truth for thy people. Every word is important. And Father, you've told us that your word is to be line upon line and precept upon precept here a little and there a little. Father, we are so inadequate before this passage this morning. Father, as the one speaking this day I plead for the anointing of thy Holy Spirit that I might be able to bring out to your people the glorious truths we find here. Father, may this passage cause your people to rejoice. Oh God, may this passage cause us to worship the great God of heaven. May this passage give us great assurance that no matter how hard our trials may be and how dark the world around us may become, Yet there is light in thy word. The entrance to thy word giveth light. And Father, we thank you that we do not walk alone in this world, but rather our God walks side by side with us. And yea, even carries us from the womb to the grave. Father, help us today to understand and glory in thee. And we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. The text I'd like to focus on in this ten verses is actually the tenth. And every one of these first ten verses contains a sermon in itself. But to read that tenth verse again The adversaries of the Lord shall be broken to pieces. Out of heaven shall he thunder upon them. The Lord shall judge the ends of the earth, and he shall give strength unto his king, and exalt the horn of his anointed. This tenth verse of chapter 2 of 1 Samuel came to my attention actually as I was preparing the message for last week. You may remember last week that we considered when Gideon came to the men of Ephraim and asked them for their assistance, and they rejected him. And we find that Gideon and the three hundred men that were with him passed over the river, faint yet pursuing. But there was one word in that passage from last week. Where it said that the men of Ephraim did chide with him sharply. And I was studying that word chide for last week's message. And tracing it through Scripture. And when we come to this tenth verse where it says, the adversaries of the Lord shall be broken. That word adversaries is the same word chide. It's the same word We read of the children of Ephraim who would not go and fight with Gideon. They did chide with him sharply. They were the adversaries. It's the same word. And so following that word further, we find in Exodus 17 and verse 2, wherefore the people did chide with Moses. And said, Give us water to drink. And Moses said unto them, Why chide ye with me? Wherefore do you tempt the Lord? You see the connection there. They were chiding with Moses, but it was really God they were fighting against. And the men of Ephraim, they were chiding with Gideon, but it was really God they were fighting against. And again in Numbers 20 and verse 13, this is the water of Meribah, because the people of Israel strove with the Lord. And that word strove is the same word chide. or to be adversaries. And again we come to Job chapter forty, and God begins to speak to Job after Job's unfaithful friends have spouted their nonsense. And God begins to set things right. And in Job 40, verses 1, and following, moreover, the Lord said unto Job Shall he that contendeth, and it's that same word, to chide, to be opposed to, to be the adversaries, shall he that contendeth with the Almighty instruct him That he may reprove God? Let him answer. Then Job answered the Lord and said, Behold, I am vile. What shall I answer thee? I will lay my hand upon my mouth. You see the difference there Job's false friends, they weren't fighting Job. They were fighting Jehovah. It was Jehovah that sent the wind that twisted the house and it fell on his sons. It was Jehovah that sent the Sabaeans. Oh, yes, we could say Satan sent them, but God permitted it. And so they were fighting against Jehovah. Those four friends, quote unquote, were adversaries of Jehovah. Just as the others. Woe unto him that striveth with his master Let the potshards of earth strive with the potshards of earth. Shall the clay say to him that formed it, What makest thou? And that word strive there again in Isaiah is this word adversaries. And so with that foundation, let us go into this verse. And take it apart, line upon line, precept upon precept. First of all, verse 10 says, the adversaries of the Lord shall be broken to pieces. What does that verse not say? It doesn't say my adversaries will be broken to pieces You see the difference there? It does not say that my adversaries are going to be broken in pieces. It says the adversaries of the Lord shall be broken in pieces. Sometimes our adversaries, our adversaries we made ourselves. But when our adversaries are fighting against the work of the Lord When our adversaries are fighting against the word of the Lord, then we can with confidence say the Lord will break them in pieces. Now you look at all the problems around us, and folks say there's a lot of things around us that frustrate us and drive us nuts. And we worry about politics and we worry about gas prices and we worry about all these things God's going to take care of all that. It is the job of the people of God to be worried about the enemies of God. And when all these people around us are fighting against the truth of God, then they are our adversaries, but they're God's adversaries. And we can have confidence in his victory. But I would point out to you here that Hannah, just like we saw with Gideon last week, Hannah had some pretty strong adversaries. I mentioned in their introduction that Elkanah had two wives, Hannah and Panaya. Panaya had children. But God had closed up Hannah's womb. It was God's doing. But because of that, her adversary assaulted. Look at verse chapter 1, just over the page, chapter 1 and verse 6. And her adversary also provoked her sore, for to make her fret, because the Lord had shut up her will. You see, what Panaya was fighting against was the work of God. She was fighting against And tormenting Hannah because she had no children, but it was God that had suffered with him. It's twice there. Look at chapter 1 and verse 5. But unto Hannah, that he, that's Al Cannah her husband, but unto Hannah he gave a worthy portion, for he loved Hannah, but the Lord had shut up her womb And her adversary provoked her sore to make her to fret, because the Lord had shut up her wound. Who was it that did it? It was Jehovah. Whose adversary was Poniah? Hannes or Jehovah's Because Paniah was fighting against, arguing against, and tormenting by what God had done. But we witness that Hannah had great victory because her enemies were also God's enemies. Look at chapter 2, verse 1. And Hannah prayed and said, My heart rejoiceth in the Lord, and mine horn is exalted in the Lord, my mouth is enlarged enlarged over mine. enemies because I rejoice in thy salvation. Folks, we need to determine who our enemies are. Are our enemies enemies we have created? Or are enemies those that are fighting against the truth of God? who are trying to tear down the work of God, who are trying to besmirch the work of God. Look at verse 3. Talk no more, exceeding proud. Let not arrogancy come out of your mouth, for the Lord is the God of knowledge. Have you ever been lied about? I think most of us haven't at one time or another. The Lord's a God of knowledge. It doesn't really matter what men say. God knows the truth. It doesn't matter how many men repeat the same lie. God knows the truth. Look at verse 5. Then, or sorry, they that were filled or full have hired out themselves for bread. In other words, those that had plenty now are trying to work just for a piece of bread. They that were full have hired out themselves for bread, and they that were hungry ceased, so that the baron hath borne seven, and she that hath many children is waxed feeble. Sarah says, or sorry, Hannah. Hannah says, the baron had borne seven. Isn't that beautiful? How many children does Hannah have? One. She's been barren. And the one child she has is a toddler. There hasn't been time for seven children to have been born. And she has not born a second child in that time. She has just weaned him. I guarantee you, Samuel never had formula. Okay? He was weaned from the breast. And those of you that have studied biology understand that a woman's fertility is delayed by faithful breastfeeding. Hannah has one child. And yet her declaration is the baron now have seven. And the ones that were full are waxed feeble. And this verse may well be telling us just as we see with Jacob's wives when there was barrenness, that they would give their handmaiden to their husband to bear children on their behalf. And it may well be that Panaya now is barren. She can no longer bear children, and she is hiring out herself for bread. She is giving to her husband her handmaiden to bear more children for her because she cannot. What a glorious reversal of the very thing that Panaya has used so vilely To tempt Hannah and to make her to fret. And remember that word fret because we're going to do a word study on that a little bit later on. The baron is now full. And why is the baron full? Well look at the last part of verse one. My heart rejoices in the Lord, and mine horn is exalted in the Lord. My mouth is enlarged over my enemies. And why is her mouth enlarged over her enemies? Because I rejoice in thy salvation. The reason that her mouth is now enlarged over her enemies is not because she spouted off her mouth at them. It's not because she answered them again according to their folly. It's not because her argument was better or louder than theirs. It's because she rejoices in the salvation of God. And so God gave her great victory. Hannah was vindicated because her enemies were over Also the enemies of the Lord. But then going to the second phrase of that tenth verse, let me read the verse again to get the context. The adversaries of the Lord shall be broken to pieces. Out of heaven shall he thunder upon them. Out of heaven shall he thunder upon them. Remember, we said first of all, that the enemies were broken in pieces because Hannah's enemies were also the Lord's enemies. The Lord shall thunder upon them. It's not my responsibility or prerogative to thunder on the enemies. Let me say that again. It is not my responsibility or prerogative to thunder on the enemies. Oh, how we'd like to. Oh, how there are times when our flesh gets the best of us and we do exactly that. Contend not with a fool, lest he turn and rend thee. If you tangle with a fool, you're gonna get rent. You're gonna get cut. He's gonna turn on you you. You know there's an old saying a dog can beat a skunk any day of the week, but it's not worth the stink. God. And notice it's Lord in all capitals. The Lord will thunder on the enemies. I don't have to. The Lord will thunder on the enemies. It's not my responsibility. The Lord will thunder on the enemies. It's not my prerogative. It's not my right. It's not my place. Look at verse 4. The bows of the mighty men are broken, and they that stumbled are girded with strike. Verse 5. They that were full have hired themselves for bread. Verse 6, the Lord killeth and maketh alive. He bringeth down to the grave and bringeth up. Verse 9: He will keep the feet of his saints, and the wicked shall be silent in darkness. For by strength shall no man prevail. The feet of his saints are kept. But notes on that word thunder. Let's consider that word for a moment. God will thunder on the wicked. God will bring back on the wicked the very things they do. And folks, this is this is glorious. When I came across this comparison, it just it just it sends goosebumps down the spine when you think about what happens here. Remember I said keep that word fret in your mind. Go back to chapter 1, verse 6. And her adversary also provoked her sore for to make her fret, because the Lord had shut up her womb. You know what that word fret is in 1 verse 6? It's the same word thundered in 2 verse 10. In chapter 1, verse 6. Sarah's heart, or sorry, I keep saying Sarah, Hannah's heart was made to thunder. Her heart was made to fret. Because she had no child, because God would not give her a child. Children are the heritage of the Lord, but God withheld from her that heritage God withheld from her that burden. There was nothing she could do about it. God controlled the biology of her body And her heart fretted, her heart sundered in the pain of that which God had ordained for her. But here in chapter 2, verse 10, she declares, the Lord will thunder on the wicked, and it's that same word, Fred. Her enemy made her heart to fret. Her enemy made her heart to thunder. And God will thunder back on the enemies. You say, God, I'll make it right. What can man do to me? What can man do to the child of God? And so he made it to thunder. In chapter twelve, our our second ch second Samuel Chapter 22, not 1 Samuel where we are, but 2 Samuel 22 and verse 14. The Lord thundered from heaven, and the Most High uttered his voice. Call upon the Lord in distress. And the Lord went up. I called upon the Lord in distress, and the Lord answered me and set me in a large place. The Lord is on my side. I will not fear what man can do unto me. He shall not be afraid of evil tidings. His heart is fixed, trusting in the Lord. His heart is established. He shall not be afraid until we see his desire upon us. enemies. And so Jehovah will thunder on the enemies of his truth. It's not my prerogative or responsibility. But then the third phrase of this tenth verse. The adversaries of the Lord shall be broken to pieces Out of heaven shall he thunder upon them. The Lord shall judge the ends of the earth. The Lord will judge the ends of the earth. God's the judge, not man. And so the judgment of man May be totally false. The accusations of men may be totally wrong Just as Job's tormentors accused Job of unfaithfulness when Job's trials were ordained from God. Just as Paniah tormented Hannah, but it was God that had shut up Hannah's womb. God will judge the ends of the earth. You know what, folks? It doesn't really matter what the Supreme Court does or says, because they're underlings. It doesn't matter that district courts will overrule righteousness and truth. Because the judge of the earth will do right and will judge right. It doesn't matter what judgment the world may place on the child of God. They may say we're haters because we oppose abortion. They may say we are haters because we oppose homosexuality. They say we're haters because of multiple things that are principles and doctrines of the Word of God on which we must stand and on which we can never waver. And the world's opinion of us may be the worst possible. But we stand before the judge of all the earth. And so the Lord will judge the earth. I can be confident that he will make it right in the end. David was running from Saul. And in David's Fleeing from Saul, David and his men went into a cave, into the back of the cave to get some rest. And in God's marvelous way of turning things around, Saul and his men came in the cave to rest as well. David and his men are hiding in the back side of the cave. And David's men say, This is the time the Lord has ordained. God has delivered Saul into your hands. Up, slay him, up, kill him. And David says, No. No. I'm not going to touch the Lord's anointed. But David rises and goes to a sleeping Saul, and he cuts off part of Saul's robe and retreats back into the cave. And we read there in 1 Samuel 24 that David's heart smote him. David's heart grieved him. David says, The Lord forbid that I should do this thing unto my master, the Lord's anointed, to stretch forth my hand against him, seeing he is anointed of the Lord. And so David calls to Saul and says to Saul, why are you chasing a dead dog? Why are you after me? I've done you no hope. And in David's plea there in 1 Samuel 24, I'll read just one verse. 1 Samuel 24 and verse 15. The Lord therefore, David says, judge between me. The Lord therefore be the judge and judge between me and thee. And see and plead my cause and deliver me out of thy hand. Now you probably wonder where we're going with this David says, the Lord, plead my cause and deliver out of thy hand. You want to guess what that word plead is? It's the same word adversary in 1 Samuel 2, verse 10. It's the same word chide when The men of Ephraim showed with Gideon. It's the same word chide or strive when the children of Israel were striving. With Moses over water. David uses the same word, folks. He says, The Lord judge between you and me, and the Lord plead my cause. The Lord be your adversary because my way is right. The Lord strive with Esau because you're chasing a dead dog. The Lord Make it right. And you see the connection there between judgment and adversary, between judgment and pleading. What is it telling us? God, the judge, will plead my calls. Books is glorious. It's amazing that David uses the same word with Saul. Saul, though I will not touch you, for you are anointed with the holy oil, the Lord make this right. The Lord plead, you are the Lord's adversary. You are striving with the Lord. Now you see how that connects back to this third phrase of 1 Samuel 2 and verse 10. The Lord shall judge the ends of the earth. In God's judgment of the earth, there is a pleading for his elect. In God's judgment of the earth, there is a adversarial relationship My attorney is the adversary of my opponent's attorney. Lord, you judge between us, David says, and you please my cause. And he uses this word adversary. You're the adversary. And then again, when David comes to Nabel And David and his men are hungry. And David sends word to Nabal and says, Nabal, can you send me food? And Nabal says, No, no, no, who is this man? And Nabal's servants come to Nabal's wife Abigail and they say, he's been good to us, and we've suffered no harm. They've taken care of us. David says in 1 Samuel 2, verse or verse 1 Samuel 25, verse 39, and when when David heard that Nabal was dead, He said, Blessed be the Lord, for he hath pleaded my cause. And it's the same word, adversary. What happened to Nabal? He went home and died. Because he stood against the servant of the Lord. And then again in Psalm 35 and verse 1: Plead my cause, O Lord, with them that strive with me. Fight against them that fight against me. And David uses the same word, chide, strive, adversary. Plead my cause. And then again in Psalm 43 verse 1, judge me, O God, and plead my cause. And it's the same word. over and over and over again in Scripture, this word that's translated adversary in 1 Samuel 2 in verse 10 and translated child in Gideon's story, Judges 8. It's this word plead. Shall not the judge of all the earth do right? God was pleading the cause of righteous Hannah against Panama. Folks, he's on our side. He'll chide with the world when the world chides with us He'll be the adversary of the enemy when they come against us. What glorious peace and truth. Judge me, O God, and plead my cause against an ungodly nation. O deliver me from deceitful men. Psalm 43, verse 1. Isaiah 3:13, the Lord standeth up to plead. And standeth to judge the people. And it's that same word, adversary. Micah 7, verse 9. I will bear the indignation of the Lord. Because I have sinned against him until he plead my cause. And it's that same word, the chide or to be an adversary. But then that comes us to the brings us to the last phrase, the last phrase of 1 Samuel chapter 2 and verse 10. And folks, I hope those first three points have thrilled your soul. They thrill mine because it's glorious. But the fourth one is better yet. God saved the best for last, as they say. Look again at our text. The adversaries of the Lord shall be broken to pieces. Out of heaven shall he thunder upon them. The Lord shall judge the ends of the earth, and he shall give strength unto his king. And exalt the horn of his anointed. And he shall give strength unto his king and exalt the horn of his anointed. Hannah is bringing Samuel to the tabernacle to leave him with Eli. Who is the king of Israel? Who is the anointed of the Lord when Hannah brings Samuel? To the tabernacle. Samuel was born sometime around 1171 before Christ B. C. Samuel anointed Saul to be king somewhere around 1095. Of course, the Old Testament dating counts backwards. It counts down. Folks, it'll be 76 years before Samuel anoints the first king of Israel. Let me ask you the question again when Hannah says that the Lord let's get it right And he shall give strength unto his king and exalt the horn of his anointed. Who was king? Who was the anointed? This is Jesus Christ she's talking about. She's not talking about King Saul, he hasn't been born yet. She's not talking about King David, he hasn't been born yet. Nobody has heard of them They're not even a twinkle in their father's eye because no child is ever a twinkle in their father's eye. It's a form of speech But here, Hannah prophetically is saying God will give strength unto his king, and he will exalt the horn of his anointed. She's looking forward to the Messiah. She's making a glorious prophecy of Jesus Christ. Oh, my friend, how these diamonds are hidden in the Word of God. These little phrases that have so much meaning and so much truth and bring so much reassurance to the heart of the believer are hidden all through the Word of God. And my friend, the Old Testament is the book of Jesus Christ. He is found throughout Jesus Christ is the King to whom Jehovah gives strength. And you understand that the word anointed in the Hebrew is the Christ. And the word Messiah in the Greek is the Christ. And in English, we say Christ. Here, Hannah says, the Lord gives strength to the Christ. Psalm eighty-nine, verse nineteen to the following. Then thou speakest in a vision. To the holy ones, and sayest, I have laid my help upon one that is mighty. I have exalted one chosen out of the people. I have found David my servant, and my with my holy oil have I anointed him With whom my hand shall be established, mine arm also shall strengthen him. Those words are spoken of the human man, King David. But my friend, as we read further, we find that David was not the object for the speaking of Christ. There in Psalm 89, 22, the enemy shall not exact upon him nor the son of wickedness afflict him. Psalm 89 is talking about the conflict between Jesus Christ and Satan. And I will beat down his foes before his face and plague them that hate him. Doesn't that sound like First Samuel two, verse ten. You see, it's all about Jesus Christ. For he must reign to put all enemies under his feet, and the last enemy that shall be destroyed is death And so, friends, we find here that the adversaries of the Lord will be broken to pieces. Are my adversaries mine own? Or are they adversaries of truth? If they're my own, it's my problem. But God will take care of his adversaries. Out of heaven shall he thunder upon them. I don't need to thunder, he'll take care of it. The Lord shall judge the ends of the earth. It doesn't matter what false judgment comes upon me. God will make it right. And God will give strength to his Christ, and he will exalt the horn of the Messiah. And so it's alright. And so, folks, here we find this dear, tender mother. She says nothing about I'm going to miss Samuel. She says nothing about I hope he gets to bed on time. Can this old man Eli take good care of myself? I I hope he gets good food to eat. No, no, no. I'm sure those thoughts were in her heart. But our focus was on Jesus Christ. There are many things that concern us. We worry about. Where we'll sleep. We worry about what we'll eat. We worry about our care. God will take care of all that. Our job is to keep our eyes on the Messiah. He'll take care of everything else. Let us stand for prayer. Our Father, we rejoice that you have promised and you fulfill your promise to show us glorious things out of thy law. Lord bless thy word and thy truth to our hearts this day. In Jesus' name. Amen.