Turn with me in your Bibles, please, to the one hundred and third Psalm, the Psalm which we just sang from, that third verse of the psalm that we sang. is the verse that we consider this morning. We have been working our way through this hundred and third psalm. And we find the admonition at the end of the second verse, reading the whole verse together, bless the Lord, O my soul, and forget not all his benefits. And so we've been looking at some of the benefits of Jehovah. And this morning we come to that seventh verse, which as I said was the third verse of the psalm we sang from the Psalter, verse 7 of Psalm 103. He made known his ways unto Moses, his acts unto the children of men. Now I would read for you again the call to worship that I read this morning as we began from Psalm 67, verses 1 and 2. God be merciful unto us and bless us. And calls his face to shine upon us, that thy way may be known upon the earth, thy saving health among all nations. The benefits of God. We've observed that word benefits means his works, his actions, his deeds, that which he does, his blessings, we could say. The children of Israel failed in the wilderness. And we find that the reason that they failed was they soon forgot his acts. They soon forgot what he had done for them. Well this morning we consider this one verse, verse 7. He that is God, Jehovah, made known his ways unto Moses. His acts unto the children of Israel. Do you get a glimpse of what that verse says? Consider this. What would our case be today if God had not made known his ways unto Moses? Mankind is full of questions. What is the meaning of life? Where did we come from? Why are we here? Scientists have spent years and centuries trying to figure this out rather than simply looking at the Word of God. Men with a multitude of degrees listed behind their names can't answer this simple question, where did we come from? But God made known his ways unto Moses You see, the first inspired words that Moses recorded for us were these. In the beginning, God created the heaven and the earth. But you know what the problem is? Men have forgotten. Men have forgotten this benefit. That God has given us the answers. God has told us. I would like you to turn with me To Isaiah 45, and in God's providence, this links right up with the Sunday school lesson this morning In Isaiah 45, and I'll read verses 5 through 9. I'm going to give you a moment to turn because I'd like these words to be in front of you. Isaiah forty-five, beginning with verse number five, we read this. God says, I am the Lord, and there is none else. There is no God beside me. Let that sink in. I am the Lord. There is none else. There is no God beside me. This is talking about the God of Genesis 1, folks. This eliminates any other small g god. Muhammad, Buddha, Confucius You go down the list, uh Sun, one, moon, you know, you you could you could list the multitude of quote-unquote gods that have come along since Genesis 1, 1. And multitudes have followed after them. But God made known his ways to Moses, his acts unto the children of men. God made moan his ways upon the earth and is saving health among all nations. We consider that continue there in Isaiah 45, 5. I am the Lord and there is none else There is no God beside me. I gird thee, though thou hast not known me. I girded thee. I clothed you I fed you. I housed you. I provided for you. You were naked in the Garden of Eden. You tried to cover yourself with fig leaves, but I girded you with the skin of a sacrifice, though that was not known to me. That ye may know from the rising of the sun and from the west that there is none beside me, I am the Lord, and there is none beside me. else. Now when he says that ye may know from the rising of the sun even to the west, and from the west, the sun rises to the east and sets in the west. He's talking about the totality of creation, the totality of mankind, the totality of man's wisdom, all bound up in this one phrase, I am the Lord. And there is none else. It continues. Verse 7: I form the light. And create darkness. I make peace and create evil. I, the Lord, do all these things. Now this is where we have the glorious tie-in to Brother Vince's study school lesson this morning. God says, I create evil. That doesn't mean that God makes whorehouses and and murderers and so on. That evil is the term war. I create peace and evil. I make peace and create evil. God creates judgment God creates retribution. God creates wrath upon men I form the light and create evil or create darkness. I make peace and create wars, we could say, or create punishment, create evil. I the Lord do all these things. You see, we began by saying that the world has all these questions. Why am I, what I am, who am I, where did I come from? But God made known his ways to Moses. Don't forget it. What a glorious blessing. And he continues there again in In Isaiah 45, verse 8, drop down ye heavens from above, let the skies pour down righteousness, let the earth open, let them bring forth salvation, and let the righteous spring up together. I the Lord have created it. You see a dichotomy there, that the righteous spring up together. Woe unto him. Woe unto him that striveth with his maker, but the potchards strive with the potchards of earth, shall the clay say to him that fashioned it What madeest thou for thy work? He hath no hands. That's exactly what the world's doing. The clay, man created from clay, is saying to Jehovah God, You didn't make me. He's saying to Jehovah God, What did you make if you made me? Woe unto them that strive with their maker, shall the thing formed, say of him that formed it, Thou hast no understanding. We read in Isaiah chapter 29. And again in Romans 1, Nay, but O man, who art thou that repliest against God shall the thing formed say unto him that formed it, Whyest thou made us thus? Hath not the potter power over the clay? You see, folks, this is the glorious truth. God made known his ways unto Moses. If God had not made it known his ways unto Moses, we had no idea where we came from. But he's told us. And folks, you don't need a doctorate in biology to figure it out. He's made known his ways. But folks, not only do we know who we are, why we're here, and where we came from. But because God made known his ways unto Moses, we understand what's wrong. We understand what's wrong. Your car is not running right. What do you do? You take it to a mechanic to be diagnosed. You're not feeling well, what do you do? You go to a doctor to be diagnosed. What's wrong with this world? Why is there sin? Why is there murder Why is there war? Why is there crime? Why all these things? Why abortion? Because God revealed to Moses the deep fall of man. God told Moses exactly what happened Back in Genesis. You see, if God had not revealed this to Genesis, we'd have no record. We'd have no understanding. But God ordained his inspired word. What happened a thousand years ago? But he made known his ways unto Moses back in Genesis, and their eyes were opened, and they knew that they were naked. Adam and Eve sinned in the garden. And they knew that they were naked. And God cursed the earth. God cursed them. But God promised a way of redemption. He made known his ways to Moses. Without Moses, we'd have no understanding of sin, of sickness, and of evil. But not only did God give to Moses there in the first book of the Bible the historical record that we might know and understand God revealed his law to Moses. You know what? Man at his core desires law and order. Man may create chaos, but man does not enjoy chaos. Man wants law and order. You take a young child. A young child will be the happiest when he knows the rules. When he understands the boundaries, when he knows I could do A, B, and C, but you better not do D because there'll be consequences. When a child has been taught that the stove is hot and he must stay away from it, the child will be happy because he doesn't burn his fingers. Man desires law and order. Could you imagine if God had left us without a law? We find in Israel that at the worst times of the history of Israel we find the phrase that every man did that which was right in his own eyes. That's when there was chaos. That's when there was destruction of society. That's when there was no law and order. But God revealed His will, His way to Moses. We read there in our call to worship that God gave them the Ten Commandments written on two tablets of stone And there Israel rejoices. What nation is there like this nation? Even the other nations looking upon them that hath God's law And folks we know that the Old Testament Israel was the seed of the New Testament church. And we are the inheritors of those blessings. We are the inheritance of those laws. We are the inheritance of that truth. And what people are there like the church? What people are there so blessed as we to have the truth, to have the word of God? The world has forgotten God. But folks, God made known His law to Moses. I'm not uh I'm not endorsing Alexander Solzhenitsa. Okay, so don't let me let me give you a a disclaimer there. It's interesting if you I I s I must I love history. It's interesting if you study him. He looked back with longing to the Russian Orthodox Church from I believe it was sixteen forty-one when there was a great schism in the Russian Orthodox Church back before the the uh I I said s that was I'm sorry, I got the date wrong. I think it was 1444. It was before the Protestant Reformation. There was a schism within the Russian Orthodox Church. And he looked back to that point as the beginning of the failure of Russia. Okay? Because that was the point where where they were becoming more popish. where the things we would would totally reject of the Russian Orthodox Church today were beginning to come in, rather than the simplicity of the gospel. But this is what Solzanyson said. He said, men have forgotten God And that's the problem. Let me let me read this quote to you. He says over a half a century ago, well I was still a child I recall hearing a number of old people who offer the following explanation for the great disaster that's befallen Russia. He's talking about the Ru the Russian Revolution of uh 1917 Men have forgotten God, and that's why all this happened. Since then I've spent well-nigh fifty years working on history, uh history of the rebel revolution In the process, I've read hundreds of books and collected hundreds of personal testimonies, and I've already contributed eight volumes of my own toward the effort of clearing away the rubble left by that upheaval But if I were asked today to formulate as concisely as possible the main cause of the ruinous revolution that has swallowed up some 60 million of our people, I could not put it more accurately than to repeat, men have forgotten God. That's why all this has happened. Why why did the Stalinist Leninist Revolution result in the murder of millions and millions of people Why did a Hitler come along and murder millions and millions of people? What was the problem? He nailed it. They forgot God. They forgot God. Why did Israel go into captivity again and again and again? They forgot God What is the great danger of our grandchildren? That they will forget God. But don't forget God. That God's law will be taken off the walls of the courthouses. That God's law will be taken away from the base of the American flag. God made known his ways unto Moses, his acts unto the children of men. And one of the ways that God made known his ways unto Moses was he gave Moses a righteous law. Forget not all his benefits. You see, the people that have this law are blessed above all people. Wherewithal shall a young man cleanse his way By taking heed thereto according to thy word. The law of the Lord is perfect, converting the soul. The testimony of the Lord is sure, making wise the simple The statutes of the Lord are right, rejoice in the heart, the commandment of the Lord is pure, enlightening the eyes, the fear of the Lord is clean, enduring forever, the judgments of the Lord are true and righteous altogether More to be desired are they than gold, yea, than much fine gold. What better pattern could there be for a young man to structure his life than those four simple verses about God's law? Well folks, we need to be very careful. Because we can forget God's benefits just like the children of Israel did. We can forget God's benefits just like the nation of Russia did. And folks, I've often wondered if we're not the nation that's forgotten God. We've we've been blessed with a recent election, but folks, that's not that's not biblical. That is civil. And it does no good if God's people don't stand for truth and righteousness. And if God's people forget God's law, it doesn't matter what law our nation makes. For it has no blessing. It has no purpose. Without the law we'd have no knowledge of sin. How do we know that murder is wrong? Well, uh we read in Romans seven, seven, what shall we say? That it's the law s sin? God forgid, nid, nay, I had not known sin, but that the law uh but sorry, let me slow down and read it properly. What shall we say then? It's the law sin. God forbid. Nay, I had not known sin, but by the law. For I had not known lust, except the law has said, thou shalt not covet. It is by the law of God that we know right from wrong. Blessed is the man that walketh not in the council of the ungodly, nor standeth in the way of sinners, nor sitteth in the seat of the scornful. But his delight is in the law of the Lord, and in his law doth he meditate day and night. There in our responsive reading this morning in Deuteronomy 4, verse 6, for this is your wisdom and understanding. Deuteronomy eight, what nation is there so great that hath statutes and judgments so righteous as that this law which I set before you? Blessed is the nation whose God is the Lord. Righteousness exalteth the nation But sin is a reproach to any people. Folks, God revealed to Moses the truth of where we came from. God revealed to us his law that we might have law and order, that we might have a structure for society. But folks, it's far greater than that. Because the law was our schoolmaster to bring us to Christ. See, when God made known his ways unto Moses and his acts unto the children of God, it was the entrance into our salvation. For all the way back in the Garden of Eden, the message began And we find that the law was our schoolmaster to bring us to Christ. In Galatians 3, verse 23, for before faith came we were kept under the law and shut up unto faith Which should afterward be reward, revealed. Wherefore the law was our schoolmaster, it was our teacher, it was our instructor to bring us to Christ that we might be justified by faith And it is because the law, our schoolmaster, has brought us to Christ, that there is therefore now no condemnation to them that are in Christ Jesus. Forget not its benefits. But not only did God reveal to Moses the first five books of the Bible that tell us where he came from, and not only did God give to Moses, give us his law through Moses, But when God made known his ways unto Moses, God made known himself unto Moses. Turn with me to Exodus chapter 3 God made himself known. And this this folks, when when I began studying this through and and and the some of these things Sorry, put me in my heart. I had to rejoice because I had never contemplated them before. You understand that Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob did not know God is Jehovah. They didn't know that. And we'll see that in this word. Genesis chapter 3, verse 13. And Moses said unto God, This is at the burning bush. Behold, when I come unto the children of Israel And shall say unto them, The Lord God of your fathers has sent me unto you, and they shall say unto me, What is his name? No. What is his name? What shall I say unto them? And God said unto Moses, I am that I am. And he said, Thus shalt thou say unto the children of Israel, I am has sent me unto you. And God said moreover unto Moses, Thus shall ye say that the children of Israel, the Lord God of your fathers, the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, the God of Jacob, has sent me unto you. This is my name forever And this is memorial, memorial unto all generations. And then turn over to Exodus chapter 6. Exodus chapter 6, verses 2 and 3. Chapter 6, verse 2, and God spake unto Moses and said unto him, I am the Lord, and I appeared unto Abraham. Unto Isaac and unto Jacob by the name of God Almighty. But by my name Jehovah was I not known unto them. God made known his ways unto Moses and his acts unto the children of Israel. Folks, how do we know the name of Jehovah? Because God made it known to Moses. Because God gave it to us, as we saw there in Psalm 67, for the saving health of all nations. And what is the world's problem? They've forgotten Jehovah God. Secular humanism has made man a God. False religions have made idols and icons a God. The Catholic Church worships Mary to ask Mary to pray for them. The Russian Orthodox Church has all their icons and their statues and they pray to their saints. We serve Jehovah, and he has placed his word above his name. And that's what God made known unto Moses. You see, we are blessed to know something that Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob did not know. Because they predated as we find right here. I wasn't known by that name. They didn't know me as Jehovah. But we know Jehovah God, God revealed the truth of creation, God revealed his law, and God revealed himself unto Moses. And his acts are to the children of Israel. But folks, there's one more thing that we find here. God made node the way of redemption. And he did it through Moses. You see, there were hints and shadows before the five books of the Pentateuch. There was the sacrifice, which was a picture, but not even fully understood. What does it mean? And even the Jews, when it came to crucify Christ, they didn't understand. And the disciples didn't understand till afterward. And then they began to look back to Isaiah and say, yes, it was all there, but we didn't understand it. We did not know. He has made known his saving health among all nations. Red and yellow, black and white, blue with purple spots. Doesn't matter among all nations. In Genesis 3, verse 7, reading this verse again, and the eyes of them both were naked. I'm sorry, the eyes of the both were open, and they knew that they were naked. And they sewed fig leaves together and made themselves aprons. And they heard the voice of the Lord God walking in the garden in the cool of the day, and Adam and his wife hid themselves from the presence of the Lord God among the trees of the garden. Man suddenly knew he was naked. Man suddenly understood that he was a sinner. His sin was open and naked before the righteousness of God. Man tried to do something about it. He sowed fig leaves, but his fig leaves could not cover his sin. Man tried to hide from God, but God knew exactly where he was. God made a covering for man's sin. And God declared that I am the way, the truth, and the life. No man cometh the Ford. Christ declared, I am the way, the truth, and life. No man cometh to the Father but my May. God made known the way of redemption. But if you continue there, turn with me if you haven't turned already to Genesis 3. And verse 14, the last part of the verse. And the Lord God said unto the serpent, and then going to verse 15, I will put enmity. I'll give you a moment to turn, because I still hear some pages turning. God speaking to the serpent in verse 15, I will put enmity between thee and the woman, and between thy seed and her seed It shall bruise thy head, and thou shalt bruise his heel. And we know that this is referring to the seed of the serpent. to Satan and the seed of the woman, which is Christ. But folks, there's far more there that God has made known to us. For if you turn with me to the New Testament and chapter 13. In chapter 13 of Matthew, I think I said turn in the New Testament, chapter 13. Matthew chapter 13, the first book of the New Testament And here in the latter part of Matthew 13, Christ is explaining the parable of the sower. And in Matthew 13, verse 37, Jesus speaking, he answered and said unto them, He that soweth the good seed is the Son of Man, the tear, the field is the world, the tear sorry. The field of the world, the good seed are the children of the kingdom, and the tares are the children of the wicked one. Now God said that there was going to be enmity between two seeds, the seed of the serpent and the seed of the woman. The seed of the woman ultimately is Christ. The seed of the serpent is Satan. But the seed of the serpent is also the children of the devil. And God declared all the way in the garden, revealed through us through Moses, there's going to be enmity between the serpent seed. And Christ says the good's the evil seed. Hm. Children of the devil. There are children of Satan walking in the world. There are also the children of God. We are the children of God through the seed of the woman. We're the children of God through faith in Christ. The enemy that sowed them is the devil, and the harvest is the end of the world. Folks, this all comes from Moses. Don't forget it. You are a child of God, and those that oppose us are children of the devil. And the parable the Silver goes on to explain what will happen to the two. One is gathered into the barn, the other is burnt gathered in the heaps and burned. And John 8. 44, year of your father the devil, and the lusts of your father ye will do. He was a murderer from the beginning and abode not in the truth. Because there is no truth in him. When he speaketh a lie, he speaketh of his own For he is a liar and the father of it. First John three, verse eight, He that committeth sin is of the devil, for the devil sinneth from the beginning For this purpose the Son of God was manifest that he might destroy the works of the devil. In this the children of God are manifest, and the children of the devil. You see the difference But see, it all goes back to God making known his ways unto Moses. Because Moses didn't tell no know this stuff. Moses wasn't there. But God, through inspiration, made known his ways unable. Folks, this one verse of Psalm 103 could be preached for a year and not exhausted. He made known his ways unto Moses, and therefore we know the way of salvation. We know where we came from. We know what all my teachers don't know, for scripture declares I'm wiser than all my teachers. We know how we are to order ourselves because He's given us a righteous law. We know who our God is because He revealed His name And we know the glorious plan of salvation. Because he made known his ways unto Moses. And so, indeed, Psalm 103, verses 1 and 2, bless the Lord, O my soul, and all that is within me, bless his holy name. Would you rather have a million dollars for this? What a great blessing this is! Yeah, my dad used to my dad was a farmer. Before he was a preacher and was still a farmer, well he was a preacher. But uh Dad used to tell the old joke that they asked the farmer what would you do if you were given a million dollars, he said, Well, I guess I'd farm until it was all gone. Folks, it doesn't matter what you get in this world, it's worthless. It's passing away. It's perishing. But forget not his benefits when you're hungry. Forget not his benefits when you're not sure how you're going to pay the bills. Forget not his benefits when the world hates you. Forget not his benefits when the seed of the serpent is nipping at your heels. He made known his ways unto Moses, and so indeed, bless the Lord, O my soul, and all that is within me. Bless the Lord, O my soul, and forget not all his benefits. For Psalm 103, verse 7, it's just one in the whole list, which we're considering. Let us stand for prayer. Thou art worthy, O Lord, to receive glory and honor and power, for thou hast created all things, and for thy pleasure they are and were created. Father, we thank you. You have made known unto us your benefits through your servant Moses. We thank you, Lord, for thy glorious truth. Father, bless it to our hearts. Lord, we have many cares, many afflictions, many burdens in this world. But we thank you that we are your people, that we know where we came from, we have your law, we know who you are, and we know the way of glory and salvation. Father, bless these truths to our hearts and sustain us as we leave our time together this morning and go back out into the world. Protect us from the evil one. Make us lights day by day And we pray these things in Jesus' name, Amen