We probably know more about David's men than Jeff does. And the first is this word Gilead and Gileadites. Then we're going to look at Jepta's entrance, how he comes onto the scene. But unfortunately, they did not drive out all the Canaanites, and so as a result, the balance of power tipped back and forth from time to time. Alright, so Gilead was formerly Amorit territory. Jephthah sent messengers again unto the king of the children of Ammon and said unto him, Thus said Jephthah, thus saith Jephthah, Israel took not away the land of Moab, nor the land of the children of Ammon The Lord God of Israel hath dispossessed the Amorites from before his people Israel. While Israel dwelt in Heshbon and her towns and Error and her towns and the cities all on the coast of Arnon, three hundred years He's going to say, all right, well, if you've got all these wonderful gods, why don't you have them deliver something for you? And Mizpah from Gilead he passed over the children of Ammon. But this is two verses because from God's vantage point, knocking out twenty cities is, you know, God stepping on an ant bed over here. It says in verse 39, who did with her according to his vow what she had vowed, and she knew no man. So in the New Testament, there is an indication that there are those who willingly say, I'm going to serve the Lord all my life through service, making clothes. That would be idolatry. Even though he was an outcast, he still considered Gilead home. Yeah, he's had a very good life. in Jepta's history than there was to the battle to destroy twenty cities. And it says Jephthah performs his vow. Okay. Paper, hard copy, Bible, that will be preferred over your phone. And frankly, the whole story of Jeptah, just like everything else in the book of Judges, is flat out weird. And says the Lord watch between me and thee when we're absent. Now Og had some giants there. and judged Israel twenty two years. And indeed it was, the anger of the Lord, verse 7, was hot against Israel. The Zidonians also, and the Amalekites and the Maonites did oppress you, and you cried out to me, and I delivered you out of their hand. Now, lo and behold, in 15 to 18, the people heard this message from God. They're the tribe with the reputation of the mighty warriors. Once again, God involves a harlot to raise up an unlikely and an unliked hero. And they said unto Jephthah, Come and be our captain, that we may fight with the children of Ammon. And Jephthah is an example of that. in Ms. Only Texans understand this. Of the children of Ammon. when they came up out of Egypt, from Arnon even unto Jabbok and unto Jordan. Why therefore did you not recover them within that time? He's rebutting the oppressors with a detail of history. The Gileadites are surrounded by the Ammonites, and Israel is worshiping all these other gods. Of the doors of my house to meet thee, when I return in peace from the children of Ammon, shall surely be the Lord's. And then thirty-two, Jephthah passed over unto the children of Ammon to fight against them, and the Lord delivered them into his hands. For I have opened my mouth unto the Lord and I cannot go back. who did with her according to his vow, which she had vowed. Solomon built a high place for Kemosh, the abomination of Moab in the hill before Jerusalem, and for Molech, the abomination of the children of Ammon. You read in Leviticus 18, 21, Thou shalt not let any of thy seed pass through the fire to Molech, neither shalt thou profane the name of the Lord thy God. If the people of the land do any ways hide their eyes from the man when he gives of his seed to Molech, and kill him not, then I will set my face against that man, against his family, cut him off, and all that go ahooring after him to commit whoredom with Molech from among their people. In other words, she was devoted to the Lord. Yeah. Mm-hmm. Yet still he carried it out. And to say our God is like Molech. And the firstborn of a lamb was to be burnt, the firstborn of an ox, but the firstborn of my sons and daughters were to be redeemed. You can't break that vow to the Lord. But Lord, you've preserved it and we pray that you would continue to teach us, help us to rightly divide your word of truth. Where we read, what shall I more say? Why would I go to a job? Beggars. He's not elite. um just retired from his septic business. pass to help. hammering that in. Zero again. Well, this is this interesting phrase and this interesting vow between these two over this word Galiet. to Canaan, named Maker in Canaan, and Maker begets Gilead. And he is leaving Laban. Uh it's interesting that word mizpah, maybe you've seen in jewelry stores the mizpah necklace. neck of the woods and I won't come across yours. It's related to it. And Gilead got all of Og's cities because of that. Now these Gileadite cities were numerous, they're just like a series of villages. And sometimes I wonder, and that's what I would have thought, but perhaps it actually went on a little longer than that. Well now we go to Judges chapter 10, where our story begins. To Judges ten verse three, and we read this. And he had thirty sons, and he was a judge. They serve Balaam and Asteroid and the gods of Syria and the gods of Sidon and the gods of Noab and the gods of the children of Ammon and the gods of the Philistines Wow, what a list. The bit about Gilead is just to help remove your confusion as to where this is all taking place. And the first place they're going after is Judah. There's something going on with you that resulted back in this. Stay away. Verses 4 through 7, it came to pass in the process of time. And expel me out of my father's house? But there is that sense of a tradition there, though you may personally have not had part of it, yet you certainly remember the stories and the history that came from it. Alright? Then they went along through the wilderness, encompassed the land of Edom, the land of Moab, and came by the east side of the land of Moab, pitched on the other side of Arnon, but came not within the border of Moab I'm sure he was smiling like a big Chess Air cat when he said that. For Arnon was the border of Boad. What would you call this? I think this vow descended to the children as well. And he's recounting it to them. Verse 32, Jephthah passes over to the children of Ammon to fight against them. to the Lord. Unto the plain of the vineyards, with a very great slaughter. Now it's his part. And she said unto him, My father, if thou hast opened thy mouth unto the Lord, do to me according to that which proceedeth out of thy mouth. I and my fellows. the the rooms were in the outer courts, would be the place where the animals would stay at night. And because they're creeping into Judah, and because they are child killers, this is a big deal to Old Testament Israel And so I don't find biblical warrant for that. get back in good graces with the family. There is a difference between a wife and a virgin. uh various alms deeds. Please, Lord, help us to likewise be faithful and that which you've called us to Lord. Of David also in Samuel and the prophets. I don't like windows. Yeah, the alcoholic, the drunk that comes up and they they're just unpredictable and they're just generally Genesis 31 is the account of Jacob. So it features prominently throughout the book of Judges in this 10th and 11th chapter. Laban called it Jergasha Hudutha, but Jacob called it Galeed. So this heap of stones was there as a witness between Laban and Jacob. 47. Now, the half-tribe of Manasseh was located on the quote other side of the Jordan. the uh Canaanites live there, they got the upper hand and so forth. Maybe he's talking about his descendants because the vow included daughters, sons. But I will read in Judges 10, starting in verse 3. And forsook the Lord and served not him. Alright, so get the picture. All the children of Israel that were on the other side of Jordan, in the land of the Amorites which is in Gilead Get the picture. Oh. It's quite the warning. The children of Israel said of the Lord, We sinned. And they put away the strange gods from among them. The Gileadites are Jews. God delivered in the hand of the Philistines and the Ammonites, but the Ammonites are camped right there in Gilead. He shall be head over all the inhabitants of Gilead. And Gilead begat Jephthah. the man and or the woman wanting to deal with this quietly and secretly, what do you think they would do today? And it was so that when the children of Ammon made war against Israel, the elders of Gilead went to fetch Jephthah out of the land of Tob. You don't fit. Maybe he looked differently. He was unliked and he was cast away. The elders of Gilead said unto Jephthah, therefore we turn again to thee now, that thou mayest go with us and fight against the children of Ammon, and be our head over all the inhabitants of Gilead. Jeptah said to the elders of Gilead, if you bring me home again to fight the children of Ammon and the Lord deliver them before me, shall I be your head? He just wants to test. Find to be an outcast. Jacob was overtaken by Laban. I don't know about Maryland, but some states in America have a certain reputation to it. But the king of Edom would not hearken thereto. Sion trusted not Israel to pass through his coast. So Israel possessed all the land of the Amorites and the inhabitants of that country, and they possessed all the coasts of the Amorites, from Arnon even unto Jabok, and from the wilderness even unto Jordan. Wilt not thou possess that which Kemosh thy God giveth thee to possess? And now art thou anything better than Balak, the son of the son of Zippor, king of Moab? The judge be judged this day between the children of Israel and the children of Ammon. when he talks about um uh the Lord be judge between us the Lord be judge The king of the children of Ammon hearkened not unto the words of Jephthah which he sent him. He um he he he doesn't want to to deal with it. If my fence sat an inch back from my property or on the property line. Now he mentioned a god in his diplomatic statement, but his statement was concerning both the Amorites, of whom Ammon would come and take over, and the Moabites. But there is an Ammonite God. That probably would have been his lot had his parents worshiped Molech. He makes a vow to God and said, If thou shalt without fail deliver the children of Ammon into my hands, then it shall be that whatsoever cometh forth Beside her he had neither son nor daughter. Now, it's Jung's literal, and I do not dismiss the translators of the King James, but I do believe here it would be better rendered for. Because there is a commandment in the book of Leviticus. Where he says this. where it says, From the children of Ammon shall surely be the Lord's, and I will offer it up for a burnt offering. And furthermore, we read in the law that if Jeptah had in fact sacrificed his daughter, he himself would be dead. I will set my face against that man, will cut him off from among his people, because he has given of his seed to Molech to defile my sanctuary, profane my holy name. He's not going to have grandchildren. So as I add all this up, they're serving seven different gods, but it just so happens that it's the Ammonites who are there. All that wrapped together, you find the bewailing that she has to bewail that, and that she says, give me two months to at least bewail this. So that's our study of a most unusual character, and that was a tough one for me folks. I hope you enjoyed it. Uh and because we're Christians and so we're anti-um uh normal or something like that. Now, so you're saying some people would consider him an outcast. So that's uh the day today's probing and penetrating question, because we're going to be looking at the book of Judges. Go to Genesis 31 and verse 48. Member of the Twelve Patriarchs, but Manasseh and Ephraim were considered half-tribes. rode in the old days. Well, uh we then read in verse six that uh Israel is going to come under Ammonite oppression in Gilead. And the people, verse 18 of the last verse of Judges 10. to answer some of the bizarre questions that lay later on. Folks, is it right to inflict the punishment due to the father upon the child? Well, lo and behold, I think the Gileadite elders are borrowing that same language. And the king of the children of Ammon answered unto the messengers of Jess of Jephthah, because Israel took away my land that people forget history. Now in those days in the Jewish house they would have been a U-shaped house and the inner part of the U, the empty part. The Ammonite stronghold is Gilead, and their God is Molech, and he's worshipped by child sacrifice. And I don't see how God would be glorified that to accept the offering of Mulnak. Even though they had cast him out, he was still viewing that as home. you to be uh worthy of all that glory that you're you. Who do people, who do you think people suppose are the outcast members of society? Assets were well over a million dollars a year. That's another thing, and what the significance of the Gileadites are. In this Old Testament book, Israel blows it again, they cry out to the Lord, he sends them a deliverer, they're delivered, peace for a while, and then they go back to the square. He gave a a definition to it. He begat Joseph. So his inherited territories right Smacdab, where Ag King of Bashin is at, and Joshua conquered Og King of Bashin, as well as Sihon, king of the Amorites. Between Jacob and Laban, how long do you think it would last? And serve, now get a load of this list. No more. passed over Jordan, that is they're coming west, to fight also against Judah and against Benjamin. Now Jephthah the Gileadite, so he's one of the Hebrews from Manasseh, Jeptah the Gileadite was a mighty man of valor. Wife bear him sons, and his wives sons grew up, and they thrust out Jephthah. Jeptah, an individual who was a mighty man of valor, he was indeed one of the folks who had the spirit of Manasseh. But when Israel came up out of Egypt and walked through the wilderness under the Red Sea and came to Kadesh, then Israel sent messengers unto the king of Edom and said, Let me, I pray thee, pass through thy land. And the Lord God of Israel delivered Sihon and all his people into the hands of Israel, and they smote them Folks, this this fellow is interesting. Well, these are the faith lessons that I think we can get from this at a minimum. The Ammonite God of Molech. She said unto her father, Let this thing be done for me, let me alone two months, that I may go up and down upon the mountains and bewail my virginity. Number one, in his vow in verse um uh thirty-one And Molech was worshipped by child sacrifice. Could subsequent generations say, well, Jephthah sacrificed his daughter, so let us do the same. So that's my point about Jephthah. You know, I think about the millions of abortions that have occurred. See the vowel connection there? So this is the initial run. And there's nothing new under the sun. These sorts of things come up often. Number 11. And this is where it gets into some sticky territory. Molech had a certain reputation. Turns out that theologians are quite divided on this topic, and so was I, but I believe there is a path forward. She's devoted to the service of the Lord, which in and of itself is not a penalty. You know, I just put all that information together, and I believe Young makes a very strong case where it says or. And even though they were consecrated to God. Mrs. I would feed someone, but I wouldn't let them near my tools. But I have a question about this vow that we read in Genesis 31. The Lord said to the children of Israel, listen to God's response here. The children of Israel cried in the Lord, saying, We have sinned against thee, both because we have forsaken our God and also served Balaam. Then the children of Ammon were gathered together and encamped in Gilead. The Jews of Gilead, they look and they see nothing but Ammonites. The Ammonites are the bad guys. Verse 10, and the elders of Gilead said unto Jephthah, The Lord be witness between us. His clear and forceful arguments, frankly, are stunning for any leader. That's coming up at the end of this. At this point, I think we get some faith lessons. He's banking on the Lord God. But Jeptah has a bittersweet victory, and we're going to deal with the conundrum as to what happens with his daughter. Us? I don't know if I've ever heard any teaching on this obscure Old Testament character. as to their separation between the two of them. And Mizpah, for he said, The Lord watch between me and thee when we are absent one from another. That verse took me a long time to figure out what in the world is going on, where is this happening? In verse 9, an interesting fact. Paul. Your word is still here, hasn't been tampered with. Propose to the Lord even the possibility of child sacrifice. And frankly, celibate service to the Lord is commended in the New Testament. Ross, you were starting to come up with something. I kind of went in circles on. Okay, just a lifelong vow, just from a life of them. Well, this is consistent with history. This is the context of this battle. Did they say anything about it? But then, in verse 34, Jephthah came to Mizpah unto his house, and behold, his daughter came out to meet him, with timbrels and with dances, and she was his only child. She, somewhere between these verses, here's the ruling, and then this is her request. Just wasn't accepted. They are to stay away? Yeah. What did they mention of Gilead's uh excuse me, what did they mention of Jephthah's ugly history Uh let's go to 46. Poor the beggars, okay. Then Jeptah fled from his brethren and dwelt in the land of Tob, and there were gathered vain men to Jephthah and went out with him. You know, a couple of observations here. At least three hundred. Is this a a good diplomatic opening move? That would be a contradictory message. Brother Antonio, you closed us in prayer. He's he's using he's not using or availing himself of his college education. Now he's putting it to the test. We read here in 29, the Spirit of the Lord came upon Jephthah, and he passed over Gilead and Manasseh, passed over Mizpah of Gilead. And if I don't do it, uh then it'll be burned. Well what do you mean us? And uh you just can't. The Ammonite camp, boom, centered in Gilead. Jeptah uttered all his words before the Lord in Mizpah. And he said, Go. You're the black sheep of the family. Again, the king of the Ammonites, saying, What hast thou to do with me? Here's a pregnant harlot. What is your thoughts on it? To kill his daughter, would the Lord accept that? So we're going to try to give some con contextual historical background to Gilead and what's going on there So the Gileadites are a family of Israelites who belong to the half-tribe of Manasseh. That's seven different nations, and it said gods, plural. Maybe he talked differently. Does it work? It says, Whosoever he be of the children of Israel that giveth any of his seed unto Molech, he shall surely be put to death. We're going to look at Jepta's approach and then his bittersweet victory, and I want to spend a little bit of time on the tail end of that as well because that was the one that They rode on white asses or white donkeys. Are you really gonna give me the leadership? So in their day, Jephthah the Gileadite, they might have let him, son of a harlot, be born, and they would have chucked him to Molech. What shall he do? He had thirty sons that rode on thirty ascolds. They're worshiping all these other gods of the nations, but God's going to put them into the hands of these two groups, Philistines and Ammonites. It's just understood that you're from the greatest state in the nation, you know. We're going to read through 27, but I'm going to do 12 through 13 first. Or. And so he did. Well, why is that a grief to Jephthais? And uh and so yeah, you can see what a champion of faith, what a real champion of faith, and what a sacrifice he had to make. And hi this is fifty years later. Well, that would be a cause for panic, cause for alarm. It was really more of a, you know, you stay away from me versus the other. Yeah. So, one other thing that um is interesting there is when Jephthah says, If you bring me home He's had it. Joseph is in Egypt. She will serve the Lord. And people, I'm sure, if you asked him what he does for a living, I I guess he'd say the truth, which is I wash windows You never know where that child may go. He can't recover this outcast status by now he's a head, now he's going to have sons through his daughter. I can't find that. There were giants in those land, and Manasseh and the forces under Joshua conquered that. Well, lo and behold, we read in verse 28. They have revisionist history in mind. Now, he's not mentioned by name, but it's well known throughout scriptures that Molech is the Ammonite God. His line is shut out. Well, an alcoholic I guess, because you never can trust what they say. Not like Russia and uh Ukraine. Consider now Jephthah's command approach as he now has been commissioned as the head and the leader. And he sent her away for two months. Would God accept a child sacrifice, the abomination of the Moabites? The unmarried woman cares for the things of the Lord, that she may be holy both in body and spirit, but she that is married cares for the things of the world, how she may please her husband. So we're going to look at this fellow today. Yeah. So they repented. Why are you coming to me now when ye are in distress? There was a threat he feared that he might be placed back under Laban's servitude again. Verse 48. Their tribe of Manasseh. We've conquered all King of Asian. He reaches out, and I'm going to again ask you what you think about this. That's pretty high billing to be sitting right next to David. Yeah, a septic business. Sounds very romantic, but historically it's about two men who wanted to make sure you ain't come cross my If we do not sow according to thy words. Number 10. I take exception. Genesis 31, 46. Abort the baby. Maybe you see people on the side of the street begging. Yeah. And as he's fleeing away unannounced, Laban discovers three days later that he's left and he overtakes him. Interestingly, this is an interesting text concerning how the judges of old, because he would have made his sons judges apparently Boy, they they went all out. And Gilead's wife, he had a legitimate wife, he made one really bad decision in life What are you going to do? I don't know. So lesson there is never burn your bridges. I will surely give it thee for an offering, or I will burn it. I just can't see that, happening. For the time would fail to tell me of Gideon, of Barak, of Samson, of Jephthah. Do you know what a God really is? And then this is the remembrance of the prior deliverance You know, what is it that we take from Jephthah's strategy? So but I think I've landed in a good place. Notice also what her appeal is. We understand that Ag King of Bashin had a lot of little cities, and they renamed those cities Haboth Jair, the villages of Jair. You know, all wars at the end of the day finally come up to territorial disputes. Does anybody know the name of that Ammonite God? They they just they they just you just kind of keep at arm's length. Do thou unto us whatsoever seemeth good unto thee. They knew what they had to do. And it's interesting that the focus is on the Ammonites. We're in Judges 11, 4-7, that the children of Ammon made war against Israel. And in like manner they sent to the king of Moab, but he wouldn't consent. It's his only daughter. Laban said, This heap is a witness between me and thee this day. You know the story. And then in verses 8 to 11, notice what Jeptah says. They seem to have conveniently forgotten that point. Wherefore I have not sinned against thee, but thou doest me wrong to war against me. Thus the children of Ammon were subdued before the children of Israel. After him arose Jair, a Gileadite Get the hints. He's got the upper hand. Israel sent messengers unto Sihon, king of the Amorites, the king of Heshbon. And I want to try to, with the remaining time I have, cover it accurately and succinctly. And she knew no man. Israel would hear about this, and they would say, wait, it would just be a disjointed conclusion to the glorious conquest of the children of Ammon. Ag, king of Bashan, Bashan, Amorites, these are all the nations that were to be displaced. He's a little peeved, to put it mildly. You know, he was the son of a harlot. So Sion gathered all his people together, pitched in Jaez, fought against Israel She will not be busy as a keeper at home with children. And also it says if it's devoted to the Lord, uh you you you can't uh uh you can't break that. But if you have a phone, that's fine. He's hearkening to that. You know it's it's curious. He has made this vow to God. If you want, you can turn there or I'll read it for you. And then he didn't gradu he went ahead and graduated. You know, when the elders said, The Lord be witness between us, it certainly does sound like they're borrowing language that Jacob used years ago in his distress at the very same location. The Lord be witness between us. He still fought for the people of God, even though he was an outcast. Who would you not invite to your Christmas dinner? And we're going to read the start of the land of Gilead, or the area, or the region, or the family of Gilead. How many mighty jeptas have we destroyed in the process? His reputation was that the way you offered and served Molech was you let your seed, your children, pass through the fire. So the bottom line is who are the Gileites? Their forces are getting stronger. He put a sign up. Just kill it. He's using their gods as part of the plea against them. His line is closed off. Okay. Alright. Yet you've forsaken me and served other gods, wherefore I will deliver you But certainly his mother was not accepted. Because um the society is wicked that we have us, you're meaning Christians, the church, all right. They had thirty cities, which are called Habak Jair, that is the villages of Jair, unto this day, which are in the land of Gilead. Well, that would generally be considered a stick in God's eye. She went with her companions and bewailed her virginity upon the mountains. Sure. How many of you actually heard of the Gileadites? You're coming to me. This is early Bronze Age. He has finally got his brides and his children. When they go bad, they go bad. And he sold them into the hands of the Philistines and into the hands of the children of Ammon. The people and princes of Gilead said one to another, What man is he that will begin to fight against the children of Ammon? Not you, Christian, but what does the world what would the world do? He's actually bringing God into all of his his approach. Father in heaven, thank you, Lord, for granting us this time for the word, for preserving your word before us. An animal that was slow, plodding, sure footed, not in a race to judgment. Oh, eight. Listen to the daughter. Yeah, the Lord watched between B and D. I had to get uh an agreement between the other property owners, yes, you may build a fence on our boundary, so there wouldn't be any disputes And he owns two uh homes in other countries and one here and They make a heap of stones, and actually you can read in verse That would have been his outcome. Oh no, wait, I'm sorry. You know, but he ended up having a dozen septic pumping trucks. Sometimes just blue-collar label. Are these Jews or not? He's still speaking through a prophet. And now therefore restore those lands again peaceably. So um lo and behold, uh this is his vow You know, in the Civil War we you know cover each battle, each location to hit twenty different cities. And it came to pass when he saw her that he rent his clothes, said, Alas, my daughter, thou hast brought me very low. You know, that then he ties into the land that had been promised to God's people Why would they consider him an outcast? That's happening all around Gilead. So men might think it to be odd or strange And again, the context is very comparable to what we've seen with these other judges. I know I'm giving you a lot of data, but we're going to get to a very interesting aspect. It's someone who delivers. They repented. So this is the land of Gilead and this is where they now find themselves. Just just kill it and make the problem go away. And Jephthah vowed a vow unto the Lord, so he's making a vow. As I was reading through and preparing it, I kept seeing this Gileadite this and then the Gileadites camp through and I'm like, what's up with these people? Galeb means witness heap. Jacob said unto his brethren, gathered stones. And they forget that, you know, all of this land dispute has been settled in the field of battle a long time ago. And it was a custom in Israel, the daughters of Israel went yearly to lament the daughter of Jephthah the Gileadite, four days a year. This would be the east side of the Jordan River. Who are these people? These are the good guys, except they're in a sim. That's the blessing. That's a good answer. In prison comes up. And it's not unusual when you go up to a house that, you know, animals come running out, and so he's thinking, I'm gonna, you know, give this animal So I know there's others who take a different view of that uh and and would say, no, he really did that, but I find difficulty seeing in the hall of faith if that's what he did. We'll just be going at a bit of a clip, and it's kind of easier, I think, to scan with your eyes And the children of Israel assembled themselves together and encamped in Mizpah. Whomsoever the Lord our God shall drive out from before us, them will we possess. Folks, he has a powerful command of history. She's not going to get married. We ask all this in Christ's honor. You didn't like me before. He thinks he's going to get it back without a blow. Surely we can do something about this. And shouldest thou possess it? He just blew him off. And my opening question has to do with outcast members of society. It's a double necklace, one half for the man, one half for the presumably the woman. I mean, he's conquering giants, so they were known as the mighty warriors, the tribe of Manasseh. We just have a couple of unremarkable judges that appear, but then we get So he's constantly invoking God's name as part of the diplomatic approach, and he's praying to the Lord in this whole course. God declares that all the firstborn are his Okay. It is vitally important to grasp this context of this battle. Do you see any element of diplomacy in here? It's a done deal. What do you think about this vow, this agreement? Eight and nine. Leader wanted. I think it is. This was a very, very difficult study. They're penetrating over in Israel, and they're coming together and they're concerned. God's done his part. Now, they had a reputation as a warrior tribe They put them away. That's called being an outcast. Oh, wow, that's interesting. To the Jewish culture, I suppose that's acceptable. Then Jeptah went with the elders of Gilead, and the people made him head and captain over them, and Jephthah uttered all his words before the Lord. And lo and behold, in Gilead's time of distress Well, number one, he's bringing God into all of his battle plans. Again, bringing Jehovah's name into this. What a godly young woman she is. Uh why would we consider why do some consider them outcasts So if each one has at least two, because that's the minimum you need for plural, that's fourteen different gods. Gileadites are Jews. Texas is one of those states. History lesson. And yet he's obscure All right. Well this is Jephthah's start. It's in Leviticus chapter 20 and verse 2. Galeed. Given the divorce rate these days, maybe it's an appropriate necklace. The Gileites are a family tribe of Israelites in the land of Manasseh, and they're east of the Jordan River. They appear to have no benefit. And I'm going to go through a bit quickly for sake of time. His pre mother probably wasn't even around. I don't know if you caught all that, but what's your impression of Jephthah's approach? My God delivered these lands to me. Yeah, no nothing right now. That would have been his result. You actually read in 1 Corinthians 7 specifically about a woman. And uh and and of course it's nothing but pure unmitigated pride. We hated you back then. But Jeff's account doesn't end there. Anti Who are who do who who are others that would be considered outcasts of society? And Gilead actually comes from this word, Gilead. There wasn't to be any encroachment there. Jeptah sent messengers unto the king of God wants dedication of service. Help us indeed to to uh consider uh There's three sections to this Go and cry unto the gods which ye have chosen, let them deliver you in the time of your tribulation. You want deliverance? The child didn't do anything wrong She says, uh after he made good on his vow, Other thoughts? And And I will offer it up for a burnt offering. Let's bring it a little close to home. Speaking of land, let's talk about this area known as Gilead. That year they vexed and oppressed the children of Israel. 14 to 23, he says, and It'll be yours or I burn it. That's precisely the sin of the children of Ammon. There is no hope of future for him. He begats his firstborn named Manasseh in Egypt. Is this deal with a caveat or not? Benjamin would have been a little further south, and against the house of Ephraim, that's even further north, so that the house of Israel was sore distressed. We don't know who the prophet was, and yet, lo and behold, this is the message. Deliver us only, we pray thee, this day. His words are phenomenal. And they're oppressing Israel for 18 years and they're beginning to spread like a cancer. The it's not unusual I had to look it up. And he smote them from Aeor, even until you come to Meneth, even twenty cities You don't find any such appeal. Thank you for this teaching. Did not I deliver you from the Egyptians and from the Amorites and from the children of Ammon and from the Philistines? We read in 1 Kings 11. Because he's not elite Maybe you modify it but who would you not ask without locking everything up first. That was the name of this heap of stones. Yeah And served the Lord. How many mighty wise men have we killed in that process? That thou art come against me to fight in my land? I've jumped too far ahead What is this land? Until one of them passed I gave you this context earlier to help you get over this rough place We read in Judges 11, beginning in verse 1, the following. That's what we do today. This Ammonite king says, enough of this. And God knows who's coming out of this man's house. And so there was always another path for humans They drink the whole bar up. Today, if such an event occurred Well, that's the result of the vow. Alright? Now come here, come here. She's not going to bear seed. We read about him in the Hall of Faith, just by mention of his name, in Hebrews 11, 32. He decided I'm making so much money washing windows to get through college Who who might some consider to be the outcast of society? Now That sounds familiar. I was stuck on Gilead. They took stones and made a heap. As you know, Israel is bounded by the Mediterranean on one side and the Jordan River on the other Proud of your gods. And Jephthah said unto the elders of Gilead, did you not hate me? Would the Lord then place that in the hall of faith? That would be commended. Therefore the name of it was called Galeed. If you afflict my daughters or take others, blah blah blah, see God as witness between me and thee. He's reminding them, Hey folks, you I didn't put you in this bondage, I delivered you from it So all of a sudden He's quite impressive in how he does it. And even though he made a foolish vow How many of you actually know who they are? And this we begin to see a bit of his character here as he answers this request from the city's elders. Never burn your bridges. And Israel abode in Cadish. Gulp. Amen. Yeah. They're from the tribe of Manasseh. This is not a big deal. He's actually even reminding us a little bit of an old covenantal phrase from Jacob's vow. And the Ammonite's god is Molech, who is a child-killing god. So let's read this and notice what happens here. Come and lead us out of this. And said unto him, Thou shalt not inherit in our father's house, for thou art the son of a strange woman. And there's a certain pride that comes with having been born in Texas. This fellow knows Israel's history very well. Now, it may strike you as a little odd, but it's odd for a reason, because it helps us understand what Jeff's vow was. It came to pass, after the end of two months, that she returned unto her father Now bear with me here. Not the Moabites, the Ammonites There's more given in this account to the diplomatic statement It's very curious that Jung's literal translation does not translate it and, but translates it or. He was the son of a harlot. Well, fast forward a little bit to Jacob He's an unlikely and an unliked individual and his own family said, get out of here. Nothing's new under the sun. This is the fellow we're looking at today. Who do you consider to be an outcast? So if you will turn in your Bible to the book of Judges if you have a And so all around So that was now Manasseh's territory. Israel said unto him, Let us pass, we pray thee, through thy land and to my place. It's an or, not an and. There might be some uh some caveats and some distance uh given to that uh relationship there. Anytime you see I am at the end, that's plural. And that would make sense. Where is it? As long as Israel had the upper hand, they were in charge when Stop coming to me. And his soul was grieved for the misery of Israel. Did he ever strive against Israel? Forasmuch as the Lord hath taken vengeance for thee of thine enemies, even of the children of Ammon. This morning, O Lord, even considering the faithfulness of Jackson. In verse 9, moreover, the children of Ammon And now in chapter 11 we get to Jephthah's entrance It seems like this fellow And I'm going to ask you a question about what you think about his approach. Leviticus 20, 2 through 5. He was a mighty individual, and yet he had the wrong lineage. The Lord. They really do. Let's read on now in verse 34 and 35. So it was a very fitting animal. Go away, go come here, come here, come here. For Jephthah to What's Gilead? I mean they just take it all in But to be delivered, there was a witness heap, Gilead, their whole family name, Gileadites. His name is Molech. I am the Lord. This is getting to a point, and I want you to pay attention to the Ammonites. Notice that's the Ammonites. A big long history lesson. You remember I said that the So that's very interesting. The Lord be witness between us. That's not what's important That's precisely the sin that he's incensed against He can't So Now I told you to turn to Judges, but I actually forgot I'm going to have you go to Genesis. But notice what God does. I don't know the whole situation, but he was an outcast It comes up to territorial boundaries. And he How does he deliver? I believe it can be shown scripturally that he did not burn her I'm going to devote it to the ore. Right. What's Gilead? And they did eat thereupon the heap. That's quite the slap in the face. You may discover some day that you really want this individual whom you utterly Not, and she died And um I sold him a vehicle when I was selling cars, so I know his He's going to recount true history He's trying diplomacy Get us out of this oppression. You'll be our head. You see in verse 11, verse 9, if the Lord deliver them before me. I don't know. The people of the land shall stone him with stones. If it's a d and this is what he's doing, devoted means by way of a vow And we read in Genesis 31, 48, that they're making an agreement. I think that's important. He begats a fellow when he leaves Egypt. He was a half-tribe, right? It says, The children of Israel did evil again in the sight of the Lord. Eighteen years. And then we read The sin of the parents ought not to be conveyed to the children Did he ever fight against them It means a witness heap. What are we going to do? Let me continue You read in 1 Corinthians 7 and verse 34 There's a focus on the Ammonites, and it's there for a reason. That's not going to happen now And remember some of this language. Gilead? These are some strong people And this is the response of the people we read in 15 to 18. And that's exactly what Lord Jesus entered in Jerusalem on You have no right to it That would be a whole 500-page book If I don't devote it, well, I'll just burn it. So, first of all, the cry, the cry for deliverance, verse 10. Thou art one of them that trouble me He understands the land rights perfectly. I had to get a permit This will be the last passage to consider for today. The Gileadite and my who is this people? It probably went higher than that That was his name Oh my. Going back at least how many years? Joseph was the full-blown Question, did he burn her or not? So they had a rock table, basically. This is a heap of stones. This is harsh. The Baals, the gods of the Baals, all the false gods. Follow Mr. Gilead, Gileadites. You know I would I would Kemosh is the Moabite god Jair died was buried in in Camon. And Lord, we thank you that uh The Lord watched between us. This is interesting. Ross, good friend of mine Why it must be important because God keeps That's where our setting takes place. So now You burned your kids to Molech. It's going to witness to you. The poor. And so for Jepta It'll just be burnt up Who are these people But We don't have anything to do with you. Galid, remember that.