You're all enjoying this sequence through Hebrews 11. Perhaps you're like me where you've just kind of read through it very quickly and you hear all these different names and people and individuals. But I trust that as we slow down and look at it uh that you'll begin to pick out what the faith lesson is from each of these I'm calling it faith lesson. Well I'm going to read Hebrews 1130. We're just going to handle one verse today I thought to put in a couple, but no, let's just take this one one at a time. And it simply reads this, by faith, the walls of Jericho fell down. After they were compassed about seven days. Well, I um, to be honest, as I first went into this passage, I thought, well, okay So the walls fell down, you know. Uh what kind of a lesson am I supposed to take from this? What am I supposed to convey to people is going to be a good thing to do? Is it going to be uh You know, uh listen to when God tells you to walk around a city and you destroy cities by blowing trumpets at them. You know, what what is the how do you apply this unusual event in our modern life. What does it do for us? So I think God did give me some insight, and I've got a question which I failed to send out. But the question is this What is the most frustrating? The most frustrating job? The most frustrating task? The most frustrating project Fill in the blank that you've ever worked on. You know, you're trying to get something done, but you just one frustration after the next And in that, describe to me how many setbacks you experienced. It can be project, it could be it could be an undertaking. There's a recent graduate of a four-year undertaking that certainly had a few setbacks to it. But what's been the most frustrating job or task or project you've ever undertaken? And tell me about those setbacks. Anybody? Surely you've had some. When I first started teaching, um, I came in in the middle of the I had not been a classroom teacher before. I was receiving a very beloved teacher who had their research service. I had a class of students who had literally gotten together before I came without even knowing me and determined they were going to make my life miserable. And they were very successful. And yet here I am twenty years later, so taught me a lot through it. That's a doozy. We have people who have been in the classroom before. I don't know, Miss Saba, have your students ever all conspired before? before your arrival to work against you? Now this was Harvard Christian School. Okay. Conspiring Christian students here. What's the most difficult project or task you've ever undertaken? Uh giving me a job that we're going to didn't know much about the chip. And uh I didn't ask for it to go into my lab and I think about it. I'll tell you I face the challenge. Mother is recounting a story where she had been in a a uh comfortable position, uh reasonably comfortable, but still had some difficulties working at the Boy Scouts of America and had some co-workers that were giving her some grief. She outed them. The bosses she didn't not only outed them, but she also threatened to leave, and they said, no, no, no, don't leave. We'll make it better And so they promoted her over these people and promotions kept coming to higher levels of responsibility that she didn't particularly care for. It was, I'm just here, I just want to punch the clock, collect a paycheck, go home. I'm not carrying the Boy Scout flag. Add she got promoted all the way up to the executive assistant to the Chief Scout, which is basically the Secretary for the President. and in charge of some very confidential files. She knew what everybody made and salary. She knew all the dirt in the company and uh she managed to get up to that position. And she's like, no I don't want this. No, I don't want this. Every step of the way. So yes, and her college-educated son is grateful for her paychecks that flowed south to Texas to cover that. What's the most frustrating task, project, or job you've ever tackled? I remember very being very discouraged in Jamaica and coming across that verse from Moses, where Moses is complaining to God, and Moses says, Since the time that thou hast spoken to me, unto this day thou hast not yet begun to deliver this people. That was when Moses was going to Pharaoh and Pharaoh was a was putting more task on the Israelites because I I said in in frustration, Lord, that's where we are. We've given up everything, we're here, and you haven't begun to deliver this people. And of course that was not God, how many times did you feel that kind of a setback? Because that certainly would be a very discouraging problem. Um yeah. innumerable frequent, you know uh where it just, you know, Lord, we want to see great things done for your kingdom. and we see a trickle or nothing. Yeah. You're there, you know that God's called you. You have a wife committed to foreign missions as well. You have the training, the background, there was a call, it all seemed to line up and you get there and What's happening? Pretty much a bunch of nothing. And I'm sure that bunch of nothing continued for a season. But nothing compared to what Moses was saying. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Biblical grade challenges that are described here. Well, that's kind of what our lesson's about here today, although we'll come into it in a roundabout way. So we're going to look at the heath the this remarkable conquest. In fact, I know more about the archaeology of the destruction of Jericho than I. do the application of scripture here. And if we have some time, Lord willing, at the end of the study, I'll touch on some of the archaeological points because I think they're We're quite fascinating. It's one of the most well researched sites is the ancient city of Jericho, known as Tel Es Sultam Well, we look at the Hebrew conquest of this notable city in the book of Joshua. So if you would turn in your Bible to Joshua chapter 6. Joshua chapter 6, and the entire chapter is about the conquest of Jericho. Now I haven't printed the whole chapter than the bulletin, so you will have to turn in your Bible. You can listen along if you'd like. I will be reading a little bit, pausing. Asking for some feedback, your observations or comments, maybe just making some notes of these historical highlights. But we find our text comes to us From Joshua chapter 6. So let's begin to read this now. Hear now the word of the Lord. Now Jericho was straightly shut up. I'm obviously in verse 1. Now Jericho was straightly shut up because of the children of Israel. None went out and none came in. So as you've already gathered from our text, Jericho was a walled city. Now it didn't have 360 Degrees of walls, it had gates so that you could enter into the and out of the city to get home, but those were shut up. Verse 2 And the Lord said unto Joshua, See, I have given into thine hand Jericho, and the king thereof, and the mighty men of valor. So Joshua is assured of complete success. What a marvelous thing when God says, I have given thee. And boy, you can just lift that application to many other places in Scriptures. When God says He has given you the impossible, he may not tell you Nate how He's going to do it But if he says he's given it to you, you will surely get it. Notice all that was in that list. It was the The king of Jericho, excuse me, the Jericho, the city, and the king, and the mighty men of valor. Not just the king, not just the city, but all the reputable individuals as well. They are given into his hands Verse 3. And ye shall compass the city, all ye men of war, and go round about the city once. Thus shalt thou do six days. Alright uh pop-up quiz. Somebody just tell me, based on what you just read, what they're doing. It's kind of simple. So what is it that they're doing Go ahead. They're marching around the city six days. They march around the city six days, and they march around the city how many times? Once each day. Now, I'm not sure how big of a fan of warfare each of you might be. I know two at least two war historians are are here in our nits. Have you ever heard of that sort of a warfare tactic before? In the sight of your enemies, circle their encampment once a day for six days. I think it's safe to say that this is an unorthodox approach. Maybe you might consider it a risky approach. How far away from the city can these people chuck rocks at me while we're walking around? Have they discovered gunpowder? But this is God's command. I want you to go around the city once each day. He's going to give more detail, but fundamentally that's the approach. Rather unorthodox. Look at verse 4. And seven priests shall bear before the ark seven trumpets of rams' horns, and the seventh day ye shall compass the city seven times. And the priest shall blow with the trumpets. Skip ahead to verse 11. So the ark of the Lord compassed the city, going about it once. And they came into the camp and lodged in the camp. So there's this daily parade going on. God basically says, yeah, I want you to give them a parade. He's got priests, they're carrying the ark of the covenant of the Lord. Remember it had staves in it, so you had some guys on either side on these long poles. It was a golden box. It was very beautiful. It had the uh the testimony of s of scripture, the Ten Commandments, it had Aaron's robbed button, it had a pot. And so that's the Ark of the Covenant That's going around them. In fact, verse 11 says the ark is going to circle the city. Front and center of this parade, the very first display is the Ark of God. Okay? Get the picture here. I just kind of want to impress upon your mind what's going on here. Furthermore, they've got instruments. Now, Joey, you play some kind of a wind instrument, if I recall correctly. Yes. A brass pardon me a brass instrument. And what might that instrument be? A trumpet. I venture a guess that you purchased the trumpet from some craftsman who actually knows how to make fine-tuned structure, an artificer in brass. It's not something you found laying in the backfield while you were searching for deer shed. Probably not the case. Well these fellows are blowing on rams horns. I haven't, I've been to a few concerts in my life. I don't think I've ever seen anybody blowing a ram's horn as part of the musical performance. That's what these fellows are blowing. They got a ram died, broke off his horn, they carved out one end, cleaned it out. I don't know what you do, but they're blowing on this ram's horn All right, very strange, isn't it? This is an unusual approach. You know, we just celebrated the 250th anniversary of the United States Army, and there was a big parade. I don't think ram's horns were part of that parade. If you're going to parade your weapons, you don't pull out the old sticks and bamboo spears. I mean, a ram's horn? Seriously? Very unusual. Uh verse five. The constructions continue. And it shall come to pass that when they make a long blast with the ram's horns Ram's horn, and when you hear the sound of the trumpet, all the people shall shout with a great shout. And the wall of the city shall fall down flat And the people shall ascend every man straight before him. So the people had a role There was a select number of individuals, one head from each tribe, plus the Levites, those who were responsible for carrying the ark, and they're blowing the trumpets, they're marching around the city. And for six days, nobody is saying anything. They're not talking. They're just blowing the ram's horns. And not everybody had a ram's horn. Certain select individuals of God had a ram's horn. But on that seventh day, when they go around seven times, they blow the trumpet loud and long and hard The walls fall down, and now the people have a role. You are to shout Now, those looking for naturalistic means as to how the city might destroy might say, well, if the volume of the people was strong and they had big Joe McKnight sized chests which can boom without amplification that perhaps that all of them aiming at a particular cavity of the wall might cause it to vibrate and it would fall down. Maybe that's how it happened. No, the instruction was after the walls fall down, then ye shout, and then ye go into the city. Oh, this is very unusual. I just I'm I would be as an Israelite struggling a little bit to see how this is actually going to fly, to be honest. You know, Moses is dead. Now there's this new guy called Joshua. The new guy's in charge, and this is what he claims the Lord is telling him. Of course God was telling him that. But if there was a quasi-faithful Jew in the midst, they might think twice. Let's keep going. Verse 16 to 19, you can scan it with your eyes. There were some prohibitions given that when you do go into the city The seventh time, when the priest blew with the trumpets, he says, Shout, the Lord's given you the city, the city is accursed. Only save Rahab the harlot, verse 18, don't keep anything, keep all the accursed stuff, don't touch it Don't grab their gear, don't grab their pottery, none of that stuff. The only thing you get is the gold and the silver and the brass and the iron. Those are consecrated to the Lord. They're going to come into the Lord's treasury house That's all I want. Not the people. You kill everything else. Man, woman, infant, child, beast, it doesn't matter. It's a massive slaughter. Absolute massive comprehensive slaughter Verse 20. The people shouted when the trumpets, when the priest blew with the trumpets, it came to pass when the people heard the sound of the trumpet. The people shouted with a great shout, the wall fell down flat, so the people went straight up into the city, every man straight before him, exactly as God said, and they took the city. So they went straight up into the city. Now that is a archaeologically significant point, which we'll get to a little later, but when the walls fell down flat, they went straight into the city. There was nothing to prevent them from entering in. They just had an easy time of it Once the defenses are down, sure. It's over. 21. They utterly destroyed all that was in the city, man and woman, young and old, ox, sheep, and ass with the edge of the sword. It was a bloodbath. It was horrific They were in there hoping their walls would protect them, and it didn't, and now they're defenseless, and it was a complete destruction. And then 22 and 23, Joshua said unto the two men that had spied out the country. Go into the harlot's house, bring out thence the woman all that she hath, as ye swear unto her. And the young men that were spies went in and brought out Rahab and her father, and her mother, and her brethren, and all that she had, and they brought out all of her kindred. and left them without the camp of Israel. She and she alone and her family were the only ones spared and rescued because of the kindness that she had showed to the spies. Well There's a number of spiritual considerations as we look at this. I'm going to try to stay anchored to our text back in Hebrews 11 because this is a marvelous text in and of itself. But our Our penman for the book of Hebrews says, by faith, two things. The walls of Jericho fell down, and after they were compassed about seven days. Now, having read this, what has impressed you about this account so far? I've got several spiritual considerations. You may hit on one of them and I'll just get into that some, but given what we've read about what has happened What has really struck you about the account so far? It can be just the historical aspect. Maybe God stirred you up and you saw some spiritual application. But what has impressed you about how this all went down? Unquestioned obedience? You do see the unquestioned obedience. There didn't appear to be any hesitation from the people. They seemed to have carried out every command As base and unusual as it may have been? Yeah, you see that. The God of the New Testament is not portrayed as one who would uh uh just kill people for no reason. Mm-hmm. It's a very different thing. In the Old Testament the Lord God did appear very often as a God of war as a God of judgment, as a God of justice. And certainly the Canaanite nations and people groups in there were the first to bear the brunt of that wrath. And in the New Testament we find the Lord Jesus coming in, preaching love, mercy, kindness, forgiveness, because that was an advent, a dispensation of grace, as it were And yeah, there does appear it doesn't mean there's two different gods, of course. It's still the the God of the old is the god of the new and in the previous chapter I believe Joshua met the Lord Jesus himself, the captain of the Lord's host, who was going to go in and battle for them. But yeah, you do see this I mean, we're to speak to the Gentiles that they might be saved. It's not like Muhammad, which is, no, kill them because they're infidels. There's very much a difference in the two theologies here. What else impressed you about the account? And then I'll move on. Yes. I kind of saw it as there's a lack of labor that makes sense. You know, where um There wasn't a a commandment that, you know, you're gonna fight in battle and it's gonna be difficult, you're gonna have to lose many men, you're gonna have to outsmart them this way, that way, but you know, no worries, you'll y you'll defeat them It's all of these unconventional methods. It's uh yeah, plan that doesn't make sense in the flesh. It's a very good point I hadn't thought of is that there was a tremendous lack of labor other than having to get up, get your breakfast, grab your Ramsmore and clear off the the dust from it and go around one more time. Yeah, God doesn't say now when they retreat to this part, put this on fire, and when they parry like that. No, it was just just I've given it to your hands A complete lack of labor. So there's several spiritual applications from this that I'm going to draw from our text. Thanks for all of those. Those are very good observations, and I like that. You know, there's an emphasis on seven after the city was compassed about seven days. Now, I don't know if you noticed how many times The number seven was featured in the account. You had um seven priests They had seven trumpets. On the seventh day, they circled it seven times. There's a big emphasis on seven, not three, not five, not eight, seven. And in fact, throughout scripture Seven does bear some theological significance. For instance, in the book of Revelation, you're familiar with the seven angels. They have the seven trumpets. There's seven vials or bolds, the bold judgments. There's, of course, the seven trumpets that you hear about, much like you hear in this account here. And that's kind of an interesting tie in and of itself. Uh in Leviticus 4, 6 and Psalm and Proverbs I find a few others, and I just want to put those in front of you because I believe seven here, if I could put a well theological handle to it, has to do with the uh the the completion of what's in view or the perfection. You know, we have a seven-day work week, six days of labor, one day of rest. That seems to be a cycle that completes the week And then we repeat it again. There seems to be some completion, some termination to that. For instance, in Leviticus 4. 6, we read, The priest shall dip his finger in the blood. and sprinkle of the blood seven times before the Lord before the veil of the sanctuary. Now we know that That blood of animals had to do with an atonement, had to do with the forgiveness of sins. And here the priest is doing it seven times, indicating there's a complete remission of sins, a complete atonement, a complete cleansing. It's total, it's there's nothing further needed. You remember this uh passage from the Psalm, Psalm 12:6, the words of the Lord are pure words, as silver tried in a furnace of earth Purified seven times. Now that's God speaking about his very word. That it's pure. It doesn't need to be purified eight times. Seven is enough. Why? Because now it's Perfect. And I'm not going to get into that purification process and the like. There's some interesting historical anec anecdotes around that. But the point is that seven, God is putting out this is a perfection. This is closing the deal. This is making it complete. Proverbs 9 1 I find is very curious. Wisdom hath builded her house. She hath hewn out her seven pillars Wisdom rests on seven pillars. That's an odd number. Not six, not five, not four, seven. Again, perfection. Wisdom rests on perfection. True wisdom. God's wisdom has to sit on something that's complete. You can't be tripped up in court like the convict saying, well, you guys just don't know something, so you can't sentence me to life in prison for 130 years. It's just something you don't know. No, no, no, no. Wisdom's on seven pillars picture of perfection of God. You know, Naaman the Syrian, who was a leper, who came to the prophet in Israel, who told him go wash in the river, how many times? Seven times. He had to dip Yeah, very interesting. That was the solution that God had. They were to compass the city seven times. And our text in Hebrew says, after they were compassed about seven days. God's drawing our attention to that number seven And so I think it's worth considering. So just keep that little factoid in mind. We're going to kind of stem all this and pull it together. And as brother pointed out, you know, God's method seems highly improbable to succeed. You just don't knock walls down by walking around them. I mean, you don't even want us to go kick the wall You don't want us to throw something at it? You want us to build a cunning engine of war? No. Walk around the city. Seven days. And in fact, you're using an alarming sound From a crude, dare I even call it musical, a crude instrument? It's a ram's horn that's made by God, not by man. And here I think is the point. This is exactly how you and I operate today. In Hosea 6. 5, we read this. God says, Therefore I have hewn them by the prophets. I have slain them by the words of my mouth. In Hebrews 4. 12, the word of God is quick and powerful, sharper than the two-edged sword. Revelation 19, out of his mouth goes a sharp sword that with it he should smite the nations. You know, that trumpet is what the children of God do. They're blowing a trumpet of warning. The wrath of God is coming. Oh, it's so sharp. Oh, you Christians bother me. You annoy me. Well, a ram's horn is not a saxophone. And that's what the evangelical, neo-evangelical churches are playing. They're playing saxophones. Speak unto us, smooth things, prophesy deceits, cause the Holy One of Israel to depart from us. They want to hear smooth things. But the gospel of Jesus Christ is kind of grating. It grates your nerves. It's like a ram's horn in your ears, but it's not every day. And so in this world in which we sojourn, as we go about it for six days, we just blow that ram's horn. And then there will come a time when that horn sounds longer and longer and the trump of God sounds. That the walls fall down flat. They will be conquered. And that is the weapon of our warfare, is it not? just as it was in Joshua's day. You know, a formidable set of walls exists for believers today, too. We are indeed living in a land which has a formidable, difficult, tough set of walls. Not physical. Don't think bricks and ashlars. Don't think casemate walls and things of that nature. They're made of bricks that are based on bad ideas. And bricks they are. And you've come into people with a head full of these bad ideas, and they're like rocks. They can't be moved You read in 2 Corinthians 10, just look in your handout and your bulletin for a moment as I read 2 Corinthians 10, 3 to 6. For though we walk in the flesh, we do not war after the flesh. We don't engage in a fleshly warfare. We don't use the world's means and methods. For the weapons of our warfare, the scriptures continue, are not carnal, but mighty through God, through the to the pulling down of strongholds. Casting down imaginations and every high thing that exalts itself against the knowledge of God. Every high thing. There are some high things. Bringing into captivity every thought to the obedience of Christ, and having in readiness to revenge all disobedience Revenge all disobedience. All the inhabitants of that wicked city have vengeance taken against them. When your obedience is fulfilled That is the high thing today. Let me give an example of what some of those high walls look like. One of the big ones is the theory of evolution. It is a high tower. You know, the name of the Lord is a high tower to the righteous. We run to it and are saved. But the unbeliever runs to his high tower. It's called the science, the sciences. Now, by the way, it was Christians that came up with good science, but unfortunately in our era, only two of the three legs of science are actually carried out. There's the hypothesis, there's the documentation of the observations and the demonstration, but nobody follows through and independently validates it because there's no money in that So that third leg is never done. It's fine science falsely called. But it's a high tower committee. And they hide behind it. It's a big wall. You can't penetrate it. And they've got many little bricks a little brick of geology, a little brick of astronomy, a little brick of biology. And they build this thing up and it seems like a complete integrated comprehensive system that holds them in But I'm telling you what, that trumpet blast of the ram's horn, that thus saith the Lord, can collapse those walls in a heartbeat. They can fall down flat And the child of God can run up standing on top of the emblems and the embers of that and the fragments of the wall and harvest souls. And can, through the preaching of the word, slay them with the words of the prophet and spare a few. That's the high walls we're up against now. It's no different. And that's one example. There's many other high walls that people have High wall of conceit, high walls of power, pride. There's many, many high walls that people have. God's weapons are take a ram's horn. Circle it once twice three times four and when it's perfect, when it's ready At that seventh time, oh in your life it may not be a literal seventh time, that wall will come down. They are the works of man's hands. They're wood and stone. They cannot endure. But they will come down. They will come down. And so my conclusion is that faith in Jehovah's Commands, you pointed out there unquestioned obedience, that faith in Jehovah's Commands will conquer man's best defenses using God's strange means. That's your fill-in-the-blank, by the way. Faith in Jehovah's Commands conquers man's best defenses, the very best. Put them up. Go ahead. Put your biggest wall up But God's strange means will destroy it. Because frankly, God is not terribly impressed with what man puts together. He doesn't take pleasure in the strength of an ox or in the strength of a horse. God's not impressed with all of our military modern might. God's never lost a battle, Jeff. He has a hundred percent track record of a hundred percent victory at every battle he's ever undertaken. God has never suffered a setback, he's never lost a soldier. All who have ever come up against him have completely, totally, entirely, and utterly failed And you know the the verse that cracked open this passage of Hebrews to me Came after a prayer session with my brother. We get together and pray upon occasion over the phone in the morning. Both bemoaning the fact that how am I going to deal with this text? I'm just befuddled. I mean, walls of Jericho coming down? What's the application there? Well, Joey, if you want to get into uh you know some city, just you know uh uh shout really loud on your blast trumpet and it'll come down. I mean what kind of a lesson are you supposed to get? Well, consider for the moment what the Lord Jesus said to Peter upon his confession. In Matthew 16, 18, he said in him this, and I think this is so instructive. And I also say unto thee that thou art Peter. And upon this rock, this rock of his confession, thou art the Christ, the Son of the living God. And upon this rock I will build my church, and the gates of hell shall not prevail against it. Now, folks, gates are not an offensive weapon, they are a defensive weapon. You see, the world is actually more scared of you than you of them. That's why they're so violent. That's been my experience handing out tracks over the years is that they're kind of afraid of you. They get a pucker factor. They pull back. They fear. They've got a gate behind their high wall. And Jesus says the gates of hell will not prevail against it. You come with my word, it will prevail But Lord, this doesn't seem to be working right. Blow the Ramshorn. That's the only tool I've given you to go against this city with. Your devices, your cunning ideas, your clever approach. He's not going to cut it I have a living word. Because the Ark of the Covenant of God, if you're carrying the Ark of the Covenant of God, God's message, God's message of a of a of a just God who will not pardon sin, of a living God, of a God of the resurrection, of a God who thieves, who conquers, all of that. If you're carrying that covenant of the ark of God Bearing that message, blowing that horn, you're using God's weapons. Getting back to my original question, what's the most difficult task you ever faced? Reminds me of a humorous joke I heard years ago when I was working at a startup company called Healthcom. The boss said, well You know, we've had a few setbacks, but don't don't be discouraged. Think about the guy that started the beverage company in the Haddisoda, he was selling cold one up And so he tried to sell one up and it didn't work. He changed the formula, he started to sell it as two up, and two up didn't sell either. He went all the way to six up and he sold the company. Then the next guy came and perfected it and sold it as seven up. It's a cute little reminder that says, don't give up. So yes, you're in Jamaica speaking for a long time. Six times around the city. No results. Seven days. Seven days. Keep it up. That's the lesson here. By faith the walls of Jericho fell down after they were compassed about. Seven days. It had to be seven days. It has to be six days of failure. And some of you may feel like, oh, I I just can't evangelize. I don't know what to say. I hand something to people and I just no, you don't know what to say. None of us know what to say. None of us have a message. But if you're God's child, you have a message You can hand out a tract. You can point it to the church's website. You can, oh, it's so crude on that eloquent. Neither is a ram's horn. It's a ram's horn for crying out loud. It's not a brass instrument. It's not a saxophone. Well, that I think is our lesson and I hope it's an encouragement to you. Now, a little bit about archaeology while I have a few remaining minutes here. What is the big deal with Jericho, right? Why are its walled cities so ominous? Well, folks, it wasn't a simple picket fence. Now, if you have a Thompson Chain reference Bible that's very helpful, you can go to the back and look at topic number 4390, which gives a good two and a half pages. about the archaeology and the findings from the city of Jericho. It's been excavated by five different people. The first was kind of a survey But the most notable one was from a fellow named Professor John Garstang. And he uh excavated in that area from 1929 to 1936. And his findings were amazing. It was really impressive. There was an interest at the time in biblical archaeology, and so he was looking for evidence. Is there any evidence that Jericho of the scriptures was the Jericho of this pile of rocks that he found. Well he examined over his seven years of excavation He was a professor. He was well qualified to do it. He examined over 100,000 pieces of pottery. A great many of them still intact, some of them broken. He looked at uh 1,500 of them were unbroken vessels. He found 80 scarabs, which is a tremendous find. They had uh places to bury the dead outside the city. And those were for the most part untouched by grave robbers over the centuries, which was kind of fascinating. And as they unearthed it and looked into the graves, they found scarabs. A scarab is like a little pendant, and it has stamped on it certain things. Well, they had pendants from the Egyptian pharaohs. And they would name some of the pharaohs. It would name uh one of them would name Thutmos the third. He lived 1490 to 1436 BC Queen Hat Hath Shepset and Amenhotep III, who was in 1413 to 1376 BC. What's significant about that? Well, there's only so much you can glean from pottery, but there's a lot you can glean from finding a scarab or a coin, because you know when the coin was minted. It can't be after that date the person had to have existed in order for them to have made a stamp and an impression for it And so he found 80 of those things. That's huge. That's a really big thing that allows you to confidently date the timing of when those people were buried and the era in which it existed. He examined all the fallen walls. He measured the height, the depth, the size of them. He found that it had been nearly continuously occupied since what he estimated to be about 3,000 B. C. It's one of the oldest occupied cities. It's in an unusual terrain. It's about 800 feet below sea level. And it has many springs, one of which still runs today. A continuous spring that spews out a thousand gallons a minute This is a tremendous source of water in a desert region. And so you can see why it was a popular place. Furthermore, the city had a moat around it And the moat, and the depiction I have here doesn't show the water. All of them forget it, but I guarantee you it was a moat. And water-filled, and it had two series of walls. The city was up on top of a hill Now the walls is depicted in this one artifact, and Gabe, I forgot to give you the depiction. If you pull up the PDF file of the bulletin, you might be able to zoom in on that picture if you have a chance Yeah, give it a shot. Give it the yeoman's try. Don't go shaking your head. I gotta I gotta wake you up from sleep over here. The bullet PDF bulletins is there So this cross-section of the wall shows that from the moat there was this stone glasses, G L-A-C-I-S. It's rocks embedded into the side of the moat. And then on top of that, they built a wall. And then there was a large section of earth that led up to the upper wall. So it was a double wall. Folks, these little yellow things at the bottom are people. Do you see how impenetrable that is? If you manage to scale the first one, which is not an easy task because the walls are made of four-inch thick brick. They're 30 feet high. 30 feet. They're almost they're they're a little taller than this house. Two-story house I'm in. Uh you've got uh uh the the bricks are one to two feet in length. The thickness of the wall is about twelve feet The outer wall is six feet thick, and the space between the walls varies from 12 to 27 feet. This is ginormous. This is ridiculously huge. And what is strange is that the walls fell outward. And that's exactly what they found. That the walls indeed fell out, and what would that do? Well, all that rubble would go and fill in the low parts, and it would make a collapsed siege ramp. For the children of Israel to just go straight up, as the as the scripture says, they went every man straight up into the city, and that's exactly what God did. He gave them a wall that came down perfectly. flat, not perfectly, but laid it down for them. God kicked open the door for them. It just blew out. Normally sieges last years. Here, seven days And it's evidence there that it was destroyed by fire, exactly the scripture says. They find charred remains. They find pottery full of grains that are charred on the inside. Now, if the cities understand They're going to be eating the grain. Or if the conquerors come in, they're going to take the grain. But Joshua told the people, don't take anything but the gold, the silver, the brass, and so forth. They didn't touch the grains Like God told them to. We know when they crossed the river to get to Jericho it was the time of harvest, exactly what they found, grains of harvest in those earthenware buckets. They found absolutely everything the way the scriptures described it Well, this made news in the archaeological community, and for twenty years they gritted their teeth at, uh, how can you date this at 1400 BC? This this sounds exactly like biblical history, and we can't have that. And so they got together with and and had one respected Miss Kathleen Kenyon go and do the digging from 1952 to 1958, and she redated it. She said, oh no, uh the walls weren't even there when Joshua came because those walls were built uh uh many years before. But wait a minute. She's just talking about when they were built, not when they fell down. Yes, it was a continuously occupied city. Yes, it had been there for a while. Hey, you got a perfectly good wall I'm not going to tear it down. I'm going to build on it and make it stronger. She only reported when they were built, but that was enough for the newspapers to report, up, the time is wrong. There wasn't any walls for Joshua to knock. They had already been fallen down And so that's what you mostly read about in the Internet today. But Garstang's findings were independently validated by three other archaeologists. He actually had the validation component. And another strength of Kathleen Kenyon's argument was, well, we didn't find any Cypriot pottery there, so it couldn't have been during that time. Well, absence of evidence when you've only excavated one four hundredth of the place. Doesn't mean you found a different date. So that's the archaeological background. There's a depiction of what the city might look like and you could admire that. And I've got links on the PDF bulletin for you to consider Seven days folks, keep marching. Seven days. Walls ain't down yet. That's all right. Keep going around. We got to change our methods. Oh no, don't put that Rams horn down Keep blowing it. Your message is simple. Jesus Christ and Him crucified. God's coming in judgment. Repent and believe. Brother Mike, could you close us in prayer? Yes. Gracious, loving Heavenly Father God, again we thank you for the message of faith that we are to walk by faith and not by sight. We pray, Lord, for your spirit to increasingly fill us, that we would walk by faith. uh and that we would not walk by sight and that we would see this world for it is in all its vanity and empty arguments, its opposition to thee, deny truth. Uh Lord, thou art the way, the truth and the life. And again we come to The Dean and asked that you would equip us and that we would walk by the Spirit to fulfill this wonderful passage in Hebrews. Yes, for Christ's sake, Amen. Amen.