Open with me in your Bibles, please, to the thirteenth chapter of the Gospel of John. John's Gospel. That's probably a misnomer to say John's Gospel. It's not his. It's the Gospel of Jesus Christ. But the Gospel as John was inspired to record it for us. And we're turning to the 13th chapter. And I'm going to read verses 1 through 17 as we begin our time to go this morning. John chapter 13 and verse 1. Now before the feast of the Passover, when Jesus knew that his hour was come, that he would depart out of this world unto the Father. Having loved his own which were in the world, he loved them unto the end. And supper being ended, the devil, having now put it into the heart of Judas Iscariot, Simon's son to betray him, Jesus knowing that the Father had given all things into his hands, and that he was come from God and went to God. He riseth from supper, and laid aside his garments, and took a towel, and girded himself. After that, he poured water into a basin and began to wash the disciples' feet and to wipe them with the towel wherewith he was girded. Then cometh he to Simon Peter, and Peter saith unto him, Lord, dost thou wash my feet? Jesus answered and said unto him, What I do thou knowest not now, but thou shalt know hereafter. Peter saith unto him, Thou shalt never wash my feet. Jesus answered him, If I wash thee not, thou hast no part with me. Simon Peter saith unto him, Lord, not my feet only, but also my hands and my head. Jesus saith to him. He that is washed needh not save to wash his feet, but is clean every whit, and ye are clean, but not all. For he knew who should betray him, therefore he said, Ye are not all clean. So after he had washed their feet and had taken his garments And was set down again, he said unto them, Know ye what I have done to you. Ye call me master and lord, and ye say, Well, for so I am If I then, your Lord and Master, have washed your feet, ye ought also to wash one another's feet. For I have given you an example that ye should do as I have done to you. Verily, verily I say unto you The servant is not greater than his Lord, neither is he that is sent greater than he that sent him, if ye know these things. Happy are ye if ye do them. Let us bow again briefly for prayer. Heavenly Father, now as we approach the Holy Word of God, Lord, we pray that you would grant by your Spirit that we might have an understanding. Father, that you might open your truth to our hearts, and O Lord, open our stony hearts to receive your truth. Bless us in thy word today, we pray, in Jesus' name. I don't always have an alliterated outline. Um maybe that's a good thing, maybe it's not. My frankly preferred method of scripture is pretty much a running commentary or a verse-by-verse exposition. But I do have an outline this morning that is somewhat alliterated. And the first thing that I'd like us to see from this passage is that Christ, our had come. That's an interesting construct, isn't it? When it says his hour was come, obviously the crucifixion comes three hours. And so it couldn't just be one sixty-minute time frame. And when we talk about his hour being come, actually we're talking about in some ways the entirety of the three years of his ministry You remember at the marriage at Canaan when they had run out of wine and his mother comes to him and says, They're out of wine, and he says, My hour is not yet come. And another time when the Jews wanted to take him and stone him, but his hour was not yet come. But here we find that his hour is come. And so this hour is obviously not referring to just a 60-minute time frame. But rather when it talks about his hour being come, you have to remember the the construct of time there where there were certain hours of the day when certain things were assigned. Remember they had the hour of prayer. That was a certain assigned time when they would go to prayer. And so when we find in Scripture here that his hour was come, it means the time of God's divine appointment. has arrived. The time which God has set throughout all history before Christ made the world, God knew this time. Before the heavens were, God ordained this time when Christ would come and give his life a ransom for many. And so we find here In the first verse, that Jesus knew that his hour was come. And it's repeated throughout the context Back in chapter twelve and verse twenty-three, Jesus answered them saying, The hour is come that the Son of Man should be glorified. And in chapter seventeen, and when I say the contract, you have to understand that Our Bible is broken up into these chapters, but what we have here in the last half of John is actually one complete setting. It continues chapter after chapter after chapter in itself. And so in the seventeenth chapter in the first verse, these ver words spake Jesus and lifted up his eyes to heaven. And said, Father, the hour is come. Glorify thy son, that thy son may also glorify thee. And so Christ's hour has come. But what is this hour? What is God's appointment for this time? What is it that has been waiting since before the creation that is to take place at this time? Well, if you look there again at verse number one, it says, Now therefore, the feast of the Pass uh uh uh before the feast of the Passover, when Jesus knew that his hour was come that he should depart out of this world unto the Father. The hour has come that he should depart out of this world. That sounds nice, doesn't it? When you're going on a journey, you might pull out your suitcase and ah let's see, I'll need this, I'll need that, I'm going to pack all the things I need. And maybe there's anticipation this is going to be a pleasant journey I I the hour's coming, I know what time I play it is, I have my ticket. This was not a pleasant departure. The hour was come that Christ should depart out of this world. And I mentioned that back in chapter seven of John they had tried to take him and stone him, but his hour was not come. And during the temptation, Satan would have killed Jesus in the wilderness if he could have, but his hour was not come. But folks, all of history has been funneling down to this one hour. This is a glorious thing we find here in these simple words. His hour has come The time that he is to give his life a ransom for many, the time of his sacrifice has come. It's the time that he is to depart out of this world, and there's only one way for him to depart out of this world, and that's the cross. The hour has come, and aren't you glad it came? Because my entire life is dependent on this hour. And my entire eternity is dependent on this hour. If this hour had not come, I would have no hope. If this hour had not come, my life, whether it be 50 years or 100 years, or if my life were thousands of years, it would be totally meaningless. Without this hour, without this time. His hour has come, and it is the hour of his sacrifice. If you flip back to chapter 12, probably just across the page from where you are in verse 27 Again, this is all in the same context. Now is my soul troubled, and what shall I say? Father, save me from this hour, but for this cause came I unto this hour. Here he's praying, Lord, save me from this hour. Christ knows what this hour means And he says, if it's possible, save me from this hour, but for this hour am I come. This is the purpose. You see, Bethlehem has no significance without this hour. This is the hour. And it has come. And he continues there in verse 33, verse 32 and verse 33 of chapter 12. And I, if I be lifted up from the earth, will draw all men unto me. This he said, signifying what death he should die. Ah this hour is the hour of sacrifice And in the garden in Matthew 14, he prays, if it be possible, let this hour pass from me. But for this hour is to come. But not only, friends, gloriously, not only is this the hour of his departure, the hour of his suffering, this is the hour of his greatest glory. It's the hour of his glory. Looking again at our context there in John chapter 13. I only read through verse 17, but look down to verse 31 and 32 of John 13. Therefore, when he, Judas is the he there, therefore when Judas was gone out, Jesus said, Now is come the Now is the Son of Man glorified and God is glorified in him. If God be glorified in him, God shall also glorify him in himself, and shall straightway glorify him. And then go over to chapter 17 and verse 1, just a page or two from you. Actually let me read verses 1 through 5 and 17, just to get the fullness of the thought there. These words spake Jesus 17. 1 and lifted up his eyes to heaven and said, Father, the hour is come. Glorify thy Son with thy son, that thy son may glorify thee. As thou hast given him power over all flesh, that he should give eternal life to as many as thou hast given him. And this is life eternal, that they may know thee. the only true God and Jesus Christ whom thou hast sent, I have glorified thee on the earth, and I have finished the work that thou gavest me to do. And now, O Father, glorify me with thine own self. And with the glory which I had with thee before the world was. This is the hour of his glory. It's the hour of his death. But it's the hour of his greatest glory. And here, as he's approaching the cross, he says, Father, glorify me with the glory which I had with thee before the world was. The glory that I had before I even created the earth. In the cross of Christ I glory, the old hymn said. This is the hour of his greatest glory. No wonder Satan wanted to try to keep him off the cross. And how gory Is the cross. But how much glory is in the cross? And so this is the hour of his glory. It is the hour when he indeed will be lifted up. We think about lifting him up and I remember when I was in in Jamaica There was a lot of misunderstanding about this verse, and they the the common idea of a lot of people was, well, it means that we praise him, he'll bring all men to him. And they would say, lift him up, lift him up, lift him up. And I said, but wait, but wait a minute. What's the scripture say about lifting him up? Lifting him up means crucify him, right? Crucify him. Crucify him It is through his lifting up on the cross that we are saved. But it is through his lifting up on the cross that he finds the greatest glory. But not only is it the hour of his departure or of his sacrifice, and the hour of his glory, it is the hour of his greatest love. It is the hour of his love. Look again at verse one of chapter thirteen. Now the feast of the Passover now before the feast of the Passover, when Jesus knew that his hour was come, that he should depart out of this world unto the Father. Having loved his own, which were in the world, he loved them unto the end. Greater love hath no man than this. That a man lay down his life for his friends. Oh, this is the hour of his greatest love. It is the hour when he is going to show what we really mean, what is really meant by John 3. 16. For God so loved the world. And that world is not referring to every individual that lives in the world, but rather it is referring to the world as opposed to the Jews. For he came into his own, and his own received him not. But as many as received him, to them gave he power to become the sons of God. And so this is the hour when he is going to show red and yellow, yellow, black and white, green with purple spots. It matters not what color, it matters not what nationality, it matters not what race you may be. Christ came to give his life a ransom for many. He came to shed his blood for the elect For those that are chosen in Christ before the foundation of the world. And greater love hath no man than this that a man lay down his life for his friends. This is the hour when the greatest love of Jesus Christ. Is manifest and placed on display. Having loved those Which the Father had given him out of the world, having loved them from the beginning, he loves them to the end. And the end there is the end of his earthly life He loved them unto death. And again, turn over to chapter 17 to understand the full picture that Christ is laying out here for his disciples. And we read 22 and 23 earlier, but let me start with verse 23, I in them and thou in me, that they may be made perfect in one. And that the world may know that thou hast sent me and that thou hast loved them and hast loved me. Father, I will that they also whom thou hast given me be with me where I am, that they may behold my glory which thou hast given me. For thou lovest me before the foundation of the world. O righteous Father, the world hath not known thee, but I have known thee. And these have known that thou hast sent me, and I have declared unto them thy name, and will declare it. That the love wherein thou hast loved me may be in them, and I in them. This is the hour of his greatest love. His love that has saved the elect, and his love which is now poured into the elect. That that love of the elect might be in him. Keep that thought in your mind because it's going to be very important when we come to the washing of the feet. It is that love that is spoken of. God told Jeremiah, I've loved you with an everlasting love. And we find in Ephesians that we were chosen in Christ before the foundation of the world, and so having loved us from the beginning. He loved us to the end. And so the first thing we find in this chapter is that Jesus' hour has come. But the second thing is that Judas' heart is inhabited. Jesus' hour has come, and Judah's heart is inhabited. What a contrast. What a dichotomy we find here. Look with me at verse 2. And supper being ended, this is in chapter 13 again. And supper being ended, the devil having now put into the heart of Judas Iscariot, Simon's son, to betray him And in chapter 13, the next chapter, or further down the chapter, in verse 27, and after the SOP, Satan entered into him. That's verse 27 of your chapter. And back in John chapter 6, we uh ge and verses 70 and 71, Jesus answered and said to them, I have chosen one of you. Sorry, have not I chosen twelve, and one of you is a devil. Consider this. What advantages had Judas had? Did Judas distribute bread at the feeding of the five thousand? Yeah, he did. Was Judas there when a lame man is let down through the roof of the house and walks out through the door? Did Judas see a widow's son brought back to life as they're carrying him out of the city? Was Judas there when a woman just reached out her hand and took a hold of Jesus' garment and suddenly she knew she was healed? Judas knew all these things. Judas saw all these things. If faith came by seeing, Judas certainly would be saved. Because he saw it all. Was Judas in the boat when Peter walked on water? Was Jesus still in the storm? What marvelous advantages Judas had! Many shall say to me in that day, Lord, Lord. Have not I prophesied in thy name, and in thy name cast out devils, and in thy name done many wonderful works I never knew you. Depart from me, you workers of iniquity. Did Jesus know Judas? Well certainly he knew Judas as a man. But when Christ says to those, I never knew you Obviously, he created them. He knows all about them. He knows every sin they committed. He knows the innermost thoughts of their hearts. And so it must be something other than just simply having knowledge of Certainly he had knowledge of them, but he never knew them in electric love. He did not know them from the foundation of the world. He did not know them in saving grace. Oh, what a sad thing here. You see Satan cannot inhabit the heart in which the Spirit of God dwells. But here we find that Satan has inhabited the heart of Judas. Judas was one of the twelve, but he loved money. Judas was one of the twelve, but he lacked understanding. He saw the miracles, but he never got the message. Judas may have even thought he was doing God's work. Judas may have even thought that by betraying Christ he was somehow going to make Christ rise up and start a revolution and run out the Romans. Paul thought he was doing God's work when he persecuted the church. And Christ warned the disciples that the day would come. This is in John 16, which is again in our context. John 16 verses 2 and 3. They shall put you out of their synagogues. Yea, the time cometh that whosoever shall kill you will think that he doeth God a service. How many how many people have the Romanists killed because they thought they were doing God a service? And sometimes sometimes isn't the most blessed thing that could ever happen to us to be thrown out of their synagogue. Can't great blessings come from getting kicked out of their synagogues and aren't you glad to to shake the dust of the synagogue off your feet? And go forward in the blessings of God. Jesus' hour has come, and Judah's heart has been inhabited. But the third thing we find here is that Jesus' hands, Christ's hands, are filled. Look at verse 3 of chapter 13. And Jesus knowing that the Father had given all things into his hands. The Father has given all things into his hands. Now let me criticize my outline. The third point is Jesus' hands are filled They've always been filled. This didn't happen just in this hour His hands are never truly filled, because we read that his hand spans the universe That spans all heavens. And so it's a good outline because it's alliterated, but it falls far short of describing Jesus Christ. The Father gave all things into his hands, but his hands were not full. All things don't even fill his hands. They're so vast and so great. But here we find in this glorious chapter that everything is placed in the hands of Jesus Christ. Every knee is going to bow. Every tongue is going to confess. Why do the heathen rage and the people imagine a vain thing? The kings of the earth set themselves and the rulers take counsel together against the Lord. And against his anointed, against Christ, let us break their bands asunder, let us cast their cords from us. Ha! He that sitteth in the heavens shall laugh. The Lord shall have them in derision. All things are in the hands of Christ. But you know what makes me rejoice in that? I'm in the hands of Christ. I'm in the hands of Christ. Turn back to chapter ten Chapter ten, just probably four or five leaves of your Bible from chapter thirteen. Chapter ten and verse twenty-eight. And I give unto them eternal life, and they shall never perish, neither shall any man pluck them out of my hand. My father which gave them me is greater than all, and no man is able to have plucked him out of my father's hand. I and my father are one. All things are committed into Jesus' hand And looking back again, uh I won't have you turn, but in chapter three of John, in verse thirty-five and thirty-six, the Father hath loved the Son, and hath given all things into his hand. He that believeth in the Son hath everlasting life. And he that believeth not the Son shall not see life, but the wrath of God abideth on him. And then turn over to chapter 17, close by where you are in thirteen. Chapter 17, verses 1 and 2. These words spake Jesus and lifted up his eyes to heaven and said, Father, the hour has come. Glorify thy Son, that thy Son may also glorify thee. Thou hast given him power, all things in his hand. Thou hast given him power over all flesh, that he should give eternal life to as many as thou hast given him. And so all things are committed into the hands of Christ. And predominant above all the things that are given in the hands of Christ is the elect. We're given into his hand. And so we find that Jesus' hour has come. Judah's heart is filled, or is is inhabited, and Jesus' hands are filled. But then we come to verses 4 through 16. They just don't seem to fit, do they? Now we have this story of Jesus washing the disciples' feet. But I would say to you that this next portion is Christ's humility exemplified. Jesus' hour has come, Judah's heart has been inhabited, Jesus' hands have been filled, and now Jesus' humility is exemplified. And it's not out of place. It's not Spurious. It's not just thrown in there for no reason, but there's a great lesson that Christ is going to teach his disciples here. Look at verse 4. He that's Jesus riseth from supper and laid aside his garment and took a towel and girded himself What is the context? What's going on? What is taking place in these chapters of John? Christ's hour has come. It's the time for a sacrifice. Satan is at work. He's inhabited Judas' heart. Christ's hands are filled. It is the time of the reaping in of the elect Jesus is giving us the Lord's Supper in this context. But he's also giving us another picture. He riseth from supper. To rise means you were sitting or lying down seated. You were at rest. You were in repose. Where had Christ dwelt from all eternity? In the bosom of the Father. He had been eternally in the bosom of the Father. He had been there dwelling in the glory of the angels and at rest. But he rose out of his heavenly rest, and he laid aside his garments. When Christ was on earth, was he fully, one hundred percent, absolutely God? Yes But did anyone walking down the street recognize him? Oh yes, this is God. No, why? Because the glory of God which he'd had with the Father And he's praying in the context will be restored to him that glory which I had with thee before the world was. He laid aside that glory. He set it apart He humbled himself and became a man and he took a towel He took a towel. He took a simple, humble covering. And we wrapped him in swaddling clothes. Christ, who is ever with the Father, has risen from his glories in heaven, and he has laid aside his glory, and now he is clothed in a human flesh and what was the purpose of that human flesh but to give his life a ransom for many and later we'll see he takes the towel and what's he do with it? He wipes their feet with it as he drives their feet. And so here as Christ is giving us the Lord's Supper, He's giving us a beautiful picture of His total humility. That he, the Son of God, from all eternity, has laid aside his glory. He has risen from his rest, and now he has come to give his life a ransom for many. Let this mind be in you, which is also in Christ Jesus, who being in the form of God, thought it not robbery to be equal with God, but made himself with no reputation and took upon himself a towel. took upon himself the form of a servant. The Tau was the mark of the servant. Took upon himself the form of a servant, was made in likeness of men. And so in verse 5 of chapter 13, and he poured water into a basin. He poured out himself to death. And when he was crucified, blood and water poured out And so we are saved by the blood that was spilled, but we're cleansed by the washing of water by the word. And Christ is the living word. The word was made flesh and dwelt among us. He is the pouring out to the Father, to the to mankind for salvation. He is the revelation of God to men. He poured out himself for us. And so after rising and stripping himself and putting on a towel, now he's pouring water in the presence of the disciples. He's giving them this glorious picture of his redemption. And he began, verse 5, to wash the disciples' feet and to wipe them with the tau. Wherewith he was girded, with his stripes we are healed, with his wounded body we are wiped, we are cleansed. And he cometh to Peter, and Peter saith unto them, Lord, dost thou wash my feet. And every word of that statement, Lord, dost thou wash my feet. Every one of them in Greek is an emphatic. You know, you put an exclamation part point after each one of them. Oh Peter. Don't you love Peter? He doesn't have a clue. He has no idea. What cr yeah. Has no idea what Christ is doing here. Lord, you'll never wash my feet. Remember back in chapter 3 of John, when Jesus comes to John the Baptist to be baptized, and John the Baptist responds is, no, no, no, no, no, no, you baptize me, not me, baptize you. That's the same response. He he didn't understand. And Christ says, suffer it to be so for now. Peter says, Oh no, no, no, you're not going to be a servant to me. Dost thou wash my feet? Verse 7. Jesus answered and said unto him, What I do, or sorry, What I do thou knowest not, but thou shalt know hereafter. Isn't the Lord gracious? He doesn't smack Peter across the face. Peter, you don't understand, but I'm going to teach you something. I'm going to show you truth. I'm going to help you understand, Peter. Just hang on a little bit, buddy. Don't get too too far ahead of yourself. You don't understand now, but you will later. Verse 8. Peter keeps on. Peter said, Thou shalt never wash my feet. I'll never betray, I'll never forsake. I can walk on water. Dear, dear Peter Jesus answered him, If I wash thee not, thou hast no part with me. What is the picture? It's salvation. It's Christ coming to save his people. It's Christ's redemption. It's Christ laying aside his glory. Peter, I've come to seek and to save. If I don't cleanse your sins, you have no part with me. If you are not washed by me, Peter, you are not washed at all. If you will not be washed by me, Peter, you will never be washed. Peter, if I wash you not, thou hast no part with me And again, you've got to love Peter, because uh Peter immediately says, Lord, not my feet only, but also my head and my hands. Okay, Lord, if this is washing, I want more of it. Yeah, I uh we talk about the tool of the five points of Calvinism, which Calvin never spouse and they were assigned in later, but the the five doctrines of grace. And I've said jokingly, I love the five so much I wish there was a sixth because the five are so glorious. Well that's what Peter Peter says Then everything, Lord, wash me thoroughly, and it's a good thing, it's a good thing. I want to be thoroughly washed. No, Peter, just your feet. You see, man looketh on the outward appearance, but God looketh on the heart. The washing of Christ is sufficient. Who shall lay anything to the charge of God's elect? Your head's dirty. Your hands are dirty. Remember the disciples? Oh, the Pharisees were all upset. Your disciples eat without washed hands. Christ says, No, Peter, I'll do enough. Leave it to me, Peter. You don't need anything extra. My grace is sufficient. Man looks on the outward appearance, but God looks on the heart. I'll take care of it, Peter. Your feet are enough. And you're cleansed throughout. Verse 10. He saith unto them, He that is washed needeth not save to wash his feet, but is clean every wit, and ye are clean, but not all. Referring to Peter Now are we clean to the word which thou hast spoken, John 15, same context, verse 3, just a few pages from where you are. Sanctified him through thy truth, thy word is truth. That's John 17, verse 17, again in this same discourse, in the same discourse, same account. Sanctify them through thy truth. Thy word is truth, Paul said in Ephesians chapter five. John chapter twelve thirteen again and verse twelve. Here's the application. So after he had washed their feet, this is verse twelve of thirteen. So after he had washed their feet and had taken his garments and was set down again, isn't that glorious, when Christ was crucified? He was robed in a glorious robe of white when he came out of the tomb. And he sat down at the right hand of God the Father. He takes the robe again and he sits back down. The picture continues. And was sat down, he said unto them, Know ye what I've done unto you. Almost sounds like he's making intercession, doesn't it? He ever lives to make intercession for the saints. Now he's teaching his disciples, do you know what I have done unto you? Ye call me master, and ye say well, for so I am If I then, being your Lord and Master, have washed your feet, ye ought also to wash one another's feet. For I have given you an example that you should do as I have done to you. By this shall all men know that ye are my disciples Let you have love one to another. Why did Christ come? Well, he laid aside his glory. He took upon in the form of a servant, made in the likeness of men. He gave his life a ransom for many. He washed us. Now he's exalted. But he did it out of love. Remember The hour of his greatest love has come. And so he's saying to the disciples, look, I have shown you what true love is. For greater love hath no man than this, that a man laid down his life for his friends. If I have made myself a servant to you, how much more must you be a servant to the Church of God? How much more must you be servants one to another? How much more should you just demonstrate that you are indeed washed, that you are indeed disciples? Because ye have love one to another. Verily I say unto you, the servant is not greater than his Lord, verse sixteen, neither is he that sent Greater than him that sent him. Doesn't that go along with Sunday school this morning that Christ and God the Father and God the Son are co-equals? Him that sent us and greater than him that sent him. Look at verses 34 and 35 of chapter 13, where we are. A new came give I unto you that ye love one another as I have loved you. That ye love one another. I've washed your feet. I've shown you true humility before each other. Show that same love to one another. By this soul may know that you're my disciples. That ye have love one toward another And so we find that Jesus' hour is come, that Judah's heart is inhabited, that Jesus' hands are filled, Jesus' humility is exemplified. But the final thing we find in these 17 verses is that our happiness is enjoined. Our happiness is commanded. Verse 17, if ye know these things, happy are ye if ye do them. Ah, if you know that I am come having laid aside my slory, having taken on a the human flesh, having died for you, remember the context also includes the Lord's table, that I'm coming, this is the Passover, this is the time of my sacrifice. I've showed you what true humility is. If you understand these things happier you one of you has gone out and he's not very happy. He's getting ready to hang himself. Hmm. Well. Christ doesn't say those words, but he knows what's happening. But my friend, if ye know the true cleansing of Christ Which brings about true humility before the brethren, self-sacrificing love, love that lays down itself for one another, even to wash one another's feet. happy. True happiness is found there. You see, Peter is the one who objects to Christ washing his feet and around whom this lesson centers. The Romanist church would have Peter as the one whose ring is to be kissed. But the reality of Scripture is Peter is the one who should be washing the feet It's a total reversal of what man has tried to do. We're going to close here quickly, but I just want to show you show you a few interesting things here in the text Consider what Jesus knew in verse 1. He knew that his hour was come. In verse 1, he also knew who his elect were. Having loved them, he loved them to the end. Jesus knew who would betray him. Verse 2 and verse 11, he knew who it was who would betray him. Verse 3, Jesus knew that the Father committed all things into his hand. Jesus knew that he was come from God. He knew who he was. And Jesus knew he was returning to his Father. Jesus knew that it was the time of a sacrifice. He praised, let this cup pass from him. Jesus knew that the disciples should wash his feet. Because he was God. But he knew that in the f having laid aside his glory, now he was come and that the master was not greater than the servants. Or the servant was not greater than the master, and so it was time to wash their feet. And so if we know the true love of God, which will reflect itself in the true love of the elect. We are a happy people indeed. Look over to verse uh to chapter fifteen, and with this we'll close. Chapter fifteen, verse one through verse fifteen. These things have I spoken unto you that my joy might remain in you, and that your joy might be full. Verse 17, chapter 13, happy if you know these things. Here he's beginning to open Peter's understanding and to show him these things. This is my commandment, verse 12 of 15, that ye love one another as I as loved you. What has he just shown them? The perfect example. of love. Greater love hath no man than this, that a man lay down his life for his friends. What is he what's he about to do? He's about to lay down his life for them. Yeah, my friends If ye do whatsoever I have commanded you, if ye know these things, happier ye if ye do them, the things I have commanded you. Henceforth I call you not servants. The servant's not greater than his master. I call you not servants, for the servant knoweth not what his Lord doeth. Peter, you don't understand what I'm doing right now, but you're going to understand after. You see how the whole context fits together But I have called you friends. For all things that I have heard of my Father, all things are in his hand. All things that I have heard from my Father, I have made known unto you. And then one other verse to close. In Jude James chapter 1, verse 27: pure religion and undefiled before God the Father is this, to visit the fathers in their afflictions. James gives us two things which define pure religion. The first is visiting the fathers and fathers and the widows in their affliction. That's washing their feet. That's humbling yourselves before the needy. And the second one is to keep himself um pure from the world, which is being cleansed by the word of God. There's an old hymn we used to sing. Have you been to Jesus for the cleansing power? Are you washed in the blood of the Lamb? It's a glorious text. Glorious passage. What a beautiful example of Christ's humility. What a beautiful picture of his sacrificial Let us stand for prayer. Father, I thank you for your word this morning. Lord, bless it to our hearts. Father, may we truly know the love of the brethren. And Lord, we can only know the love of the brethren if we first know the love of Christ. Bless your word to our hearts. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.