Let's turn to our opening passage in uh Hebrews chapter nine. Hebrews chapter nine. And uh today we have one verse Because I was absolutely arrested by this verse. It's now one of my favorite verses in the entire book of Hebrews to show you just how big my opinion is of this one verse. And so I've been so looking forward to sharing this with you ever since about Wednesday when it finally clicked. So we'll read the verse and then we'll get into the discussion questions. Hear now the word of the Lord And for this cause, he, speaking of Jesus, is the mediator of the New Testament. That by means of death For the redemption of the transgressions that were under the First Testament, they which are called might receive the promise of eternal inheritance. And that is our passage for today. Okay, a show of hands. How many of you got the email for the discussion questions for this morning? How many of you got the email? Keep your hand up. How many of you did the homework assignment? Found the video, watched it? If you didn't read an article counts. Reading an article? Well, okay, that counts. You can keep your hand up. You watched it, all right. You didn't. Any of you all watch the video? You didn't watch the video? Okay. How many of you brought food? Okay, well if your hand is up for any of those three reasons you can participate today. So I'm not going to ding you because you didn't watch the video, all right? So i the reason for it is because we're dealing with quite a lot of legal perspectives today. And so this is kind of a legal study. It's going to get Perhaps a little deeper, but I'm trying to keep it focused as well so we can get through this. So imagine now you are in a dispute with someone over a contract. And the terms of the contract talk about in case of the dispute, you agree to go to arbitration. Now what is arbitration? Somebody tell me what they know about arbitration. Those of you first who watch the video Or or or read the uh read it. What is arbitration? Where two people who are at odds with one another He then set a third person to kinda try to discuss the case between them and see if we can come to a resolution Okay, where two people are in a dispute and they seek a third person to to adjudicate the matter. All right. Anybody else uh about arbitration? Settlement of dispute essentially in the business. without going to the court. We are trying to find um the third party. Not necessarily in two purses. It's between two parties. In our experience theory between two countries, the companies from different countries. They're trying to go to um identifying certain articles. Okay. And y you believe he will be more fairness to give his opinion, the avoid going to the court, going avoid a lot of cost going to international sport of commerce which caused a lot of money. Alright, so uh uh our sister here has identified some additional things to round it out uh that it's a uh it can be two parties, not necessarily two individuals, certainly understood that. And it's not to the court, it's to this third party person. So I think the term used that's a private individual. Who is this individual? How is that individual chosen? Do they come to me? Do they go to Mrs. Ross? Who do they go to? In arbitration. So they both have to choose, and they both have to select who that third person is, and typically it's a judge. They both have to agree, okay? Um why would anybody want to use it? So her sister identified some, it's a little less expensive and it's not before the full court. Why would somebody want to use that Those are not the only reasons, by the way. It's more direct. It's less expensive. And the benefits, of course, is that you perhaps are not paying out as much money. You know, when you go to a oh I'm sorry, why would anybody want to use it? It's private. That's another big point. So if you go to a court of law, at least in America, the findings and the proceedings are in the open There anybody can show up in the court, anybody can go read the proceedings. All of your dirty laundry gets aired out in front of everybody, whereas in arbitration it's private. It can preserve future relationships instead of the two parties getting so riled up that they just never work together again. Hopefully it sues out peace uh as well. Okay. Um now are there some downsides? What are the negatives to arbitration? Why would somebody not want to go to arbitration? Binding. You may not like the result. It's binding? Yes, it is a binding, and you don't have recourse to a court of law. You can attempt to go to a court of law, but the court of law will typically look at it and say, uh, you agreed to it, no it's binding, and they'll simply double down and reinforce that. Jack must pay Sue. $500 because it's a binding. Okay, what are some of the downsides to it? No jury. There's no jury? Alright. Why is that a downside? Well it depends on the case, but you know, it may be that you want the a jury of your peers to hear hear the matter up Okay. Yes, so uh brother's pointing out that uh you you don't have the normal protection of a jury, which is a jury of your peers You have a pool and a collection of opinions as opposed to one individual that you're trying to influence. So you may not, you know, the perception of getting a fair shake isn't there. Which if you were in a dispute, let's say you um are a contractor and you've been hired to finish out somebody's garage into a room or to put some solar panels up. Midway through you couldn't finish the job, the owner gets upset And they wanna they they wanna pursue uh legal action. Which which would you prefer to use? Would you prefer to go to court or would you prefer to do arbitration? You're a contractor, you're a businessman, which would you prefer You'd want to go to court. Okay. All right. Some would go to court. Some might do arbitration. Again, it depends on the case. But um In some scenarios, let's say you know you're guilty and you're just going to try to get, you know, you're going to have to resolve this somehow. Most contracts I've read from business owners say you have to agree to mediation and arbitration first. Uh they want to route because it's less expensive. And the court system you can spend an awful lot of money before you even get up to the hearing And then often it gets settled out of court. Well, again, just some discussion about arbitration and how that works. One of the big The points I want to make is it's a private versus a public judge, and it's quicker and it's less expensive. And those are some key points today. Alright, well let's get into our text, which I'm really taking kind of phrase at a time, and we're going to unpack it. And we look at our first phrase in Hebrews 95, which says, for this cause. Well, that's a connecting phrase. It connects us to what has already been stated and verses 11 and 12, the cause being the following that Jesus is our high priest after the order of Melchizedek. He is the right guy. He's the right man for the job. It was Jesus' blood. It was his life because life is in the blood And that blood, that life of his is eternal. He willingly offered it. That was part of the uh deal. His entry into the holy place, that is, before God in heaven. He has gone and he has appeared Before God, dare I add another phrase, before God the judge in heaven, he has gone and appeared there, and his purchase of redemption, meaning To redeem something is to buy it back. He actually made a payment. He went before the court of heaven. He made a payment, and glory be to God, it was accepted. It was accepted. It was an acceptable payment. Here's a man who's going to the judge of the universe, made a payment, and walked away. With rewards. It worked. Alright? And it says for this cause, meaning tying together what we've already looked at in the previous verses, for this cause, he is the mediator. Now, the apostle talks about, the Apostle Paul talks about mediator, and it's the mediator. There's only one mediator Can't have multiple out there, there's one. And none others are fit, able, and willing to do what Jesus did. The apostle writing to Timothy says this in 1 Timothy 2, 5 and 6, there is one God and one mediator between God and man. He says one mediator. Hebrews says the mediator. Between God and men, the man Christ Jesus. When it says men, it doesn't just mean the male sex. It's talking about mankind. He didn't redeem angels. He didn't redeem animals between God and men, the man Christ Jesus, who gave himself a ransom for all to be testified in due time. And now it's an interesting observation here. Is that Hebrews breaks into two distinct parts the work that Jesus Christ did. It talks at length about his being a high priest. We've been covering that since the seventh chapter. It talks a lot about His role as a high priest. And now we're introducing the concept, because of these things he has done, he is also a mediator. So the penman for Hebrews breaks up these two parts. However, the Apostle Paul in 1 Timothy jams them all together into one. He blends it into one relationship. The Apostle Paul does not talk at length about Jesus as a high priest. He never alludes to Jesus' high priestly role. You only read about that here in the book of Hebrews. Now the thing that excites me is that word mediator. We focused on he's the mediator. Do you know that word mediator means he's an arbiter. And that effectively Jesus has accomplished arbitration on our behalf. And that thought just arrested me. It's an arresting thought. You know why that's an exciting thought Because it well let's ask the question. Let me just pose it to you. How do you how can you see Jesus being an arbiter? And how do you under if I just told you he's an arbiter? We've already talked about arbitration. How is he an arbiter? It says he's the mediator. He's the arbiter. How is he that role? Legally. Because he brings peace between God and men. He's a peacemaker, yes, he sued out a case for peace. All right. Well how else? That's correct He he understands man. He was a man as well as God. So he understands man, and if I could expand, he understands man's case And to go a little further, he understands man's problems and what else He was selected by God the judge. He was selected by God the judge? Yep, so Yep, keep going. We're we're we're doing a great job of coloring in the little blocks here. I want to help build it out. Keep going. And he paid the price. And he paid the price. Yep Yep. He solved the problem. He solved the problem, all right. What about what about our side? You know arbitration has got two parties. We've been talking about God and he's satisfied, that's great. You know, the judge, but he you know He and the judge are one, so you have that special relationship that he has with the judge. So Yes, that's the fantastic part. So our brother pointed out that he knows man He knows man's cause, he knows man's problems, but he also knows the judge. And may I expand, he knows the judge's laws He knows how to litigate this case. He knows how to satisfy this judge. I don't know about you, but this is exciting stuff. Arbitration is what you go to when you don't want to have a lot of money. Look, let's just the three of us get in a room, let's just hash this out You decide, I present my case, you present your case, you decide, you look at the evidence that's presented, you make a binding ruling, done. Go away. Jesus is our arbiter. Now, you can reject Jesus Christ. You can say, I don't care to have anything to do with him. He makes too many, he's a fairy tale. I don't care about him if you're an unbeliever. And you can waltz right on into the judge of before the judge of heaven, before the court of heaven, because you are going there. You can't miss it. God has a beef with you. You can take those letters That keep announcing to you court date is coming. You say, Brother Vince, how does God send me a letter that court date is coming? Every little gray hair you see is a little letter from God saying I will not be mocked That death is coming. Every little creaky bone you feel is a little letter from God. Death is coming. I will not be mocked Every ounce of disease, every failing memory cell, every bit of your body that begins to fall apart is a little letter and a little reminder from God, I will not be mocked. The wages of sin is debt, it's coming, your court date is approaching. It's a reminder. It's a painful reminder. And you can go to a doctor and shoot it up with meds and you can assuage it and you can cover it over every bit as much as you can take that notice from the judge and run it through the shredder. And eventually in your pile of shredded material, it won't matter because the day will come and you will appear before the court of heaven on your own merits without an attorney What expense are you going to pay there? Your life? You're going to pay with your life for the rest of your existence in a place God calls hell. That is what you're facing. Whether you like it or not, God doesn't care whether you believe it or not. It's reality. God doesn't believe in atheists. Okay? That option doesn't exist. But praise God, there's another option. And you have a role in it. You can ignore the claims of the gospel, or you can listen to it and say, oh You mean somebody has already gone to the judge? There's already been arbitration made on my behalf. Glory be to my soul. Am I reading this right? He accepted it The case is cleared. What's the expense to me? Why, it's free. I'm telling you, unbelief is insanity. It's private before the throne of heaven when he calls all nations before him. Oh, it's very public. It's very public because with shame you will publicly in front of the universe be shown to be completely, totally false and wrong. Every accusation against God you've raised against him is bogus. is demonstrably false, and you will be shown to be the biggest hypocrite, the biggest loser. I think they're going to tell a television program the biggest loser, but I I don't think it's about this. I think it's something else You'll be shown to be the biggest loser as his angels are sent to cast you into hell. It's very public, it's very embarrassing, it's very shameful, and it's very painful. But glory to my soul. You can go to Jesus Christ. It's very private. Lord God, be merciful to me, a sinner. And he says, it's accepted. So when you are going to deal with the God of heaven, hint, pro tip, you want arbitration. You want Jesus your arbiter. Isn't that great? I just love that fact. He is our arbiter. Arbitration has been made. Justice has been satisfied. The judge is appeased. I give you an illustration. One time I uh was um had occasion to be in the court of law It was a traffic ticket. I got busted and I claimed guilty with an excuse. So the police officer doesn't have to show up, the guy who hit me with the gun. And I show up to the radar gun, not the you know not the bang not the not the bang bang gun. Don't go looking for bullet holes in my windshield Many I was shocked there must have been fifty-sixty people there. I'm sitting there and every one of them are going in And some go up and they're trying to argue with the judge and when did you calibrate it, Judge? When did you calibrate that? This morning, your officer calibrate this morning. Your next point. I mean, you know he well I've always been a good driver, yeah, except for this time, your next point. I mean it was just one after the next And then I was shocked to find out the judge can raise the fee. Okay, so your fee is $75. The court awards a $150 fine. It went up, not down. And they get angry. It's like, okay, 150 plus community service. I mean, you know, you really don't want to tick off a judge. It just doesn't play in your favor. So I'm going through what am I going to say? How's this all going to work out I won't get to my part, but I'll cover the part of this case and you can we can talk about my part later at the fellowship time. Privately. Privately. Yes, privately. Thank you. Thank you. Good pastor. Good pastor. Privately Good confessional. One fellow dressed in a suit with what I assume was his attorney dressed in a suit, walked up front, uh the microphone, blah blah blah blah blah blah and they walked out. I was like, you have a business card? It was a 15-second discussion up front, done deal It was no drama, no questions. You want representation. The judges hate it when you go without an attorney. They hate that. Oh, they absolutely hate that. You're not going to win. If you can't win in man's court, what makes you think you're going to win in God's court? You want arbitration before the court of God. You really do. And the only arbiter that because the two parties have to select and they have to agree God has agreed that Jesus Christ is his mediator. He'll take none other. I want Buddha. God hadn't selected that one. That's rejected. You're going to come before me. I want atheism. I want my mind. I want. . It doesn't matter. God has selected Jesus Christ. And here's where you come in. Are you gonna claim Jesus Christ as your mediator? The time to do it is now. You do it early. You don't wait for the notice and the summons to come. That's too late And if somebody rejects them, they're going to face the Lord God on judgment day without an attorney facing a judge who hates them. He's not favorably disposed. He hates sinners. And you're showing up as a sinner. It's just not going to work. Well now we're going to transition to That was the exciting part of the study. I guess you can fall asleep after this if you're so inclined, but I'd prefer not. Because this I think is a fascinating bit of theology here that I like to get into This is a Bible study, so it gets a little thick here. Today we are going to get a little thick, and it's these next phrases which says that he is the mediator of the New Testament. So we have New Testament. I would point out, note that he's not referring to the First Testament. This is not the First Testament. That's your first fill-in-the-blank. Not the First Testament. However, though they are both covenants, they in fact are called testaments. There are important differences about those, and we've covered some differences between the first and the old. So we call this the testament. And then he says, by means of death, and it turns out that Jesus' death was the key. It did two things. It did two things. And this is your next fill-in-the-blanks. It simultaneously unleashed our chains by way of redemption, paying a price, he unleashed it, and he unlocked the Old Testament benefits. The promises by fulfillment. He's fulfilled them. They're given to you. It says the righteousness of the law, the equity of the law is given to us. It's unleash and unlock. It's wonderful. Here's the phrase that stumped me. For the redemption of transgressions that were under the first. Now, maybe you're like me, and for many of you, when you read certain portions of the Bible You get into some of these thick phrases. It sounds like, I don't want to be blasphemous here, but Bible gobbledygook, and that means something to somebody, but I'll just keep reading. That ought to be the point where you hit where you pump the brakes and read over it again and read over it again and read over it again And I'll confess to you, I have not pumped the brakes at this section of Hebrews 9 for many a year. Until Tuesday of this past week. Look at that again real hard. For the redemption of, and I'm going to emphasize it differently, transgressions under the first. Transgressions under the first. Alright, so there's a couple of big implications here. Number one Jesus teaches that sins, not sinners, were redeemed. Sins, redemption of transgressions. Transgressions are sins. It doesn't say transgressors. It says transgressions. The payment was for sin. Sin demands a payment. He paid the price for sins. Okay. Alright, well that's interesting. That raises a theological question in my mind. Does this refer to, there's three choices. All sins of all people, does it refer to all sins of one person? Does it refer to all sins of some people? What do you think? And let's explore the ampli the implications. Penny, you're raising your hand for number three, all sins of some people. Because it's the very next phrase that they which are called might receive some help. Correct. Very next phrase says they which are called. If Jesus paid all transgressions of all people, and there's some good people I know in Christian circles who would believe that, They may not understand that they have a theological conundrum on their hands, because that would include the sin of unbelief. And they would hold that, well, unbelief is the thing you've got to believe. And so God doesn't pay for that sin, you've got to believe. If you don't believe, then you're cast away because of unbelief. That doesn't work. If Jesus paid for all the sins of all people, then the Bible would be clear that nobody's going to hell. For what cause would they go to hell? Why would they go? He's paid for all their sins, but that is clear. There's no reason for the judge to find any charges If he paid for the sins of one person, only one person's going to heaven. I don't think we narrow it that narrowly. If you think about Jesus Christ, well, no, he's perfect. He had no sins. He was the scapegoat. If it's some people, who are those some people? Well, as Penny pointed out, the called. We would refer to them as God's elect, those whom God intended to save. All right, so that's one interesting statement, the redemption of transgressions, but it also says, and this is a covenant one. Which says, all transgressions under the first testament. Now that's another fascinating account. Question How far back did the first testament go? Because it says he paid for transgressions under the first testament. And we've just talked about Jesus paying all sins. Did he pay for the sins of Adam by that transaction? I think we would say yes. Would he would he have paid because we believe Adam to be saved, God uses him in the lineage of Christ. We also find that he covered him with coats of skin. And in Timothy he's referred to as a picture of Christ himself. Abel. Go through the patriarchs, Noah. But wait. Are they under the First Testament? That's an interesting theological question. You would say, well, when did that first testament appear? Wasn't it Moses at Mount Sinai? That's Exodus 20, not Genesis. Hang with me here, alright? The Apostle Paul actually talks about this a little bit. It's a parenthetical note, and you can turn in your Bible to Romans chapter 5. Romans chapter 5 and 13. And hang out in Romans for a little bit because we're going to look at some verses here to explore this a little bit. Because Jesus Christ's payment directly implies all sins of God's people clear back to Adam. And so there's two things about that. Paul talks about it in Romans 5, verse 13. It says, For until the law, meaning until the law was given, At Sinai, sin was in the world. Sin was there, sin was present. But he says, but sin's not imputed when there's no law. In other words, if they didn't have law back then, God would not have found sin back then But God did find sin back then, and sin resulted in death. And so the implication is because they died, there was sin, because there was sin, there was a law. There was a law called the First Testament, though it be not written down. He goes on to say in verse 14 of Romans 5, nevertheless, death reigned from Adam to Moses even over them that had not sinned after the similitude of Adam's transgression, who is a figure of him that was to come. The point of this is that implies a law was in fact over Adam. I find that fascinating. Whatever this first testament is, this law of God, it extends all the way back to Adam. Well that implies, and we've seen that word testament is also the word covenant That implies Adam was under covenant. Where does it say Adam is under a covenant? Well, in your handout, you can see there's a passage in Hosea chapter 6 that's quite interesting. Hosea 6 and verse 7 we read this. But they, like men, and that word literally is the same word for Adam, it can be interchangeably used as men or as Adam, they like men, they like Adam, have transgressed the covenant. There had they dealt treacherously against me. So, God prophetically through Hosea is saying You Israelites in Hosea's day are transgressing against me. You're transgressing against the covenant just like Adam did. What's the implication? Adam was under a covenant. Hebrews 9. 15. Jesus Christ paid for the redemptions under the first testament. I theologically I think I find this to be fascinating. I'm very interested in the breadth and the depth and the scope of the law of God. And it turns out that there is something to this First Testament. The Reformers referred to it as the moral law. You could say the moral code. Of that, you could just summarize it by saying the Ten Commandments, alright? That is enduring throughout all time. That those commandments are an enduring first testament Reaching back to Adam. And guess what? That moral code continues on to the end. I know of some Baptist churches who will say we never preach in the Old Testament, only in the New Testament. We just won't preach about Jesus. Well, that's interesting. Amen. The emphasis on Jesus, but you can't chuck The foundation portion away, the New Testament, often gives us great insight into the deep, colorful language and all the examples that are provided. In the Old Testament. Throw away the Psalms of David? Really? Throw away the Proverbs for raising your children? Really? Throw away your understanding of creation from Genesis? Really? I think not. This moral code goes all the way back to Adam and it continues on to the last day. Notice what the Apostle Paul says in Romans 2. There's an enduring moral code from that first testament. That says you're a sinner. And that's what's testimony testifying against you. We read in Romans 2. 14, for when the Gentiles, and for the most part that's us, Which have not the law, meaning they don't have that written Torah. They don't have the written Old Testament Code, the books of Moses. They don't have that. Do exercise, perform by nature the things contained in the law. Here's that moral code. The things contained in the law. That's that moral code. These, having not the law, they don't have a Bible, are a law unto themselves. They show the work of the law written in their hearts God has imprinted upon the heart of every human being a God consciousness. God has imprinted upon the heart of every human being an innate sense that murder is wrong. That lying is wrong, that theft and stealing is wrong, that adultery is wrong, that all of these things are wrong. There isn't an it's there. Men will suppress the truth and unrighteousness, they'll sear it with a hot iron. Why? Because they know it points they don't like they don't like what it points out to them. But God has put that fingerprint in them. There's a God and it's fascinating Studies of little children growing up, it doesn't matter what country, it doesn't matter what language, little children growing up have a God consciousness at a very early age. There is a God consciousness. Little children are not atheists. They have to be taught that. But they don't come out that way. There is a God consciousness in them. And so parents, that's a really good time to pour the knowledge of God into children or grandchildren. They will receive it. They will take it. Now, how long does this law last, and to what extent does it go? We read in Romans 3. 19, and again I know I'm on a theological point, and I'll get off this in just a second here, so hold with me for another part. We've seen it goes all the way back to Adam. He was under covenant. But did it stop at the cross? No. Romans 3. 19, the Apostle Paul says this. Now we know what things soever the law saith. It saith to them who are under the law. Under the law means you're under its jurisdiction. It has authority over you. Alright? That, here's the purpose, every mouth may be stopped, and all the world may become guilty before God. That moral code is Cosmos encompassing. It is a Catholic encompassing By the entire human race from inception to end, that first testament encaptures it all. The moral code, the moral aspect. I'm not saying The hot and totten Africa is supposed to bring a sacrifice to Jerusalem. I'm not saying that. I'm not saying he needs to see a priest in Jerusalem. There is a moral code that exists and abides. And Jesus Christ paid for those transgressions. Which is another interesting thought, because that means he's paid for my transgressions in the past, and the transgressions I'll commit in the future, known unto him. Shall we sin that grace may abound? Oh no, the scriptures is replete with that. But know the fact you have an arbitration. That has secured an agreement to take care of sins past, present, and future. They're covered. And he sent his spirit in you to convict you of sin, of righteousness, and of judgment. And so you will walk in his steps. How does it say earlier in Hebrews 9, to purge your conscience from dead works to serve the living God When you submit to that arbitration, it will change you. You will go differently in life. Well, this was what I got from that phrase, all transgressions that were under the first. That's a very interesting phrase. under the jurisdiction, how far does it reach? And we see that what Jesus has done and paid for is intense. We can explore it. We may not understand it, but glory be to God. God accepted it. And if he accepted it, Like somebody in Texas says, it's all good. If God's accepted it, put two thumbs up. I'm happy. And what do we receive from that? What is it? It unlocks our change, but it also unleashes our change, but it unlocks the promises that are now given to us, that we may receive the promise The promise of eternal inheritance. Folks, this is why Jesus' death is not merely an expiation Modern Bibles today use the word expiation that is incorrect. That word that should be used is is propitiation. Jesus' death is not an expiation. Expiation means you have appeased wrath. It is a redemption of sins only. Great. stamps the the court order, debt is paid, it's recorded in the files, and you're free to go to your own home and do whatever. Jesus' death is a propitiation. That's what this part of Romans 9, Hebrews 9. 15 is talking about. That they which are called might receive the promise of eternal inheritance. When I went to court and I went before the judge, I simply got a uh what what's that ruling called where you don't get a ticket but you're uh probation. I got 90 days probation. Don't screw up again the next 90 days and we'll make this thing go away. We'll make this thing we'll make this thing go away. Right? So um the um Instead, what happened is propitiation makes the offended party favorably disposed towards them. In other words, what Jesus did is he redeemed sins, but he also gave a reward of eternal inheritance. It was an arbitration like you'll never get at the judgment throne of God. It did two things. It's a propitiation. It makes the offended party favorably disposed towards you. What would that look like in our land if I went before the judge and he says, Vince, you've argued your case so well, I'm not not only am I going to give you probation. Come over to my house for dinner tonight. Cooking throwing steaks on the birdie. Let's come on by. When does that happen? Like never But when you get Jesus Christ as your arbiter, when you have Jesus Christ as your attorney, that's what you get. You get something far greater. You get a promise of eternal life. And it doesn't technically say eternal life, though that's true. It says eternal inheritance. And that's another fine point of theology which I find fascinating Because it's one thing to just live forever, but it's an eternal inheritance. That implies to the beneficiary of a previously written document, right? The Ross estate, I'm quite sure, has a document that identifies inheritors. And my name's probably not on there. She's shaking her head, yes. Okay, so I won't go look. It's a previously written document, and it has some associated promises with it Romans 4 verse 6 hints at this inheritance. And I have to wrap it up here, and you can look at it in your Bible. I told you to hang out for a while in Romans. We'll wrap it up here in Romans 4. Inheritance. Jesus has unleashed these promises. We have an inheritance. Even as David also describes the blessedness, that's the hint of inheritance, the blessedness of the man unto whom God imputes righteousness without works, saying, Blessed are they whose iniquities are forgiven, whose sins are covered, blessed is the man to whom the Lord will not impute sin. The Apostle Paul goes on to say, well, does this blessedness come on the circumcision? The Jews only? Skip down to verse 11. And he, referring to Abraham, received the sign of circumcision. A seal of the righteousness of faith he had, yet being uncircumcised, that he might be the father of all them that believe. The father of circumcision, verse 12, to them who are not of the circumcision only, but also walk in the steps of that faith of our father Abraham. Verse 13. For the promise that he should be what? What promise did Abraham receive? Heir. Heir of the world, not just the land of Canaan. The heir to Abraham was that he would inherit the world. The Apostle Paul magnifies that promise to Abraham Saying this business for the land of Canaan was typical. The real promise is that he would receive a new heaven and a new earth, because he looked for a city whose builder and maker is God And in Romans 4. 16 he says, Therefore is the faith that the promise might be sure to all the seed. Not to that only which is of the law, but that which is the faith of Abraham, who's the father of us all. He's the father of many nations. So points. Let's wrap this up here real quick. Number one, I hope you can agree with me on these three points today. If you want to know the standard of how God's going to judge the world, study the Ten Commandments. That's a short read. It's a short read. And he who offends in one point of the law is guilty of them all. Don't do like a little 17-year-old Vince Kluth did one day when he sat down and went through it and said, yeah, I screwed that one up. Yeah, that's I'm not I'm okay over here I got a good justifying argument for this one. There's no problem there. Alright, so I you know, I guess I'm at a seventy. You know, it's not great, but it's not failing either, right? Yeah, don't do that because I got a zero. Number two, God only accepts Jesus as a suitable arbiter. None other will do. Your favorite local prophet down the street that claims miracle healings. Won't do. Your favorite internet YouTube influencer. Won't do. Fill in the blank, won't do. God only accepts Jesus as the final arbiter. He's the one that that he accepts. Period. None others And number three, don't try to be smarter than God with seminary partisan theology. To the Arminian Baptists He paid for all the sins of his people, even the sin of unbelief. That's why living faith is a gift. God the Father only accepts Jesus' work. Your work is unacceptable before God. Number two, to the Presbyterian. There's an old first covenant and there's a new second covenant, and they're not the same. They like to talk about the continuity of the covenants To the dispensationalists, the covenants are different yet are related. It's not that God had three or four different sets of rules. He has one rule, an eternal law of God, that he's going to judge the world. And Jesus paid for sins under that rule The goal of the New Testament is a church of both Jews and Gentiles that enter into Abraham's promises, even if he and the Jews didn't fully understand the scope. And so my conclusion is this Jesus Christ knows how to quickly and legally get you off the hook before God and into heaven, even if you don't understand how he did it. If half this study is a mystery to you, that's okay. It was to me for 30 years. I'll tell you this, Jesus knows how to get you off the hook. Don't try to find somebody else. It won't work Let's close in prayer. Brother Jeffard, could I ask you to close this in prayer, please? Thank you. Sending your son into this world to save a people for himself, we thank you for it.