Open in your Bibles with me to that eighth chapter of Proverbs. But also we have a bulletin insert this morning. Which actually contains all the verses of Proverbs 8. So you can follow along in your Bible and also in the handout. I don't often give sermon handouts. And actually, what you have here was supposed to be the introduction to this morning's message And obviously there's far more there than could be simply in the introduction. The passage I began to head towards for our study this morning Actually begins in verse 32. Now therefore hearken unto me. That, Lord willing, will be where we will begin next week. However, we may only get up through verse 21 this morning. In verse 22, wisdom, Christ begins to speak about the creation. And we will see how far we get through this passage. I'm not going to read it as I frequently read the passage before we begin the message, because we just read it for our responsive reading. And it is in front of you. But as we approach God's word, let us bow for prayer. Gracious Father, we thank you for this glorious word that is before us. We thank you for the entirety of this book, the Bible, containing 66 individual books We thank you, Lord, for this eighth chapter. Father, what a glorious declaration of Christ we find here. Bless your word to our hearts, we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. This chapter speaks of wisdom. What is wisdom in this eighth chapter of Proverbs. Well, wisdom here makes some pretty bold declarations, as we're going to see. Now I submit to you that Solomon, who was a sinful man, could not make these declarations of himself. For it speaks of his lips only containing righteousness and never iniquity or guile. Well, that cannot be Solomon speaking, for certainly he was a sinful man. This passage, I will tell you right off, is the voice of Jesus Christ. And I've given you in your handout, in the black, the verse from this chapter. And then in the blue, other verses, which are the commentary on this chapter. Which demonstrate to us that verse after verse, every line of this chapter is Jesus Christ. And so, by way of introduction, let me read to you two passages, one from the New Testament in First Corinthians, and one from the Old Testament. in Isaiah. In 1 Corinthians, the first chapter, beginning in verse 19, for it is written, I will destroy the wisdom of the wise. And will bring to nothing the understanding of the prudent. Where is the wise? Where is the scribe? Where is the disputer of this world? Hath not God made foolish the wisdom of the world? For after that, in the wisdom of God, the world by wisdom knew not God, it pleased God by the foolishness of preaching to save them that believe. For the Jews require a sign, and the Greeks seek after wisdom, but we preach Christ crucified. Unto the Jews a stumbling block, and unto the Greeks foolishness. But unto them which are called both Jews and Greeks. Christ, the power of God, and the wisdom of God And so Paul very clearly identifies in 1 Corinthians 1 that Jesus Christ is the wisdom of God. But in verse 19 of 1 Corinthians, Paul says, for it is written. Paul is referring back to previous scriptures. Isaiah 29 verse 14. Therefore, and this is not in your notes Therefore, Isaiah 29, 14, I will proceed to do a marvelous work among this people. Even a marvelous work and a wonder. For the wisdom of their wise men shall perish, and the understanding of their prudent shall be hid. Have you heard that before? Well, that's what Paul was referring to in First Corinthians. He said it's written. He was referring back to Isaiah 29 But when we drop down to verse 18 and 19 of Isaiah 29, we find what the wondrous thing is that God says he will do. And in that day shall the deaf hear the words of the book, and the eyes of the blind shall see out of obscurity and out of darkness. And the meek shall increase their joy in the Lord, and the poor among men shall rejoice in the Holy One of Israel. And so when Paul identifies Christ as the wisdom of God, and he declares, it's written, this isn't a new revelation, it's always been there, he points back to the Old Testament. Which speaks of the deaf hearing. I was deaf. And the blind seeing, I was blind. But the people that sat in darkness have seen a great light. And so we come to this eighth chapter of Isaiah. Proverbs. Proverbs, excuse me. Thank you, brother. We come to this eighth chapter of Proverbs, and it begins with the glorious words in verse one doth not wisdom cry. And understanding put forth her voice. Come unto me, all ye that labor and are heavy laden And I will give you rest. Behold, verse 3, she cries at the gates and at the entry of the city And at the coming of the doors, behold, I stand at the door and knock If any man hear my voice and will open the door, I will come into him and sup with him, and he with me. The verses are there in your scripture. It says, Doth not wisdom cry and understanding lift up her voice? Now as we go through this passage, we want to deal with the objections. There were some that will say, oh, this can't be Jesus Christ, because it says her voice. Why would it not say his voice? It can't be Christ because it uses the feminine, not the masculine. Well, folks, the truth is very simple. We are reading in English that which was originally written in Hebrew. In our English, our nouns are neuter. In other words, our nouns are not a male noun or a female noun. But in Hebrew, the nouns have gender. And wisdom is a feminine noun in the Old Testament. In the Hebrew, in the original. And so our King James translators rightly and properly translated it as wisdom as a her, because it is a female noun. And this is very interesting because we use noun, our nouns and our pronouns do not have gender. If we say you, that can be a male or a female. But that's not the international norm. English is the most widely used language, but the majority of Earth's languages put gender on nouns and on pronouns. And it's very interesting, and we're not going to take a long sidetrack here because we've got a lot to cover, but the they them and use, etc. , in Spanish, for instance It has to have a gender and there's only two, it's male or female. It can't be anywhere in between. And so the nonsense that we're dealing with in our own country, because we're using a language that doesn't use those genders It doesn't work when you get into Spanish and the French is the same and the you know uh Greek, exactly Greek, Hebrew, uh I believe Aramaic. I'm I'm not a scholar there But folks, when it says, when it calls wisdom by her, it is using the Hebrew feminine noun And the reason is a feminine noun is because it's desirable. Folks, women are prettier than men. And there is a beauty here, and what do we read of Christ? The beauties of Christ. He's the lily of the valley. He's the bright and morning star. He's the one who our heart desires And folks, Jesus Christ, the wisdom of God, Christ amen, come unto me. All ye that labor and are heavy laden. I am what you're seeking. I am what you desire. I am what you need. Folks, Christ calls at the gates. He knocks at the door of the church. Let me in. For I come with salvation in my wings. I've come for you. She standeth at the top of the high places. By the way, in the places of the path, he's not obscured, he's close by. To those who will see him. Verse 4: Unto you, O men, I call, and my voice is unto the sons of man. Notice he's not calling the animals. He's calling those that were created in God's image. The animals weren't. He's calling to the sons of man. He came to redeem the elect. He came for his unique creation. Oh ye simple, understand wisdom, and ye fools, be ye of an understanding heart. Oh you fools, understand Christ. Oh you fools, understand wisdom. Man has a great yearning in his heart for something. You see, man was created in the garden for the purpose of fellowship with God. Because of sin, man was driven out of that garden, and fellowship with God was broken Rather than Adam and Eve rushing to talk with God and walk with God in the cool of the garden, they hid themselves because of their sin. And Adam and Eve were driven from the garden, and a cherubim with a flaming sword was set. Man's iniquity grew worse and worse because the only way for man to dwell in righteousness is to dwell in fellowship with God. And so the generations departed under the time when God saw that the iniquity of man was great on the earth, and every imagination or the thoughts and intents of his heart was only evil continually, and God said, I will destroy man from the face of the earth. But Noah found grace in the eyes of the Lord. Noah had three sons that escaped the flood, and yet from those three sons there was yet a departure from God. But God calls all you simple. You simple ones. God hath chosen the foolish things to confound the wise. Not many notable, not many mighty are called. Uh the simple ones. There's some people that are just too smart to be saved. Man is so full of himself. I can do this. I can fix it. And see, that's where Adam and Eve started. They made aprons of leaves, but it didn't fix anything. Cain thought he could fix it. He brought the fruit of the ground. But a sacrifice was needed. Suffer the little children to come unto me and forbid them not, for of such is the kingdom of heaven. Except ye receive the kingdom as a little child. What is a little child but a simple one Christ calls to those of simple faith, Oh ye simple, understand wisdom, understand me And ye fools, be of an understanding heart. In your notes there, Luke 10, 21, in that hour Jesus rejoiced in spirit and said, I thank thee, O Father, Lord of heaven and earth. Because thou that thou hast hid these things from the wise and prudent, and hast revealed them unto babes, even so it seemeth for it seemeth good in thy sight. In Daniel 2, verse 22, he revealeth the deep and secret things. He knoweth what is in the dark, excuse me, what is in the darkness. And Let me read it from the beginning. He revealeth the deep and secret things. He knoweth what is in the darkness, and the light dwelleth with him. Verse six of our text, hear, for I will speak of excellent things, and the opening of my lips shall be right things. Folks, that can't be Solomon. Solomon was the wisest man to ever live, but not everything he said was right. Solomon was a simple man But Christ can say, Hear, and I will speak of excellent things. John seven verse forty-six Never man spake like this man. Folks, I believe every true believer at some time or another has read the Word of God and it has confirmed itself with these very words. You've read this book. This can't be a man's mind. There's more here than any human mind could ever relay And the Word of God arrest your heart. Yes, this is truth. That's the opening of a blind, unregenerate heart and mind. To the truth of God. Christ says, I will speak of excellent things. Verse 7, for my mouth shall speak truth again. No man can ever say every word he says is truth, but Christ can. For my man shall speak my my mouth shall speak truth, and wickedness is an abomination to my lips. John 14, verse 6, I am the way, the truth. I will speak truth. I am the way, the truth, and the life. No man cometh to the Father but by me. And 1 Peter 22, verse 2, verse 22, speaking of Jesus Christ, who did no sin, Neither was guile found in his mouth. Oh, that must be one who is divine. For no man can claim that there's never been guile in his mouth. Jesus Christ alone never sinned with his mouth. Verse 8. All the words of my mouth are in righteousness. Oh hallelujah! That one phrase is a sermon All the words of my mouth are in righteousness. Do you want righteousness? There it is Do you want salvation? There it is. Faith cometh by hearing, and hearing by the word. Where does that come from? The words of his mouth. All the words of my mouth are in righteousness. There is nothing forward or perverse in them. In Isaiah 45, this one's not in your notes, but in Isaiah 45, verse 23, I have sworn by myself the word is going out of my mouth in righteousness and shall not return. that unto me every knee shall bow, and every tongue shall confess. That was the word going out in righteousness, and what we find in Philippians, that in the name of Jesus, every knee shall bow. It all points back to Christ. Verse number nine. These words of his mouth, reading verse 8 again, all the words of my mouth are in righteousness, for there is nothing proward or perverse in them. They are all plain to him that understandeth, and right to them that find knowledge. Um dear friends, there are many that read this book and say, what is that? There are many that read the Word of God and it's just that doesn't make any sense to me But oh to the believer they're plain. Oh, it is clear. There it is It is clear because the Spirit of God has illumined us to his truth. In your notes, John 8, 43, why do you not understand my speech, even because ye cannot hear my words? And then again in Matthew 13, starting in verse 10. And his disciples came unto him and said, Why speakest thou in parables? This is in your notes. And he answered and said to them, Because it is given unto you to know the mysteries of the kingdom of heaven. But to them it is not given. Therefore I speak unto them in parables, because they, seeing, see not, and hearing they hear not, neither do they understand And in them is fulfilled the prophecy of Isaiah, which saith, By hearing ye shall hear and not understand, and seeing ye shall see and not perceive. Blessed are your eyes, for they see, and your ears, for they hear. Ah, to the child of God, the words of Christ are plain to him that understandeth. They are right to them that find knowledge. Romans ten, verse seventeen and eighteen So then faith cometh by hearing, and hearing by the word of God. But I say, had they not heard, yea, verily there's sound. Not the understanding, but just the sound. Their sound went into all the earth and their words unto the ends of the world. Remember when Jesus said to the disciples, Will you also go away? And Peter said, To whom shall we go? Thou hast the words of life. Verses 10 and 11. Receive instruction and not silver. Knowledge rather than choice gold. For wisdom is better than rubies, and all the things that may be desired are not to be compared with it. And there it says to be compared with it, but I think we should say should not be compared with him. For again, Jesus is the wisdom. Jesus is better than rubies, verse 11. Jesus is to be desired above all things, for nothing can be compared to Jesus Christ. Remember the words of Christ, of Paul, but what things I orgained to me I count lost for Christ. Yea, doubt doubtless I count all things, but lost for the excellency of the Knowledge of Jesus Christ, my Lord, for whom I suffer the loss of all things and do count them, but dung, that I may win Christ And be found in him not having mine own righteousness, which is of the law, but the righteousness which is through faith of Christ, the righteousness of God, that I may know him. In the power of his resurrection and the fellowship of his suffering being made conformable to his death. Folks, Christ is better than all the riches of this world For what shall it profit a man if he gain the whole world and lose his own soul? Or what shall a man give in exchange for his soul? Who are the rich young ruler? That came to Jesus by night and he said, I've kept the law, I've done all these things, and Jesus said, Sell thy goods and give to the poor, and you'll have riches in heaven. And he went away sorrowful, for he had great riches. Ah, folks, Jesus Christ is the riches to be received above all. Verse 12, I wisdom dwell with prudence. And I find out knowledge of and and sorry, I wisdom dwell with prudence, and I find out knowledge of witty inventions. You know, men think they can deceive God. Men think they can hide from Christ. He has knowledge of all man's witty inventions. He sees through it all. Remember the 12-year-old Jesus sitting in the temple disputing with the doctors in Luke 2 and verse 47? And all they that heard him were astonished at his understanding and answers. At twelve years old. I've I've met some pretty smart twelve year old, but nothing like Christ And verse Luke 4, verse 32, and they were astonished at his doctrine For his word was with power. And then again in John 7, verse 15, and the Jews marveled, saying, How knoweth this man letters? Having never learned. How is it that this carpenter knows the Old Testament How is it that he has such wisdom? Folks, this wasn't a carpenter. This was the wisdom of God. Verse 13 The fear of the Lord is to hate evil, pride and arrogance, and an evil uh way and a forward mouth do I hate. Could Solomon say that? Could wisdom say that? Well Christ, the wisdom of God, can say those things John 2, 15 and verse 17. And when they had made a s a sco when he had made a scourge of small cords He drove them out of the temple, and the sheep and the oxen, and poured out the changes of money, and overthrew the tables. Verse 17. And the disciples remembered it was written of him, The zeal of thine house hath eaten me up. Folks, we as God's redeemed children try to hate evil. But it still has a bit of sparkle. It still has that allure. And the only reason that I do not rush headlong into evil is the restraining Spirit of God. And Christ, who dwells within me, hates the evil on my behalf. And because I love him, I am grieved to hurt him and disappoint him. But if I did not have Christ, the wisdom of God dwelling in me, there is no evil that I am incapable of committing. For the heart is deceitful above all things and desperately wicked. But Christ, who had the zeal of the Lord's house, dwells within me. This wisdom is mine. Verse fifteen and sixteen. Our verse fourteen we pass by it. He says, Counsel is mine Sound wisdom. I am understanding. I have strength. He could have called ten thousand angels. I have strength. Verse fifteen By me kings reign and princes decree. Could Solomon say that? No. Could just generic wisdom say that. Folks, we've got a lot of stupid kings and princes. There's a lot of fools that have authority. This isn't talking about generic wisdom. This is talking about the wisdom of Christ. By me kings reign and princes decree By me, princes rule and nobles, even all the judges of the earth, and Brother Vince is going to enjoy this because he he he beats this one frequently. I w was thinking of judges of the earth as the people that have robes and sit in a course room with a with a gavel. But folks I believe this is talking about the saints. The saints shall judge the world, and how do we judge the world? Through the wisdom of Christ. By me, princes rule, by me, nobles, even all the saints shall judge the earth by me. Because he is the wisdom of God. Remember Pilate Pilate said, aren't you going to answer me? This is in your notes. Aren't you going to answer me? Don't you know I could crucify you? And Christ said, You could have no power. Thou couldest have no power at all against me, except it were given from above. Verse 17, I love them that love me. And those that seek me early shall find me. Folks, there's a lot of stupid people in this world that seek all kinds of wisdom and come up short. But those that seek Christ will find him. It's wisdom. It's Christ that's being spoken of there. I love them that love me. John 13, 1, having loved his own, which were in the world, he loved them to the end. John 21, 15, the son of the son of Jonas, lovest thou me more than thee And he saith unto them, Yea, Lord, thou knowest that I love thee. We love him because he first loved me, first loved us. Verse eighteen Riches and honor are with me. Yea, durable riches. Folks, Penny and I met with our financial advisor this week, last week. And how bad things are. Durable riches. You know, people are talking about, you know, oh g gold gold's the thing Oh, buy silver. You ever hear that? Buy silver. And there's one advertisement, I'll confess here, I've seen a little bit of TV, watching the news, but if silver only returned to 50% of its former value, then you would be rich. Well wait a minute. If silver has to return to 50% of its former value, means somebody lost an awful lot of money on silver at some point or another. That's not a very good advertisement, folks You're saying it has to get back to where it was. Somebody lost their shirt on silver. Folks, durable riches. Isn't that what your retirement buyer always talks about? Durable riches. Not outliving your money. Folks, here it is if you want durable riches. It's found in Christ. Riches and honor are with me. The world's not going to honor us. But God has made us a nation of kings and priests. Yea, durable riches and righteousness. Lay not up for yourself treasures on earth. For where your treasure is, there will your heart be also. If any man come unto me, let him deny himself, take up his cross, and follow me. Verse 19, my fruit is better than gold, yea than fine gold, my revenue than choice silver I lead in the way of righteousness. There's another one. Solomon couldn't say that. But Christ can. I lead in the way of righteousness, in the midst of the paths of judgment, that I may cause those that love me to inherit substance. And I will fill their treasure. God's not talking about deposits in your bank account. But oh, doesn't he fill the treasures of his people? Aren't God's people content? Having food and raiment there would be content The old like the old hymn says, a house or a cottage, why should I care? God takes care of his people. Consider the lilies. Consider the ravens That's in your notes there in Luke 12. But verse Luke 22, verse 35, which is also in your notes, is one that is so precious to me. And he said unto them, When I sent you without purse and script and shoes, lacked ye anything? And they said nothing. So essentially out you didn't have a pocketbook, you didn't have a staff, you had no way to defend yourself, you didn't even have shoes on your feet, but you didn't lack anything The children of Israel wandered for forty years. Anybody here wearing forty-year-old shoes? I see one hand. Well, it goes military. The children of Israel wander if you want them for forty years and walk through the wilderness. The children of Israel walked through the wilderness for forty years And their shoes didn't wear out. Those weren't made in in Taiwan or in India or someplace. Those are good leather shoes. Their garments wax not old, their shoes do not wear out. How often has the child of God driven a vehicle way, way, way past its lifespan? God provides for us. God fills our treasury. Verse 22. I'm going to push on. I know I'm glad for a patient audience, but I do want to get through down to verse 31 this morning. The Lord possessed me in the beginning of his way, before his works of old I was set up from everlasting, from the beginning, or ever the earth was. When there were no depths, I was brought forth When there were no fountains abounding with water, before the mountains were settled, before the hills were brought forth While as yet he had not made the earth, nor the field, nor the heights, the highest parts, or the dust of the world. Okay, let's back up and catch some of the notes in between there. He says The Lord possessed me in the beginning, and then it talks about being brought forth. And here the skeptics will say, well, wait a minute. If he was brought forth, he must be born. And actually the uh Jehovah's Witnesses will go to this passage and try to prove that Christ was just a created being. But that's not at all what it's saying. You've got to look at the language The Lord possessed me in the beginning, and today I am possessed. He owns me and he dwells in me. That word possessed, we use the idiom, what possessed you to do that? Here, Christ is declaring his deity. God the Father dwelt in me. He possessed me. And I dwelt in him. God and I are one, is what Christ is declaring. Yea, Isaiah 43, 13, before the day was, I am he, and there is none that can deliver out of my hand. I will work, and who shall let it? In John 8. 58, this is not in your notes, but Jesus said, Verily, verily I say unto you, before Abraham was, I am. God the Father possessed me. I dwelt in him, and he dwelt in me. We were one from the beginning of his works. Verse 23, I was set up from the beginning, wherever the earth was. And here again the skeptic will say, Well, see here, that's when he became God. He was set up. But no, that word set is the same word that is used in Psalm ten, yet have I set my king upon his holy hill. Christ declares that in creation he was exalted. He was set up as the agent of creation. All things were made by him. And without him was anything made that was made. A father will say to his son, You do this and I'll do that. And Christ declares in wisdom, I was set up from the foundation of the world. In the beginning was the Word. The Word was with God, and the Word was God. The same was in the beginning with God. He was possessed of God. Colossians 1 also in your notes, verse 16 and following For by him were all things created that are in heaven and in earth. And he is before all things, and by him all things consist. And he is the head of the body, the church, who is the beginning, the firstborn from the dead, that in all that in all things he might have the preeminence For it pleased the Father that in him should all the fullness of the Godhead dwell. That's what we're reading there in verse 23 of Proverbs 8. I was set up from everlasting. Folks, that's not generic wisdom. That is Christ. That was set in the place of prominence from all creation. That word set does not mean create. And then we have the word br to bring forth. And this word bring forth is a very interesting word in our English. The King James translators translate this same phrase brought forth in other passages this way. It's translated pain, it's translated pained, it's translated formed. Bring forth tremble, travail, dance, grievous, grieved, wounded, shake, and then twenty-three miscellaneous, just other things that that the commentator doesn't even list. And so this phrase bring forth is translated all over the place in our King James Bible. It's a Hebrew word that really cannot be clearly brought into the English. Mm-hmm. And so you have to compare scripture with scripture. But there are three uses of this Hebrew word which I believe illumine for us what it means when he was brought forth. It does not mean brought forth like we find with Mary when she brought forth her firstborn child. The three relevant ones are there in your notes, the fear, to shake, and the dance. And these are the cross references. 1 Chronicles 16, verse 30. Fear before me. That's the same word brought forth in Hebrews in um Proverbs 8, fear before me all the earth. The world also shall be stable. And then again in Psalm 96, verse 9, O worship the Lord in the beauty of holiness, fear before him. Psalm 29, verse 8, the voice of the Lord shaketh the wilderness. The Lord shaketh the wilderness of Kedas. That's that same word brought forth before the earth was brought forth. The shaking of the earth in creation. And then Jeremiah 22, 5, verse 22, Fear ye not, saith the Lord, will ye not tremble at my presence? And that word tremble is the same word brought forth. Before the earth trembled, I was set up. And then again in Habakkuk 3, verse 10, the mountain saw thee and trembled. And then the virgins danced and caught the sight of the young men of Benjamin in Judges 22, or 21, verse 21 and 23. And see, and behold, if the daughters of Shiloh come out to dance in dances, then come ye out of the vineyards and catch ye every man his wife of the daughters of Shiloh. And in verse twenty three, and the children of Benjamin did so, and took them wives according to the number of them that danced. And that word danced is the same word brought forth. What does it mean here in Proverbs 8? Before the creation, the eternal God of, the eternal Son of God was set up in His majesty. He was greatly feared, fear before me. And the earth came into being when he said, Let there be light. There was a great trembling and light came forth When he said, Let the dry lands be separated from the wetlands, from the oceans, there was a great trembling, and the earth danced in his pleasure. As it came forth at the mighty word of the voice of wisdom of Jesus Christ. So it's not talking about being born, as some would say, but rather this eighth Psalm talks about Jesus Christ being exalted as he created the earth. and the earth trembling in a dance to the pleasure of its creator. The earth skipped. What caused you, O mountains, to skip? Well, the voice of the Lord sounded. Verse 26, while as yet there was none of them, or while as yet he had not made the earth, nor the field, nor the highest part of the dust of the world. When he prepared the heavens, I was there. When he set the compass upon the face of the death, God said, Let us make man their image. All things were made by him. When he established the clouds above, When he strengthened the fountains of the deep, when he gave the sea his decree that the water should not pass his command, when he appointed the fountains, the foundations of the earth Then I was by him as one brought up with him, and I was daily his delight, rejoicing always in him. Christ's wisdom in verse 30 says, I was by him. Let us make man in our image. I was as one brought up with him. And that phrase brought up with him is very deep and beautiful. I've given you some notes on it. One brought up with him is as a skilled artisan or workman, a co-worker, craftsman, and I put in parentheses a learned apprentice. That's the idea of brought up, one that has studied with another. And now he is very skilled in his craft because he was brought up, he was trained, he was prepared to a purpose. It is not that Christ came into existence at creation as a creative being, but rather he was the skilled creator of earth. All things were made by him, and without him was not anything made that was made. John 12, verse 49. For I have not spoken of myself, Christ said But the Father, which has sent me, he gave me commandment that I should say what I should say and what I should speak. God spoke the earth in the creation. God the Father. God the Son, Jesus Christ, spoke the earth in the creation. But God the Father gave him the words to speak. You see the connection there? Isn't it beautiful? And then John 14, verse 10 and 11, believest thou not that I am in the Father? I possessed him in the beginning. I am in the Father, and the Father in me. The words that I speak unto you, I speak not of myself, but the Father that dwelleth in me. He doeth the works Believe me that I am in the Father, and the Father in me, or else believe me for the very work's sake. God spoke the world into existence, verse 31, rejoicing in the habitable parts of his earth. And my delights are with the sons of men. Remember verse 1, he calls to the sons of men. My delights are with the sons of men. Verse 32, now therefore hearken to me, O you children. And folks, you see why I had to go through that. That therefore cannot be escaped. Because Jesus Christ is the wisdom of God who always was. Because Jesus Christ is the one who makes the wise, the foolish wise. Because Jesus Christ is the creator. Because Jesus Christ is the one by whom kings judge and by whom princes rule and who will send out his saints to judge the earth. Because Jesus Christ is the creator God, you better take note. You better fear before him, because those that sin against Christ, verse thirty-six wrong their own soul. Your sin is not an offense to God alone. Your sin is a condemnation to your own soul. And those that hate Jesus Christ love death. Oh what a glorious passage. But folks we're going to end right there today because next Sunday, Lord willing, I want to start at verse thirty-two. And go through verse 32 to 36 line by line and find the glorious warnings. That are given to the haters of Christ who love death. Let us stand for prayer. Father, we thank you for thy word. We thank you for this glorious chapter. Father, bless it to our hearts. Lord, may we not be forgetful here, Lord, through this week. May your word ring in our hearts, and may we go back and study. Lord, I pray that these sheets will be taken home and read through again and again and again. And Father, when we gather next week, prepare our hearts for the preaching of Thy Word. Glorify Thy Son within us. Illumine our hearts by the wisdom of God. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.