We're in the second part of our little walk through the Sabbath, and I left you all with a confusing paradox in your mind last week. And that was that there are some oddities about this fourth commandment to remember the Sabbath day and to keep it holy. We saw that there was quite a lot that the Old Testament actually says about the Sabbath. In fact, the bulk of what the Bible teaches is found in the Old Testament. But we honed in on a couple of key things that illustrated the paradox that was associated with it. Now I'm not going to ask you if you remember what it was. That'd probably be a little unfair. But I hope you thought through it some at that time Because there was no work to be done on the Sabbath. I'm sure you remember that much. Does anybody remember what the penalty was for doing work on the Sabbath day if you were caught? Yeah, it was the death penalty Was that ever enforced? Yeah. There was a guy picking up sticks on the Sabbath day. They didn't know what to do, and they put him in ward until God in those old times spoke to Moses as he would to the prophets, and he says, Nope, he shall surely be put to death. Wow, that was a very serious penalty. Uh but Uh we also found that there were some things that were to be done on the Sabbath day, and it was to be done by the priests In Numbers 28, they were to make a fire. They were to kindle a fire, and on the Sabbath day they were to sacrifice two lambs, and it was called the burnt offering, and it was done every Sabbath day. But God had said earlier in Exodus that you shall kindle no fire on the Sabbath day. But the priests themselves, in order to have a burnt offering, it's kind of hard to do without. A fire. So there were good and necessary works that could be done on the Sabbath, but for the most part All work was to be ceased. We also saw that there was an extensive amount of language that God repeatedly said in the Old Testament as to the nature of the Sabbath, that it was a sign, and I think for some of you that was an aha moment. When you hear about a sign, you begin to understand that that's a pointer to something. It's not the substance. You're driving down the road, you see a sign, Hagerstown up ahead. That sign isn't the city of Hagerstown. It's just indicating this is the path to get there. Other signs won't say that because that's not the path to get to it. Well, let's talk about this sign for a moment. And in your handout, you've got two blanks as your first fill-in sections here. Those online, I apologize I didn't send these out in advance. Uh eventually I'll if you're for if you want it and you gotta send me a note to remind me because I'm trying to get in that habit, so if you don't see it by uh Saturday noon, let me know. The Sabbath was always a sign, and that sign was a shadow. It was a picture. It was a picture of two things. It was the pointing to our rest in Jesus Christ for sanctification. And to our rest in Jesus Christ for salvation. We rest in Him for sanctification, we rest in Him for salvation. Those are the two. Now, why do I say that? Well, Exodus 31, God pretty much tells us that. He says in Exodus 31, 12, the Lord spake unto Moses, saying, Speak thou, you Moses, speak thou also unto the children of Israel. Saying, Verily my Sabbath you shall keep. He's talking about the Sabbath day, for it is a sign between me and you throughout your generations. Okay? Got that? That you may know, here's the purpose of the sign, that you may know that I am the Lord that doth Sanctify you. Isn't that interesting? God makes it clear as to the purpose of the sign. I want you to rest because you need to know I am the one that sanctify you. You keep it holy because I am the one that make you holy. I am the one that does that work. He says it again in Ezekiel, many, many, many years later, long after the children of Israel have been brought into the promised land, conquered the Canaanites, cast them out, and so on. And then they've got kings, things don't go well, and they begin to get uh the boot from the Babylonians and the Assyrians. One of the complaints is this, the Lord said through Ezekiel, moreover, also I gave them my Sabbath. This is Ezekiel chapter 20 and verse 12. Ezekiel 2012. Moreover, also I gave them my Sabbath to be a sign between me and them, that they might know that I am the Lord that sanctify them. So here God repeats it. He just simply tells them the purpose of the sign. You can't argue with that. And then you find in Matthew 11, 28, Christ rounds that sign out even further. And uh it's it's a little it's perhaps it doesn't use that word Sabbath, but it's pretty clear that that's the context here. He says in Matthew 11, 28, Come unto me. Excuse me Come unto me, all ye that labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. Well, the Jews understood the concept of rest. That's what they did every Sabbath day. They would rest. But Jesus says, no, no, no, come to me Come to me. I'm the one that give you rest. Take my yoke upon you and learn of me, for I am meek and lowly in heart, and you shall find rest unto your souls. Yes, the Sabbath day you would rest your physical body, but coming to Christ is a rest for your soul. And so now we begin to see the connection, the unfolding of the sign that in him we have a great rest. We have a great comfort. Uh we have a great refreshing. My yoke is easy, my burden is light. Alright, well there is this interesting paradox here that you could do work uh if it was good and necessary, but then you couldn't uh for the most part. And so uh that's an interesting angle to it Well, rather than me try to pretend like I'm smart and illustrate how to untie the the Gordian knot uh how to get off the horns of this dilemma. I'll just let Jesus answer it for you. How about that? Because he actually does. He's the one that resolves this paradox. And he does so in a very interesting way. So let's turn to Mark 2, if you have your Bibles, Mark 2. 23, and then we're going to spend some time in the book of Matthew. So if you have your smartphone or your uh old style Bible with the pages, which I prefer because you can see a whole lot more context given that you can see, uh Mark 2. 23 said this, it came to pass That he, that is Jesus, went through the cornfields on the Sabbath day. And his disciples began as they went to pluck the ears of corn. And the Pharisees said unto him, Behold, why do they, meaning your disciples, Jesus wasn't, you know. Absent from this activity, but they're pointing to his disciples. Why do they on the Sabbath day that which is not lawful? Alright, you catch what's going on? It's the Sabbath day. Passing through a cornfield. Pick the ears of corn. Tear it off, start eating fresh corn right off the stalk. Now, is this a legitimate question? Is this even a legitimate question for the Pharisees to ask? What do you think? Yeah, because they have the Lord that on Satan will drop down. Right, right. They're uh you were not to do that. Now they could certainly eat from the field of corn. If it had been any other day, uh they would not have been Persecuted or c inquired of for that activity. But it's the picking the Go ahead, Victoria. I think which says that if their sheep had fallen into a ditch, that they would go and actually take it out even though it was on the Sabbath as well. Okay. So I'm trying to uh y you're you're spot on target and you're jumping ahead. I've been first gear, you're in second and third gear, which is great. So thank you for that. Hold that thought because we're going to get to that passage that that addresses that. Alright, so uh it's a uh it's an interesting question, and is there possibility for them to actually find fault with Jesus based on what we've seen so far? Based on all that you see and only what you read in Mark II, would that be a legitimate accusation? Right, in the Old Testament uh there is a guy picking up sticks. Wow, they're doing a little bit more than picking up sticks. They're taking the head of the corn off, they're shucking it. They're busy eating, they're, you know, and it's not just one. It would seem that this would be a legitimate accusation. All right? So based only on these two verses, you might begin to think, well, that's Yeah, that's really interesting. How's Jesus going to get out of this? Well, now we turn back to Matthew. Matthew 11 we saw where Jesus talked about coming to him. to find rest to your souls. And the very next verse, chapter 12, verse 1, we read this. So if you're in your Bible, go to Matthew chapter 12 and verse 1, the parallel account Matthew records a tiny additional bit of information. And folks, that's why it's always good to compare the Bible with the Bible, compare scripture with scripture, to make sure you get a full picture of what's going on. That takes time. It's more than you can do on a sound bite, but it is helpful to do. Lo and behold we read in Matthew 12. 1. See if you can find the difference here, okay? At that time Jesus went on the Sabbath day through the corn, and his disciples weren't hungered and began to pluck the ears of corn and to eat. But when the Pharisees saw it, they said unto him, Behold, thy disciples do that which is not lawful to do upon the Sabbath day. All right, so what's different? In these two accounts Well obviously Jesus allows it. I th I think He allowed it in Mark as well, so that's the same. I think the Pharisees were kind of know it all They uh say Well they were no it alls in Mark two, they're no it alls in Matthew twelve. So what's different between those two accounts? There's a little difference. There's a very important difference. There's one extra thing added. Which extra Between Mark two and Matthew twelve, the two that we read. Did you notice an extra word put in Matthew 12, 1? Because in Mark 2, it says they just went through the cornfields and started to eat. The implication is Oh hey fellas, look, you want a little fresh corn? Sure, man. Uh I think I'll have some. I'm kind of stuffed from lunch, but yeah, I could use some fresh corn. That would taste nice. Didn't seem like there was a need. They just as they were passing through and they began to pluck years of corn. Kind of like they just wanted to. Maybe you're going down the road, you come by an apple tree. Oh look, fresh apples. You plip pluck a couple. That really wasn't the case. This wasn't just a smack. Okay. We see in Matthew 12, 1 it says, his disciples were hungry. Now in the Greek, it's the word famished. They were famished. They were starving. They were hungry. Why were they famished? Why were they hungry? Well, I'm not going to have you flip through the whole passage, but the historical context shows That in the two chapters before in Matthew 10, verse 1, Jesus called his twelve disciples, and he to commanded them to go uh into the to the lost sheep of the house of Israel and to preach. He's commanding them to go out on a home missions trip And furthermore, he says, Don't provide gold, nor silver, nor brass, nor script, nor two coats, nor shoes, nor staves. Whatever city or town you enter, inquire therein, and abide there. In other words, don't take any provisions. Don't take any provision. I'm sending you on a mission trip, but here's the deal. Take nothing with you. You go, you preach. If somebody lets you in, there you stay. If not, shake the dust off your shoes, move on to the next. How fat do you suppose these fellows were after that trip? They had just been on a long trip. And furthermore, it says that Jesus himself had gone through the cities. In chapter 11, verse 1, it came to pass. When Jesus made an end of commanding his twelve disciples, he departed thence to teach and preach in their cities. So they went teaching and preaching in the different cities taking nothing with them. They left their wallet and their purse, their money bags, their food, everything at home. They were utterly dependent on the uh willingness of the hearers to say, I like what you're saying And more than that, I want you to come and stay with me. And of course, in the Orient, you don't just walk into somebody's house and they not feed you. That would be exceptionally rude. That's not traditional. The implication is that's how you're going to get fed And that tradition continues to this day. If you walk into a house in Lebanon, practically even as a stranger, they'll set something out, nuts, maybe some coffee There's shops on the street. You go in to the tailors or to the dry cleaners. They'll have something there. That's just traditional. So they would have been able to eat. But if they don't bring you in the house, you ain't eaten. Well, you can imagine after walking, he didn't take the bus, he wasn't thumbing it, he wasn't you remember they were to take nothing. They were a little hungry. Jesus himself as well. So they're famished. They are very hungry as a result of this, and that's an important factoid to add to this equation. They were hungry, and you could say there was a legitimate need. They were absolutely famished. Oh, here's some corn. Finally, finally something to eat. And you know, I would ask yourselves Have you ever worked yourself to death for the for the service of God's kingdom? Have you ever been that busy for the service of the kingdom of God that you had not even space to eat? You know, what does it mean to be about my father's business? What does it mean you're bought with a price, you're not your own? Uh if you hire a servant and he spends most of his time doing his own stuff Uh, are you pleased with that servant? You know, if you have a cleaning person come into your house, what if they're over there in your easy chair with their feet kicked up, fooling around on their phone, on your not on your dick on your dime, on your nickel How would you feel about that? Well, is that what you're doing on the Lord's dime, on the Lord's nickel? He gives you breath, he gives you life. Are you busy about his work? Something to consider. Well, Jesus is going to give a twofold response here in Matthew 12 to this long finger pointing from the Pharisees and the Sadducees. He's going to give them a two-fold response. He's going to give them two points from history, and he's going to give them two points from doctrine. Okay? So he because this is a serious accusation, right? Because if they're correct They're going to haul him before the magistrates, the chief priests. Hey, they're doing something not lawful on the Sabbath day. They need to be stoned. That's what Moses commanded. We're all about Moses. They should be stoned. So this is a charge, an indictment that has the ultimate penalty to it. They could in fact go to death for this. So Jesus is going to come back with a very strong response. He's got to come back with a strong response to shut this down. for his life, because it's not time for him to go to the cross yet, and for the life of his disciples, because they've got a lot of work left to do as well. What's his response? Well we look at Matthew twelve And uh verse 3, we continue on in Matthew 12 as our first response. Now see if you can find and understand what this response is. But he that is Jesus said unto them, Pharisees, have you not read what David did when he was unhunger? Same word when he was famished. And they that were with him, it wasn't just David, he had men with him, just like me, Jesus is saying, how he entered into the house of God and did eat The showbread, which was not lawful for him to eat, neither for them that were with him, but only for the priests. Okay, so he takes an exception, and he is pointing out something. What would you call that exception? Hunger. Exception for hunger, okay, would be an act of what? Mercy. An act of mercy, absolutely. He's being merciful. Now the account I probably should rewind the page a little bit to see what account Jesus is talking about. And this account comes to us from the book of 1 Samuel. You don't have to turn there, I'll summarize 1 Samuel 21 in the first six verses. At that time, David was not yet king. He was anointed to be king by Samuel. The people knew him to be the mighty warrior. But he is he has just discovered some bad news. The bad news is was told to him by his dearly beloved friend Jonathan, who was the son of then King Saul And Jonathan informed him through this curious thing with shooting these arrows and calling out to send a secret message to David that, yes, in fact, my father is out to kill you. You need to flee. So David is on the run. He had been fed at Saul's table. He was able to sit and eat in the king's house. Not anymore. The king's heart had changed toward him, and if he'd set foot in King Saul's house again, he would die. He's only one. He lost his source of food And so he flees. And he ends up at a place called Nob, the city of Nob. I don't know if it's pronounced Nob or Nob And there he finds a priest serving that area named Ahimelech. And he goes in, and Ahimelech is preparing the table of showbread. Now the table of showbread was um was a was a table that had bread and they would put it and once it's in that basket it's holy bread and it's there specific for the priests. That was their bread. David said, I'm hungry, give me some of that bread. And the priest said, No, no, no, no, no, you can't add that. David argues with them. Yes, but I and the men have been away from women, so forth, and that bread was common. It was just common bread long before it hit that, and we're hungry. We're really hungry. We're famished. So the priest gave it to David So Jesus pointed, and that priest was seen, history records, as a favorable priest, as one in favor on the right side of the argument. He was with David And of course we know David's story throughout the Old Testament, held in high esteem. So David is appealed to by the Lord Jesus Christ That incident in particular, when his men were hungry, and the priests, meaning you priests, just like those priests, should have been feeding the hungry, just like I'm hungry right now. So he makes a point there. Now he goes on to a second point, and he's going to again point the finger back to them. The second point is in Matthew 12, verse 5. He says, Or, in other words, if that one wasn't strong enough for you, or have you not read in the law, you people who like the law Have you read the law recently? Isn't that amazing? Just because somebody holds a Bible in their hand, don't assume they know it or read it. I've gone to plenty of churches and it wasn't and talked to different pastors looking for answers. Very, very few of them would give me, thus saith the Lord. Most of them would point me to a book. But Brother Bernie knew the scriptures, and he could point me to the scriptures that would answer the questions. And it's very different when you encounter somebody who actually knows the book. It's very different. Well Jesus is doing the same thing to them. He says, or have you not read in the law? The implication is you're idiots. You don't know what you're talking about. How that on the Sabbath days, the priests in the temple profane the Sabbath and are blameless. Now, what does it mean to profane something? Well, uh certainly profaning it as a violation, that's the result Okay, so you're thinking maybe of the word profanity, which is from the word profane. to say bad things. Well, but the priests aren't saying bad things about the temple. They're not saying anything. What does it mean to profane something? It's an old English word. We still have remnants of it in our language But it's an important one to kind of lay hold of. Any ideas what profane means? To do what? Well it certainly does defile uh on the Sabbath, but uh but here he says they profane the temple but are blameless. Well close, dirty, yeah, okay. Okay. Bingo, common So profanity, if somebody is speaking profanity, they're just speaking the common average speech. You know, it doesn't even take a Montgomery County High School degree or education to speak curse words You know, if somebody's cursing at you, that shows that they have zero ability to deal with the issue. All they can do is try to shock you into their line of thinking. And so that's profaning something. To profane it is to do common work. It's a common thing to mow the grass. That's a profane activity. That doesn't mean it's bad, although we've kept that context to it. It just means it's very common. It's a common thing. Um uh like uh um the uh kitchen spoon may hit the floor. The floor has now profaned the kitchen spoon, right? Because it's a common place where you walk on. But the stove is a clean area. There there's clean, there's there's there's good now the broom or the mop, that can hit the floor all day long. No big deal. So there's common activities that occur. They were doing common work, these priests, on the Sabbath day. They were kindling a fire. They were killing animals. And you know there's a lot of work involved in all of that. And Jesus is pointing this out. He says, you fellows, the priests, they were Pharisees But the priests in the temple profane the Sabbath, but they're blameless. They're blameless because they're supposed to do that work And so Jesus is pointing out the paradox back to them. Hey, on the Sabbath day, no Work is to be done. No common work is to be done. You're gonna afflict your soul. You're not gonna do work. But the priests profane it, they do lots of work. I'm hungry. This is an act of mercy. This is an act of necessity. Do you see how Jesus is picking on these paradoxes and pointing back to them that what he's doing is within The legal bounds of it. That's the second point he makes. There's two more to follow. So The grounds of this exception would be necessary work, that there is necessary work that can be done. Now Not in Matthew, but in John, Jesus covers this point to round it out some more. Let me read to you John 7. 21. You may want to turn there. Gabriel might pull it up for me here. I'm going to read John 7. 21 to 24 This is a very interesting case and it's one that um uh is is quite interesting and hadn't really thought about. Jesus answered and said unto them, I have done one work, and ye all marvel. John 7, 22. Moses therefore gave unto you circumcision. Not because it is of Moses, but of the fathers, and ye on the Sabbath day circumcise a man. Alright, so think about it Um when a baby is born, on the eighth day he's to be taken to the temple and circumcised. Well that's a bit of work, folks. That's a bit of work Gotta calm that child down, you gotta take the foreskin off, you have to uh kind of try to stop stouch the blood a little bit, you you have to, you know, deal with this little bit of uh outpatient surgery on uh this but what happens if it's on a Sabbath day? Well, that's got to be done. Well, wait, we're not supposed to work on the Sabbath day. Well, that's one out of seven days. That's a good percentage of the time. You know, over 14% of the time, you're going to have A child that's going to need circumcision. And the law of Moses requires it. That's exactly what Jesus is pointing out. He says, if a man on the Sabbath day receives circumcision, that the law of Moses should not be broken Are you angry at me because I've made a man every wit whole on the Sabbath day? Judge not according to appearance, but judge righteous judgment Jesus says there's two principles that go right side by side with the Sabbath. Number one, the Sabbath is a sign. And if there is an act of mercy or a necessity that is required, You just you roll with it. The sign doesn't prevail. Okay? So Jesus is considering this not-so unusual case where a baby boy had to be circumcised on the Sabbath day. And he is by doing this reminding the priest that there are in fact several exceptions to the Sabbath sign. Okay, third point. Jesus isn't done yet. Third point that Jesus makes is now in Matthew 12, verse 6. So we're back to Matthew 12 now. He says here in this, these are some doctrinal points that the Lord Jesus is going to make. He says in Matthew 12, 6, but I say unto you, that in this place is one greater than the temple. That's a pretty bold statement. But if ye had known what this meaneth, I will have mercy and not sacrifice, ye would not have condemned. the guiltless. Jesus points them now to a doctrinal statement. This is a statement that the Lord Jesus Christ gave to the uh nation of Israel through the prophet Hosea. He's quoting to them from Hosea chapter 6 verse 6. I will have mercy and not sacrifice. What what does that what is that uh What thoughts come to your mind when you hear that phrase, I will have mercy and not sacrifice? Any any ideas? What do you think God's saying when he says, I will, I desire, to have mercy and not sacrifice? What are some thoughts that come to your mind when you hear that? Um just kind of on a initial looking basis it seems he's saying you would rather see people showing mercy and being merciful to others rather than seeing them act out in a sacrificial manner. Okay Why does that strike us as such a sharp contrast? Somebody talked to me about sacrifices. Were they required or were they optional? Yeah. There was a requirement for sacrifices. If you sinned you couldn't stand around and go, yeah, well, I'll get to that sacrifice eventually. You were to bring an offering. You were to bring sacrifices. So God did require sacrifices, but isn't it interesting that he says, but I would, I desire mercy Not sacrifice. Do you see that there's a little tension there? God's setting up a tension because I believe he's testing people. In some respects, the law of God is like one of Gabriel's traps. When we go out in the woods, he plants a little trap in the ground and there's always this thing called the dog and then there's the the spring-loaded thing and then there's the trigger. Uh it's a device that's under tension. And some traps are so sophisticated that they will, they're animal specific. They will catch only raccoons and only possums, but they will not catch dogs. The law of God, this is a crude analogy, bear with me, but the law of God has tensions to it. And it's designed to catch sinners. And it does a very good job of it. Because one of the types of sinners that God despises the most are the self-righteous. And the law of God does a really good job because the self-righteous, he'll focus on the sacrifice. He'll focus on I've got to follow this. This is what God commanded. I'm going to absolutely positively follow these things. Now bear with me. I know that I'm probably not explaining this well enough. But the Lord Jesus, you see, is capturing the Pharisees in their own craftiness. Ah! They looked down their long nose, standing on the edge of the cornfield. Your disciples are not doing something which is lawful. Well, they haven't read in the law of God. They haven't considered the role of the priests. They haven't considered circumcision on the Sabbath day. In other words, mercy isn't something that is in their mind. If you're looking to be a merciful person, you would accommodate these things. You would help them, maybe even bring a cup of cold water. But if mercy is not in your mind Oh, you'll you'll side with the s the sa I'm I'm following the sacrifices. What's really crazy is the Pharisees wanted Jesus off the cross because they had a high and holy day coming up. You can't have a body on the cross on a high and holy day you've got to take them down. They just murdered him for unjust causes. You see, if you're minded that way, the law of God will let you do it. But there's a tension there. And if you miss that, snap! It caught you. And that's exactly what Christ is pointing out here. Have you not read in the law, I desire mercy and not sacrifice? And in fact, you see that Phrase frequently in the scriptures, mercy rejoices against judgment, it says in another place. You know, blessed are the sacrificial? No, blessed are the merciful. It says in the Ten Commandments. So you see that there is a built-in tension because God is looking to judge the heart. Mercy is a heartborn action. It's a heartborn action. Sacrifice, you can be dead in sins and trespasses and do that. I'm just complying with the letter of the law, but the spirit of the law, that inward part, yep, uh that's that's to the wayside All right. Oh, you're just and I I just thought to you know Daniel being thrown on my understanding. The king You know, the law was solid. He could not show mercy. Even though he loved Daniel and didn't want him to it's just and that's the way most people are mercy. So, you know, if you stop to help someone with a tire in a row, people will say, Why'd you do that? I think they just they don't understand at all. Yes, that's correct. Fourth point. Um Is in Matthew 12, 8, the Lord Jesus says, For the Son of Man is Lord even of the Sabbath day. Mark adds this in Mark 2. 27, he said unto them, just as Jesus, the Sabbath was made for man, and not man for the Sabbath. Therefore, the Son of Man is Lord also of the Sabbath. So Jesus is pointing out, in addition, in his fourth line of argument, what should have been an obvious point, though it's an important sign. The Sabbath days at the that sign was ultimately for man's benefit. The Sabbath served men. It was a benefit to you. That I am the Lord thy God that sanctified you. That was God's stated purpose for the sign. It was a benefit to you. You were not a slave to it. You were not created to ref to to to enable the sign. It's not It's not the other way around. So Jesus, in fact, would often heal on the Sabbath day to bring this point out. In fact, it's amazing in the number of different times that Jesus goes about healing on the Sabbath day. In Mark 2, it continues. In Mark 3, there's another healing that occurs in the Sabbath day. He asked them point blank, which is it is it better to um Save life to kill on the Sabbath day. There's this man who was uh at need of healing, a withered hand or something of that nature. And they didn't answer him And he being grieved in his heart, he looked round about them with anger. They there was no mercy there. They at one point I thought it was ridiculous. He healed somebody on the Sabbath, and the priest came and said, Oh, there are six days in where you were. Come and heal him on those days, not this day Great dang! I'm sure the man would have liked to have been healed sooner rather than later. Again, it's pointing out their lack of understanding concerning mercy He often healed on the Sabbath. It's in Luke 13, it's in Luke 14, it's in Mark 3. This is something he does again and again and again because Jesus is really pointing at them. Uh yeah. Uh just gonna ask a question about uh Matthew twelve, six. What does it mean uh excuse me, uh Mark two, twenty seven, what does it mean that um the Sabbath was made for man Sabbath was to benefit man. What does that mean? Yeah. Um I can't think of any other words to say than what I said that the Sabbath rest, your resting doesn't benefit God. The rest benefits you Medically speaking, a person can go six days throughout the week and have miserable sleep, just lousy sleep for six days, just can't sleep worth a darn. But if you get really good rest on that seventh day, everything's fine. Your brain can handle it. It can go six days, but you've got to get at least one good night's sleep. within a seven day period. And so that is a benefit to you. So I would just maybe think down those paths. that it was not uh a it was not a uh an ordinance of the moral grade. It was a it was a sign. It always ever was the sign. But when we had uh contracts that were due to be done, they started putting us on working seven days a week, eight, nine days straight. They found that there were more injuries, more mistakes made, more sickness. Uh there's something about the way our bodies were made. They really need to rest in the seventh day. Even in Russia they tried to they were so opposed to they knew the seven days was a Christian proponent of their life and they said, We're gonna get eight or nine days a week and then a day's rest. And they found the same thing. They had to go back to a seven day week with one day of rest. We are j you you try to break God's law by making more money, you know, working you get double time on Sunday, but they just found that the their insurance costs went up because there were more injuries, more sickness. Yep. Uh Y you you fool around with God's law and the the Sabbath is made for man to keep him healthy. Yeah. You watch these baseball players or they They play baseball six, seven, eight, nine days in a row, ten days in a row, with no breaks, and you watch how many of them get injured. It doesn't take long before they get sloppy or careless. Um we we just had two the two best pitchers in the baseball league, uh American and National League, both of them were injured this this week. Because they they pitch all the time, ten days straight, they pitch all the time. And now they're out for a couple of years. Yeah, how did that work for you? Exactly. Sandy Colfax wouldn't do that. Oh, interesting. He took every Sabbath off. He was a two. But he knew his body couldn't do. And now the other pictures thought you're missing you're missing out. You could win more games and have better statistics Sandy Colfax, I don't think he ever had Tommy John surgery. Never didn't have the injuries. He was a Jew that believed I gotta rest one day out of seven. And today the Christians who play baseball they don't. They play every day. So yeah, there's the the the benefit is that the the sign the benefit of the sign always was for the individual. And the point is that the Sabbath as a sign points to Christ as our Savior. We rest our souls in Him And as our sanctifier, we are restored by his work in our lives. He's the Lord God that doth sanctify us. And once Christ fulfills that sign, Once that sign is fulfilled, and I realize that we're in the early part of the Gospel accounts, but we know how the Gospel Accounts ends with the death, burial, and resurrection of Christ. Once that sign has been fulfilled, because he's fulfilled all the signs, shadows, types, and figures of the Old Testament, we're no longer obligated to it as a sign. As an old covenant sign, there's no obligation. Colossians 2. 16, let no man therefore judge you in meat or in drink or in respect of a holy day. or of the new moon, or of the Sabbath days. Let nobody judge you on these things, which are a shadow of things to come, but the body is of Christ. The Sabbaths were also tied to major ordinances like the Passover, Feast of Unleavened Bread, the Day of Atonement, the Blowing of Trumpets. And if we're to follow the Sabbath, which was a Saturday in the Old Testament, if we were to follow that rigorously today, Then why not also keep the feast days, like the Passover, because that was a Sabbath day as well. There was a ninth-day Sabbath day in the Old Testament So I pivoted a little here towards the end just to show that it was a sign. A sign's been fulfilled, but there is some equity in it. There is some wisdom in it. God desires mercy and not sacrifice. that there is a certain wisdom to setting aside a seventh day of the week, one day of the week, where there is some rest. Rest for your body. It's made for you. It's a benefit and to use that day for spiritual things, for spiritual benefits. That's why the uh church has traditionally, for an exceptionally long since Acts 2, basically, um used Sunday, the first day of the week, to commemorate the Lord's resurrection and to use that as a day to hear preaching and to fundamentally keep it as a Sabbath uh although not within those strict confines with the threat of a death penalty hanging over you, but rather that uh merciful acts can be done that preaching and hearing the word is uh is done, these are the kind of things that we find that the Christian church does now. And the farmers will not plow with their cattle. The omnibus don't follow on the Sabbath as opposed to even the cattle would be given a day of rest. And the properties you farm on, they would divide into seven sections and they would rotate their crops so that nothing would be growing on s different fields. every seventh year. They found that they grow every year, every year they just the soil. uh the strength of the soil, the nitrogen and calcium, everything is lost in it's poor production. Yep. And for the man who's a beggar, he can walk that field on on the year that's a Sabbath And there'll still be some corn growing up there and some wheat and he can he can glean from that. Yeah, absolutely. Yeah, very good. Uh Ivana, would you close us in prayer? Dear Heavenly Father, we thank you, Lord, for uh the day of rest, Lord, that you do give us, Lord, to come aside and to worship you and uh Father. Your design is perfect, Lord, and um Father as we see thy children, thy people, we can recognize, appreciate this Lord. Um and Father, the the world goes about its business, Lord, but uh Father, you give rest to your people, truly Lord. Um uh even here in our weekly routine, but Lord, uh ultimately, Lord, thou givest us rest Lord in Jesus Christ. And Father we uh you glory in that and uh hold that out, Lord is our uh great hope, Lord, and Uh we thank you for the ability to come aside and pray, Lord, that you would bless the remainder of our worship here today. In Jesus' name.