Deuteronomy chapter 32, and I'm going to read the first thirty-two verses of the chapter. I know that's a little bit longer scripture reading than we often have at the beginning of our message, but we need to get a good overview of this chapter before we dive into it. Deuteronomy thirty two Give ear, O ye heavens, and I will speak And hear, O earth, the words of my mouth, my doctrine shall drop as rain, my speech shall distill as the dew, as the small rain upon the tender herb, and as the showers upon the grass. Because I will publish the name of the Lord. Ascribe ye greatness unto our God. He is the rock. His work is perfect. All his ways are judgment. A God of truth and without iniquity, just and right is He. They have corrupted themselves. Their spot is not the spot of his children. They are a perverse and crooked generation. Do ye thus requite the Lord? O foolish people and unwise, is not he thy father that bought thee? Hath he not made thee and established thee? Remember the days of old. Consider the years of many generations. Ask thy father, and he will show thee. Thy elder, and they will tell thee. When the Most High divided the nations their inheritance, when he separated the sons of Adam, he set their bound the bounds of the people according to the number of the children of Israel. For the Lord's portion is his people. Jacob is the lot of his inheritance. He found him in a desert land, in a waste and howling, a waste, howling wilderness. He led him about. He instructed him. He kept him as the apple of his eye. As an eagle stirreth up her nest, fluttereth over her young, spreadeth abroad her wings, taketh them, beareth them on her wings. So the Lord alone did lead him, and there was no strange God with him He made him to ride on the high places of the earth, that he might eat the increase of the field. He made him to suck honey out of the rock and oil out of the flinty rock. Butter of kine, and milk of sheep, with fat of lambs, and rams of the breed of Bashan, and goats with the fat of kidneys, of wheat, and thou didst drink the pure blood of grapes But Jesteron waxed fat and kicked. Thou art waxen fat. Thou art grown thick. Thou art covered with fatness Then he forsook the God which made him, and lightly esteemed the rock of his salvation. They provoked him to jealousy with strange gods. With abominations provoked they him to anger. They sacrificed him to devils, not to God. to gods whom they knew not, to new gods that came newly up, whom your fathers feared not Of the rock that begot thee, thou art unmindful, and hast forgotten the God that formed thee When the Lord saw it, he abhorred them because of the provoking of his sons and of his daughters. And he said, I will hide my face from them. I will see what their end shall be, for they are very forward generation, children in whom is no faith. And they moved me to jealousy with that which was not God. They have provoked me to anger with their vanities, and I will kn will move them to jealousy with those which are not a people. Will I provoke them to anger with a foolish nation? For a fire is kindled in my anger, and shall burn unto the lowest hell, and shall consume the earth with her increase. And set on fire the foundations of the mountains. I will heap mischief upon them. I will spend my arrows with them. They shall be burnt with hunger and devoured with burning heat, and the bitter destruction and with bitter destruction. I will also send the teeth of beasts upon them with the poison of serpents of the dust The sword without, tear within, shall destroy both young man and virgin, suckling also with the man of gray hairs. I said, I would scatter them into the corners. I would make the remembrance of them decease from among men. Were it not that I feared the wrath of the enemy? Lest their adversaries shall behave themselves strangely, lest they should say, Our hand is high, and the Lord hath not done this. For they are a nation void of counsel, neither is there any understanding in them. Oh, that they were wise, that they understood this That they would consider their latter end. How should one chase a thousand, and two put ten thousand to flight, except their rock had sold them, and the Lord had shut them up? For their rock is not our rock, even our enemies themselves being judges. For their vine is the vine of Sodom. And of the fields of Gomorrah, their grapes are grates of gall, their clusters are bitter. Let's bow for prayer, seeking God's leading and direction in His holy word this morning. Our Father and our God, we thank you for this glorious book before us. We thank you that all scripture is profitable. All scripture is given by inspiration. It's profitable for doctrine, for reproof, for correction, for instruction in righteousness. Lord, open your word to us this morning. Give us understanding in your word, not in words of man's wisdom, but in words that your spirit would direct to our hearts Father, we come before you today as hungry people. We are hungry simply because you have caused us to hunger and thirst after righteousness, for we would not have this hunger of ourselves. And Father, we pray today that your Holy Spirit would feed our souls with your truth. May we see Christ in the Word, and may we glory in our great salvation. Lord, we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. This marvelous, marvelous chapter before us is often referred to as the song of the rock. And if you look down to verse 44, We have the context of Moses giving this song, and this is why we call it a song. In verse 44, and Moses came and spake to all the words of this song in the ears of the people. And so by calling it the song of the rock, we're not applying to it something which Scripture does not. It's a song about the rock. But there are two rocks in this song. The one rock that we find in this song is the rock of the heathen. It is the rock with a small R of the Canaanites that lived around Israel. It is the rock of the Chaldeans, it is the rock of the Philistines, it is the rock of the Assyrians. It's a rock with a small g. The other rock that we find here is Jehovah. It is the true rock. The other rock that we find in this chapter we will see is Jesus Christ Himself. Who is the true king of Israel, the true deliverer of his people, the Redeemer who purchased his people from Egypt? If you look down to verse 31, We find this amazing truth. For their rock, small r is not our rock, capital R. Even our enemies themselves being judges. And we remember when the children of Israel were coming into the land, and the two spies were sent out into Jericho. And in Jericho they encountered the harlot Rahab. And Rahab told them, the whole land fell fears because of your God. We've heard what your God did to the Egyptians. We've heard what your God did to Pharaoh. We've heard how your God parted the Red Sea and you walked through and the Egyptians tried to follow you and they were drowned up. And Rahab, this harlot who has heard the wonderful works of Jehovah, is saying, We the people of Jericho, we know we don't stand a chance. We've heard of your rock. Oh, your rock is not our rock Our rock is a pebble of this earth. Your rock is the everlasting stone. And so this chapter is a glorious comparison of these two rocks. And yet, we find in this chapter that God's people were negligent of their rock. That God's people did not give to their rock the honor and glory he deserved. Look at verse 4. Our rock, he is the rock, his work is perfect, all his ways are judgment, a God of truth Just and right is he. Verse 15. But Jesuran waxed fat and kicked Thou art waxen fat. Thou art grown thick. Thou art covered with fatness. Then he forsook the God which made him. And lightly esteemed the rock of his salvation. Jeshuan is an interesting name that is given to Israel here. It literally means the upright one. And why were the children of Israel upright? These are the murmurers of the wilderness. These are the beggars for bread. These are the people who again and again rebelled against their God, and yet God calls them here in this inspired song, Jessuron, the upright one. Why were the upright? Because of their rock. They were upright because their rock had separated them from the Canaanites. They were upright because their rock had brought them out of Egypt. You see, their rock had made them upright, and there was no uprightness in themselves. It was solely found in their rock. And the heathen viewing the rock of Israel said, uh, our rock cannot compare. themselves being the judges, our rock is not like their rock. And yet just as a stray dog that is brought into your home and is fed and is nourished and is taken to the vet and is given vitamins and is fattened up and now you no longer see his ribs, now he no more is scraggly, his fur is no longer flea bitten. He now is a beautiful, healthy Specimen of a dog, and he turns around and he bites you. For all the blessings that God had given to Jeshuan. Jessure unracks fat and kicked, like the favored steer in the stall, like the horse that has been fed and nurtured and curried and cared for, and you walk in the stall and it kicks. As you walk past. And so Jesuan waxed fat and kicked. And we find in verse 18: of the rock that begot thee, thou art unmindful and hast forgotten the God that formed thee. And we're going to come back to that consideration of Jeshua a little bit later on. But we find in verse 20 How should one chase a thousand and two put ten thousand to flight, except their rock, capital R, had sold them? And the Lord had shut them up. This chapter is a chapter of great judgment. And great condemnation against the children of God. It is a chapter that shows us how they have rebelled against God, how they have forsaken their God. They were unmindful of their rock. But here we see in the midst of this account of their rebellion against God. But he is the rock. He is the rock on which we build. He is the rock that they suck honey from. There is honey in the rock. Rock. He is the rock the perfect way. I'd like us to see, first of all, from this chapter, as we go into it, that the first thing we would notice is that our rock is the creator of his people. And maybe a better way to state it is that our rock is the origin of his people. Look with me at verse 15 again. But Jeshruan waxed fat and kicked. Thou art waxen fat, thou art grown thick, thou art covered with fatness. Then forsook he the God which made him. And most often when we think that God has made us, we think of creation. He created us, he made our physical being. But here when it talks about Jeshuan, the righteous one, Israel, forgetting the God that made him. I've already alluded to this. God made him holy, but more than that, God made him his people Did you make yourself a child of your father? Of your mother? Nonsense. Foolishness. Did Israel make themselves the people of God? Nonsense, foolishness. And we have in this chapter the glorious promise that be Because of Israel's sin, God would bring them the jealousy by a people that were not a people, and therefore we the Gentiles are brought in to this standing. Did we make ourselves thus Know ye that the Lord, he is good. It is he that hath made us. And not we ourselves. We are his people and the sheep of his pasture. Did we make ourselves his people? Did we make ourselves the sheep of his pasture? Not at all. And so we hear, we find, that the heathen, without God, when they're the judges, when they look at it honestly, they say Our rock is not their rock. Which rock do you deserve to serve? Not Jehovah. Not Jehovah. Israel. Jeshuan the righteous. What right have you to have Jehovah as your rock? Ah, none. It's purely the mercy of God. It is purely his grace. How dare you, Jeshuan? Lightly esteem the rock that made you. Lightly esteem the rock of your salvation. Look at verse six Dost thou thus, or do ye thus requite the Lord or question the Lord, O foolish people and unwise? Is not he thy father that hath bought thee? Hath not he made thee and established thee? Brethren, friends, dear ones, we have been made the children of God. And yes, we are made the children of God by faith, in that faith is the entrance into that privilege. And yet, where did the faith come from? For by grace are you saved by faith, and that faith, not of yourselves. Faith, it is the gift of God, not of works, lest any man should boast. But how like Jeshua and we are. I am righteous in Christ. I'm filthy in myself. I have no righteousness of my own. And yet when I go before God I can go before God with boldness. I need not a priest of earth because I have Christ as my priest. And I go before God the Father, not clothed in my sin. But clothed in his righteousness. And yet I kick. And I struggle against the goodness of God. I am fat with his blessings. But I forget the Lord that made me, that made me his own dear child. Ah, may we see that our rock is our creator. Our rock is our origin. We come from Him. Psalm 119, verse 73, Thy hands hath made and fashioned me. Give me understanding that I may learn thy commandments. Ephesians 2, verse 10, for we are his workmanship created in Christ Jesus. So, he is our rock that made us. But the second thing I would see, and brethren, this is glorious. This is This is, as we say, enough to make a Presbyterian shout. This is rich stuff, folks. Our rock possesses his people He is the possessor of his people. Look at verse nine through twelve. In the previous verses, 6, 7, and 8, it's talking about God dividing the children of Adam and dividing the nations. But then in verse 9 it says, And the Lord's portion is his people. He divided the children of Adam. He divided every man, woman, child of the earth. And then he chose out a peace for himself. The Lord's portion is his people. Jacob is the lot of his inheritance. He found him in a desert land. Didn't find him in a palace. In a waste howling wilderness. He led him about, he instructed him, he kept him as the apple of his eye, as an eagle stirreth up her nest and fluttereth over her young He spreadeth abroad his wings, he taketh them, he beareth them on wings. So the Lord alone did lead him, and there was no strange God with him Jehovah didn't have any help. There was no strange God with him. It wasn't Jehovah and Baal. It wasn't Jehovah and Astaroth. It wasn't Jehovah and Dagon. There was no strange God with him. And yet Israel has brought in strange gods. He provoked them with jealousy with gods which were not gods, we read in our scripture reading You see, we are the possession of our God. He purchased us with the blood of his own Son. Our rock owns us. What? Know ye not that your body is the temple of the living God? For you're bought with a price. Therefore, glorify God and your body and your spirit, which are God. We're not bought with corruptible things, such as silver and gold, but with the precious blood of Christ. Christ. And how was it that these Israelites came to be in the wilderness following this great rock? It began with the Passover. It began with the shedding of the blood of a lamb, and the blood of that lamb being placed on the doorposts of the doors, and as they walked out the doors of their house to head for the promised land, they walked through the blood. And my friend, by the grace of God I have walked out of my sin through the blood of Christ, and I march to the promised land. But I'm not my own. The Rock has chosen me for his possession. And so we find here that this rock in the wilderness possesses his people. Remember Christ's prayer when he was going back to his father? He prayed, All mine are thine, and thine are mine. He said in John 6, all that the Father giveth to me shall come to me, and him that cometh to me I will in no wise cast out. He said, I accept them that thou hast given me out of the world, and none of them is lost. These are all possessive terms. And my friend, when you go to a car lot, the car doesn't buy you, you buy the car. And you choose it out of every other car on the lot. And maybe it's a silly way to put it. And yet God chose me out of all the people of earth to be his own possession. Brethren, this is a love story. I am my beloved, and my beloved is mine. He feedeth amongst Among the lilies. I am my beloved, and his desire is toward me Think about that. That song of Solomon 7, verse 10. I am my beloved, and his desire is towards me. He loves me. He loves me. It's a glorious love song. God possesses me. Satan cannot have me. Because I belong to the God of heaven. I'm in his hand, and no man can pluck me out of the Father's hand. We find also that this rock is the supply of his people. Look at verse thirteen and fourteen. He made him deride on the high places of the earth, that he might eat the increase of the field. He made him to suck honey out of the rock, and oil out of the flinty stone, butter of kine, and milk of sheep With the fat of lambs and rams of the breed of Bashan and goats, with the fat of kidney, thou didst drink the pure blood of grapes. He is the rock. He is the supplier of his people. He made his people to suck honey out of the rock. Some of you may have grown up singing the old hymn, old gospel song, There is Honey in the Rock, my brother. There is honey in the rock, my friend. There's honey in this rock. What is honey? It is sweetness. What is the Illustration or the reference that is being given to us here. Well, remember, God promised the children of Israel he would send them into a land that floweth with milk and honey. And here we have a picture of a rock with a great cleft in the rock, a great crack in the rock. And the bees, finding that to be a place of shelter, have gone into the rock and they have made their honey there. And now the honey is flowing out of that crack and it is flowing down across the rock. But I would question you, my friends, how does a rock get a crack? Rocks are not formed with cracks. A crack comes from a trauma. A crack comes from something happening. Remember Moses at the instruction of God going to the great rock and smiting it with his stick, and the rock clave open, and the water gushed out. Remember Jonathan walking through the woods And we read there in 1 Samuel 14, you don't need to turn there, but in 1 Samuel 13, that context, it says that the wood dropped honey. And the honey flowed on the ground, a land that floweth with milk and honey. Remember Samson who killed a lion? And he comes back to the lion after the lion has decomposed, and here within the ribs of the lion. What has happened? The bees have made a hive, and honey comes out of that hive, sweetness. The Lion of Judah was slain. But out of the slay of the Lion of Judah has come forth sweep. For Jesus Christ once suffered to bear the sins of many, and to them that look to him shall he appear the second time without sin unto salvation. Jesus Christ is the rock from whom honey flows. Jesus Christ is the wood, he is the lad that flows with Milk and honey. Jesus Christ is the lion who was slain for my sin. And so this promise is made that God would supply his people. Yes, he fed them. He gave them manna. Yes, he gave them water out of the rock. Yes, he gave them honey. Bulls of Bashan. He gave them all these blessings. But what are these blessings? They are all Christ. They all point back to the Christ. He gave them manna, and he is the bread of life. He is the rose of Sharon. He is the dew upon the mountain. You see, it's all about Jesus Christ. It's all about him. He supplied every need. And Christ has promised to supply all of our needs. When I sent you out without purse and script, lacked ye anything. But my God shall supply all of your needs according to his riches and glory. He doesn't give us everything we want. But he gives us everything we need. And how often, how often I would challenge anyone here of adult age to testify against this comment How often have we greatly desired something that we didn't get, and we look back a month, six months, or twenty years ago, and we say, wow. It wasn't what I thought it was. That pathway of life would have led me to iniquity, it would have led me to sin, it would have led me to destruction. I wanted it so bad. But it wasn't good for me. And the grace of God took from me that which I wanted now and gave to me that which I needed for eternity. My God shall supply all of your needs. In Psalm eighty four verse eleven We read, for the Lord God is the Son and the Shield. The Lord will give grace and glory. No good thing will he withhold from them that walk uprightly. My friend, you may want a promotion at work and not get it. Has God failed you? No, if it was good for you, he would give it to you. How many of us have suffered a financial loss that we did not expect, that we did not plan on, and it hurts And yet, if that hadn't been good for me, God would have left it with me. But it was not good for me. And so he took it. How many of us have prayed for our mother as she lay on a bed dying? Oh Lord, don't take my mother. And the Lord has taken her. Was it good for me that she remained? No. Because if that was good, she would have remained Paul had a thorn in the flesh. He prayed three times, Lord, take this away. Deliver me from this. He said, No, my grace is sufficient for thee. And what could Paul say? Therefore, most gladly will I glory in my afflictions. Was he better off with the affliction or without the affliction? He was better with it. He was better with it. Every one of us have a sick loved one. Or friend, for whom we plead with God for healing. If God does not give that healing, is he unkind? Is he right Wrong. Their rock was the supplier of his people. Our rock gives us that which is good and that which is needful and nothing more. And nothing less. Our rock is the supplier of his people. Our rock is the salvation of his people. Look again at verse 15 Jeshuran waxed fat and kicked and kicked. Thou art waxen fat Thou art grown thick. Thou art covered with fatness. Then he forsook the God which made him, and lightly esteemed the God of his, say it with me Salvation. He lightly esteemed the God of his salvation. Israel had been saved out of Egypt. They had been taken from the bondage of sin, the bondage of Egypt, the bondage of this world, and headed for the promised land. He alone was their Savior, and there was no false God. with him. Before the birth of Christ it was prophesied, and she shall bring forth a son, and he shall save his people from their sins. That's a declarative statement It's a declarative statement. He shall save his people from their sins. And if one of his people isn't saved, he's failed. And that's blasphemy. I say that too lightly. If one of his people is not saved, then his promise has not been kept. And it was pointed out to me just yesterday. That we don't trust in the promise, we trust in the one who has made the promise. Because anybody can make a promise, but only our God can keep every promise he makes. And so it was prophesied that he would save his people from his sin, and yet we find when he came unto his own, and his own received him not. But as many as received him, they then gave him power to become the sons of God, even to them that believe on his name. What happened? Why was it when Christ was born that the Pharisees The scribes, the people of Israel would cry, Crucify Him, crucify him. Why would they not accept their Savior? Because the righteous one kicked and grew fat in his righteousness. They failed to wonder at their heritage. They failed to adore the God who loved him. They failed to worship him, the God who had chosen them. They lightly esteemed the rock of their salvation, and it only took a couple generations for God's people to become anatomy. How quickly we grow cold But that word I would like to focus on here, and I said we'd come back to this concept. I'd like it to focus on that word lightly esteemed. Because One of the literal meanings, one of these the King James uses, biblical uses of that word is to wear away. Do you remember when when Jethro, Moses' father-in-law, came to him and said, you're doing too much. You can't judge all the people. You can't do it all. And he said If you don't get help, you're going to wear away, is the word used in our King James Bible. And it's this same word lightly esteemed. Moses, if you don't get help, you're going to wear away. You're going to deteriorate. What happens to a rock in a river? And it wears away. What was once a great stone becomes a pebble over time. To what did we compare the gods of the heathens? To a pebble. And it is not that Jehovah wears away, it is not that we wear out our God, but it is that we wear out our esteem of Him. They lightly esteemed the God of their salvation. I know I use too many car illustrations, but I like cars. And we've all either purchased for ourselves or seen someone else purchase a car that they polish their God every Saturday. For a year or two. And then the day comes when the mud stays behind the tires and the carpet doesn't get vacuumed and They've given up on air fresheners because nothing can freshen that. And their love for that car wears away until the day they trade it in or junk it. How many professing Christians have traded in their God or just thrown him away altogether? You see, this is the rock of our salvation. This is the rock that has purchased us from condemnation. And yet, how quickly we become Laodiceans. How quickly we let the things of this world grind away at our love for Jehovah. Grind away at our devotion for Him, grind away at us until we lightly esteem the rock of our salvation. Verse 18. Of the rock that begat thee, born again, begat, we could do a whole message just on that word begat, maybe someday we will. But of the rock that begat thee, thou art unmindful. What is that? Well, it's lightly esteeming. They don't think about him anymore. He is no longer their concern And has forgotten the God that formed thee. Look at verse 5. They have corrupted themselves. Their spot is not the spot of the children of God. In other words, they are God's children, but they no longer have the spots. They no longer have their father's nose and hairs and eye. They no longer look like their father. They no longer bear the image of their Redeemer. If any man be in Christ, he's a new creature. Old things are passed away. Behold, all things are become new. But they got all those old things and brought them back in again. But he is the God of our salvation. In 2 Samuel 22, verse 47, the Lord liveth. And blessed be my rock b be my rock, and let the God of my let the rock sorry, let me start the verse over again. Second Samuel twenty-two, verse forty-seven. The Lord liveth And blessed be my rock, and exalted be the God of the rock of my salvation. And Psalm 51, verse, or 95, verse 1 O come, let us sing unto the Lord, let us make a joyful noise unto the rock of our salvation Matthew chapter 21, verse 42, Jesus said unto them, Did ye never read in the scriptures this stone which the builders said it not has become the head of the corner? And of course, Peter's confession, Thou art the Christ, the Son of the living God, and Christ replies, Thou art Peter, and upon this rock, upon this foundation. Upon myself, I will build my church, and the gates of hell shall not prevail against it. This rock is our rock of salvation. This rock, and I know the time's getting late, but we're having lunch here today, so there's nowhere to go. This rock Is the perfect worker on behalf of his people. He works perfectly on behalf of his people. Look at verse 4. He is the rock, his work is perfect, for all his ways are judgment, a God of truth and without iniquity, just and right is he. As for God, Psalm 1830, as for God, His way is perfect. The word of the Lord is tried. He is a buckler to all those that trust in Him. Why do bad things happen to good people? Why do bad things happen to good people? You know what? A bad thing has never happened to a good person. Because there has never been a good person. There is none righteous. No, not one. There is none that understandeth. There is none that seeketh after God. They are all gone out of the way. They are all become iniquity. There is none that doeth good. No, not one The question is not why do bad things happen to good people. The question is why should a good thing ever happen to bad people? Because I'm bad people But Christ has been so good to me. He is the perfect worker And I've alluded to this already. But there is no financial difficulty, there is no sickness, there is no sorrow, there is no disappointment There is no loss of position. There is nothing that happens in my life that is not in the loving providence of God and is bad. It's all good. Oh, it doesn't mean it's comfortable. It does not mean it's not painful. It does not mean it doesn't keep me awake at night. It doesn't mean any of those things. It simply means it's good. Because he is the rock, and his work is perfect, and I am his workmanship created in Christ Jesus. And so every day is a perfect day. You ever have a bad day? Anybody have a bad day this week? Yeah, I I had what I'd call a bad day But it was perfect. And I had no idea why God changed my plans. I don't know what He protected me from. I don't know what evil he kept me out of. I don't know any of those things. But God is the perfect worker on behalf of his people. He does all things well. There's one more thing that we would observe from this song of the rock. Our rock is the incomparable Lord. Our rock is the incomparable rock. Look back to verse thirty three twenty-nine Verse 29 is speaking of the wicked. It is the wicked that's that are being spoken of in this verse to have the context. They uh oh that they were wise, oh, that the wicked were wise. Oh, that they were wise, that they understood this, that they would consider their latter end. How should one chase a thousand and two put ten thousand to flight, except their rock had sold them and the Lord had shut them up? In other words, the wicked Who we read in the previous verses, I don't have time to go back to them actually. No, it's further on. But anyway, the the wicked Christ says he he fears lest the wicked say that our arm has done this rather than God do it, because we had the Philistines defeating Israel. The Philistines never should have defeated Israel. We have the people of Ai defeating Israel. Never should have happened. The only way it could happen is their rock has forsaken them. The rock has sold them. And so here the wicked, uh how can how can two of you wicked put 10,000 of my chosen people to flight? Except their rock has sold them and the Lord has shut them up. For the wicked say, their rock Is not our rock, for their rock is not our rock, even our enemies themselves being judged. We have an incomparable Lord. The verse, choose ye this day whom ye will serve, but as for me and my house, we will serve the Lord, is so often taken out of context. If you look at the context, he talks about the gods that were before the flood, the gods of the heathen. And if you will not serve Jehovah, choose one of these wicked gods you're going to choose, these ungods you're going to choose. But as for me and my house, we will serve the Lord. Christ said to the disciples, Will ye also go away? Do you remember the response? To whom shall we go? Thou hast the words of life. This rock of God's people is the incomparable Lord. There is none like him. There is none other. Look down to verse 39. I know our time is getting away, but this is this is rich stuff, folks. Verse thirty-nine of the chapter. We didn't read this here earlier. See now that I, even I am he, and there is no God with me. In other words, I don't have a he A heathen God helping me out. There is no God with me. I kill and I make alive. I wound and I heal. Remember, we talked about our six loved ones' healings earlier on. I wound and I heal. Neither is there any that can deliver out of my hand If I lift up my hand to heaven and say, or sorry, verse 40, for I lift up my hand to heaven and say, I live forever, which one of the gods of the heathen lives forever? Which one lives at all? I live forever. Verse 41 If I wet my glittering sword and mine hand take hold on judgment, I will render vengeance to my enemies, and I will reward them that hate me I will make mine arrows drunk with blood, and my sword shall devour flesh, and that with the blood of the slain and the captives from the begin f from the beginning of revenge upon the enemy He's an incomparable Lord. There is none like unto him. Who is like unto thee, O Lord, among the gods? Exodus 15 And he said, O Lord God of Israel, there is none like unto thee in heaven nor in earth, which keepeth covenant and showeth mercy unto thy servants. Psalm 86, verse 8, Among the gods there is none like unto thee, O Lord. Psalm 89, verse 8, O Lord, God of hosts, who is a strong Lord like unto thee? There's no rock like our rock. Oh how we should love him. But oh how quickly we wax fat and kick. Quickly we forget his goodness. O save to the rock that is higher than I, my soul in its conflicts and sorrows would fly. Cling to your rock, brethren. Look you into Jesus, the altar and finish of our faith. And so we're not done yet. Look at verse 44. This song ends in verse 43. But then in verse 44, and Moses came and spake unto all spoke all the words of this song in the ears of the people, he and Hoshea, that Joshua, the son of Nun. And Moses made an end of speaking all these words to Israel and said unto them, Set your hearts unto all the words that I testify among you this day. Set your heart on them. Don't let 'em wear away. Don't be negligent of them. Don't lightly esteem them Set your heart unto these words, which I command you this day, which ye shall command unto your children, generation after generation, what happened when Christ was born. They didn't give them to their children. To observe to do all the words of this law, for it is not a vain thing for you, because it is your life. To cling to these words is not a vain thing. Rather, it is the source of your very life. Let us stand for prayer. Oh God, we thank you for your word. We thank you for this glorious, glorious passage of your word. What meat for the soul! What a banquet of edification! we find in thy word. Father, bless it to our hearts. May we not walk out of here and grow fat and kick. But O God, may we be ever Your chosen people. May we truly be Jesuron the upright. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.