The story he was sold as a slave in Potiphar's house, and there he served, and then lo and behold, um his wife uh had an eye for this fair young man. He was uh apparently uh uh fine strapping looking individual and he would not uh succumb to her. He would not. And it landed him in prison and so now for having done nothing wrong uh he is in prison It's interesting, we tend to think of Egypt back then as the Egypt was at the end of the book of Genesis in great power Archaeologically, actually, it shows that Egypt had kind of floundered around for a long time, but it wasn't until this period of time when Egypt had amassed all of the grain and purchased all of the land and had secured all the power because they had all the food, which I'm jumping ahead, but you all know the story. That's when Egypt became a superpower. Prior to that, they were just yet another tribe out there. They were just yet another group of people, uh almost like a Greek city-state type of uh uh uh of power where Pharaoh himself, although he was a king, he wasn't a very powerful king. He didn't own much. It's whatever resources he could get. And um Uh a and it was uh although he would tax the people, he wasn't quite that powerful. He really wasn't that strong at all. So he is being brought really not to America a superpower, but to uh, you know, Venezuela or a third world type of a country. They were not Jews. They would not have been Jews, they wouldn't have known the law of the commandments of God Well, lo and behold, we find that in chapter 39 and verse 1, he's brought to Egypt to this officer of Pharaoh named Potiphar Uh a captain of the guard, he's an Egyptian, and he purchases Joseph. And it says in verse 2, the Lord was with Joseph. He was a prosperous man. He was in the house of his master, the Egyptian. And of course he then winds up for having done nothing other than to resist Potiphar's wife. He then finds himself in prison Then in chapter 40, we find that there's other people, people in this prison, the chief butler and the chief baker. They are uh had been serving Pharaoh the king, and of course that's why America got away from kings, because they're judge, jury, and executioner uh if you upset them for the least, and we don't know why the baker would offend the king so mightily as to land himself in prison. I can't imagine his eclairs tasted that bad, but be it as it may, that's what a king can do on a whim And these two fellows find themselves in prison right alongside Joseph, who was a very faithful uh prisoner. In fact, all was committed to his hand. Everything he did, he did well, in whatever circumstance of life he was in. And these fellows have dreams. Well, guess who knows something about dreams? Well, it's none other than our hero, Joseph, who interprets the men's dreams quite accurately. For one, it fared well, for the other it did not And we read at the end of Genesis 40, as Joseph beseeched him, please remember me before Pharaoh. It says verse 23 of Genesis 40, yet did not the chief butler remember Joseph, but forgot him. Uh, isn't that the case? We do well to people sometimes. Please remember me. Boy, they're your friends, they're your best best friend forever, they're your pals in time of need, but as soon as they're out of the pickle You know, Vince Who, Mrs. Ross Who in the Euroso yesterday. What have you done for me lately? Uh that's how the world is, and so it isn't surprised. But God is orchestrating all of this And as Job did an excellent message a couple of years ago when he pointed out in Genesis 41, verse 2, it came to pass at the end of two full years that Pharaoh dreamed. And if I could repeat what he mentioned, Joe did in his message on that, had Joseph been brought to the remembrance of Pharaoh at that time, Pharaoh would have said, What do I need some other prisoner for? He wouldn't have had any respect for some dreamer in prison because he didn't have a dream that troubled him. But here it is two years later, when the fullness of time had come, when exactly the famine was nigh into the land is when Pharaoh would have the dream and all of a sudden I need somebody who can interpret a dream and Joseph becomes highly important. Highly important. Not until that time. Sometimes the Lord tells us to wait. That was what convicted me, brought me around. I was an awakened sinner and I was sitting in a computer room Uh with a young lady at the time, uh she's retired now, her name's Mary Schweitzer. Not the Mary Schweitzer who discovered DNA uh uh the the red blood cells and and dinosaur bones. But she was a software developer, quiet, meek woman. We kind of knew she was a Christian. And I was sitting here in the software lab at the time. They didn't have enough money to give everybody computers here in a lab, timesharing So Mary, you know, I just have this thing where with prayer, you know, uh you pray and the answer is yes or no and I can get that regardless, you know, that doesn't help. And uh she says, well sometimes the answer is wait And that just shattered my foundational argument, one of my arguments against uh, you know, trying to pray and beseech the Lord for anything And she had no idea how much came crumbling down because as a result of that I began to question a lot of other things. Well what else have I missed? If I couldn't miss a very fundamental basic answer to a simple question like that, what else am I missing? But I don't want to digress too far. Well we're in Genesis forty-one. I'm going to attempt to get us through some of the highlights of this chapter. There's fifty-seven verses. A good chunk of it is repetitive. the dream is told at length, and I won't read through that at length both times. But I do want to get to our first part, which is after Pharaoh calls for Joseph. He gives Pharaoh the interpretation of the dream. He credits it to the Lord. He says, the Lord will give you. Verse 16. Joseph answered Pharaoh, saying, It's not in me. God shall give Pharaoh an answer of peace. But what we find is that the the first thing is that Joseph was taken from prison. He was removed from prison. And just to get our mindset into the point which I'm trying to draw out of this, as Joseph is a grand picture of Christ. It seems like God wants to use this young man's life, drag him through all kinds of stuff to paint him out as a marvelous picture of the coming Messiah and our Lord and Savior, he was drawn out of prison. We see in verse 14 of Genesis 41, Pharaoh sent, called Joseph, they brought him hastily out of the dungeon. He shaved himself, changed his raiment, and came in unto Pharaoh. You know, it is said of our Lord in Isaiah 53 and verse 8, it says, He was taken from prison and from judgment, and who shall declare his generation? Isaiah prophesying of Jesus says he was taken from prison. But if we go through the New Testament and look, when was Jesus ever actually in a physical prison? John the Baptist was. We don't read of Jesus being thrown in prison. And yet Isaiah is very clear, he was taken from prison. So in what sense do you suppose it could be said that the Lord Jesus was taken from prison? Notice the language here, hastily Shaved himself, changed his raiment. There's a lot of detail added there, which is not incidental or accidental. In what sense was Christ taken from prison? Uh I I'm wondering was he maybe in prison for just a short time before he be uh came out and was uh So mutilated. N uh well, you know, that's an interesting thought, but uh it it was such a hasty trial he went straight from the courtroom to having a cross laid upon his wall flogging first and then a cross laid upon his back and and right uh up to the uh to to Golgotha. So that's a good thought. Actually if you look at Acts two twenty seven The Apostle Peter in his first sermon, the Lord Jesus preaching. You have about 120 disciples in the upper room No one would argue the Lord Jesus was a bad preacher. He was the best preacher that ever walked the globe. And yet he has 120 disciples. Peter preaches one sermon, bang, 3,000 people are added to the church. What happened Well God the Holy Spirit is all of a sudden very much at work in the hearts of people and means of releasing them. And we read in Acts 2, 27. Peter speaking of Christ, because thou wilt not leave my soul in hell, neither wilt thou suffer thine holy one to see corruption. In a sense, hell is God's prison. It's where God puts his enemies. And it's a very intense place. It's a very sure place. It's a place of utter and utmost doom. And our Lord Jesus Christ, as it were, suffered the eternity of a rat of the wrath of God on behalf of us to pay for our sins, and yet he was taken from that after three days. No harm was done to him. Because there was no reason for harm to occur to him. And so in that sense, we could say Christ came out of prison. It was God's prison. It would have been hell. We go to Genesis back to Genesis 41 And we read in 16 in verses 25 to 32. We've already read 16, where Joseph is going to give Pharaoh the answer to the dream And he says in verse 25, Joseph said unto Pharaoh, The dream of Pharaoh is one. Remember he had these two dreams, and we saw previously when Joseph interpreted a dream, it's not that they were two separate events, they were one event. But they were doubled up to say it must surely come to pass. It absolutely will happen. And so that's very instructive now. We have a second account of a doubling of a dream, slightly different characters, one with ill-favored kine or cattle, and also another with the stalks of corn blasted by the east wind. Two separate pictures, but it's the same event And so you can use that when you're looking at prophecy in the New Testament. Sometimes God will depict the same event from different vantage points. And our dispensational friends would say take those as different epochs or different times. They are in fact not. They're overlapping, they're pointing to the same thing. That would be rightly dividing the word of truth because we're starting with how Joseph has it done. And I don't think God's changed his playbook along with that. He's eternal God. He does things the same. God has showed Pharaoh what he's about to do. Verse 26. The seven good kind are seven years. The seven good years are seven years. The dream is one Seven thin and ill-favored kind that came up after them are seven years, the seven empty ears blasted with the east wind shall be seven years of famine. This is the thing which I have spoken unto Pharaoh. What God is about to do, he showeth unto Pharaoh, behold, there cometh seven years of great plenty throughout all the land of Egypt, and there shall arise after them seven years of famine. All the plenty shall be forgotten in the land of Egypt, and the famine shall consume the land. The plenty shall not be known in the land by reason of that famine following. It shall be very grievous And for that the dream was doubled unto Pharaoh twice. It is because the thing is established by God, and God will shortly bring it to pass. He called Joseph because we read back in Genesis 41. 8. Jack, that Came to pass his spirit was troubled. He sent and called for the magicians and the wise men. Pharaoh told him his dream, but there was none that could interpret. The dream. Now this is a guy that throws bakers and butlers in prison for doing minor things wrong. The butler maybe rattled his hand a little bit. Maybe he was an older butler and had a little bit of uh shakiness coming on to his uh his strength of his hand and he rattled the cup a little too much and his cup of Turkish coffee was just a little too sloppy. Didn't have enough foam in it or something. This is Pharaoh. Now can you imagine you're a counselor, you're a wise man to Pharaoh, and you can't answer the mail. What does this mean? And it's not even an unreasonable request because Nebuchadnezzar, of course, had dreams. Okay, well you tell me the dream and the interpretation. They're like, well, sorry, King, nobody can do that. He's saying, you're the wise man, you're in my court. And you're like, corn, cow, don't have a clue. But Joseph, I'm going to use a certain word, prevailed. to answer a dream. And it's interesting because he was able to prevail, and so was our Lord Jesus Christ. He prevailed to open the seals. Look at Revelation chapter 5 And if you want to really understand Revelation, you have to understand that it is a prophecy, it is a prophetic book, and it's the last one we have, and it's very similar to Ezekiel. Very similar to parts of Jeremiah and Isaiah. There's a lot of overlap. In fact, some of the language appears almost directly borrowed and correlated. And you see in Revelation 5, verse 5, there is this book written that sealed up with seven seals. That was verse 1, and nobody could Verse 3, no man in heaven or in earth under the earth was able to open the book, neither to look thereon. It was a closed book, it was a mystery. This is from heaven's vantage point One of the elders said unto me, Weep not. Behold, the lion of the tribe of Judah, the root of David, hath prevailed to open the book and to loose the seven seals thereof. When when you said Revelation, I thought you were going to one eighteen, where he has the keys. Yep. Same concept. That's the same concept. Yes. He has that which opens. Yes, that which opens. And the big thing is to open the understanding. See, there's a lot of dreams recorded in the scriptures, and a lot of visions that are recorded in the scriptures. And frankly, to a great many, today, they're still veiled. They still don't understand that there is a spiritual significance to that. And you can find it from the scriptures, comparing the Word of God with the Word of God. It's there. But except Christ give you that understanding, this book will remain veiled. It was to me, I know what that veiling is like. I was a young man, I'd look in the Bible, and number one, I wasn't very interested in it, it just seemed kind of strange, odd, it just spoke of uh a lifestyle and an interest that I didn't have. I just wasn't that just wasn't my thing. Um it was just a mystery to me. Just a mystery. What a parable. And yet Christ comes, opened the understanding, this is a wonderful thing. This is a marvelous thing. And in fact What Joseph tells Pharaoh is about to be his greatest challenge and his greatest blessing and opportunity that he could possibly imagine. That he could possibly imagine. Back in Genesis 41. 33 through 36, Pharaoh comes to the conclusion and says, Now therefore let Pharaoh actually Joseph makes this suggestion, therefore let Pharaoh look at a man discreet and wise and set him over the land of Egypt. Let Pharaoh do this and let him appoint officers over the land and take up the fifth part of the land of Egypt in the seven plentious years. He's imposing a twenty percent tax. Now you think the people would howl and holler But he's like, it's not gonna matter. They're gonna make so much money, there's gonna be so much influx of grain that they won't mind paying twenty percent. Now that's not in the account, and I'm perhaps reading into it some, but it is a 20% tax, but he says it's going to be years of palenty. You don't even read about the people complaining about it at all Let them gather all the food of those good years that come and lay up corn under the hand of Pharaoh. Let them keep food in the cities. So Egypt did have cities, and he's going to disseminate and distribute it in, you know, closest to where the need is to minimize the transportation and shipping costs. That food shall be stored to the land Against the seven years of famine which shall be in the land of Egypt, and the land that the land perish not through the famine. So Joseph's suggestion is very simple. There's times of plenty, there's times of good, while the going's good, saved, set aside. Now I'm not going to go off into another favorite topic of mine, which is financial stewardship, because I don't want to get into that. I could pack this room if I had a financial seminar. But um uh the point here is that Joseph is going to make preparation. That's the whole point. He's making a preparation. He knows something is coming in the future and he's making preparation for it Well, likewise, does anything catch God by surprise? Has anybody done something really that God went, wow, are you kidding me? I didn't think about that. How about the Garden of Eden? Did that surprise God? Probably not. Yeah, we'd have to confess, well, if he's really God We'd have to say, no, it didn't. He foresaw that in fact man, though made righteous, Adam had a righteousness. God looked upon him and said, Lo, it's very good. But he had a mutable righteousness It was it could be mutated. Adam himself could throw it all away, and in fact Adam did And he did a fine job of it and made a fine mess of it. He did throw that righteousness away. Because an eternal righteousness comes only in one source, the Lord Jesus Christ himself. A creator can't make another creator. You either have to be joined with him, or you're made in his image, righteous. But mutable. It can be changed. And so that's what happened. So God pursued, he knew of our sins in advance, and he made preparation Psalm 14 in verse 2, I do want you to turn there because this is important from so many ways. I'm doing a miserable job of time management on my notes. Pretty clear I'm not going to get through fifty-seven verses. I guess that was kind of foolish to think I could actually tackle that, but I'll do the best that I can These are important things though, folks. Psalm 14, uh we read this. It says the uh the fool has said in his heart, there's no God, they're corrupt, they've done abominable works, there's none that doeth good. Verse 2. The Lord looked down from heaven. Now remember, God dwells outside of time. Heaven's not time-bound. There's no clock in God's heaven. There's no alarm clocks, Penny, in God's heaven. Isn't that nice? Yes, it's wonderful. Of course you you're not going to run out of energy either, so to see if there were any that did understand and that any did seek God. Well now God is not looking down from heaven just at the time Psalm 14 was written. God is looking down from heaven and when he looks down, he sees the beginning of time and the end of time as I look at this lectern. He sees it all as one. As one. Simultaneously. It's all played out before him at once. Beyond our imagination, we cannot understand or fathom that because we're stuck in time. And he says, this is God's assessment. This is his executive summary of this survey to see if there's any that did understand. They're all gone aside. They're altogether become filthy. There's none that doeth good. No, not one. That's God's assessment. He looks and he sees that it says in Isaiah 59, 16, he saw that there was no man, and wondered that there was no intercessor, therefore his arm brought salvation unto him, and his righteousness it sustained him. You see, God foresaw that the human race would make a complete and utter and royal mess of himself. And thus God has a solution. He prevailed to open the book, to unseal The seven seals. He unveiled it. He says, yes, there's a calamity coming, but I'm gonna provide a solution. That solution wasn't corn or grain. That solution was Jesus Christ Himself. Because we read in Hebrews 7. 22 By so much was Jesus made a surety of a better testament. What's a surety? Suret is a backstop. It's a cosigner. You got a friend, they're trying to move into apartment. They've had struggles financially not in good credit, they need somebody to co sign the loan. You're the surety. Now the proverb says don't sign for that. Because it'll surely fall upon you. And that's exactly what happened to Christ. He became the surety for the human race, and lo and behold, it did fall upon him. It did happen. But he was our backstop. He made preparation. Again, you can't take these historical parables and stand them up on all four legs and make them walk Uh there wasn't seven years of plenty. It's a picture. In fact, you could probably start to evaluate that number seven and get something out of that as well. There's uh different de definitely some some spiritual Things going on with that, but I'm not going to get into that at the at the time. Christ knew of our sins in advance and made preparation Well back to Genesis 41. What then does Joseph become in the midst of all these other court wise men? When compared with them, what does Joseph become? Thinking now of Joseph and the other wise fellows in the Pharaoh's presence. Well, he's not a ruler yet. He doesn't rule. Pharaoh hasn't granted him anything at that point. Well, certainly he's foretold, but the other wise people that were there, how is he compared to them He knows Jesus. He knows God. Well he knows God. Yep. And they do not. What's his job qualifications as a wise man in Pharaoh's court? Is it inferior to them, equal to them, or better than them. Second only to back it. Well he's better than them. He becomes an extremely wise counselor. He hasn't been promoted yet. He's just simply given this advice to Pharaoh And so all the c all of a sudden he's done not only what the other wise men could not do, which is interpret the dream But he goes a step further. He gives advice. What do you call somebody who gives advice to a counselor? A counselor Was he an average counselor? Was he was he using conventional street wisdom and all this? He was a wonderful counselor. He was a wonderful counselor. Yeah. Right. He was a wonderful counselor. And of course, we know that passage from this time of year, for unto us a child is born, unto us the son is given, and his name shall be called dot dot dot counselor. Counselor. You know, to have somebody to give you good counsel. Is that valuable? Is that valuable? I think it is. To somebody to give you good counsel. To somebody, the value of somebody who can truly guide you through periods and times of life when you're stuck. You don't know which way to go. To the right, to the left, up, down, crawl into my shell and cry, run around the streets with gel on my head and a bit butane lighter on so I can run around my hair on fire. What do I do? You ever had times like that? Christ is called our counselor, even as Joseph was a wise counselor. That's what that man on the wall was to me for a great many years. Brother Bernie Elper. He was my Bible mentor for seven years. I was at his house no less than I think I averaged four nights a week. I was at his house The dear wife would cook me dinner and I was just amazing. She she really liked me and I liked her too. She she claimed to not be saved. She says, oh no, I don't believe like you guys did. But she saw that I was a tremendous benefit to Bernie and he was a tremendous benefit to me, so she just she just wanted to kind of keep this train going. God just so graciously allowed her to provide for us. But when you've not been in the presence of a truly wise man, and all of a sudden you are in the presence of a truly wise individual, what a difference it made. had a huge impact on me spiritually, huge impact on my job. He understood corporations. He coined the phrase, the Jeep. for the AMC Motor Corporation. That was his brainchild and it still exists today. Wherever you see the word Jeep on the back, that came from him. He was a uh a senior vice president of American Motor Corporations. He had three hundred dollars cash pocket walking around money in the early sixties just because he could. He would um he was unsaved. He didn't get saved until he was about my age, uh mid mid to late fifties. He would call out for lobster from a place in New York, because he liked lobster from a certain restaurant. He lived in Pennsylvania Pay the cab to go drive and pick it up, bring it back. He had a house in Pennsylvania, a house in Del Cerro, California, a house in Dallas, Texas. He had it all. And he lost it all when he came to Christ. Lost it all. Because then he started being an honest businessman. And the world just doesn't like honest businessmen. But he knew the game. He knew how the game worked. And he took on one client, a man who was a Tony McCune, Chrysler Plymouth, in San Diego County who went from being a joke on the television where they would, you know, throw buckets of water on and pies in his face for the commercial ads, to putting him in a tux with a small little dog And he had a little slogan, you know, the dog's name was Honest. And uh he would uh anyway, I'm digressing about my mentor. Um he uh turned that dealership into the number one in the state of California, number two in the nation. So he knew his stuff. When you're in the presence of a truly wise man, you know it. Because one of the one of the criteria I found is they dispel clouds of doubt. They immediately dispel it. You know when you're talking to somebody who knows their stuff, when there are more answers than questions at the end, and you see something, ah, much further than you ever thought before. I miss those days. I really do. He was a great, great delight. Joseph, just like Jesus, was a very wise, wise counselor. Pharaoh received a tremendous that one minute, or however long it took for Joseph to say that to Pharaoh, was the best minute of his life because it gave him a path and a course and a direction which didn't vary or deviate over the course of fourteen years And it catapulted Egypt into a regional, if not global, superpower from that two minutes. Is that worth your time? Two minutes? Is two minutes time in this book worth your time? What could that do for you Joseph is but a weak shadow of Jesus, the counselor. What could two minutes a day in this book do for you? Redeeming the time. Yeah, the Bible talks about redeeming the time. And then we read as Pharaoh hears this and blows his fine linen Egyptian socks off. He thinks this is facts. Fantastic news, what does he say? In verse thirty nine of Genesis forty one Uh I'm sorry, verse 37. The thing was good in the eyes of Pharaoh and in the eyes of all of his servants. I mean it was such overwhelmingly good advice that everybody in the room said, Wow, he's got the answer And Pharaoh said unto his servants, Can we find such a one as this, a man in whom the Spirit of God is? And Pharaoh said unto Joseph, For as much as God has showed thee all this, there is none so discreet and wise as thou art. Thou shalt be over my house, and according unto thy word shall all my people be ruled. Only in the throne will I be greater than thou And Jesus, just like Joseph, what's that relationship there? Between him and God? Between Jesus and God? What's the relationship there? In the same. Yeah. Father, Son, Holy Spirit, we talk about the Trinity. And yet Jesus, like Joseph, is second only to God in the throne In a sense, now this is where you can't stand up the parables in all four legs. We declare Jesus to be everlasting God But in 1 Corinthians 11 3 we find this language that says, I would have you know that the head of every man is Christ, the head of the woman is the man, and the head of Christ is God. So, in a headship or authority perspective, and I use that word authority loosely, just walk with me on this for a minute What we find from the ro from the illumination of Scripture is that there is a there are assigned roles within the Godhead. There are roles. For instance, God the Holy Spirit didn't hang on the cross. Yet we would insist that God the Holy Spirit is God, just as Jesus is God, just as the Father is God, but we don't confuse those persons. There's nothing to whom we can compare God. I can't even give you an illustration that would do it justice. Some try to go to a form of modality, like water is a solid, a vapor, and a liquid. That doesn't cut it because Christ is all three of those at once. God is all three of those at once. But we have to stick with the language that the the Bible gives to us, and it says that the head of Christ is God. You hear him speak often in the scriptures about he's here to do the will of his Father. He would pray to his father, let this cut pass from me. Nevertheless, not mine but thine be done. And so we see that Christ subjected himself. He willingly took this secondary place, whereas Joseph was pulled up to that position, right? So there's some comparisons there. I think that Christ is seated at the Father's right hand. Yes. He is not the one I mean God yes, it's hard to explain, but you got the secondary position. Yes, right And so you see this here, and the extent of Joseph's rule, frankly, I'm trying to figure out what Pharaoh left to himself It says that Joseph rules all the land, and Joseph rules all of his people, and all of Pharaoh's house was his. Now, this is not the house of Potiphar. meaning house of just his four walls. In ancient times, uh when rumors would refer to their house, they meant their kingdom. So you would read about the house of Amri in archaeological finds, you would find the Assyrian kings referencing that they had plumbaged the house of Amri. They were talking about the nation of Amri, that Israel king. So the house was much bigger than just his four walls or sixteen walls or however many rooms he physically dwelt in. Um Pharaoh was in the palace, he was on the throne. Whereas Joseph was going through the land Yeah. Joseph was running around doing all the leg work as it were. He was out there doing the work. Yes, absolutely. Yes, absolutely. Yeah, yeah, we see that. And of course, uh Jesus we see is highly exalted, just like Joseph, being over all the house. Excuse me, in um Hebrews chapter 3 And verse 5, we have this. Moses verily was faithful in all his house as a servant for a testimony of those things which are to be spoken after. But Christ as a son over his own house, whose house we are, if we hold fast the confidence and the rejoicing of the hope. Remember that phrase, Victoria, rejoicing of the hope, firm until the end Christ is a son, but he's also a ruler over his own house, whose house we are. Yeah, it's marvelous we see that tremendous. Getting back to Genesis forty one, maybe I will be able to wrap this up as I zip to the finish line. We see in verse uh Genesis forty-one 41 he says, see, I've set thee over all the land of Egypt. Pharaoh took off his ring from off his hand and put it upon Joseph's hand. arrayed him in vestures of fine linen, put a gold chain about his neck, made him to ride in the second chariot which he had, and they cried before him, Bow the knee And he made him ruler over all the land of Egypt. Bow the knee. Does that have any ties to Jesus Christ? Every knee shall bow. Yeah, we read in Philippians, every knee shall bow, every tongue shall confess that Jesus Christ is Lord. I'm just trying to picture this procession. Can you imagine? You know, Pharaoh didn't have the dumpiest ride in town, right? He didn't have a uh a used Ford, you know, I know some of you are Chevy lovers here, so I'll use I'll let Ford be the the the laughing stock. He wasn't in a fiat, you know, fix it again, Tony. He wasn't in that. He was in a chariot. Made by Sherman. He was in a chariot. LTZ. And he gave it to Joseph. And he had criers, he had heralds running in front as this chariot comes down and people are standing around looking. The chariot, the people in front of it said, Bow the knee! You bow the knee. Can you imagine? This is saying you must respect and reverence and honor the one that's coming ahead. Don't just stand there Watching a donkey go down the street, you bow the knee. It's an insistence that you bow the knee before this great ruler. That's what Pharaoh declared. It wasn't something they would appreciate later. It was made from the get-go. Even so it is, our Lord Jesus Christ. risen from the dead, hastily changed into those resurrection garments, as it were, that new that new body, right? Because he could pass through walls, he could ascend into heaven. That was very, as it were, different And so he's exalted to the throne, and the message of the gospel is bow the knee. The work isn't done. We haven't appreciated it just yet. But the message to you and I is bow the knee, and for those who refuse to bow, Isaiah 65 says they will bow to the slaughter. If you do not bow to this king, you will die. All will bow the knee before Jesus. He keeps going. Look at verse 44. Pharaoh said unto Joseph, I am Pharaoh. And without thee, Joseph, shall no man lift up his hand or foot in all the land of Egypt. Now that's pretty intense. You know, sometimes kings are a good thing. They can rule against you in a very hard way, in a very extreme way, in a very unfair way, but they can also rule likewise in a very over the top way to exalt and to promote and to give power and to grant authority Joseph has incredible reign and extent of power. It's a blank check with Pharaoh's name signed on it. He gave Pharaoh basically gave him the signature for his check on his signet ring. You know what the signet rings were used for, right? So when an official document went out, they'd drip some wax on it, and you would stamp the imprint of the signet ring In fact, we found some of these, the cult bulle, some of the the lesser officials, uh would use clay seals that were fired in the kiln and they would have, you know, from the house of so-and-so, and that would be their official stamp. We found quite a few of those in the uh Temple Mount area, the Muslims came just plowed over and dumped it all to the side. And the Jews and others from the Israeli antiquity authorities are out there digging around. They found quite a few Ancient bully, some that mention the name of Isaiah. Isaiah had one. We found it. Some mentioning other kings. And there's quite there's like thirty or forty different individuals in the Old Testament that we can validate who they were and that they actually existed uh based on some of these bullets. But I know it because the scriptures declare that they would be there. He had sovereignty over the land. Nothing occurred without Joseph's permission. Is God sovereign over this earth? You know, our Baptist brethren would hold that God is sovereign over this world and a great many things. They'll talk about weather, they'll talk about creation. Praise God. I love them for that But sadly they'll stop short on his greatest work, and that greatest work is the work of salvation. God is sovereign in that too. All that the Father hath given me, Christ said, shall come into me. And him that cometh to me I will no wise cast out. From God's perspective, it's ordained. There's a people who will be saved. God has ordained that. And it must occur in space-time history. Well, action is not salvation, it's unto salvation And this is what God does. Praise Him for that because I would never figure it out. Remember, I'm the guy that needs a counselor. I'm supposed to figure this out on my own. Never's going to happen. I need the counselor to come to me and help me. He is sovereign over the land. Nothing occurs without permission. And I have to wrap it up here in Matthew 10. 29. It says, Are not two sparrows sold for a farthing? And one of them shall not fall on the ground without your father. Wow. Can you imagine? God the Father controls even the falling of a dead bird. A worthless little sparrow. You know, I see people have parakeets in their house or minor birds that, you know, mimic everything that you hear. Um there's some birds I've heard that have an incredible range of voice recordings. They can record the sound of the tree logger's chainsaws going, they can make that sound It's incredible what birds can mimic. Nobody gets a sparrow and puts a oh look at my lovely sparrow. Right, that's nice, Junior. No, this is my wife's. Oh, change the subject. Right. She's a moron. Nobody keeps a sparrow in your house. And yet God cares for that sparrow. God says it will live or it will die, and if God cares for that, as well as all the hairs of your head, get a little easier job with you than he does with her. All the hairs of your head? Yes. Might have falling out faster, so maybe mine's harder. There's a lot of ordination against you right now. There's a parable there. Nothing occurs without God's permission. You know, as I close there, because I really am out of time, you know, God has given the Lord Jesus Christ this extreme amount of power to rule over the land. And it ought to be a comfort to us. Beyond just the Sunday school hour when we're reminded of these things in scriptures. There are very difficult things that happen to us in our life at various times, and yes we complain and yes we bring them up in our prayer meetings, and yes we request uh prayer for them. And I'm not saying we shouldn't bring them up to our God for uh as a matter of prayer But we cannot lose sight of the fact that he still remains sovereign. I I don't know that Isra that that Israel or at the time uh the house of Jacob had a playbook. Son, if you follow these steps, you'll be in charge someday I'm pretty sure it wouldn't involve his brothers throwing him in a pit. I'm pretty sure it wouldn't take him down the path of being sold into slavery. I'm pretty sure it wouldn't involve him being thrown into an Egyptian prison far from home. The normal path to success. I don't think MIT would come up with their school of business as this is the way you become powerful in the land. The MITs of their day Don't fall subject and prey to conventional wisdom or conventional thinking. God's wisdom God's made foolish the wisdom of this world because the world by wisdom didn't know God. They don't know the path to heaven. They don't know everlasting righteousness. They don't know how to make something work forever. God does. It's a different path. Very different path. But be not discouraged. Even a sparrow doesn't hit the ground apart from her father's good pleasure. Alright, we close there. Pastor, would you mind closing this more? Our great Heavenly Father, we thank you, Lord, that though the heathen rage you laugh. You are in control of everything. And Father, we uh see our land in peril just as the land of Egypt was in peril. And let look yet, Lord, you always have your remnant, and you work all things together for good, and you control all things. Father, we thank you for these glorious images, pictures, reflections of Christ that we find in your Word. Lord, this book is indeed a lamp to our feet and a light to our path. And Lord, we just rejoice in it that it is fresh and new and alive and edifying to our hearts. Lord, continue this day as we go into the time of worship, Father, to show us your truth as revealed in the Word of God. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen.