Well, we are now going to look at our third and final installation of the segments concerning Joseph. You might wonder, gee, why am I taking so much time on one individual? And that's because the Bible records the information of this one lone character, this great-grandson of Abraham, from Genesis 37 to the end of the book. That is an awful large chunk of scriptural real estate to cover one individual, if you stop and think about it I don't know anyone else who has quite that much time spent speaking about them, except of course for the Lord Jesus Christ. And so he's worthy of our attention. It's also significant that it occurs in the very earliest chapter of the Bible. And it um uh is uh striking to us what the ancients uh considered were notable to record. And there's much in this man's life beyond the obvious that it was extraordinary, uh, that is there for us that gets even larger when we now have New Testament insight in terms of who God's talking about. But uh today we're going to look at Joseph the loving brother We've looked at the suffering son or the suffering dreamer, then we looked at the exalted ruler and supreme leader, and now we're going to see him as the loving brother. Just want to review briefly the previous studies that we had looked at and Genesis 37 and 41. I just want to read for you about ten to twelve sentences. It was him who they plotted against to slay. It was him who was sold for twenty pieces of silver, the price of a slave. It was him whose own they received him not. It was him who was falsely accused and cast into prison, paid for a crime he did not commit. It was him they hoped never to see again It was him who revealed secrets. It was him whom God would not leave his soul in prison. It was him whom God exalted to his own right hand so that even knees would bow It was him who, when they cried because of the famine, they were commanded, go to Joseph. It was him, it was because of him that they heard that there was corn that they may live and not die. It was him who only could they go for deliverance. Apart from him, there was no Savior. It was him whom they hated, whom God raised up to have all power to supply their needs. And it was him who satisfied their hungry soul. I'm indebted to some of those observations, and we'll look at more of those observations from a dear brother of mine in Southern California, a street preacher named Paul Duanus, very bold fellow. He and I had spent some good times together back when I was single, and it was always a delight to be around him. And he came to that just from reading through the passage. Just to look for the the glories of Christ, and there's more in this. Turn if you will to Genesis forty-two. We will look at select portions of that. Again, these are very large chunks of scriptures and it's almost foolish for a teacher to try to cover Genesis 42. 43, 44, and parts of 50, but we will endeavor to be select in our approach to those chapters. And we'll read the first eight verses of Genesis 42. Now when Jacob saw that there was corn in Egypt, Jacob said unto his sons, Why do you look one upon another? And he said, Behold, I have heard that there is corn in Egypt. Get you down thither and buy for us thence that we may live and not die. And Joseph's ten brothers brethren went down to buy corn in Egypt. But Benjamin, Joseph's brother, Jacob sent not with his brethren, for he said, Lest peradventure mischief befall him. This was Joseph's other uh brother from the same woman from uh uh Rachel, whom Jacob loved. Verse five, and the sons of Israel came to buy corn among those that came, for the famine was in the land of Canaan, and Joseph was the governor over the land, Gazuntite, and he was and he it was that sold to all the people of the land. And Joseph's brethren came and bowed down themselves before him with their faces to the earth, and Joseph saw his brethren and he knew them. Wow what What an momentous event and time that must have been. But made himself strange unto them and spake roughly unto them, and he said unto them, Whence come ye And they said, From the land of Canaan to buy food. And Joseph knew his brethren, but they knew him not. Wow. What's interesting about that, it was him who spoke roughly to them and told them of their enmity. You know, there are times, I believe, when God Almighty seems to be demonstrating to us a very rough face. A very hard face. tough set of circumstances and you wonder why, Lord, is this upon me? As it were, God is testing us. But what you're going to see plainly through this passage is behind that frowning face Um shines Smiling Providence. Yes, you know the hymn. What's the name of that hymn? Moves in Mysterious Ways. Yes, yeah, that's a great, great hymn. should be an encouragement to you. So here Joseph is uh we know from the rest of the account that we're going to read uh is not interested in hurting these people. At this point he has everything Right? He is truly the big man on campus, and this is a mighty big campus. He is going to exalt Egypt from being just a collection of villages and tribes to being a national, uh, regional superpower And he is the one that's in charge. And Pharaoh loves Joseph. There's no doubt that Joseph is his A number one guy. Not because he loves Joseph's God. Well, because of what he's done for Egypt. But that's a picture of the great love that the Father has to the Son. Again, no parable can fill out all the aspects that we that we could consider. Skip down to verse 16. He's going to have a discussion with them. And he concludes with the punchline as he's proving them, he says, verse sixteen of the same chapter, Send one of you and let him fetch your brother, and ye shall be kept in prison, that your words may be proved, whether there be any truth in you, or else by the life of Pharaoh, surely ye are spies. He's putting them under a national oath and in the political prison. Kinda can't help but to think that the young side of Joseph, the baby brothers kind of giggling inside, saying, Oh, this is great. I can actually do this And he put them all together into war three days. And Joseph said unto them the third day, This do and live, for I fear God. That's interesting. If ye be true men, let one of your brethren be bound in the house of your prison. Go ye, carry corn for the famine of your houses, but bring your youngest brother unto me So shall your words be verified and you shall not die, and he did so. So now he's going to It's interesting. What do you think Joseph is intending out of this? Describe the the paradox that's going on here. What's in Joseph's mind as he puts this particular condition upon them? What's going on here? What do they think is happening? The brother Okay. If they really care about the brother or if they really mean what they Yeah, if they really have a brother. Remember this is the second this is the the the omnipotent ruler of Egypt here They really don't recognize him. I'm quite sure he's shaved. He kind of looks like Julbrenner. He's got the garb on. He looks like an Egyptian. He has the attendance of an Egyptian. They don't recognize him. That's an important part. I've never really understood this. I've read it many times, but I really I can't answer it. Okay, fair enough. Yeah, yeah. Uh and it and it is, you do have to go through these things several times. So what Joseph is effectively doing From their perspective, he's what? He's testing them. Well she said she's testing them. They claimed, well, we have a brother and you know and and and He he inquired about them, they told them who we are. They honestly reported the truth that there's, you know, uh ten of us here, one is not, one's back with our father, we're here to get corn. And Joseph is saying, Oh no, no, no, you're spies. I don't believe anything you're saying. It's all fake news. Okay? I'm going to put you in prison because I think you're a spy. You're here to spy out the land. You're here to rob things. You're going in prison, one of you, one of you is going to go in prison, the rest of you got to go back, and if you want any more corn, you gotta haul that brother back that you s claim to have. So he's testing him. Now, what does Joseph really want? He wants to see his brother. Yeah, that's his only full brother. Yes, right. It's his only full brother of his mother. Yeah, it's his it's his it's his bud. Yeah, absolutely. He wants to see him again. Hmm. But there's also the matter that his brothers have been proven to be liars before. Yeah, that has been their fault. They lied to their father about what happened to him. So he he's kind of putting his finger on their Show yourself to be truthful. Yeah. Yeah, that's a good point. Yep, that's a dynamite point because Joseph is setting up a situation in their life to flush out a specific sin weakness in their lives. And he's seeing, have they really repented? Is there really been a change here or not? Let's keep going because you're going to see how this amplifies. Verse 21. And they said one to another, We are verily guilty concerning our brother. In that we saw the anguish of his soul when he besought us, and we would not hear. Therefore is this distress come upon us. Alright, who's the brother they're talking about? Talking about Joseph. Do they think Pharaoh can hear them as they're muttering in Hebrew on their way to the prison? So what did he do? Think about it, it was him who convicted their conscience of sin repaying their way upon their head. Was it a full repayment for their sin? No, I don't think so. Not really. It wasn't a full repayment. He just gave them a little taste. A little tastier sin. This is what lies will get you. This is what deceit before the throne will get you. If before the throne of Pharaoh, you can be thrown into prison What about before the throne of God? Do you see how God the Holy Spirit likewise convicts us? He, one of God's favorite tools in his playbook of life, how he governs the universe, is he does repay man's ways back upon his head. And I can recount that as a young man going astray in college You know, I look at my daughters and I remember I was their age when I was doing some very wayward things, and I'm thinking, wow, what an idiot. But God, I can recount, allowed me to taste and reap the fruit of my doings in measure. He did allow me to take. . He put it back in measure. And so here you see a conviction of sin that Joseph is bringing about. Good observation, Pastor. Look at verse 22. And Reuben answered them and said, Spake I not unto you, saying, Do not sin against the child, and you would not hear, therefore, behold, also, his blood is required. And they knew not that Joseph understood them, for he spake unto them by an interpreter. That interpreter is uh interesting there. He's uh Someone who's in between, who's uh uh as it were uh rendering their words uh uh appropriate for the king, but did he really need an interpreter? You know the scripture speaks of the Lord Jesus Christ as one who and the Holy Spirit is one who with groanings and utterings which cannot be understood presents our petitions to the throne. But does God really need an interpreter? No, he doesn't, but he has two witnesses there. He has two witnesses. I find all this very interesting. It was uh It was him whom they confessed that they are very guilty concerning our brother, and it was him who they confessed of their guilt that caused anguish to his soul. Have you ever considered and looked at the Christ, uh, Christ on the cross and contemplate that it was your iniquities that put him there? I can't remember, but it was an Renaissance era artist. Um uh Durant comes to mind. Don't quote me on that. I don't recall who. It was one of these he was not impressionistic where it's just take a bucket of paint and sling it up there and just slosh stuff around, but it was Photorealistic. And it was some of the most incredible paintings I've seen. I'd love to find that painting if I could uh someone will let me know But it was a picture of a man. It's Christ on the cross. I don't particularly care for pictures of the Savior. You should not make image images of God. But what's notable about this is that the artist was showing Christ on the cross, and the fellow was at the bottom, and he was either nailing The nails in his hands, or or you could tell that the other person in the painting was having a part in this crucifixion. What's interesting is that the artist painted himself. as that other person. Showing that, yes, I put Christ on the cross. It was for my sins that he went there. I'm the one that caused his anguish. I'm the one that caused his pain. And this is what they're confessing. It's a great confession. We saw the anguish of his soul and did nothing. And how long have you heard the message of the gospel? Christ died for the ungodly. Hearing the message of Christ crucified on the cross and did nothing, had no respect into it. It was a thing of naught, don't care. That same heartlessness is what they had towards Joseph, as he was in the pit. And yet it would be for your salvation. So much right here, isn't there? You could just spend a sermon out of that. Let's keep reading. Let's get to verses uh 25. Then Joseph commanded to fill their sacks with corn, and to restore every man's money into a sack, and to give them provision for the way, and thus did he unto them. So it's interesting. So on the one hand, um Joseph has just thrown a lot of them to prison and sent them with the difficult, difficult task. The man said the other brother's got to go and the father said the other brother ain't gonna go. So they've got uh they're their their head is just swimming. It is just swimming Of the thousands of millions of people coming to Joseph for corn, they and they alone have left with uh uh struggle. They thought they were getting food, but they got a heap of trouble. So it is when you come to Christ. When somebody comes to Christ There's going to be a confrontation. There's got to be an acknowledgement of security. There's got to be an acknowledgement of an offense. There's no faith without repentance. In fact, I think Repentance is the key of the gospel. The first act of repentance we do is quit being an unbeliever and start believing. So faith is the very first act of repentance that we turn and start to believe in Christ. But there is a conflict that these fellows have, and yet at the same time, look how gracious Joseph is to them And uh while I'm gonna uh have Joe speak, turn to Job ten sixteen, and then Joe, you had a uh comment. Now Joe, did you have a uh yeah um Joseph never does accept payment for the corn. It's always returned. Yes. Um And we cannot make payment for that's exactly the point I'm getting at. The uh uh No, you're you're I'm I'm I'm walking the camel right down the path and you're following the the carrot. Job 10. 16 says this, thou huntest me as a fierce lion, and again thou showest thyself marvelous upon me. As a fierce lion, sometimes the Lord comes, as a fierce lion, and yet at the same time, he shows himself marvelous to me, ways you just can't understand. So different are his ways. And you see that in a picture form, in a story, that you could put in a little felt board for kids in Sunday school, uh like us. We're kind of in a little felt board session here. But Joe, you're absolutely right. It was uh Him who restored every man's money into his sack for salvation is a free gift. They're not gonna buy their livelihood. You know As we read through this, we're now going to go ahead to Genesis 43, and I'm going to look at select portions. And I'm going to read it, and I'm going to help you help me as we go along. I want you to consider Joseph's words and actions And I want you to think about what strikes you as typical of Jesus Christ bringing salvation. So let's look at Genesis 43. Now skip ahead to verse 11. Their father, so now they're back home. The famine is still going, probably only the end of the first year, probably now getting into the second year, and we know how much longer it's going to be. The father Israel said to them, If it must be so now do this, take of the best fruits in the land in your vessels, and carry down the man a present, a little balm, a little honey, spices, myrrh, nuts, and almonds, and take double money in your hand And the money that was brought again in the mouth of your sacks, carry it again in your hand, peradventure, it was an oversight. Take also your brother arise and go again unto the man, and God Almighty give you mercy before the man, that he may send you away with your other brother and Benjamin. If I be bereaved of my children, I am bereaved. Oh, this this incredible burden upon poor old uh Jacob, my goodness, this intense pressure on him as well. God's indeed trying him as well We continue in verse 15. The men took that present, and they took double money in their hand. Benjamin rose up, went down to Egypt, and stood before Joseph. There's another account, and then as they come near, we read in verse 20, and said, O sir, we came down indeed at the first time to buy food, and it came to pass when we came to the end that we opened our sacks And behold, every man's money was in the mouth of the sack, our money in full weight. And we have brought it again in our hand, and other money have we brought down in our hands to buy food. We cannot tell who put our money in our sacks. So they're not speaking to Joseph at this point. They're actually speaking to a servant in Joseph's house. They're trying to explain, you know, what what the situation is. They're just upfront with it. They're being very Honest. So that was a very nice test of Joseph as well. Not only was he gracious, but also the money was another test. What are they going to do with this? What are they going to say? I had a boss actually still in contact with her. She's a good friend of mine. She's a good friend. I'm a business acquaintance. And um her name's Sue. We um uh started work together in San Diego back in 86 and she also moved to the reston area in Virginia to work in that in that area and then years later became uh my uh engineering supervisor She had a thing written up on her whiteboard, and I'll never forget it. She never preached it, she just wrote it up on her board. It says, character is what you do when no one's looking It's a good statement. So Joseph is not only testing their words, do you really have a brother? He knows they have a brother. I mean this isn't a tough test, but let's put a little extra money. See what they do with that. Are they still greedy? Are they still interested in I be myself, you know, their own personal trinity? Is that what they're interested in? See, God has ways of testing us. He has ways of testing the and I'm always impressed at how does it how God does it. It's just such a custom-fit test that I and only I could recognize surely this is from the hand of God There's no way someone else could do this. It was him who refused to take from them double money from their sacks, making it again known that they cannot pay for their salvation. This part is repeated A couple of times in Scripture, God sending out the ways. Your sins will surely find you out. You will be tested. God desires truth in the inward parts, and lo and behold, salvation is only and ever a free gift. We go now to verse 23 and the man's response. Look at this. He said, peace be to you, fear not. Gee, does that sound familiar the holiday season? Peace be to you, fear not. They weren't exactly in a frame framework of peace. They really weren't quite sure how this second visit was going to play out. They knew that, man, we just came up the first time Thought we could get some food, just straightforward application, just like everybody else is applying, and one of us ends up in prison. Wow, what's gonna happen? There is no guarantee Peace be to you, fear not, your God and the God of your father hath given you treasure in your sacks. I had your money, and he brought Simeon out unto them. This they've really got to be swimming. I mean their heads really gotta be spinning at this point because it's like if if I had just made off with uh six months worth of groceries from Walmart and managed somehow to leave the store and the pile of money was still in a bag on the top of my bags security cameras on everywhere, walking out of the store, going back in. I'd I'd be a little nervous. I mean You can be arrested right there in the store. They have guards. They'll take you back to a small room. They'll investigate. Put you in their camera. Call the police if they need to. They can do all this sort of stuff. And yet he's the the the servant is like, well this is no big deal. I had it. Your God gave it to you. I mean they've really got to be wondering. They've really got to be scratching their head. It was him who delivered them without money and without price. They were delivered without money and without price. Look at verse 24. It gets better. And the man brought the men into Joseph's house and gave them water, and they washed their feet, and he gave their eyes provender. And they made ready the present against Joseph came at noon, meaning they made ready for Joseph's coming, for they heard that they should eat bread there. And it was him who brought them into his house. You too are brought into the house of God. You too are brought in to dine with him. You too can eat at his table. Isn't that what David says in Psalm 23? About eating at the table of the Lord, he shall spread a table before me. I will dwell in the house of the Lord forever. We've been brought into his house. It continues, it gets better. We keep going. Verse 26. And when Joseph came home, they brought him the present which was in their hand in the house, and bowed themselves to him to the earth. And he asked them of their welfare and said, Is your father well? The old man of whom you spake, is he yet alive? See, he's carrying on the um uh the the picture. I wouldn't call it deception. He's testing. God's not a deceiver, but he's testing And they answered, Thy servant, our father, is in good health. He is yet alive. And they bowed down their heads and made obeisance by mine. Listen to how Joseph is speaking to them. How would you describe the manner of his speech to them at this point? Is there any change from the previous time? This is the second time they're encountering him. He's a little bit nicer. Yeah. He certainly is nicer. But it's still veiled. Yeah. Yes, still veiled, but it's nicer. You could say he speaks comfortably to them. I don't think they're any more. Yes. They're yes, they're not any less Yeah, they're I I can only imagine, I mean this isn't You know, when they went to go see Joseph in the wilderness, here's this little shepherd boy, you know, his backdrop was dirt and cactus, right? I mean he wasn't anything to behold now Here's this Pharaoh gilded. He's with gold. He's got servants who are mighty and strong. Have you ever had a tour of the Pentagon? If you haven't, it would be an interesting thing to do. They select, I think on purpose, from all of the different services, the uh I the giants of the military service, the the people who are the tallest And the people who have the biggest bulging muscles, uh, uh those are the ones that they hire to to man and to conduct the the the the tours. It's incredible. And I can't imagine Joseph was any less. I don't think he had some one-eyed servant limping along. I'm quite sure he had some very powerful entourage. And that has an impression Plus all the glory of Egypt as well, plus the the stonework, and I mean they're in a different country, they're very different ways. He's very Egyptian. When he speaks with authority, servants don't question, they bow down, they move. I mean it's evident that this man is in power. And yet the answer is he speaks comfortably to them. Isaiah 40, verse 1 says, um Speak uh comfort cry out to Jerusal Speak ye comfortably. I can't get the first part correct. Comfort ye, comfort ye my people, saith your God, speak ye comfortably to Jerusalem and cry unto her that her warfare is accomplished, that her iniquity is pardoned, for she hath received of the Lord's hands double. for all her sins. They had double money put into their sacks. Again, the parallels are unmistakable. We keep going here. And verse 32 And they set on for him by himself, and for them by themselves, and for the Egyptians which did eat with him by themselves. because the Egyptians might not eat bread with the Hebrews, for that is an abomination unto the Egyptians. And they sat before him, the firstborn according to his birthright, and the youngest according to his youth. And the men marvelled one another. And he took and sent messengers from before uh and he took and sent messengers unto them from before him, but Benjamin's mess was five times so much as any of theirs, and they drank and were merry with him. So why are the men wondering and marveling at what's happening at this juncture? What's strange about all this? Knows their birth order. Yeah. Now wouldn't that be easy? Can't you pick that out? He knows their birth order. Yeah, I noticed that too. Yeah. Now wouldn't that be easy to pick out? No, not when they're grown. They're grown men? Joseph is about thirty years of age and if he's the youngest These fellows are from Benjamin's age, lower thirties to Ruben's age, fifties, my age, sixty, maybe as old as Joe, I don't know. Yeah, it's you know, and you know how brothers are. Sometimes the baby is the biggest, the fattest, and the tallest, you know. They they're just big and uh that's true in my mother's family Um and uh uh and and sometimes the older brothers are, you know, kind of skinny and you can't physically visibly tell. You c some might have had a a good year, some might have had a bad year, they might have had harder, more lines in their face, others are just naturally. You can't tell visibly. And yet Joseph sets them all in birth order. And they're like, okay. Don't understand this. Again It's failed. It's it's mysterious to them. They they they don't get it. They can't deny that something distinct. They uh what would they think, not knowing that he's Joseph, what would their what would their opinion be of Pharaoh? What what would their what would they think he might actually be? He knows everything, yeah. Is this guy a prophet? How does he know this? Surely he's a prophet. Surely he has some uh divine insights. How can it be that he would know this? Only somebody who I mean, we're not even Egyptians. He couldn't even look us up on the family register. We're from Canaan. We don't keep those records The Pharaohs were gods. Yes, insofar as the rest of the lands were to understand, Pharaoh was the god. If um have you been to Egypt, Mrs. Russ? Yes. You have have you seen the uh uh temples uh uh is it Luxor or Karnak or wherever, the the the ones that are down the uh uh the river? The blue the the tall memory sucks. Okay, okay, well if you saw a bunch of tall columns, did you spend some tall columns columns? One pyramid's like the next, you know. Well what's interesting is um um the the Egyptian temples uh and I'm thinking of the one I think it's called Karnak and I think it's at Luxor. Uh I I'm I I could be incorrect. But I do know that it's down the Nile uh uh inland uh much much further south on your map uh and it's to the west. The Uh structure is such that all of the the columns and the pillars are going up and then there's these interesting uh uh uh pictures up on the ceiling. There's the sun, there's a shallow Nile with a boat on it And there's a picture of Pharaoh and he's like touching the sun and touching the moon. And what was the concept that was being conveyed there is that Pharaoh's job was to keep the universe going He held up the sun and the moon. This is how powerful in the minds of the people Pharaoh was. He kept it so when you look at that temple, know that's what you're looking at. It's not that This isn't from Hayda Ashbury in San Francisco, you know, with a bunch of flower children touch the sky. No, this was I'm holding up the sky. I'm running the universe. And so you don't dare enter in and bother Pharaoh because if you mess with him he might drop the whole universe down and our world collapses. So that was the and Joseph is second to Pharaoh Now, I find that a fascinating bit of history because this surely would have impressed upon his mind, this man knows everything. He's got to be a prophet. And when you ask people about Jesus of Nazareth, even the Muslims will say, yeah, he's a prophet, a great prophet. If you ask the average Joe on the street who's not utterly given in to paganism, he will confess that there was a Jesus of Nazareth, and that he was a very moral individual. uh and that he healed people and they might take some exceptions to the miracles and whatnot, that they would confess he was a moral individual And that there was some so they know something. They don't know the fullness, but they knew something, and that much was clearly revealed to them in this. We keep going. Then we get to 45. There's another test where he's going to put uh uh the uh men's sack, uh every man's money is back, and he's gonna put the silver cup back in the sack as well. And of course that's what he's going to use to absolutely totally break them. Uh he breaks them by saying, Do you not uh know what you're doing? Don't you know that um Or you in I'm in verse chapter 44, verse 5, is not this it in which my Lord divineth, and whereby indeed he divineth, so you've done evil in doing. In other words, this silver cup is the means by which my Lord divines truth. He's pointing out you have stolen something. Don't you think he can find out your sins? That's what's being brought to them. And of course they didn't do this In a way they're getting a taste of their own sins again as well, isn't it? When when you're falsely accused, isn't that the worst when you're falsely accused of something? You know, and that's kind of where a lie is. Oh no, we were feeding the sheep in Shechem when you're off in Dothan, you're lying, and you're deceiving, and you're stealing. And you're giving that to somebody else to eat and chew on. And so that's now what is happening back to them. They are being falsely accused. Again He keeps hitting at the sin issue. He's just hitting them with a with a hot iron. He's just branding them with this, but it's not to hurt them, is it? In in any of this do you detect Any malice of Joseph truly towards his brethren, true malice, I mean if you have to boil it all down, was he truly doing this to destroy them? Well, I think they thought so. Oh, they clearly thought so. They're like, man, I am in deep kimchi and I don't find an exit door. If if he wanted to destroy them He would have destroyed them. He would have already done it. They were guilty and he could crush 'em You know that's true. He could have simply said, I I don't like these people. Put them in prison, take off their heads in the morning. No one would have questioned a thing. No one would have stopped. They said, Oh, that's unjust. They wouldn't have been parade outside. Nothing But nothing. They'd have been eleven carcasses in the wilderness. Hebrew lives matter. Yes. Hebrew lives matter. Yeah. Yeah, that wouldn't have flown. Well now we get to forty-five. I've got four minutes left here and I I want to keep going here in forty-five because this is a spectacular chapter here. Uh and we're going to start here in uh uh verse fifteen Joseph is uh uh uh uh we see here in uh forty-five and verse one. Then Joseph could not refrain himself before all them that stood by him. Here they they Judah has stepped up, he's confessed everything. They they just made a big, wide, open confession of all their sins, and they're like I he just says, Oh, take me, I'll go to prison. And he's just overwhelmed at the fact that they are full and open in their disclosure of all their sins. And that's what the tail end of 45 is about. And then verse 44 is about. And in 45, Joseph could not refrain himself. He cried, cause every man to go out from me. And there stood no man with him, while Joseph made himself known unto his brethren. Well, what I find interesting about this, it was him who caused everyone else to go out, and the guilty left alone with him. You remember the parable about the man with a hundred sheep, one of them was lost, and he left the ninety-nine in the wilderness, and he went after the one that was guilty. Jesus Christ came and said, I've not come to call the righteous, but sinners to repentance. See, they that are whole have not no need of the physician, but they that are sick. And so that's what we have here. He's called all the servants. They had no issues with Joseph, and Joseph had no issues with them. They were his servants. They were doing exactly what he bid them do. Leave You're gone, get out of here. But only the guilty are with him. By their own admission. Only the guilty are with him. It continues verse 2. And he wept aloud, and the Egyptians and the house of Pharaoh heard, and Joseph said unto his brethren, I am Joseph. Does my father yet live? Heh heh. And his brethren couldn't answer him. They were troubled at his presence. They're like, You gotta be kidding me. What are you talking about? No, you're Pharaoh. No, I am Joseph. Your brother. It was him who revealed himself to them. Now, how did these fellows figure out he was Joseph? They told them. They didn't. He told them. He had to tell them. Could they have gotten a set of dictionaries and Egyptian comment uh commentaries and read about the life of uh this man and They couldn't figure it out on their own. Couldn't figure it out on their own at all. And that's exactly how salvation is. God Almighty has got to reveal Himself to you. He's got to. Because you would never find Him. That's what it means that you're spiritually blind. You don't know the right way. These men were spiritually famished. Physically famished. That's a picture of us. Spiritually famished. The only place you can go is to Egypt. And you know if you want to get to heaven, you've got to kind of aim towards the direction of the scriptures. And you may be bare Right there at the very doorpost of God in the house of God, right at the book of God, and not know who he is. Pastor Mahan's given an excellent illustration years ago, which I love. He said, when you drive down the road and you see a bird sitting on a telephone line, you need to think about this illustration. There are men who Sit and they're in a pulpit or they're in a teaching position. Or a woman who is evangelical and teaches other people and she's active in Sunday school. Now there's a bird sitting on this telephone wire. He's sitting on this wire. And that bird is supported by that wire. He will fall down if his feet let go and he'll have to start flying because That wire supports his position, but there's a message going through that wire, and he's plum ignorant of what that message is. He has no idea of the communication going through that wire. But it supports his position It supports them. Even so there are people who can stand on this book, they know this book, they it supports their position And they're held up by that. And there they are, but their plum ignorant as to the message pulsing through the veins of every page in scripture of this book It is written in the volume of the book, Lo I Come. It's written about him. This is a hymn book, H I M book. It's a history book. It's his story. This is about Jesus Christ. Christ is in the volume of the book. It's written of me. Lo I come to do thy will. Beginning at Moses and the prophets, Christ declared unto the two on the road to Emmaus the things concerning himself. This is a book about Jesus Christ. It is not a book about how to win elections. It's not a book about how to raise a nice family, although that information is in there. The point of this book is not to educate you about some very strange events in history. It is to tell you about Jesus Christ and who he is and how he saves sinners. And I'm going to close in James 1. 18 because clearly we see from this account. I may close with James 118. Of his own will begat he us with the word of truth, that we should be a kind of first fruits of his creatures. Of his own will. You see, he's got to reveal us himself to us. He's got to I can't find him. I wasn't looking for God. I wasn't interested in the things of God. God came to me and revealed himself to me in mercy, in Christ. And that's how it works. Back in Genesis 45 and verse 4, Joseph said unto his brethren, Come near to me, I pray you. And they came near, and he says, I am Joseph, your brother, whom ye sold into Egypt. It was Jesus. It was him who said, Come near to me. I am your brother. Does he not beckon us to come near to him? Yes, we sold him into slavery. We've sold ourselves for naught. We gain nothing out of the commission of our sins. But he is our brother. And yet he is a loving brother, a rich brother, one whom God has highly exalted. In whose heart is nothing but love for his people and his family. But he tests. He's testing. He's testing. And he says, verse 645, for these two years hath a famine been in the land, and there are yet five years in the which there shall be neither earring nor harvest. Earring means ploughing. God sent me before you to preserve you a posterity in the earth and to save your lives by great deliverance. So now it was not you that sent me hither, but God, and he hath made me a father to Pharaoh and a lord of all his house and a ruler Throughout all the land of Egypt. Father, Lord, ruler. That's where our Lord Jesus Christ is. He's the everlasting Father, that Prince of Peace. He is the Lord through all the land. And He rules. He rules. Oh, you better believe He rules. And he says the same thing in Genesis 50 and verse 20, that famous passage that we can all reflect upon. As for you, ye thought it evil against me, but God meant it unto good. to bring to pass as it is this day to save much people alive. It was him who relieved their guilt and fear, it was him whom God meant it for good, but they for evil, it was him whom God sent to preserve life It was him whose suffering God would use to bring forth the fruit of salvation through righteousness. It was him who rewarded them with love for their hatred. It was him who by wisdom delivered them in a day of famine. So much in the story of Joseph, like I said, it's crazy to try to race through these chapters, but I hope I give you an impression of Joseph, our loving brother. And we thank God that Jesus Christ is our loving brother. And it's hard to see at times, isn't it? Oh my. Oh my. I don't think I'm speaking as one who's mastered this. I too am one of these Brothers in the midst there saying, Verily uh my sin has found me out. Verily I'm I'm I'm I'm uh in anguish. They came to Egypt seeking corn. But they got so much more. They got they got forgiveness. They could live in honesty now because it was past, it was it was atoned for. And they could live in great riches. And he brought them to the land of Goshen. Forget, forsake your catastrophe in Canaan. This is a better land. And they would be catapulted, and I mean catapulted, into a powerful prominent position. And Joseph was obviously a witness as well. And you go back to 4423, where his servant is talking, he says, your God and the God of your fathers has has restored this. Obviously Joseph's servants, his household, knew that he worshipped a different God. Yep. Yep, they certainly did. They certainly did. So much more I could tell you, but time fails to tell me. I hope that's piqued your interest about the story of Joseph, but there's a whole lot more there than perhaps betrays the surface Let's close, Father, we thank you for this glorious passage and use it to encourage us in worship today. In Jesus' name. Amen.