A very famous figure in the Bible, a fellow named Joseph. And I sent out a question that shouldn't be hard because he is one of the most popular stories in all of Scripture. It's the story of Joseph I do. He is a huge character. Well, sorry about that, but it went out, so I'm not sure what happened. Um the um He was the second youngest and favorite son of his father, Jacob. Jacob is another prominent character in the Bible. But I want to ask as you reflect upon Joseph Because I think practically everybody knows the story of Joseph. What in your mind sets him apart as a faithful Jew? What do you know about Joseph, first of all? Anybody His brothers hated him. His brothers hated him. Yeah, he had eleven brothers and one sister. Uh and why did they hate him? He had some visions and some dreams. And why did they hate him for the dreams? Because the dream uh that his brothers are going to worship him Oh, the dream was that the brothers would bow down to him. Yeah, they would, as it were, worship him. They would have to seek everything from them. What else stands out in your mind about Joseph when you think about his story? It's really the whole Last twenty-three chapters of the book of Genesis, it's intertwined. Also that's uh Yeah, Potiphar's wife uh uh seem seems to have been attracted to him and uh when he refused her advances she made up a uh a story. Yeah and then what happened You get thrown in prison. Was it an American style prison where they offer you a college education and a workout plan and vending machines and A a state paid attorney? No, it was a real no kidding prison. In fact the language of the scripture says they bound him. He was bound. He was shackled. A young man just for doing the right thing. Certainly you would think that would be a good indication of faithfulness. Well what else stands out in your mind about Joseph that makes him such an an admirable and a faithful character? the master dreamer. He was faithful to the master he had. He had dreams and the dreams were true. Um he interprets the dream too. And he interpreted dreams, yeah What else stands out in your mind as something of faith? What else was he faithful to do? For God? Yeah, and what ways? What makes it what stands out in your mind that he was faithful to God? Was he? Was he faithful to God We shake our head, yeah. There's a big reunion that occurs towards the end of his life. What how did that go? Oh, yeah, his brothers came. How how did that reunion work out? You remember what he did at first? uh scary at first of the rose because you know what to expect. And of course he put that gold stuff or something in one of the bags. At first the brothers didn't quite know what to expect of this very powerful ruler of Egypt. Uh did they even know who this ruler of Egypt was? They didn't recognize him And Joseph kinda had fun with that. He just arbitrarily picked one and threw him in prison. Just to kinda dangle 'em around and toy with 'em. You ever see a cat play with a a little mouse or a rat, you know, they've got it, but they're just playing with it. That's somewhat how Joseph was a very good thing. Yeah, they had to leave a brother behind. Eventually he made himself known, and then he relocated his whole family back into Egypt, and that was the seminal beginning of what would become the nation of Israel as they were developing in Egypt. So it's just a fascinating story and just so much human um human classic human emotion and drama and empathy is really drawn out as you read the story. But today our text is in Hebrews 11, that great Passage of scripture that I might refer to as the Hall of Faith. I don't think I'm the only one. And it's just one sentence, and it tells us what Joseph did by faith. And you can read it in your handout, but just consider it for a moment as we read this. Here's now the word of the Lord, Hebrews 11, 22. By faith, Joseph, when he died made mention of the departing, and that's literally the word Exodus, of the children of Israel and gave commandment concerning his bones. Hmm. That's interesting. You know, we spoke about many notable things of Joseph. You know, currently they stand out in my mind as well, all the dreams that he had. And the dreams that got him promoted was the drew was Pharaoh's dream, interpreting Pharaoh's dream of the feast and the famine, and then being promoted to the supreme ruler of Egypt. Uh and in that he never abandoned the God of the Bible. In fact, he named his children God has made me to forget my suffering, uh, things like that. He was still thinking about the Lord as God. Uh and uh uh and and yet none of those things are mentioned here in Hebrews eleven. His ability to interpret dreams is not listed as something that he did by faith. It doesn't point to that Our text doesn't point to him not keeping his brothers in jail. He could have, he had every right to, but he didn't In fact, no one in Egypt would have questioned it. He was the vizier. He was the second in command. Pharaoh said, you know, a dog can't move his tongue without your permission. So he was very powerful. So instead, God the Holy Spirit is directing the penman here in the book of Hebrews to this particular event once again at the end of his life. The very, very end of Joseph's life is being picked out of all the chapters of Genesis that talk about Joseph and held up as a crown jewel. As the real symbol of his faith. And I find that unusual. I find that interesting. Why that? What is the Bible here trying to tell us about faith? I would certainly think these other things that we read about Joseph. would be an act of faith. You know, the fact that he maintained his innocency and that he uh didn't listen to Potiphar's wife's advances and that he didn't Throw away his brethren. What is it about this death wish of Joseph that we are to learn is a great emblem of faith Because after all, this chapter is there to encourage you and I. It's there to encourage in the first audience the Hebrews. Hey, this is what faith does. Emulate this faith. This is a good thing to strive for. Well, somewhat Uh our text gives us a little bit of a handle as to what God might be pointing at And it says this, it says, he made mention of the departing of the children of Israel. Now Where would he have gotten that idea? Well it turns out, and if you'd like, you can turn with me now to Genesis chapter 50. It is in your bulletin, but if you'd like to follow, you can In Genesis 50, our historical account about Joseph is where he makes this mention. So let's just see what he said, right? Let's kind of Let's don't have somebody blitz it down for me and spin it. Let's actually get the the native source here. In Genesis 50, verse 22, and I'm not suggesting Hebrews 11 is spinning anything. In Genesis 50 and verse 22, we read this. And Joseph dwelt in Egypt, he and his father's house, and Joseph lived 110 years. And Joseph saw Ephraim's children of the third generation, the children also of Makir, the son of Manasseh, were brought up upon Joseph's knees. And Joseph said unto his brethren, I die, and God will surely visit you. And bring you up out of this land unto the land which you swear to Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob. Alright, so there's this mention that he knows that God's going to bring them out of Egypt to the land promised to Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. And Joseph took an oath of the children of Israel, saying, God will surely visit you, and ye shall carry up my bones from hence. So Joseph died. being 110 years old. And they embalmed him and he was put in a coffin in Egypt. All right. Now, um we we do read later in Scriptures that indeed his death wish was carried out you find in the book of Exodus, it says Moses took the bones of Joseph with him. This would be many, many years later, as those seventy-five souls became a great nation, roughly a million, million and a half people by some estimates. Uh 600,000 and and change 602,000 men that were over the age of twenty is what the scriptures records, and then when you figure in men, women and uh children, uh all the the younger men you would probably come up with about a million, million and a half. So in Exodus thirteen, nineteen it says, Moses took the bones of Joseph with him, for he had straightly sworn the children of Israel, saying, God will surely visit you. And you shall carry up my bones hence away with you. Later we read, after Moses is done sojourning through the land, because you know That desert that they're wandering through was not the promised land. They wandered there for forty years, and Joseph's bones are wandering there for forty years. And then you read and Joshua 24, the bones of Joseph, which the children of Israel brought up out of Egypt, buried they in Shechem in a parcel of ground, which Jacob bought of the sons of Hamor. the father of Shechem for a hundred pieces of silver, and it became the inheritance of the children of Joseph. So we do read that there is a fulfillment. Death wish was met with satisfaction. They in fact carried this old boy's bones around and they actually took it back to the land of Canaan and they actually buried it there. You know, he never saw the burial. of uh well uh yes he did see the b dear burial of his father jacob so he knew the spot and so he said yep this is where I want to go well in everything that we've read here What phrase does Joseph repeat twice? It's in Hebrews, excuse me, Genesis 50. In Genesis 50, it's there in your handout in Genesis 50, especially verses 24 and 25, which are in your bulletin. What phrase does Joseph repeat twice? God will surely visit you. God will surely visit you. He keeps repeating that. God will surely visit you. And it left an impression Because as Moses is taking the bones out, he says, we're going to do this because God will surely visit you. Isn't that interesting? Joseph is just like his father Jacob. He doesn't want his bones left behind in Egypt. To him, that's a big deal Now I have a elderly family member who likewise has a similar death wish. She doesn't want her bones in Maryland. Her bones are going to be in Texas And so I guess there's two funerals at some far distant part in the future coming where indeed she will be interred in Texas. She does not want to be interred here. Not going to happen. That's her wish. And just like his father Jacob, Joseph didn't want his bones to remain in Egypt. What does that say of Joseph What does that say of someone who says, oh no, don't put my bones here? He's patriotic, okay. Um when we think of patriotism, uh and that's not wrong, I want to explore that some more, when we think of patriotism, we think of patriotism To what? What what are we patriotic to or for? To a country? Was Israel a country at that point? Well that is uh uh that was given to God, I mean to the It would eventually be. But at the time Joseph makes that request, and he was patriotic, when he made that request, was Israel a nation yet? They weren't a nation. He wants to be with his people, but they're not a nation yet. Do you see the element of faith? He was okay, but do you see that it wasn't a nation yet? I like that word patriotic because we tend to think of a patriotic Americ American, a patriotic uh Ukrainian, a patriotic Chinese. in allegiance to the country. What if you don't have a country yet? What are you patriotic to? You're patriotic to the hope of there being a country. And that demonstrates his faith. So I like that word patriotic very much He was standing by the Israeli flag when there was no Israeli flag. And that was an act of faith, isn't it? I want to be buried in my country. What country, Joseph? This is This is out of Egypt. No, no, no, this is not it. So deep in his soul, Joseph did remember a promise. Now let's go a little bit more into history for a moment here Now, all of Joseph's time in Egypt, the Egyptians never told him, yeah, you guys will eventually kick you out. Oh no. Oh no. The Egyptians love Joseph. I mean, frankly, everything he did is what uh demonstrably made Egypt a powerhouse. It's interesting, archaeologists record that there was some strange activity that occurred in some of the very earliest dynasties of Egyptian history. Prior to that, they were somewhat like China in the 1000-1500 BC era, a bunch of tribal fiefdoms A bunch of domains with a loosely organized central government. The Pharaoh of Egypt really wasn't all that powerful. You had various little tribes and sections that were vying for power. And you happen to have one that was the most powerful, but not powerful enough to take them all out. Well, as you read the account of the famine, of the feast, and their gathering into the feast, the people would willingly Give 20% because they've been making a hundred, a hundred and fifty, two hundred percent more than they ever had before. This little twenty percent tax is no big deal. We can handle that But when the famine set in it was so sore that the first thing it came with was all their money. Gave them all their money. And they couldn't keep their cattle alive. And then they gave them all their cattle. They say you've given your money, give them now what can we give you? He said, Give me your land. And so they gave the land. And they kept losing. And so Pharaoh, because of Joseph's wisdom in storing up All of this food to keep Egypt alive through this grievous seven-year famine, all of a sudden, that Pharaoh became very powerful. He got all their money. He got all their land, he got all their animals, he got all their men servants, their manservants, everything they had, they had nothing but the skin of their shoes and the palms of their hands. left and they became slaves. He basically achieved a forced socialism in the country. And so he became very, very dominant. Joseph was wildly popular with Pharaoh and with the Egyptians that were under that Pharaoh. They didn't tell him, you know, we're going to kick you out of here. No, they loved him. Where would he have gotten this idea from? Well he got it from uh apparently the brief 17 years of time He was with his father Jacob, who was the descendant of Isaac, who was the descendant of Abraham. They would have rehearsed in their tent floor, in the threshing floor, they would have rehearsed Some of the prophecies given to Abraham. And the one he got it from goes all the way back in Genesis 15. It's a very obscure prophecy. Let me read for you Genesis 15, 13, and 14, and it's there in your bulletin. This is a promise that God made to Abraham concerning this departure. So we read in Genesis 15 and verse 13. Abram is asking God, how do I know that I'm going to inherit this land? God gives it a very interesting sign. And I'm not going to get into the sign, but this is the statement that he makes. He said unto Abram, No of a surety. In other words, this will surely happen. There's that word surely. S-U-R-E R-E-L-Y, I can't spell it right. Know of a surety that thy seed shall be a stranger in a land that is not theirs. Now what's he referring to? He's referring to the Jews. They're going to be a stranger in a land. What is that land that's not theirs? That'd be Egypt. Egypt wasn't a powerhouse at that point Abraham went through there and came back, and I mean there was there's nothing that was a big deal about Egypt. Oh, it was it had food, it had grain at times Because the river, uh certainly the Nile River nourished it. He says, You're going to be a stranger in a land that's not theirs, and shall serve them, and they shall afflict them four hundred years. And also that nation whom they shall serve, notice it says it twice, will I judge, and afterward shall they come out with great substance. This is the prophecy given to Abram. In fact, his name is not even Abraham at this point, it's Abram. Given to Abram long before there was a Joseph, long before there was a central powerhouse known as Egypt, long before a vizier named Joseph would come to power. And so he would have known this. Well here's an application. Mothers, fathers, don't neglect to tell your children in the earliest of their days about the promises of God. Don't neglect to tell your children in the And they're every waking, you can start when they're in the womb. Oh, but they don't understand. Yeah, well half the preachers in the pulpit don't understand either. Faith comes by hearing and hearing by the Word of God. That baby can hear, they can hear in the womb, they can get used to mom's voice, they can get used to dad's voice, and they can hear, so that they associate that with the sound of nurturing, they associate that with the sound of admonition, they associate it with the sound of the voice of God. And as you tell them, thus saith the Lord, boy, what a great time to put those Bible truths right into their heart, because you never know when you may get separated from them. For my mom, I was very much like Jacob. I was out of the house at 17 and she didn't see me 40 years later. It was a mighty long time. Mighty long time apart. You never know. You have to redeem that time. And his parents did. And Joseph remembered it Well this prophecy Joseph remembered and his deathbed. Did it have any special meaning to Joseph? That ancient prophecy that we just read in Genesis 15? Would that have had any meaning to Joseph? Yes. Maybe. Maybe. You're saying Genesis fifteen, right? Yeah, Genesis fifteen. Know of a surety that thy seed shall be in a land and God will surely visit you. Yeah, he he must have made that connection with Egypt and He figured even though we're getting settled here, we're not gonna be here for forever. So we'll be out of here. Make sure to take my bones with you. Indeed, he had time to think about it Indeed, as that veiled prophecy he heard of the children of Israel being strangers in a land not theirs, did God give the children of Israel the land of Egypt? No, he didn't He didn't call it was the land of Canaan. It was to the north. He didn't give them Egypt. And so Joseph put two and two together. I am living out that prophecy. I am the reason they're here. They will be here. But God will surely visit them and God will take them out. And so he says to them, hey Let me interpret one more dream for you. And it wasn't a dream but a prophecy that God gave to Abram. God will surely visit you. He will Take you out. He actually put two and two together. Maybe over many years he's like, I don't know what all these things mean. I I know that we're going to be in the promised land. Yeah, that's been given to us. But This little trip through Egypt, God had also prophesied of. Joseph realized his part in that, and he responded and spoke accordingly. He connected the dots That's interesting. You know, a stranger that there'll be strangers in a land not theirs. Joseph? Joseph, a stranger in Egypt? He's in control. He's on top. We would Love to have a week in Joseph's seat. You say to the servants, come and they come. You say to the servants, go, they go. You say to the servants, come quickly, and they come quickly. Whatever you command they do. Plenty of food. You never have to worry about anything. Prepare my bed. Make up my bed. I'm not going to the toilet. Bring the toilet to me. I mean, you know, you just everything is done for you I I I'm making up stupid stuff because I just can't imagine what it's like to be in that kind of position of power. He's all the best of the land is theirs. And so his death wish indicates through his whole life He really wasn't satisfied with the riches of Egypt. Even though he had great success, he was famous. He was revered. He was rich. He was powerful. He didn't have to wait for the Senate to approve anything he said. He didn't care who was gonna make it in the next election. No, he wasn't bothered with any of that. What he said was law. What he said was carried out immediately. I can't imagine what that's like They say absolute power corrupts absolutely, and I think I would be corrupted pretty quickly in that. So this great prime minister Joseph nonetheless was a stranger and a sojourner just like his grandfather Abraham You know, we read we had read earlier in Hebrews 11, 13-16, as it was talking about Abram. It said, these all died in faith, not having received the promises, but having seen them afar off. And were persuaded of them and embraced them. Now when it says having seen them afar off, it doesn't mean Joseph stood on top of, I don't know, a pyramid. and looked with his binoculars to see the land of Canaan. No, no, no, it's their eyes of faith. There was no nation of Israel to look at. It wasn't even there. There were only 75 souls in Egypt. There's not a million Jews yet Transported into the promised land. They were persuaded of them. They embraced them and confessed that they were strangers and pilgrims on the earth For they that say such things declare plainly that they seek a country. Again, that country didn't exist yet, but he's seeking it. And truly, if they'd been mindful of that country from whence they came out, in Joseph's progeny's case, Egypt, they might have had opportunity to have returned. But now the desire a better country. That is a heavenly. Wherefore God is not ashamed to be called their God, for he has prepared for them to see. So as we sojourn And as we stand on the mountain of faith and you got your binoculars out and you're looking, what land are you looking for? Spoiler alert, it's not Palestine. It's not going to be on this earth. It's a heavenly country. It's a new Jerusalem that descends from above. I recently re visited my calculations concerning that large cube that comes down in the latter chapters of Revelation, that Jerusalem, that cubic city, 12,000 furlongs, it's the word stadia, which would make it 12,000 furlongs by 12,000 by 12,000. A complete cube symbolizing perfection. You can't get a cube unless you plan for it. And it's descending down From heaven. At those dimensions it would be 1,368 miles per side. Folks, if you're on the top floor beyond 75 miles, there's no oxygen. If you're at the 11,000 uh 1,100 mile mark, you got low Earth orbiting satellites crashing into the side of it It's almost as large as the diameter of the moon itself. It can't be possibly a physical building coming down to this earth. It just wouldn't work. But it is a great multitude It's that heavenly city. It's the city of the people of God come to rule. God's going to give us a new heaven, a new earth that can sustain that glorious city. That's what we've got coming And that's what we look forward to. You know, let me ask a question here. Considering Joseph and the great power this man has. And some of you have had maybe some pretty high-powered jobs, had some substantial income and revenue at one point in time. We've all had maybe a point, a peak in your careers where things have been well and money was flowing nice. Can great success be a hindrance to the Christian walk. Marissa's aggressively shaking her head, yes. In what ways can great success be a hindrance to the Christian walk? It can make you think that there's power within you to an extent that it was given of you it's it's you know, it it can make you feel as if you're your own thought. Like you've reached higher than anything, than any man Yeah, I'm just putting Brother Vince in the dust. Look at me. I'm doing this, I'm doing that, I've got this incredible power, I'm really blessed. Oh wonder what the poor people are eating tonight. You know I mean you just really start to think Yeah. You put Brother Vince in the dust anyway, so I'm not that's really not even a joke. In what ways can great success be a hindrance to the Christian life? You may you probably you will most of the time will get new friends that are out of ranking friends in what you have Oh, all of a sudden you start to get some higher ranking friends. I'm sure they're all good Christian friends too, right? Hobnobbing. Start hobnobbing. Rubbing elbows with the with the high and mighty. And that automatically means a lot of drinking stuff in the concept. Yeah, you start to uh participate in the things that the world uh highly esteems and things that the world really likes. I witnessed on YouTube videos the other day a marvelous testimony of an elderly Jewish man. He was converted at about the age of 50. I will send you the link if you'd like. You can watch the short version, 20 minutes, or his full testimony in 43. It's very impressive. I really would like to have met this man. He's since passed in 2012. But uh he describes a encounter he had while he was challenged by his daughter to read the Bible for himself. And he was a very devout Jew. He was considered the Jewish man of the year by different societies. He was the Board of Trustees. He was the president of this Jewish League. He was a very high-powered individual. challenged by his daughter who came to Christ to read the Bible, and he was just thought that was anathema. And as he began to read and become convicted, because he'd really never read the Bible, not even his side of the Bible, the Old Testament. A woman whom he helped at this conference with her bags. He said, uh she says, so how long have you been a Christian? He says, Oh no, no, no, I'm just an inquirer And so she says, oh, that's nice. Let's sit down for a moment. Because he didn't know that when you tell a Christian that you're an inquirer, that you're going to get an ear full. And she says, Would you turn to Exodus twenty? Sure. Which is the beginning of the Ten Commandments. Can you read that? Sure. I am the Lord thy God that brought thee out of the land of Egypt, out of the house of bondage, thou shalt have no other gods before thee. She said, Stop right there, close the book. Okay. She asked him, so who is your God? Who do you think about? Or what do you think about the most? The Gulf Is it your business? Is it your associations? Who is your God? And she left him with that. And his testimony was every single question she asked was like another arrow in his heart. Another arrow. I'm worshiping well gods. I'm worshiping other gods. You know, we here at the Cluth House receive uh strangely enough they're addressed to Angela. I don't know how she gets these things. I'm reading a flyer. Premium Allegheny Mountain Properties starting at $99,000. Virginia Mountain Grand Opening Within walking distance to the Omni Homestead Resort has a beautiful picture of this very nice resort there. You know, look at these gorgeous planes, like every house is going to have that view. Right? That's this could be the view from your bedroom window right here Only $99,000. Why, that's a on-site restaurant and facilities, paved roads, high-speed internet, water sewer. They lose the internet before sewer. I want sewer first before internet, but whatever Golfing, fishing, Gabriel fishing, shopping, skiing, horseback riding. Mrs. Ross, you could go horseback riding. Long range mountain views. Lisa, you could go hiking. And I'm not knocking these people. This is a nice offer. It's you know it's it's it's a fair piece of property. But can great success be a hindrance to the walk of the child of God? And the answer is The possession of riches is not in and of itself evil, but it's the love of money that's the root of all evil. There's all kinds of lusts that come in, that lust for desire, lust for power. And they can be tremendous, tremendous detriment. You know, how would these last words of Joseph serve to benefit his fellow Hebrews? How would these last words of Joseph, again, verse 22, he made mention of the departing of the bones? Joseph said unto his brethren, I die. God will surely visit you. And bring you out of this land and the land which you swear to Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. How are those words going to benefit his fellow Hebrews? Anybody? It's like saying, This isn't it, brethren. Don't settle down here in Egypt. You know, the Lord's promise there's a land to come. You know, even though we have a season of prospect prosperity here or even when they're afflicted I believe it's not this isn't everything here. Indeed, it would be a reminder that this is not the be-all end all do all So, you know, when you're an executive, and I've gotten close to executive levels but never attained them because I'm just there's a certain point when you cross over the level of incompetence and so it was I was just incompetent to be an executive because I didn't get that kind of lying and deception as part of the program in managing the message as part of the program. And I'm not saying all executives do, but what I am saying is that every little thing they say ripples down throughout the organization. In training I was told if you come in and say, Oh man, I don't like the color of this wall. And next time you come in, they may have brought in a new crew and they paint it blue or something. I mean it'll change quick. Just a little comment can drive action and it may be the action you want or don't want. These are the last words of Joseph. He's running a race. He's got the baton in his hand, and he's now handing that baton off. He is reiterating the promises that God gave to Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. First to Abram, then to Isaac, then to his father. Now he's got it, and he's realizing he's living that part of the prophecy. He said, God will surely visit you. God will surely visit you. He keeps repeating this, God will surely visit you. And so They might wonder 20 years later, well did Joseph mean it? Well he's the only guy in Egypt with a coffin with handles on the side, with a shipping label wrapped around it, and it's on a dolly, ready to go. And so, yeah, he meant it. Curiously enough, there is actually some strong archaeological evidence that that is indeed exactly what happened. Egyptologist David Roll wrote a book called Exodus, Myth for History. And on page 110 of this book, and I'll leave it here, it's tabbed He documents an interesting archaeological discovery in this area where the Hebrews, in all likelihood, had planted in the land of Goshen It shows a model of a palace garden cemetery. It has 12 principal tombs. There's 12 tombs. And there is 11 that have vaulted chapels. One of them has a pyramid over it. And it's very significant. They found elements of remnants of the statue, funerary statue that was there And when they reconstruct what this funerary statue would have looked like, it would have been a Semitic man draped with a robe of many colors. And a throw over his shoulder and a staff in his hand, indicating a position of great power. Curiously enough, all the other tombs have bones. This one does not. And you might say, well, that would be grave robbers, but grave robbers don't take bones, they take jewelry. It's an empty tune. If you want to hear the evidence in video form, I direct you to Tim Mahoney's video, The Patterns of Evidence Concerning the Exodus. It's an excellent, excellent video that shows in fact Joseph's bones were removed. You know This is actually, as I make a final point here, one of the few times in scriptures that we have a reference to burial procedures. We have Joseph, he was embalmed. Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob were wrapped. They were laid in a cave. None of them were burned. We don't read of any of these ancient patriarchs being burned What does this preference for a whole-body burial technique say? Is there something of faith demonstrated in how one is buried? Any thoughts on that? Well I'm a a little a little tight on time, so I've asked the question but I'll I'll answer it as well. Oh go ahead, please do. Yes, we had a Oh any any significance to a whole body burial as opposed to being burnt by the whole body would be when God Jesus called Your body will be intact. Yes. Yes, so even our last death wish could indicate our belief in the future. Why would I want to destroy that which God says He's going to resurrect? He's going to bring together. So do you see how this blessed statement about Joseph concerning The departing of the children of Israel and making mention of his bones isn't is a demonstration of faith. That yes, even in your death wish You can give the best lifelong testimony to faith, as we read here of Joseph, far beyond whatever riches you may have accumulated And as he was died and buried, we should die and be buried the same way. And uh when you're cremated there are bones left. Most people don't know that because then they go out in the tamper and they crush the skull and femurs and the bigger bones. And if you were to walk out there and see your loved one on the the concrete pad you used and crush over bone, you'd get a little upset with that And if you dig through the dust, I mean I talked to premature people, you'll still find the teeth. The teeth are really hard to break. So you still find the teeth, but no don't crush all the other bones. And uh I wouldn't want to do it if it's Christ's body or my wife's body. I think a lot of people don't know that. They just think it's cremated. You get to have them on the shelf in your house Scripturally you read, thank you for that insight. Scripturally we read about the wicked whose bones were burned with wine Uh the detested, the defiled. No, even the child of God can still walk by faith in their very final wishes. Think about Nebuchadnezzar. He wanted to burn the bodies of Shadrach and Mesha. Because you knew that was real insult to the Jews. And Christ said, no, you're not going to burn the body. He lifts inside. Man, we put three in there, there was four in there now. What's going on here? One lack of the snow. Not even the clothing was burning. Now you have the snow up smoke up. Yeah, great nearly. It was. It was indeed All right, well thanks all. Let's uh Anton, would you wrap us in prayer? Thank you. Father in heaven. Lord, we thank you for your blessed promises that we have in Scripture that we can hold to. Oh Lord, there they truly do come to pass. And uh even as we saw the promise given to Abraham, Israel would be uh a great nation. You see how Joseph uh put his faith in your promise and your word will help us to likewise. uh trust your word to take heed to it to even move and and and make our thoughts and our speech that which uh agrees with your word with your promises oh lord Please help us and continue working in us, conforming us to the image of our Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ. Yeah, all these things in Christ's name. That's the same question.