Open in your Bibles with me this morning, please, to the Book of Jude. If you have trouble finding Jude, it's only one or possibly one and a half pages in your Bible. Turn to Revelation and go towards the front. Jude is that small little book right before the book of Revelation. This morning I'm beginning a new series of messages. There are 25 verses in this book of Jude, and so far I have 11 message outlines from 25 verses. I've been working on this for a little bit of time and uh debating over when to begin. It is not my intention to preach 11 straight messages out of Jude. If you remember our study in 1 John, we would be in the book of 1 John for a Sunday or maybe two in a row And then take a break from it for a little bit and go someplace else. And we'll see how the Lord leads, but most likely we will not be in Jude next week, but this week. I've been prayerfully considering what to preach next Sunday, and uh don't know yet, but um sort of heading towards a message on discouragement. Anybody discouraged this morning? I think a lot of us have kind of been through the ringer in the last year with COVID and mask and closures and all these things that can begin to intrude into our hearts and minds But let not your heart be troubled. Ye believe in God, believe also in me. But that's not our message for this morning If you have your place in Jude, I'm going to read all 25 verses, and then we'll be focusing just on the first two verses of this book this morning. Jude. the servant of Jesus Christ and brother of James to them that are sanctified by God the Father and preserved in Jesus Christ and called. Mercy unto you and peace and love be multiplied Beloved, when I gave all diligence to write unto you of the common salvation, it was needful for me to write unto you and exhort you that ye should earnestly contend for the faith which was once delivered unto the saints. For there are certain men crept in unaware, who were before of old ordained to this condemnation, ungodly men Turning the grace of our Lord God into lasciviousness and denying the only Lord God and our Lord Jesus Christ. I will therefore put you in remembrance, though ye once knew this, how that the Lord, having saved the people out of the land of Egypt, afterwards destroyed them that believed not. And the angels, which kept not their first estate, but were left, but left their own habitation, he hath reserved in everlasting chains unto darkness, unto judgment of the great day. Even as Sodom and Gomorrah, the cities about them in like manner, giving themselves over to fornication and going after strange flesh. are set forth as an example of suffering vengeance and eternal fire Likewise also these filthy dreamers defile the flesh, despise dominions, and speak evil of dignitaries. Yet Michael the archangel, when continu contending with the devil, he disputed about the body of Moses, durst not against him a ri Did not bring against him a railing accusation, but said, The Lord rebuke thee. But these speak evil of those things which they know not But what they know naturally, as brute beast, in these things, they corrupt themselves. Woe unto them. For they had gone in the way of Cain, and ran greedily after the heir of Balaam for reward, and perished in the gainsaying of Korah These are spots on your feast of charities, when they feast with you, feeding themselves without fear, clouds they are without water, carried about of the wind, trees whose fruit withereth without fruit. twice dead, plucked plucked up by the roots. Raging waves of the seas, foaming out their own shame, wandering stars, to whom is reserved the blackness of darkness for ever. And Enoch also, the seventh from Adam, prophesied of these, saying, Behold, the Lord cometh with ten thousand of his saints to execute judgment upon all, and to convince all that are ungodly among them of all their ungodly deeds which they have ungodly committed, and of all their hard speeches which ungodly sinners have spoken against him. These are murmurers, complainers, walking in their own lust And their mouth speaketh great swelling words, having men's persons in admirant admiration because of advantage. But beloved. Remember ye the words which were spoken before the apostles of our Lord Jesus Christ How that they told you there should be mockers in the last time who should walk after their own lusts, own ungodly lust These be they who separate themselves sensual, having not the Spirit. But ye beloved Building up yourselves in the most holy faith, praying in the Holy Ghost. Keep yourselves in the love of God, looking for the mercy of our Lord Jesus Christ unto eternal life. And of some have compassion, making a difference. And others stay with fear, pulling them out of the fire, hating even the garment spotted by the flesh. Now unto him that is able to keep you from falling, and to present you faultless before the presence of his glory with exceeding joy. To the only wise God, our Savior, be glory and majesty, and dominion and power both now and ever. Amen. And as they used to say when I was a kid, amen and amen. Hallelujah. Do I still need to preach a message? I hope your hearts are touched by the Word of God. Let us bow for prayer as we begin to approach into God's Word. Oh gracious, loving Heavenly Father, we thank you for this glorious book. May your spirit open our hearts to receive it. And may your spirit open this book to our hearts. And Lord, we pray these things in Jesus' name. Amen. This morning, we're going to just consider those first two verses. The introduction To this book of Jude. Who was this man, Jude, who wrote this brief little book? Well, let's talk about the name first. The name Jude is also the name Judah and the name Judas. All these names are forms of the same name, Jude. It is a name that means praise and thanksgiving. When Judah, the patriarch of the tribe of Judah, Judah, the third son of Leah, who was the less loved elder sister of Rachel. You remember Jacob. wanted to marry Rachel, but on the wedding night he was given the old bait and switch. He was deceived and he married Leah instead. And then he worked more and was and married Rachel. But Leah was never as loved as much as Rachel. If there was ever a reason that God put an end to polygamy Pol polygamy, it's all through the scripture. It didn't work. It was not a good system. It was very cruel. It was very mean. God has ordained one man and one woman for life And God doesn't have Christ doesn't have many churches, he has one bride. But poor Leah, the one thing she wanted in life was for her husband to love her. But she always knew that her husband loved her younger sister more. And so when Leah had a third son We find in Genesis 29 and verse 35, and she conceived again and bare a son. And she said, Now will I praise the Lord. Therefore she called his name Judah and left bearing. This name Judah This name, Jude, who is the author of this little 25-verse book, his name means praise or thanksgiving. It may have been that when his father and his mother named this boy Judah, or Jude, or Judas, That they may have been thinking of the promise of God. For when Jacob was dying and he was making prophecies about his Children, Jacob said, prophesied that the scepter would not pass from Judah until Shiloh come. There would always be a lawgiver between the feet of Judah. Now it's a very important fact, and you're going to see why in just a moment. Today, when we talk about the Jews, we're not talking about all of Israel, but rather the Jews are those from the tribe of Judah and also the tribe of Benjamin and a portion of the tribe of Manasseh, and though we don't often mention it in c this context, Most of Levi, most of the priesthood, also were in that group called Judah. Now, why do we call them Jews? Well, remember after the death of Solomon, the kingdom was split. And God reserved to the house of David What we call the two tribes, Judah, Benjamin, with a portion of Manasseh, and the Levites. And those who we call or who we call today the Jews. The rest of Israel, where are they? We don't know. Because they rejected Jehovah God. They were dispersed among the Gentiles. They forfeited the covenant of God. And so They are the lost tribes today. And so that is the name origin of Judah. His name, of course, is also Judas. I don't think anybody today would name their child Judas because of the connotation that carries. But this man, Jude, Judah, Judas, it is all the same name. He calls himself The servant of Jesus Christ. And that word servant, I'm sure you're familiar with the word, is the word do los It is the word which means a bondman or a bond slave. He calls himself the slave, the bondman of Jesus Christ. And this is, of course, the same name That the Apostle Paul gives himself when he calls himself the doulos or the bond man of Jesus Christ. But then immediately following that, he calls himself Jude, the servant, the bondman of Jesus Christ, and the brother of James. James, mentioned here, is the firstborn son of Joseph and Mary. James is the firstborn son of Joseph and Mary, and so when Jude identifies himself by his family, He says, I'm the brother of James. I would say, if I were using this Hebrew form, I would say I'm the brother of Thomas, because my eldest brother is Thomas. And so James calls, or Jude calls himself the brother of James. James is now the head of my family. My father Joseph is dead, and James has become the head of my family. But when we say that when Jude calls himself the brother of James and James being the firstborn son of Mary and Joseph, and I emphasize the and Joseph, what else does that tell us? His mother was Mary. James is the firstborn son of Mary and Joseph. But Mary brought forth her firstborn son as a virgin. And so this man who says, I am the servant of Jesus Christ. I'm his bondman. And I am the brother of James. He is not claiming here that I am the brother of the Son of God. And that is very significant. We are the brethren of the Son of God by faith. Not by human blood, but by divine blood. Yes, human in that he lived in a body of flesh and he shed his blood for us. But my relationship to that blood is that that blood has been sprinkled upon me. Just as the blood of the sacrifice was taken in the Old Testament and sprinkled upon the mercy seat. So Christ, my mercy seat, sprinkled me with his own blood. And in that blood I am washed and cleansed, and thereby I have become the brother of Jesus Christ. But James does not claim a physical brotherhood to Jesus Christ. Now why do we emphasize that? Because God doesn't have a mother. And if God had a mother, he would not be God. And I tell you in love, not in judgment, but I tell you in love that anyone who says, Hail Mary And then follows that by by ascribing to her the motherhood of God is blasphemy God. Is taking God's name in vain by making such a use of the name of God And so here, if someone had a right by birth to claim relationship to Jesus Christ, he denies it. And says, oh no, I am his servant. And James is my brother. And they should teach us as well. Though we love the covenant of grace and we preach the covenant of grace, being born in a Christian family does not secure your soul. Except ye repent, ye shall all likewise perish. And we cannot claim, Well, I must be a Christian because my parents were Christians. I must be alright because my family was righteous. Hofni and Phineas Were the sons of the priest. And though David had a Solomon, King David also had an Absalom. And so, my friend, you are very blessed. Blessed above measure if you are born in a Christian family. That is to you a great privilege, and I myself was the recipient of that mercy and of that grace, but it could not save me. And James, though he was born of Mary and Joseph, he was not saved by that fact. And Jude, Judah, Judas, though he was born of Mary and Joseph, that was not enough to the salvation of his soul. And interestingly, we find that it doesn't appear that Jude did not believe in Jesus Christ until after the resurrection. Turn with me quickly to John chapter seven. John chapter seven. And in verse 2 of John 7, we find now the Jews' feast of tabernacles was at hand. His brethren therefore said unto him, this is the brothers, physical brothers of Jesus, his brethren said unto him, Depart hence. And go into Judea, that thy disciples also may see thy works that thou doest. For there is no man that doeth any things in secret And he himself seeketh to be known openly. If thou do these things, show thyself to the world. For neither did his brethren believe in him. So in this amazing passage here in John 7, we find that the time of the Feast of Tabernacles, the time of the Feast of Booze, That his physical brothers, uh uh James and Jude and Simon Are almost taunting Jesus. You do these miracles, do them in front of your disciples, do them openly, because anyone that has these powers does these things And the Apostle John is clear to point out to us that they didn't believe they were mocking. And we remember In Matthew 13, when when Jesus is doing miracles, and in Matthew 13, you don't need to turn there, but I'll read it to you, 13 and 54. And when he was coming to his own country, he taught them in their synagogue, insomuch that they were astonished and said, Whence hath this man this wisdom and these mighty works? Is not this the carpenter's son? Is not his mother called Mary and his brother and James and Josie and Simon and Judas That's not Judas Iscariot, that's Jude. And so a prophet's not without honor in his own country. And here this one, Jude. Who is the physical child of Mary and the physical child of Joseph And therefore, being the physical child of Joseph, he can claim physical relationship to Jesus Christ. And yet he does not. He refuses it. And he says, rather, I am the servant, the bond slate of Jesus Christ, and I am the younger brother of James. But now we find that he has believed Now we find that he has been saved by the blood of the one to whom he is a bond slave. He has been saved by faith in Jesus Christ. Yes, the grace that Jesus Christ came to bring has come to his own heart. And hallelujah, what a savior he is saved. So, my friend, if you have been born in a Christian family, rejoice. For many have not had that mercy. But that is not enough to save your soul. Except ye repent, ye shall all likewise perish. And so, what an amazing man this is who wrote this little book that we're going to be studying. Born into the family of Mary and Joseph. Where was he at the crucifixion? Why wasn't James and Simon and Judas there at the crucifixion and Josie. Joseph is Joseph, named after his father. Why was it that Christ had to say to John or to Mary, woman, behold thy son, referring to John? He hadn't been saved yet. And oh my friend, if you're here today and you haven't been saved yet, seek the Lord while you may be found. And so that's the man. This book probably was written, and a wide range here, probably was written sometime between 67 A. D. and 80 A. D. We don't know exactly when. Some commentators actually put it out as far as 90 A. D. I believe it was probably written sometime fairly close to the destruction of Jerusalem and the temple and and so on. So I would I would say personally probably somewhere around seventy one. But we really don't know. The book itself does not give us any markers. Some books tell us some historical fact that enables us to be able to nail down the date. But sometime there in the first century, probably around 70 A. D. , was when this book was written. Who is the audience? Who is it written to? Well, if you look there in the first verse, it says Jude The servant of Jesus Christ, the brother of James, to them that are sanctified by God the Father, and preserved in Jesus Christ and called. Okay, here is who this book is written to. First of all, it is written to them that are sanctified by God the Father. That word sanctified, what does that mean? What do we learn from this word sanctified? Well, to sanctify means to consecrate or to set apart. It means to separate from the profane things and to dedicate to God. I am wearing a sanctified suit this morning. Most of you know that I enjoy working on old tractors and on cars. And I enjoy doing carpentry work and I enjoy gardening. This suit has never been worn underneath a car. Penny's smiling. She would have a fit if it was. I have never gone out in the and tended my flowers in this suit. Now it's a simple illustration, but you understand exactly what I'm saying. It is set apart to a certain purpose. It is sanctified. What this word does not mean is perfect. You hear people say, Oh, I just about lost my sanctification. Well, if you lost it, you never had it. Sanctified does not mean perfect. But rather, this word sanctified means to be separated It means to be set apart. It means to be given to a certain purpose. Now, Jude is writing to those that are sanctified because they're good people. Does your Bible say that? If it does so, throw it away. It says they are sanctified by God the Father. God the Father has taken them out of the slime pit of sin and set them aside to a purpose. God has taken them from the filth of this world and said, no, no, no, not this one. No. This one I have a different plan for. And interestingly, this word sanctified is not always translated sanctified in our New Testament scriptures. Our Father which art in heaven, hallowed be thy name. It's the same word sanctified. Now you see how that fits? Our Father which are in heaven. We're not going to take this name in vain. This name is set aside. This name is to be kept pure. This name is to be kept holy. This name is special. This is not common. How dare we take it in vain? How dare we use it carelessly? Oh, what condemnation to those that would use it in cursing And so that same word translated in the Lord's Prayer as hallowed is the same word we find here. God has sanctified us. God the Father has set me apart. And that's who it's being written to. To them that are sanctified. It does not mean that the believer is perfect. The God who has hallowed me, the God who has sanctified me is perfect. But I pray with Paul, O wretched man that I am, who shall deliver me from the body of his death. It does not indicate that the believers are rendered sinless. This is not The idea of sinless perfection, but rather it is the concept and the truth of separation I have been separated by God to his purpose. But there's more here that doesn't this is how we're getting eleven sermons at least out of these twenty-five verses. There's so much more here that doesn't Bubble to the surface until we begin to boil the pot. The word buy Them that are sanctified by God the Father. That's a beautiful translation of the word It is a perfect translation because we read the verse to them that are sanctified by God the Father and preserved in Jesus Christ. It fits. It's right. However, this word by here in the verse is the Greek word Ain or E-N is how we would transliterate it into English. It's a word that means and, it's a word that means with, it's a word that means through, it's a word that means by, and it's a word that me To in And in our New Testament, it's translated in one thousand nine hundred and two times. And translated by 163 times. And this is one of the places that it's translated by. So let's do a little something here. Let's make the sentence awkward. And read it as in instead of by. Jude, the servant of Jesus Christ, and the brother of James To them that are sanctified in God the Father and preserved in Jesus Christ and called. Now you see that puts two ends in the sentence, and that is why our translators chose to translate it by, which is a good translation, a very solid translation But the verse reads smoother if we read it by instead of in. But our English doesn't quite distinguish between by and in the way that Scripture does. How is it that I am sanctified? Because I am righteous? No, because I am in him. And what is the source of my sanctification? My righteousness? No. His. His It is his righteousness. And so, no, this verse doesn't mean I'm sanctified, but it means he is. And hallelujah, I'm in him. And when God the Father looks upon me, he sees me with his own righteousness. And where did I get that? Because I'm a bond slave to Jesus Christ. Because he is my God. And so this book is written to those That are sanctified by God the Father. They're sanctified in His righteousness. I have none of my own, but the righteousness of Jesus Christ, my elder brother by faith. is imputed to me. It is counted to my cause. It is counted to my state. And so I didn't do it. God did. He took me from the slime pin of sin and he sanctified me. He took me out. And there is therefore now no condemnation to them that are in. Christ Jesus. And so James is not saying I'm writing to perfect people. He's writing to sinners. But he's writing the sinners that have been set aside to a purpose by God. He's writing the sinners that have a new suit. And that takes us right back to our illustration. I'm clothed in the robes of righteousness. And if I can extend the illustration a little bit further, don't take your robes of righteousness and garden in the sin of this world with them. Don't take your robes of righteousness and crawl under a greasy car. You see, we're sanctified. We're set apart by God the Father. And though we still live in this world, we're to be different. We're to be separated. We're sanctified. And so Jude is writing to believers who have been made holy in God the Father. And Jude is writing to Christians who have been set aside by God the Father. And so that brings us to the next thing here. Judas writing to those that are sanctified by God the Father, and to them that are preserved. in Jesus Christ. And again you have in there preserved in Jesus Christ. And so it it makes good literary sense to to use by there, but by understanding what that ain't means, it helps us to to break down the verse. And digested. He's writing to those that have been set apart and sanctified by God the Father, and also to those that are preserved in Jesus Christ. I'm saved. I will never lose that salvation. But if it were left to me to keep it, I would have lost it long ago. And I said to you before that people say I lost my sanctification. Well, if you lost it, you never had it in the first place. He's writing to those that are preserved, that are kept in Jesus Christ. All that the Father giveth to me shall come to me, and him that cometh to me I will in no wise cast out, for I came not down from heaven to do my own will. But the will of him that sent me, and this is the Father's will which has sent me, of all that he hath given me, I should lose nothing, but should raise it up at the last day. Turn with me to John chapter seventeen, the seventeenth chapter of John. And I'm going to start reading in verse number 11 of John chapter 17 And we'll read down through verse 17. And we're going to emphasize certain words and phrases as we go through. John 17 and verse number 11. And now I am no more in the world, but these are in the world, and I come to thee, Holy Father. Keep through thine own name those whom thou hast given me, that they may be one as we are. While I was with them in the world, I have kept them in thy name. Those are kept in thy name, those that thou gavest me, I have kept And none of them is lost, but the son of perdition, that the scriptures might be fulfilled. And now I come to thee. And these things I speak in the world that they may have my joy fulfilled in themselves. I have given them thy word. And the world hath hated them because they are not of the world, even as I am not of the world. I pray not that thou shouldest take them out of the world, but that thou shouldest keep them from the evil They are not of this world, even as I am not of this world. Sanctify them through thy truth. Thy word is truth. Just think about what's happening here Christ is getting ready to return to the Father. He said, I've been keeping them. I have kept them through thy word. I've kept them in the world. I'm no longer going to be physically present with them. I'm returning to heaven. But keep them through thy word and sanctify them. And how is it that verse 17 says that God is to sanctify them Through thy word. Through thy truth, thy word is truth. And so how is it That we who have been set aside by God the Father are kept by Jesus Christ. His word. His word. Thy word is a lamp to my feet and a light to my path. Thy word have I hid in my heart that I might not sin against thee. Thy word is truth. The washing of water by the word. You see, the child of God is daily kept Daily preserved, daily sanctified by Jesus Christ And Jesus Christ speaks to us through his word. We don't see a visible form. We know his presence through the Holy Spirit. And yet the Word of God daily works within the heart of the child of God to daily sanctify, set apart. Cleanse from the world, the child of God. And therefore, we are in the hand of Christ and we cannot be plucked out. He will not let us go. And so we find here that Jude is writing to those that have been set apart, have been sanctified by the God the Father, and have been kept, have been preserved, have been protected. from this world by Jesus Christ. And going back to the book of Jude, look down the verse 24 and 25. Of Jude. Now unto him that is able to keep you from falling. And to present you how? Faultless? Sanctified? And to present you thoughtless and wear before the presence of his glory. It's not talking about being perfect here but rather someday being presented perfect before the presence of his glory with exceeding joy To the only wise God and our Savior be glory and majesty and dominion and power both now and forever. Amen. And so the recipients of this book, first of all, are those that are sanctified by God the Father. Second, by those that are preserved in or by Jesus Christ. And thirdly, and I didn't emphasize that word in enough. It is in Christ. If you're not in Christ, you're not preserved. If you're not in Christ, you will commit any sin imaginable. It's only in Christ that we are preserved. But then thirdly, this book is written to them that are called. The last words there of that verse, and called. We're called. What's that word called mean? Now this word called that we find here in this first verse is a a peculiar word called. The English word called that we find there in the New Testament is used well over 300 times. It's actually 295 verses, I believe, include that word called, if I remember correctly, and many verses have it more than one time. So the English word called is pretty common in Scripture But this is not the common word called that we find here in Jude 1. Rather, this is the word that's only used eleven times in our New Testament. And every time that we find it, it's translated exactly the same. It's always called. Paul is the one who uses this word most frequently. And so I want to share with you how Paul uses this word called in other scriptures. I think it will really help us to understand, and it's always a blessing to my heart to see how the Sunday school lesson and the morning message Just our hand and glove together. And we're going to see that in these passages. In Romans 1 verse 1, Paul says, Paul, a servant, a bond slave Paul, a servant of Jesus Christ, called to be an apostle, separated under the gospel of God. Don't you almost see the same thing what Paul's saying there? He's called, he's separated, he's sanctified to God. He's a bonsler servant of God. And so Paul is talking about his call to be an apostle. God separated me out to be an apostle. But then in verse 7 of Romans 1, Paul says to all that be at Rome, beloved of God, called to be saints. Well, to be called to be an apostle and to be called to be a saint are two totally different things. We are saints of God by faith in Christ, but we're not apostles. Now why is that significant? Because Paul uses the same word for both. Did Paul choose to be an apostle? He was called. Did Paul choose to be a Christian? No, he was commanded to be a Christian. Did you choose to be a Christian? No. No, you were called to be so. And we find the same thing in Romans 1 and verse 1 and 2. Sorry. First Corinthians one and verses one and two. First Corinthians one, verse one. Paul called to be an apostle of Jesus Christ through the will of God and Sosthanius, a brother, under the church of God which is at Corinth to them which are sanctified in Jesus Christ, called to be saints. And he uses the same word called there in 1 Corinthians 1 1 and 2. And it's not the common word called Is this word that is only used eleven times in the New Testament? It's a very specific word called That is used there. And then Paul uses it again in Romans 8, verse 28 and 29. For we know that all things work together for good. To them that love God, to them who are the called according to his purpose, for whom he did fill in the blank, for know. He also did Predestinate to be conformed to the image of his son. And what is it to be conformed to the image of his son? To be sanctified. So you see how it all works together. This letter is written to those that have been sanctified by the God, God the Father And to those that have been preserved in Jesus Christ, and to those that have been called, those that are the children of God by faith. The last time we find this word, the last of the eleven times, is in Revelation 17 in verse 14. These shall make war with the Lamb, and the Lamb shall overcome them, for he is Lord of Lords and King of Kings. And they that are with him are called and chosen and faithful. Those that are with Christ in the final victory are called, and they're faithful, and they're chosen. What is the greeting that we find in this glorious book? Well, we've seen The man himself, Jude. We've seen the audience, those that are sanctified, called, and preserved. But then in verse 2, we find a greeting. Mercy unto you. And peace and love be multiplied. Doesn't this sound familiar? Haven't you heard greetings like that throughout Scripture, throughout the New Testament? This one's a little bit different. This one begins with mercy. And again, Brother Vince spent a good bit of time in Sunday school this morning talking about mercy. It just doesn't mean loving-kindness. It is something far and above beyond loving kindness. Mercy Who's he talking to? He's talking to the sanctified, the preserved, and the called. Why do they need mercy? They need mercy because their sanctification isn't complete. Because they still live in sin. So we continue in sin that grace be abound? God forbid, how shall they that are dead to sin live any longer therein? And yet we still sin. We still stumble through this world. And so we are daily in need of mercy, and we're in need that that mercy be multiplied. Look at that last word of the verse. Be multiplied. We need it times infinity. We need it constantly. Because Jeremiah wrote in Jeremiah chapter 3, and this is the verse that I read for our call to worship this morning. This I recall to mind, therefore I have hope. Wow, isn't that marvelous? I I call this to mind, and then I have hope. It is of the Lord's mercies that we are not consumed. Because as compassions fail not, they are new every morning. Great is thy faithfulness. Where do I deserve to be this morning? Here in this place of worship? No, I deserve to be in hell. That's where you deserve to be too. And if God hadn't given me mercy, I would be. You see, it is the mercy to the believer that I still breathe, and it is the mercy to the unbeliever that they still breathe too, and it's appointed them the man wants to stop breathing. And after this the judgment. It is of the Lord's mercies that we are not consumed. And so James, the bond slave of Jesus Christ, writing to those that are sanctified by God the Father and preserved in Jesus Christ the Son and called He says, May mercy be multiplied to you. May you receive all the mercy you need because you need a lot. In Matthew 9, the Pharisees are objecting because Jesus Christ is receiving sinners and eating with them. And Matthew there in Matthew nine is recording his own conversion. For in Matthew nine and verse twelve, but when Jesus heard it That is the complaint of the Pharisees. He said unto them, They that are whole need not a physician, but they that are sick. But go and learn what that meaneth. I will have mercy and not sacrifice For I'm not come to call the righteous but sinners to repentance. And that's all in the context of Matthew the tax collector being saved. Go learn what it means. I'll have mercy and not sacrifice. For I'm not come to call the righteous, but sinners to repentance. And so here we find that Jude writing to these believers is saying, may the mercy be multiplied. And the Apostle Paul talks about the vessels of wrath and the vessels of mercy. God endures with long suffering the vessels of wrath fitted to destruction, that He might have compassion on the vessels of mercy. Are you a vessel of mercy or a vessel of wrath? But then further, James James, sorry, Jude Praise to these people that mercy be multiplied unto them and peace. And peace Therefore, being justified by faith, we have peace with God A peace of God that passeth all understanding. Peace like a river. God gives us peace Christ said, Peace I leave with you, my peace I give unto you, not as the world giveth I unto you. Let not your heart be troubled, neither be afraid. In this world, you'll have tribulation. But be of good courage. I have overcome the world. But I only read the last half of the verse. For the verse says, These things have I spoken unto you, that ye might have peace. And the world will have tribulation. But be of good courage. I've overcome the world. Peace be multiplied. Do you have peace in your heart? I wish I always did. But there are so many things that begin to intrude on the peace of the believer. Circumstances, trials, sickness. In attention to his word, in attention to prayer, our own sin. But my friend, we have been sanctified by God the Father. We are daily preserved in Jesus Christ. We are called by his marvelous grace. May mercy and peace be multiplied to our hearts. Day by day. May we walk in his word. May we walk in his love and know his peace. And love is the final thing that's multiplied. Love. Love to God, love for the brethren, love for the Word of God And going back again to the end of this book, look at verses 20 and 21. But ye beloved, building up yourselves on your most holy faith. Building yourselves on your most holy faith. Building your life on that faith. Building your heart around that faith. Building your defense against sin through that faith. And where does the faith come? By hearing. And hearing by the word. But ye beloved, building up yourselves on your most holy faith. Praying in the Holy Ghost, keep yourselves in the love of God. We're kept by Christ. But that doesn't mean we were to be lazy. It doesn't mean that we're to say, well, he's going to do it all and I'm going to float along like a dead fish. My father used to say any dead fish can float down the river. It takes a live one to swim back up. Keep yourselves in the love of God, looking for the mercy of God. What are the elements we have there in our verse 2? We have mercy, we have peace, and we have love. Keep yourselves in the love of God, looking for the mercy of the Lord Jesus Christ unto eternal life. I hope your appetite's wet. I hope you see from these first two verses. How getting eleven getting preaching this book in eleven chap 11 messages is gonna be hard to cram it all in. in so little time. It's a glorious book. I hope it'll be a blessing to you. It's been a blessing to my heart in in study. And may God Lead us and guide us as we go through it together. We're going to stand and have prayer and then have our closing hymn, and that will be followed by the Lord's table. Let us stand for prayer. Father, I thank you for the richness and the blessings of this little twenty-five-verse book. Lord, it is so full of of truth and uh feeding for the soul. Father, may you bless it to us. May you Apply it to our hearts. May you convict us. May you cause us to walk with you. Cause us to pray more. Cause us to love you more. Cause us to study your word more. Father, we thank you for your blessings this day. Lord, now as we sing a hymn and then go into the Lord's table, we thank you that Jesus did indeed pay for all our sin. Father, bless your people this day in Jesus' name. Amen.