Exodus chapter thirty-two, and I'll begin our scripture reading with the first verse of the chapter. Exodus thirty two, beginning in verse one And when the people saw that Moses delayed to come down out of the mount, the people gathered themselves together unto Aaron and said unto him, Up! Make us gods which shall go before us. For as for this Moses, the man that brought us up out of the land of Egypt, we ought not what has become of him And Aaron said unto them, Break off the golden earrings which are in the ears of your wives, of your sons, and of your daughters, and bring them unto me. All the people broke off the gold of the earrings which were in their ears and brought them unto Aaron. And he received them at their hand and fashioned it with a graving tool after he had made a molten cap. And they said, These be thy gods, O Israel, which brought thee up out of the land of Egypt. And when Aaron saw it, he built an altar before it. And Aaron made a proclamation and said, Tomorrow is a feast to the Lord. And they rose up early on the morrow and offered burnt offerings, brought peace offerings. And the people sat down to eat and to drink and rose up to play And the Lord said unto Moses, Go, get thee down, for thy people which thou broughtest out of the land of Egypt have corrupted themselves. They have turned aside quickly out of the way, which God commanded them. And they have made them a molten calf and have worshipped it. And of sacrificed thereunto, and said, These be thy gods, O Israel, which brought thee up out of the land of Egypt. And the Lord said unto Moses, I have seen this people, and behold, it is a stiff-necked people Now therefore, let me alone that my wrath may wax hot against them, and that I may consume them, and I will make of thee a great nation. And Moses besought the Lord his God and said, Lord, why doth thy wrath wax hot against thy people, which thou hast brought forth out of the land of Egypt? which grew which with great power and with a mighty hand. Wherefore should the Egyptians speak and say, For mischief did he bring them out, to slay them in the mountain, and to consume them from off the face of the earth? Turn from thy fierce wrath, and repent of this thine anger against that this evil against thy people Remember Abraham, Isaac, and Israel, thy servants, to whom thou swearest by thine own self, and saidest unto them, I will multiply your seed as the stars of heaven. And in this and all this land that I have spoken of, I will give unto your seed, and thou shalt inherit it forever And the Lord repented of the evil which he had sought to do unto his people. Moses turned and went down from the mountain. And the two tables of the testimony were in his hands. The tables were written on both sides, on one side, and on the other side they were written. And the tables were the work of God, and the writing was the writing of God graven upon the tables. And when Joshua heard the noise of the people as they shouted, he said unto Moses, There is a noise of war in the camp. And he said It is not the voice of them that shout for the mastery, neither the voice of them that cry for being overcome. What it is the noise of them that sing, do I hear And it came to pass as soon as he came nigh unto the camp that he saw the calf and the dancer. Moses' anger waxed hot, and he cast the tables out of his hand and break them beneath the mount. And he took the cat which they had made and burned it in the fire and ground it into powder and strawed it upon the water And made the children of Israel to drink of it. O Lord God, how vulnerable are we, your children. How quickly we can turn aside How rapidly our faith can fail and we can turn to the beggarly elements of this world rather than looking under Jesus, the altar, and finishing our faith. Father, as we now look into your word, may you smite our hearts. May you convict us of our sin. May you make us wary of our failings. May you make us strong in Christ. May you refine us by your spirit. Lord, may we be rebuked and convicted before your word. And may we be strengthened to stand For Lord, we find in your word, let him that thinketh that he stands take, heep, bless, keep all. Bless your word to our hearts this day, we pray. In Jesus' name. Our text this morning is that last verse of 1 John chapter 5. Little children, keep yourselves from idols. Amen. Now we're going to be gonna kind of going back and forth because we're just using that one final verse out of 1 John. In our previous studies of the book of 1 John, we didn't really cover that verse And I uh was actually working on this message several weeks ago and and uh now have the opportunity to preach it. And so Little children, keep yourselves from idols. Amen. Let's take that verse apart We find the John here as he comes to the very last book of the very last verse of the book of 1 John He again addresses his hearers as little children. And we've seen previously that there are actually seven times in this book when he uses this term, little children. It's a very tender term. It is a loving term. Because they are little children, they are dearly loved. And we've observed before that John, who is writing this book, is the one who was the beloved disciple. He was the one who was loved. He knew the love of Christ. And that love which Christ had extended to him is now poured out. on his hearers, little children, dear ones, those that are precious to my heart, little children These were souls over whom John had wept and prayed. They were souls that he had labored to instruct and rebuke. They were souls that he had loved. We often talk about a man's last words. What were the last words that a man ever said or a woman ever said? Or a parting message. Washington's farewell address is often pointed to as a milestone in the history of our country and a very important thing. Many times the last thing we say is the most important thing that we ever say. And here, almost out of context, if you look at 1 John 5, the word company's out of context, don't misunderstand me. But this thought, keep yourselves from idols, in many ways it doesn't seem to really connect to everything else that is said. And yet as we look at the broad scope of 1 John, it is all connected, it all fits together But here, John, the last thing he's going to say is, Teach yourselves of idols, little children. Be careful of the danger of idols. Teek yourselves. From idols, little children. Keep yourselves from idols. Amen. You see, little children are vulnerable Little children are easily led astray. Little children can be seen, you can be deceived. In in this book of 1 John, in chapter 2, verse 18, little children, it is the last time ye have heard the Antichrist shall come. Even now there are many antichrists. Whereby we know that it is the last. Be careful, little children, there's going to be false teeth, there's going to be Antichrist And then in chapter four, verse one, John said, Beloved, believe not every spirit, but try the spirits where they be of God, because many false prophets are gone into the world. Now, we prefaced our consideration of 1 John 5. 21 by reading the account of the children of Israel who have just come out of Egypt. They have crossed the Red Sea by a miraculous parting of the sea. They have seen Pharaoh's armies drown in the Red Sea. And all that has followed ten plagues. that came upon Egypt. They knew the night when they had light in their houses. If anyone should have been nailed to truth, it should have been the children of Israel. All the things they have seen, and yet how quickly they're ready to make a golden calf and say, This These be the gods that brought us out of Egypt. This golden calf, this is it. And it's Fascinating and frightening that they build this altar to it, they offer sacrifices to it, and then Aaron says, Tomorrow is a sacrifice unto the Lord. And if you look in your King James there, it is all cats. Tomorrow is a sacrifice Jehovah, and this is the way we're going to worship him by this golden calf that is for us. If anyone should have known better, it should have been these children of Abraham that have just seen such miraculous delivery And yet, God says to Moses, they quickly turned aside and corrupted themselves. And so we might say today, you know, Pastor, little children keep yourselves from idols. I know that. I've got that. I understand that. Little children, keep yourselves from idols, because if they could fall They who had seen the parting of the Red Sea, they who had seen the mighty works of God, how much more vulnerable am I? Little children. And Paul in his address to the Corinthians Let me read the verses to you. Turn with me to 1 Corinthians chapter 10. 1 Corinthians chapter 10. And let me read a I was just going to read them in your hearing, but it's good for you to see them as well. 1 Corinthians chapter 10. Now read verses 1 through 7, and then make a few comments, and then we'll go down to verse 11 as well of 1 Corinthians chapter 10. The first verse of chapter 10 says, Moreover, brethren, I would not have you to be ignorant how that all our fathers, that's talking about Israel, all our fathers were under the cloud And all passed through the sea, and were all baptized for the Moses in the clouds and in the sea. And all did eat the same spiritual meat, and did all drink the same spiritual drink For they drank of that spiritual rock, notice capitalized, that spiritual rock that followed them, and that rock was Christ. But with many of them God was not well pleased, but they were overthrown in the wilderness. Now these things were our examples And we don't do damage to the text to say examples there. These are warnings. These things were an example of those that failed, that fell, take heed, watch out, let him that think of that he stand Take heed lest they fall. Now these things were our examples to the intent that we should not lust after evil things as they also lusted. Neither be ye idolaters as were some of them, as is written, the people sat down to eat and drink and rose up to play. Where have you heard that? Well, we just read those exact same words in Exodus thirty-two, verses six through eight. So look down to verse 11 of 1 Corinthians 10. Now these things happen unto them for our ensamples, and they are written for our admonition. Upon whom the ends of the world has come are come, wherefore let him the things that he stand take. And so, if they can fall, certainly we are vulnerable. Consider the perils of children. First of all, children are trusting. They accept what is told to them without question. I would venture to say that Not all of the children of Israel were ready to worship a golden cast until the cap was made and the crowd went along and he said, Well Okay, our neighbors are saying this, and those around us, they're accepting this. It must be okay. These must be the gods that brought us up out of the church. Little children are vulnerable. Paul said to the Galatians that he marveled that they were so prof so soon removed from the grace of God. Children, keep yourselves from idols. We already little children. Little children are immature. Little children lack the maturity to pray things through. Paul said, I've fed you with milk and not with meat, for heretofore you were not able to bear it. Little children are impatient. The first verse we read there in Exodus 32 was paraphrased. Where's Moses? When they saw that Moses carried, they went into an immediate panic. They're a spiritual leader. We can't see him. Where is he? We don't know what's happened. Let's rush off to these golden calves. Just because he couldn't see the leader didn't mean he wasn't leaving. He wasn't there. The child whose mother walks around the Row in the grocery store when the child isn't watching. This mother has not left the child, but suddenly the child goes into panic. I can't see her And that's exactly what happened here. Little children, be careful. Be on guard. Keep yourselves from idols. Moses delayed coming down. Little children are drawn to the attractive. They're drawn to the beautiful. Oh, the cat is made of the Gold. And it's not just gold, it's shiny gold. Doesn't just come out of the fire. It's just been polished by the heat of the fire. And not only that, Aaron has taken a graving tool we read, and it has been shaped and it's a form Ah yes, I can see it! These be our gods which brought us up out of the land. The lust of the eyes, the lust of the flesh, and the pride of light takes over, and suddenly we find our souls burning incense and making sacrifice and bowing down. Be sober, be vigilant. Your adversary of the devil is a roaring lion walketh about seeking whom he may devour. Little children, keep yourselves the likes. What can we find in our text as well? There is personal responsibility here. Little children, keep yourselves your idols That is a personal responsibility that is placed on the little children. When we tell our children what they are to do, we expect our children to do what we tell them. Right? We expect obedience. When we tell our children to do a job, we expect them to do it. And when we tell our children, look out Be careful, don't touch that hot We expect to be obedient. And we are not telling them those things to restrain them. We are not telling them that those things to break their will. We're not telling them those things to Prevent them from some great pleasure that they want to enjoy. We are disciplining our children for their own welfare. For their benefit. For their personal safety. Here we have a warning for our spiritual benefit. For our spiritual welfare, for our spiritual safety, little children, keep yourselves. Keep yourselves. Keep yourselves. This word keep means to guard. It means to keep watch. It means to keep safe It means to be on guard, to be aware. And it's interesting to notice how this word is used in Scripture. In Luke chapter 8, or chapter 2, verse 8, and there were in the same country, shepherds abide in the field. Keeping watch over their flocks. Finite, and it's the exact same word. It's the same word. They were keeping watch over their flocks. Why? Well, because there were wolves But the time that the shepherds were in the field was in the time that the sheep would be lambing. There would be young lambs that were vulnerable. And there were bears and lions that David killed. There were dangers of the sheep, and so the shepherds were on guard. They weren't asleep in the fields. The angels didn't wake them up, folks. They were keeping watch over their flocks by night when the angel appeared under them. They were keeping watch because the sheep were sheep. The sheep were vulnerable, the sheep could be frightened and flee and break their legs in a stampede, the sheep could be eaten by predators, they could be stolen by thieves And so the shepherds were on guard. There was no shepherds. But children be on guard. There's a roaring lion that will lead you to idols. There is a thief, Satan himself, who wants to steal you away from truth. There are false prophets. There are things all around you which will bring your soul to fright and cause you to run to anyone but Jehovah. Little children Keep yourselves from idols. This word also means to to keep in safety When Christ was ready to depart back to his Father in John 17 and verse 12, Christ says, While I was with them in the world, I have kept them in thy name Those which thou gavest me I have kept, and none of them is lost, except the son of permission. And it's the same word Jesus says, when I was with them, I kept watch over them, just as the shepherds kept watch over the sheep. While I was with them, I have kept them, and none is left but the son of perdition, and that was all in God's will and God's plan, that Judas be the betrayer, but I protected them. Little children, protect them Keep watching. It also means beware. In 2 Peter chapter 3, verse 17, ye therefore beloved, see ye know these things before Beware lest ye also being led away with the air of the wicked fall from your own steadfastness. And that word beware there in 2 Peter 3, verse 17, is this same word key. Beware. Beware for your souls. Little children, beware of idols. It means to guard. In uh Proverbs, Old Testament, different word but same idea. Keep your heart with all diligence, for out of it. are the issues of life. Keep yourself personally. But We know that we're vulnerable because we're children. We know that we have responsibility before God, but how quickly we We fall. Which no one else's word means? It means the same. The same word. Listen to this. Second Peter chapter 2, verse 5 When God is talking about the flood and the sparing of Noah, now unto him, I'm sorry, 2 Peter 2 verse 5, and spared not the old world, but saved Noah, the eighth person. It's that same word keep. He saved Noah the eighth person. He kept him alive. Little children, keep yourself You see, if we turn to idols, we can't say, oh, it was beautiful, and so I'm excused. We can't say, Where's Moses? So I'm excused. We can't say, well, you know, my neighbor said it was okay. No. Little children, we have a personal responsibility to keep ourselves. But then at this point we need to consider what's an idol. What is it that we're keeping ourselves from? Keep yourselves from idols. What constitutes an idol? Now for our responsive reading this morning, we we consider the The Ten Commandments that God has given us. I want you to turn with me to Exodus chapter 20, where the Ten Commandments are given, because here we find the best definition of what an idol is and why God hates idols. To consider why God hates idols, we have to look at what is true. And so we're going to Exodus chapter 20. And I'll read verses 1 through 6. What constitutes an idol? What is this idol where it keeps cells from? Exodus chapter 20. And we'll begin reading in verse number 1. And God spake all these words, saying, I am the Lord thy God, which brought thee up out of the house of Egypt. out of the house of bondage. Remember what they said about the golden cat? This is the God that brought us up. No. Joseph said, I'm the Lord like God. I'm the Lord that brought you up. Verse 3. Thou shalt have no other gods before me. Thou shalt not make unto thee any graven image or any likeness. Of anything that is in, they have it above, where that is in the earth beneath, or that is in the water under the earth Thou shalt not bow down thyself to them, nor serve them. For I am the Lord thy God, for I the Lord thy God am a jealous God, visiting the iniquities of the fathers upon the children under the third and fourth generation of them that hate me. And show the mercy to thousands of them that love me and keep my commandments. What is an idol? Well, the commandment is thou shalt have no other gods before me. An idol is anything that stands in the place of God. An idol is anything that stands between you and God. He is God. He is the one we worship, he is the one we bow down to, and anything that usurps his place is idle. And that is exactly the downfall of Lucifer. Isaiah 14, verses 12-14. I'll read them to you. How art thou fallen from heaven, O Lucifer, son of the morning? How art thou cast down the ground which did weaken the nations Thou hast said in thy heart, I will ascend into heavens, I will exalt my throne above the stars of God. I will sit also upon the mouth of the congregation in the sides of the north. I will ascend above the heights of the clouds. I will be like the most high. You see, Lucifer's downfall was he put himself in the place of Jehovah. An idol, my friends, is anything in your life that is in the place of Jehovah. Anything that stands between you and your God is an idol. Little children, keep yourselves alive. Second Thessalonians Paul With warning about the coming of the Son of Perdition. And note how Paul describes the Son of Perdition in 2 Thessalonians 2, verses 3 to 4. Let no man deceive you by any means For that day shall not come except there come a falling away first, and the man of sin be present uh revealed, the son of perdition who opposeth and exalteth himself above all that is called God or that is worshiped, so that he, as God, sitteth in the temple of God, showing himself that he is God. The son of perdition, becoming Antichrist, he sets himself in the place of God. Thou shalt have no other gods before me. That word before is not does not mean in the presence of me, but it means other than me, instead of me, in the place of me, and that's exactly what the problem with the golden calf was. They said today tomorrow to feast Jehovah. We're going to worship Jehovah. We're going to do what's right. But this beautiful calf was out This beautiful calf is going to stand in the place of Jehovah This beautiful church building that we worship in is now our God. This beautiful icon that we have standing in the corner of a place of worship This little Mary or whatever we have standing in our garden, all these things that so quickly intrude Stands in the place of Jehovah, and it is an idol that Jehovah is. Over the temptation of Christ. Bow down and worship me. And so an idol is anything that stands in the place of God But then our text, our verse there in the Ten Commandments tells us thou shalt not make unto thee any graven image. You don't have to make a likeness. Why were they upset and made the cat? Because they couldn't see Moses. You see, they were following Moses and not the God of Moses. They couldn't see Moses until they felt like Jehovah had forsaken them as well. Well, Moses hadn't forsaken them. Moses was up on the mountain, getting the Ten Commandments, written by the very finger of God. And yet they so quickly turned aside. They had to see something. They were not content to walk by the face. They needed some beautiful representation to remind them of God or to stand in the place of God for them. In Deuteronomy 4, verse 15 Take therefore good heed unto yourselves, for ye saw no manner of similitude on the day that the Lord spake unto you in Worath Out of the midst of fire, lest ye corrupt yourselves and make you a graven image, the similitude of any figure, the likeness of male and female, the likeness of any beast on the earth The likeness of any winged fowl that flieth in the air, the likeness of anything that creepeth on the ground, the likeness of any fish that is in the water beneath Unless thou lift up thine eyes unto heaven, when thou hast seen the sun, the moon, and the stars, even all the hosts of the heaven should be driven To worship them and serve them, which the Lord thy God hath divided into all the nations under the earth. No greater image, no visible manifestation was seen on the mountain. But how quickly the visible manifestations of religion become to us as How quickly a cross on the wall of a church, which was put there with good intentions, by the comes to us in our time. And we're looking always to a wooden cross rather than looking on the Jesus, the author and venture of the We're looking to the outward trappings and manifestations of religion would become to us nothing more than a golden cast. Thou shalt not make into thee any grave image. Moses explained tomorrow is a feast of Jehovah. And then finally, there from Exodus 20, thou shalt not bow down thyself to him. Thou shalt worship the Lord thy God. Only shall not serve. Here we find that Aaron makes an altar and they offer sacrifice before a golden calf. And they bow down and they worship the golden calf, and the golden calf was not Jehovah. How quickly we bowed down to the elements of this week. Little children, keep yourselves from idols and death The word amen means even so let it be. Yes, Lord. It's it's true. What application can we make to ourselves today? Our world is filled with people today who bow down the idol of pleasure. And we, the children of God, are vulnerable ourselves to bow down to the God of flesh. As my family and I drove today coming through Baltimore, we got to 395 that turns off the city, and it's amazing how the traffic began to pan out. Because there were three airplanes flying over the stadium with banners and people were rushing to the God of Pleasure. Ah, we're going to have so much fun. the Lord's Day. Their God is made of peace. And they will bow down to it with grievance on this day. Little children, keep yourselves from the idol of pleasure. Don't ever let the things that you enjoy in this life become to you in the place of Jehovah. Don't let the pleasures of this life keep you out of the house of the Lord. Many people bow down to the idol of priorities And that falls right on the heels of the idol of pleasure. Well, yes, we we love the Lord and we serve him, but we're on vacation. Don't think of vacation for church. Don't think of vacation for joke for the function. What are your priorities? Well, you know, uh really, really need to be serving the Lord, but what are we? So much going on, so many things they have to do. Yeah, you know, we'll well tomorrow's the feast of the Lord. You know. Tomorrow's the feast of the Lord. You ever wonder why Aaron didn't say today's the feast of the Lord? Why put it off to tomorrow? Tomorrow we're gonna worship the Lord with our golden calf. No. Don't bow down to the God of priorities. Many people worship the idol of prominence or popularity. Just don't know the people I work with. If I talk about the Lord there, they're gonna think of a nuts. You know what? If if I take a stand of Christ and righteousness in my workplace, I probably won't get that promotion You know, uh th the the the kids I play with, uh they don't like how and goes to church, but but you know, when they take the Lord's name in vain, I just kinda I don't tell them, hey, that's that's my savior you're talking about. Ah how we like to be liked. How we love to be loved But you see, we are loved by Christ. And we are to love him above all else. That is a pride. And so many people bow down to the idol of priority. Keep yourself marks. Many people bow down to the idol of provisions. Oh, I've just gotta make more money. I've just gotta advance. We you know we we've gotta have a bigger house. We need a new car. We've gotta stay Retirement, there's all these things and oh these things I've gotta do all these things and Provision becomes our God, and our whole life is spent dedicated, working to build up a pile of things that molt and rust after rust. Lay up for yourselves treasures of heaven. How often we bow down to the idol of provisions and becomes And finally, there are many people who bow down. idol of personalities or people. And I've preached that literature, so I had to think of this. But people bow down to people Ah this person is my hero, my children. Ah, how I love them and I pour my life into them. But even our own family can become to us a golden calf. Who stands between us? Of the service of Jehovah Yah. Little children, you who are vulnerable You who are subject to all the temptations of this life. You little children have a responsibility. You have a God-given obligation. Guard yourself. Keep yourself, beware, protect yourself. Because all these things that are good in themselves But how quickly they become our code. One concluding thought, let me read to you from 2 Kings 18 and verses 7 3 and 4. This is the testimony of righteous king Hezekiah. And he did that which was right in the sight of the Lord. According to all that David his father did, he removed the high places and break the images and cut down the groves And he break in pieces the brazen serpent that Moses had made. For unto these days the children of Israel did burn incense to it, and called it Nehushai. Here was the brazen serpent that God had instructed Moses to make and put on a sort of pole for the healing of the people when they were bitten by the serpent. Serpents and those that looked to the brazen serpent were healed. And in the New Testament, that very serpent is used as a picture of Christ. And as Moses lifted up the serpent in the wilderness, So must the Son of Man be lifted up. And yet that very thing which was ordained of God in time deteriorated but Nikon An idol. But they beg began to burn incense too and call it Nehushtan. Until Hezekiah came and said, Enough of this. And he broke Broke in pieces and dispose of us. May God teach us to search our hearts and lives, to break down our Nehushtag and dispose of us. Little children, keep yourselves open. Our gracious Father, we thank you for the warnings for your word. Father, we thank you that not one jot or tittle shall pass from the law until all be fulfilled. Father we thank you that all scripture is given by inspiration and is profitable. Father, make this short little verse profitable to our hearts today. May we be ever on guard for how quickly the idols take over. Bless us your people with prayer in Jesus' name.