Doing in Hebrews 11. And you know, I have read over this passage so many times so quickly. By faith, Abraham, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah. By faith, Isaac, by faith, Jacob, by faith, Joseph, by faith, Moses. You almost get a survey of who these people are and you kind of just move along and say, yeah, yeah, they were faithful, they're held up. But there's actually if you slow down and stop and think a bit, these last several individuals we've been looking at, Jacob, Joseph, and now Moses, their faith is being highlighted over the age of 80. Some in their dying years over a hundred. We read in Hebrews 11, 28, 27 and 28, and then I'll get to our discussion question. Hebrews 11, 27, 8 27 and 28 says this. By faith he forsook Egypt, speaking of Moses, not fearing the wrath of the king, for he endured as seeing him who is invisible. Through faith he kept the Passover and the sprinkling of blood. It's interesting it calls that out. Sprinkling. We'll send a note of that down the PCC. Lest he that destroyed the firstborn should touch them. Well, my question is, and again I try to engineer these questions so it gets us to thinking a little bit about some of the aspects of this particular faith lesson. So what illustrations would you use, or perhaps what illustrations have you used to memorably teach children some life lesson? Or, if you haven't had children, what memorable lesson do you remember from your parents that was very simple that you used later on that says, you know, that was a really good, really good illustration I had an interesting thing happen the tweet uh had the bounce house, I forgot which week that was. Uh the uh my grandson that grandson's fifth child is uh the last child and he's uh I think being treated very badly because he's so dear, you know He's just oh he's one of those oh I guess every everybody has to see how wonderful I am. And his mother just thinks he is and picks him up and oh you're so cute, uh Adam And uh you know, all that. Well, I don't like to see that 'cause there's not good training for the child. And uh so when he tried it with me, I just dead faced him, you know and said hello Adam and went on talking to the other children. He tried it about four or five times during the day. And I just did the same thing each time. He is adorable. But that's not a good training for his future And uh so finally he came at the end of the day, he came over on the other back side of me, stood right here, and he opened his mouth like that And he just looked at me. He could not figure out why in the world I wasn't charmed. While you weren't fawning over him. That's right, yeah. While you weren't worshipping the child. And that's so sad, training for a child. He just he's two or three, you know, he's not old. But I think you should train those And you shouldn't just coddle them in a bad way. That's exactly right. And I think that's an example of what you That's perfect weeks ago and so things that will stick. They stick and they last a long time time. If he has a knife or anything someday. We used to read children's books to our kids when they were young and we would pick some that were uh you know, trying to uh inform them of some things later in life. And one of the ones in particular that I read to the girls, Gabriel never got it, because it was aimed specifically at girls. And I even forget the title But it had to do with a young princess and uh she had a treasure, she had a gift, and it was called the KISS and so she was the princess, she's there at the castle, and then as she got older, different kinds of suitors would come around. You know, there was a guy that could throw rocks around the castle and he was very impressive because he could pick up big boulders and things and and and cheat. He was not the one. And there was another one who was on the You know, the knight in shining armor, literally. He was not the one. But there was this humble servant that loved God. He was the one. And uh so she uh uh uh as it were gave her treasure, her kiss to him. And so it was a very simple, memorable life lesson uh that I think has stuck with him. You know, you you teach them early some of these things Absolutely. Yeah. Anybody else? Anything that maybe your father or mother given you a father and mother, but garden it's just If you want a plant to thrive, you've got to water it. You've got to give it the right nutrition. And if you're going to grow spiritually, you're not going to grow if you're not using If you're not saint, if you're not a church, and then there's the weeds that come up, the sins and the temptations that try to choke us up. Um and draw it away from the Lord. You've got to continually fill them out. It's not a one-time thing, it's a a daily thing. And you've got the sun, you've got the grace of God that shines in the And I still gain from those gardening illustrations as well when I am out there uh pruning I almost cry because I have a spiritual experience when I'm pruning my blueberry bushes. It's uh really, really quite something. Yeah It's painful but it's needful. You know, here's a nice good branch, but to me it's like it doesn't have a future. This branch doesn't have a future. It's not going to bear fruit or it's going to bear insufficient fruit. It's going to draw the resources from something else. Unceremoniously cut off, move on. I didn't stand there and explain to the bush why I've cut it. I didn't uh hug the bush before to say, this is going to hurt now, take it easy. No, I just cut it off and moved on And lo and behold, it's going to produce fruit. Well, we're looking at Moses here and uh there's two verses and I almost split them in half, but I said, well let's try to stick with one, see if we can get through it, and it's a lot of material. have designed this poorly because I really should have done verse 28 first and then 27, but that's not the way God presents it, so we'll cover 27 first, which is, by faith he forsook Egypt. Now when I first read that I laughed. By faith, he forsook Egypt. You know, we're going to be spending the bulk of our time here uh in in Exodus and in a moment we'll get to it. But I laughed when I saw that because I thought, well, if memory serves me correctly, he was not exactly in faith. When he fled Egypt the first time, he was afraid We'll touch on that, so I want to deal with this part. He endured as seeing him who's invisible. As I mentioned, we're going to spend a fair amount of time in in Exodus, so you might want to grab your Bible and just go ahead and turn to Exodus. We're going to start now in Exodus 3. This is the source of Moses' faith. He endured as seeing him who's invisible. And that's somewhat of an irony. How do you see something that's invisible? uh obviously has something to do with his spiritual perception. A real perception occurred as well, but he didn't physically see a form. You know, he first encounters God at this burning bush We read in Moses 3 in the first six verses. I'm not going to read each of the verses, but we find that he's keeping the flock of Jethro, his father-in-law. His father-in-law lives in the land of Midian. He's on the backside of Mount Horeb. We learn that Mount Horeb has another name. That other name is Mount Sinai, where the Ten Commandments will be given He's there. Angel of the Lord appears to him in a flame of fire out of the midst of the bush, but the bush was not consumed. It was such a curious sight. Moses said, I'll step aside and take a look at it, and that's when the bush talked to him So here's this bush burning. You're kind of expecting to see crackling branches falling apart. None of that happened. The bush is consumed with fire. In our God's a consuming fire. Hell is a real place. God is able to fashion that body to endure the flames of eternal judgment without being utterly obliterated. Only God can pull that off And so lo and behold, as he comes near, God calls to him, verse 4, Moses, Moses, he said, here am I. Don't come near, put your shoes and off your feet. The place whereon you stand is holy ground. So God makes it clear. His presence is sanctifying even that bush in the desert floor. And then God speaks to him and says, I am the God of thy father, the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob. Moses hid his face, for he was afraid to look upon God. So this is his first appearance to Moses. If you skip ahead a few chapters to chapter 6 and verse 3, we find that the Lord is making an explanation to Moses. And he says, in telling him what he's going to say to Pharaoh, he starts off by saying, I appeared unto Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob by the name of God Almighty. That's else should I. He says, that's how they knew me. That was the name they had. He says, but by my name Jehovah was I not known to them It's very interesting. God has a timetable for revealing truth. God chose at this particular time to reveal a different name And in the course of revealing this different name that they had not known in old time, God is going to begin to unveil another character aspect of his being. So This is the only Old Testament evidence we have concerning Moses, quote, seeing him who is invisible. He heard a voice, but he saw no physical form. He perceived the effect of God, but did not see the hand of God doing it. He endured as seeing him who is invisible. And so although he physically saw at the bush uh at the bush, uh in fact he heard the words of God, and that was the perception, the seeing that he had. You know, and there's an application that we can make from this, and it's from the book of 1 Peter, chapter 1, and verse 8. It's a great passage. There we read this. See if I can find it. Uh real quick. I had it up earlier. It was marvelous. It occurred to me this morning as I was reviewing this, speaking about Jesus Christ, whom having not seen ye love In whom, though now ye see him not, yet believing ye rejoice with joy unspeakable and full of glory, receiving the end of your faith, even the salvation of your souls. So it's applicable for believers as well. We endure because we see him who is invisible. Alright, well, I want to get to this part about now forsaking Egypt. So here he has God, God speaking to him, he listens to God. God's calling him by name, Moses Moses, so he knows, okay, he's not just talking to the guy standing behind me. He's actually talking to me. And it says, by faith he forsook Egypt. And the thing that made me laugh, if you turn back in Exodus to chapter 2 and verse 14, We read this as the two Hebrews were wrestling the day after Moses committed murder. One of the Hebrews said to Moses, Who made thee a prince and a judge over us? Intendest thou to kill me as thou killest the Egyptian? And Moses feared and said, Surely this thing is known. And when Pharaoh heard this thing, he sought to slay Moses, but Moses fled from the face of Pharaoh and dwelt in the land of Midian. Well that doesn't sound like faith to me. That sounds like terror. That sounds like being fearful. So what do we have going on here? Obviously it's not talking about that particular portion The context of Hebrews 11, 27, and 28 has to do with the events surrounding the Passover. And there's some key phrases here that help us to understand What it means that he forsook Egypt. Because it wasn't when he was fearful at the age of 40. Our passage is dealing with him when he's at the age of 80. This is some 40 years later. Now why do I say that? Well, besides the Passover event, we have some key phrases. It says he forsook Egypt, not fled. Exodus says he fled. This is forsaking. Those are two different things. You may flee a burning house, but if you're upside down in your mortgage, you may just wash your hands of it and forsake the house, just abandon it. Those are two different things. He did not fear the wrath of the king. And that's something that would present a challenge to anyone's faith. This was a present wrath that he saw. He perceived that the king would be angry with him But there's another time when he actually faced a king that was quite angry. And then we also have the endure, that implies a duration. He was present, he was there, enduring this wrathful king and holding up against him. So we would have to say, there's a different option here. Lo and behold Back in Exodus 2 and in verse 23, it says it came to pass in the process of time, the king of Egypt died. Alright, so that king That threatened to kill Moses died. And now God comes to him. And in Exodus 4, you can flip to that. Exodus 4. 19, God then gives Moses some additional instruction. Exodus 4. 19. The Lord said unto Moses, unto Midian, Go, return into Egypt, for all the men are dead which sought thy life. Well that's interesting. So that king, that threat, that fear is gone, and he tells him to return to Egypt. Ah, he's now being told by God, go back to Egypt. Egypt. That's a commandment of God, not an option. Moses took his wife and his sons, set him upon an ass, and he returned into the land of Egypt, and Moses took the rod of God with him. in his hand. So God's directing him to return to Egypt, not of his own volition. He's being told to do that. Now that word for sake here, as I mentioned earlier is different than flea. In fact, if you poke into it a bit, there's the sense in which you're when you forsake, you're kind of leaving it in a lurch. Um you know, uh uh your your car broke down on the side of the road uh and uh and and you don't have a tire iron or a spare tire. You you're you're just gonna kinda leave it there in a lurch and go get some help that's needed to come back. It can also be in the sense of an abandonment, uh particularly of a dying loved one, uh, you know, as the patriarch um Jacob sojourned through a place. His wife Rachel had hard labor. She gave birth to Benjamin and she died. And so he buried her. And mom just wasn't coming with him anymore. He had to forsake her. He moved on. That's also the sense of it. Leaving behind something that's dead, leaving them in a lurch. That's a perfect word to describe how Moses handled this Egyptian king with the ten plagues. He left them in a lurch and left them for dead. That's exactly what he did. You know, we write of this business of Moses standing before Pharaoh and demanding God's message, let my people go that they may serve me. Let my son go, that he may serve me. And God had very specific commandments. We're going to go three days in the wilderness. It's a long journey. We're going to worship and then we'll return. That was the original initial commandment. Pharaoh kept changing the deal. God gave Moses some interesting abilities. He could cast his rod down, became a serpent. He would devour Pharaoh's serpents. He could put his hand into his cloak, pull it out. It was leprous, white as snow, put it back again. He was healed. He had this incredible signs that he could perform, which the magicians of Egypt, yeah, they could do it for a while with the rod, but I don't think they duplicated the hand in the bosom. But I want you to consider how Moses went, notice how his faith in this account, in this whole Plague of Egypt narrative, Moses boldly standing there making the claims. We tend to think of him being very bold. He goes from blushing fear to bold faith. He actually starts off kind of timid. You remember the earlier chapters? Well, you know, Lord, uh not eloquent of speech. God said, Who made man's mouth? Well, they're going to come and they're not going to believe. Let me give you some signs. Moses was trying to find every excuse in the book to not go. Why do you suppose that was? Why do you suppose God, I mean why do you suppose Moses was so reluctant to go? Uh don't you think we all do that? Because why? I agree. It's hard. It's hard? Why is it hard? It's something that we're not accustomed to doing until it's hard for us. Okay. Don't do it. Was was Moses unaccustomed to Pharaoh's court? That I don't know. I guess he was accustomed to it. Yeah, he had been raised in Pharaoh's court. Right. That's right by the Queen. Yeah, by the princess who brought him in. And what do you think he knew about Pharaoh's court that made him reluctant to want to go? You're on a great trail. Well put himself out there where he could be uh people could say bad things about him or Whatever. They could chop his head off. Yeah. The court of Pharaoh was pretty powerful. It was mighty powerful. Now, how old is he at this point? I told you earlier, just this is my pop quiz. He was 40 when he left. How old is he when he comes back? Some of you have reached that grand and glorious age of eighty something in your life. I didn't know anybody. Oh that's right, you're ninety. So here he sah has been without the strength. He's not on top of this game. He's oh so out of the way of the modern inventions of Egypt, and he doesn't know this current pharaoh. This is a new pharaoh. You know, it's very much personality driven when you have one guy in charge. There's a lot of risk. There's a lot of unknowns, but he's gonna have to Endure as seeing him is invisible. He's gonna have to endure because there's one that told him, these men are dead, go deliver my people And so Moses is reluctant. Let's watch this transition of Moses from fear to faith. Look at uh Exodus 5. Exodus 5 is the very first time he shows up. He tells Exodus 5 verse 1, Moses and Aaron go, talk to Pharaoh, thus saith the Lord God of Israel, let my people go, that they may hold a feast unto me in the wilderness. Pharaoh says, Who's the Lord that I should obey his voice? I don't know who your God is. Not going to have it. I'm not going to let Israel go. And Moses It comes back in Aaron. They said, The God of Hebrews has met with us. Let us go, we pray thee, three days journey into the desert and sacrifice unto the Lord our God, lest he fall upon us with pestilence or with the sword. King of Egypt said Why do you want to let these people have a break? What's with the vacation? No, they're not going to get a vacation. Let them make bricks without straw. He adds to their burden. This was his first encounter. He got an immediate slap in the face from the Pharaoh. For even asking a dumb question, it's just going to get worse for all of your people. Bye-bye. That was his first encounter. And then we find out that the people were not too terribly excited about that. They came back and complained to him. So now Pharaoh and his court are a little miffed at Moses. And the people, all the Hebrews, to whom Moses showed the signs and thought, well, this is of the Lord. Now they're like, Moses, what are you doing? You just made it worse. And then we read his statement as he comes back to talk to the Lord in Exodus 52. He says, Moses returned to the Lord and said, Lord, wherefore hast thou so evil and treated this people? Why is it that thou hast sent me? For since I came to Pharaoh to speak thy name, he's done evil to this people, neither hast thou delivered thy people at all. He's asking, what's up with this? I don't get it. You know, have you ever felt that maybe God was calling you to do something? You take your first step out and you fall flat on your face and it doesn't work out right? You go, what is happening here? Moses endured as seeing him who's invisible. He's still talking with God, and that, by the way, is a good sign of leadership. You fail to lead people when they stop coming to you with their questions. So God is still leading Moses because Moses comes to God with his questions. Why, Lord? Why? It's okay to ask God why. Listen, he throws some hard things at us And it's right to ask why. Don't be blush. He knows your heart anyway. Well then you read in Exodus 6. 12 as he tries it again with a different sign it didn't work out there either because Pharaoh's magicians could do similar things. It didn't seem like he had a unique hold on anything. And he says in Exodus 6. 12, Moses spake before the Lord, saying, Behold the children of Israel. Have not hearkened unto me. Lord, you sent me to deliver these people, but they're not listening to me. Boy, have you ever been in a ministerial position? Known ministers? You try to speak to the people of God and they're not listening. They don't care to listen. They don't like your voice How then, he says, Moses, how then shall Pharaoh hear me who am of uncircumcised lips? I can't talk to Pharaoh I don't know how to convince this court. These people are not listening to me. Pharaoh's not listening to me. God says, perfect. You're still my man. Here's the next assignment. Yeah, God's not basically impressed with human clay or human resistance. That's never stopped him. I believe he lets these things come up so you and I can see. Yes, there will be resistance. Expect it But our God is greater. How else will God show us great power? You know what would happen if Moses had gone up and the first sign he showed Pharaoh, Pharaoh said, Like the king of Nineveh, who repented at the preaching of Jonah and immediately fell down and proclaimed a nationwide fast and allowed all these people to leave. What do you think that would do to Moses' head? What do you think that would do to his pride? Ah, look at me. I got this thing down. This is not too hard after all. I'm the mighty man of Midian. We can tackle this He knows human nature. We need a whole heavy dose of disappointment from time to time to endure as seeing him who's invisible Now he turns to bold faith because as God continues to hammer Egypt, he just continues one plague after the next. To the point where even as court magicians are saying, um, no, we can't do these these these miracles. This is the finger of God. This is the hand of God. We can't And then later they come to Pharaoh and says, Let these people go. Don't you see? Egypt is a wreck. You know, the cattle are dead. There's nothing green in the land. It's all been destroyed by hail and by fire. It's grievous. There's the smell of death everywhere, stinking frogs, uh lice infestations, boils. There's been all kinds of misery hit upon them, but the Jews are fine. Even his advisors, Pharaoh's committed advisors, are saying, let him go. To give you an illustration how big a deal that was. You know, Kim Jong-un, the despotic ruler of North Korea, who rules with an iron fist, very much an iron fist, and wants to be worshipped as God, you could call him a modern-day Pharaoh. Imagine all of his close counsel Coming to him after a series of calamities in the land, saying, boss, you gotta change. This ain't working. If they were to ever say anything against him, you're gonna lose your head. You know what he typically does, this says Kim Jong-un, to those who dare question him, who are even perceived as being a threat to the government? He takes one of his massive cannons used for sinking ships. He stands the reprobate, who won't listen to him, 15 feet away, and pulls the The barrel of the gun. He obliterates them with this massive cannon as a show of force to everybody else. Don't you dare threaten me. Pharaoh's the same ilk. So the spirit of Pharaoh has never left our world. And then Moses then continues to come on. Look at Exodus 10. This is the chapter where Moses begins to get very bold. Look at what he says in Exodus 10 verse 3. Moses and Aaron came in unto Pharaoh and said unto him, Thus saith the Lord God of the Hebrews, how long? Will you refuse to humble thyself before me? Let my people go. That's a mighty bold thing to say to Pharaoh. God told Moses, I'm going to make you as a God to Pharaoh, an error in your mouthpiece. And so he's telling him, how long are you going to quit being stiff-necked and humble and not humble? That's a bold statement. Look at verse 24 to 27. Just scan it briefly. Pharaoh offers Moses leave. He says, you can go, but don't you can't take any cattle. That wasn't God's terms and conditions. And in verse 28, the final encounter we have between Moses and Pharaoh, in Exodus 10, 28, Pharaoh said unto him, Get thee from me, take heed to thyself, see my face no more. Take heed to thyself that thy see my face no more, for in the day that thou seest my face thou shalt die. And Moses said, and I can almost see him sticking his eighty-year-old finger out in this man's face Moses said, you've spoken well. I'm not going to see your face again anymore. Turned and walked away. That's bold. That's bold. And so what I observe from this, and we've just done a very quick and brief survey because I'm trying to draw out the lesson from Hebrews 11 that he endured. as seeing him who's invisible. By faith, he's abandoning Egypt. He's leaving it behind as a wreck. It's a it's a stench of death. And so I see three things from what we've considered so far. The first is this Moses' faith grew as he carried out God's commands, one task at a time. That's your first fill in the plane. Moses' faith grew as he carried out God's commands one task at a time. I don't understand why this is working this way, but I'll keep going. I don't understand why it's working, but it'll keep going. Oh, it's starting to work now. Oh, it's starting- oh this is good. Oh, I see, this is getting better. He kept at it. He just kept going Obedience supports faith. Indeed, each successful step strengthened Moses for the next He got stronger. You can see there was a sequence of encouragement in his life. And last, Moses never, ever, once accepted Pharaoh's counter-offers. And that's something that's impressed me the most about him. You know, all great rulers are going to want to negotiate. Our president loves to negotiate. He's the chief negotiator. They love to be the ones to bargain and to negotiate. And Moses accepted none of Counter's offers. It's my way, or you're going to be buried and dead. I'm not even giving you the offer, the highway. You're just going to be dead. That's the only option you have. You comply or die. That was Moses' dictum. True faith saints doesn't accept the world's compromises either. We don't accept compromises. There's a lot of things, Timothy, and Christianity out there that claims to be legitimate And I'm sorry to report, not much of it really is. They claim to cling to the Word of God, but you can really only judge Christianity, true Christianity, by what the doctrine of the Bible teaches. There are many things that are in tradition, church tradition, and there's a lot of religion that is based on nothing more than tradition that is simply wrong. It's just wrong. It's demonstrably wrong. You can actually point to what the apostles spoke about and taught and you can say this doesn't match. Having icons and images and pictures and church and statues when God says in the Ten Commandments You shall not make any unto thee any graven image or any likeness of anything in heaven above, and the earth beneath, waters beneath the earth. You shall not bow down myself to them, nor worship them. Very plain. Very evident. But now we're going to get to what God holds out as the thing to instruct us. We don't need icons. We don't need statues. What Moses also did was that he kept the Passover. God said, You did not know me by my name, Jehovah, but now you do. Jehovah. Jahweh, God the Savior. They've never known him by that name, God is Savior. They've known him as the Almighty God, the strong God, but now they're going to know him as God the Savior There's upward of a million Hebrews, men, women, and children. The Bible counts 600,000 males. That's all they counted, the males over age 20. By the time you add in the women and children, easily one to two million. How do you rescue that many people out of the hand of a despotic government? Joey, if I said I want you to go to North Korea and go talk to Kim Jong-un and haul out a bunch of Christians, you'd say, that's okay, Vince. I'll go back to school for another four years. That would be painful. But you know, God had this all along. If you turn back to Exodus 4, there's a bit of irony here. You know, one of God's favorite techniques is he repays man's ways back upon his head. To the merciful, God shows himself what? Merciful. To the froward, to the stiff neck, God shows himself what? Froeword. Tough. So it's called karma in our world, right? You kind of get what you ask for. God does very much the same thing. But he does it on a bigger scale. What was the catastrophe God presented? Excuse me. What was the catastrophe Pharaoh presented to the people of God when they became too numerous? You remember what one Pharaoh's solution was? The little babies, if they're Hebrew boys, if they're males, kill them. Cast them into the river Let's kill their children. You know what God had planned all along as a result of that? You look at Exodus 4. 21, the Lord said unto Moses, and this is before he went in the first time He says, When thou goest to return into Egypt, see that thou do all those wonders before Pharaoh which I put in thine hand, but I will harden his heart, that he shall not let the people go. You shall say unto Pharaoh, Thus saith the Lord, Israel is my son, even my firstborn. And I say unto thee, Let my son go. that he may serve me. And if thou refuse to let him go, oh, look at this. Behold, I will slay thy son. Even thy firstborn. Ah, isn't that interesting? We've heard that play before. Egypt was killing baby boys, and I'm sure some Hebrew mothers had firstborn sons that were sadly killed in Vanticide because of this horrible Pharaoh. Even though that one's dead, that was still the public policy. That was still the rule. And so God says, okay, I've got something short in mind for you. I've got something short up. Passover was God's perfect plan to demonstrate his particular redemption that was implied within his covenant. It was God's perfect plan to demonstrate his particular redemption implied within his covenant. That should fill in the blanks. You know, in Exodus 2, 24, it's there in your bulletin. I printed it because I thought it would be too much page flipping. And then we'll close in Exodus 12. We hear that God heard their groaning and God remembered his covenant. He remembered his covenant with Abraham. He didn't look down and say, oh wow, this is miserable down here. No, he remembered his covenant He gave a covenant, and he told Abram, your people are going to serve in a land that is not theirs, and after 400 years I'll deliver them. Well, by God's clock, time to deliver Exodus 3. 15 And God said, dot dot dot, Thus shalt thou say unto the children of Israel, the Lord God of your fathers, God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, hath sent me unto you This is my name forever. And this is my memorial unto all generations. It would be an eternal memorial, reaching even to today. Oh, in typical form, in shadowy form as a prototype, but it's an eternal memorial. It's a memorial to how God rescues his people. It's even there in the very opening part of the Ten Commandments. I am the Lord thy God, which brought thee out of the land of Egypt, out of the house of bondage. That's part of the Ten Commandments. That's the intro And then in Exodus 6. 6, we see, we've seen, he remembered his covenant. It's an eternal memorial. Exodus 6. 6, we're going to see redemption from bondage, where he says this. Exodus six. Wherefore, say unto the children of Israel, I am the Lord, and I will bring you out from under the burdens of the Egyptians, and I will rid you out of their bondage. And I will redeem you with a stretched out arm and with great judgment. So much is going on in this whole whole act of redemption. And it's even more when we get to the Passover, that great last event. Does anyone remember what was the plague of that last Passover? What was the final plague that precipitated that caused the Passover to come? What? Well the blood was shed on the door. What was the plague that would come The death of the firstborn. The tenth plague was just that. If you don't put blood of a lamb over the doorpost in the lintel of your house leading edge, if you don't put that blood over it, when that destroying angel comes, when I come, he says, if I see the blood, I will spare your house. Conversely, no blood? Fine, the firstborn in your house, firstborn of your maid servants. Firstborn of your household. Firstborn of your cattle. It even extended to animals. It was very severe. Because what had to be brought among the house of the faithful was a lamb without spot and without blood Let's read all the requirements of it, and I'm going to map you, give a mapping for you. I'm going to walk you through the implications we find in Exodus 12, starting in verse 2. We're going to look at all the curious commandments. Nearly half the chapter is about all the particular things that a Hebrew head of house was to do in preparation for For that fearful night when the destroying angel would come through and kill the firstborn of every house that did not listen to these commands. In Exodus 12. 2, we read this. He said, This month shall be unto you the beginning of months. It shall be the first month of the year unto you. Folks, that's a new calendar. You're resetting your calendar to this is year one. The Hebrew calendar was reset. Why would you reset a calendar when you're going to have a new nation? We're going to totally abandon everything that Egypt's got. I don't even want your calendar system. It's a stench in my nostrils. We're going to anchor our calendar as a memorial and bake it into our very timekeeping system. It's a new calendar. It's a new nation. And if it's a new nation, It's a new life. It's a marker of a whole new beginning. Verses 3 and 4. Speak unto all the congregation of Israel, saying in the tenth day of this month they shall take to them every man a lamb. according to the house of their fathers, a lamb for a house. If the household be too little for the lamb, let him and his neighbor next unto his house take it according to the number of the souls. Every man According to his eating, shall make your count for the lamb. A lamb for a house, you know, God spares believing households and their family. God often works with households of believers It's the house of Cornelius was that way. The house of the Philippian jailer that way. God told Zacchaeus, come down from For thou and thy house shall be saved. All of these things. It's not unusual for God to deal with believing families. There is a covenant relationship there. In verse 5, we read about this lamb It'll be without blemish, the male of the first year, from the sheep or the goats. A lamb without blemish, and Jesus Christ is that sinless sacrifice. We know that Verse 6, it says, the whole assembly of the congregation of Israel shall kill it. The whole assembly comes together. They they would all get together and they're killing this lamb. Now I'm not quite sure how that works out. I guess in that house they would all get together and that house would kill that lamb, and in over in this house they would get together and kill that lamb, but it was Every body covered by that blood had to have a hand in the killing. You had to have a hand in it. And you think, oh, that's horrible. Some people have a very tender heart. Oh, I don't want to kill animals. But you know what? We all had our hand in the death of Christ on the cross. Sadly, he hung there because of my sins, because of my iniquities A very famous painting, I believe, I forget which the artist was, who painted a depiction of Christ on the cross, and there was a man down below reaching up But the man reaching up was the artist. The artist was saying, I'm the one that put Christ on the cross. Very good insight in that. Then you read in verse 7 of Exodus 12 and in verse 13, they were to strike the blood on the two sideposts of the houses. Verse 13 said, the blood is a token. It was a sign. It was a sign. It was a token. It was a token symbol, you know, the wedding rings that you wear. It's a token of the covenant, of that bond you have with your wife. Likewise, the blood marks them that believe in God's substitute It was a marker. This is a house that believes the commands of God, no matter how odd they are, no matter how unusual they are, no matter how gory or strange, yet we believe what God says And they are therefore covered by the death of Christ. That's what it says. In verse 8 it says, You'll eat the flesh, roast it with fire and unleavened bread and with bitter herbs. They were to eat it with bitter herbs, not chocolate. You know that I read in a newspaper I picked up in Bethesda, near a Jewish section, how to celebrate the Passover, and they had it with Chocolate dipped strawberries. That's what they use for their Passover cedar. Chocolate dipped strawberries. Oh no! Oh no no no. No. If you're gonna keep a Passover, it better be with bitter herbs It's a bitter thing to think of what we've done to Christ. We partake of Christ. He's bitter. It's sweetness to the soul, but it's bitter to the taste. It's a hard message. He's he's a It it's it's it's mind-blowing sometimes the agony and the pain that Christ had to go through. Christ himself said that his body gives us life. In fact he said, except you eat the flesh of the Son of Man and drink his blood, you have no life in you. Early Christians were called cannibals because of that. Jesus is speaking. in a t in a type. He's equating himself to that lamb, that Passover lamb. When we eat the Lord's Supper, is it not to partake of the death and and and body of Christ. It's the same thing. That's how it continues. Verse 11, you shall eat it in haste. In haste. This is a right now thing. You know This business of eating it in haste says to me that a crucified Christ and the news of it demands an immediate response. You find that all throughout the New Testament It's not, oh, I just married a wife, give me some leave of time. I just bought some land, let me go plow it. I just have a new yoga box and I got a new tool. Let me go try out my new tool. No Any man putting his hand to the plow and looking back is not fit for the kingdom of God. You eat it in haste. You've got to eat it right now. It's a right now gospel, not a later gospel. Verse 12. He says, Against all the gods of Egypt I will execute judgment. I am the Lord. Hang with me here. I know this is getting long, but there's a lot of very curious things in this whole Passover ordinance. He's going to execute judgment against all the gods of Egypt, and Christ's sacrifice assures us that the judgment of God will be against all others. It's appointed unto men once to die, and after this the judgment I don't care what idolatrous God you've got in your mind. I don't care what thing you like to worship. I don't care what thing you figure is best. What is it you think about the most? What is it that gives you the most pleasure? God will execute judgment against those things. You'll be satisfied with nothing else but Christ and Him alone for salvation, or you'll face death just like Pharaoh and his house. Verse 22, take a bunch of hyssop, dip it in the blood, strike the lentil in the posts. The covenant token, the covenant sign was applied by sprinkling. They took a hyssop, which is kind of a natural form of a sponge. They would dip it in this blood of the animal. They didn't have rubber gloves, right? They just dip it in the blood of the animal and you swing it It was always by sprinkling. They would sprinkle the book of the covenant. Lots of sprinkling in the Old Testament. Isaiah 52 says, so shall he sprinkle many nations. That is a the form, I believe, of applying that covenant signed by sprinkling. Then we read in 23, it says, the Lord will pass through. And when he seeth the blood, he's outside, he's looking at this bloody door. When he sees the blood, He will pass over the door. That's where the name Passover comes from. And not suffer the destroyer to come in into your house to destroy your soul. When God, not I, sees Christ's blood applied to me, to my house, he won't suffer my soul to be destroyed God says in Isaiah 53, he shall see of the travail of his soul and be satisfied. God sees it. I may not see it, but as long as God sees it, it's good. Know this, the angel of death will surely visit all men. There's no discharge in that war. He will surely come and visit. And the last one is this, which brings us perfectly back to my opening question All of this strange action with the lamb and eating and later it talks about unleavened bread as well. Different topic. I don't want to get into that focused on Passover here All of these things. And then God says to Moses, he says, When your children shall say, What mean ye by this service? Then shall ye say we were bondmen in the house of Egypt, and God delivered us. Isn't that interesting? One big reason for that whole Passover set of circumstances and events, every step. Daddy, does it have to be the best lamb? It has to be the best lamb. Why do we put it on the door? On the outside? Why can't we just put it in the sink and wash it away? No, it has to be on the outside All of that is an occasion, is an opportunity. It gives an occasion so that in time to come, and God knows this will happen. There's a phase when your young children begin to get curious and they ask lots of questions. And when they see you doing this again and again, it would serve as an opportunity for mom and dad to tell their children. about Christ. The Lord's Supper does the same thing. Are you prepared to tell people when they participate in the Lord's Supper why they're doing it? Are you prepared to tell them how it points to Christ, what he did It's an ordained institute as a great opportunity to share the gospel with your children. So I'll close it out there and uh I've gone along. No, I bit off a little bit, perhaps more than I could chew, but I trust you find that of benefit. Keep this handout because uh that took me a while to map out all of the spiritual significance of the Passover Let's close in prayer. Father God in heaven, we thank you for this glorious sign. We pray, Father, that we would consider Christ as we think about it. Bless our worship today in Jesus' name. Amen.