Open to the book of Jude, where we've been studying periodically for the last several months. You realize that there are people that died to have a copy of this book that we have in front of us. And uh all of us here today have a copy in some form. Some of you have it even on your phones or on your electronic devices this morning. We're a blessed and privileged people. And this is the glorious book. And I am so glad this morning that it is not my task to give you a book review. But rather, it is my great privilege to open this book, which is the Word of God. And I thank you this morning that I don't believe any of you came here expecting excellency of speech because you're not going to get it. But rather it is our prayer. But the Holy Spirit will bless this word and accompany it to our hearts. today. I'm going to read from verses 17 through 21 of the book of Jude. And of course there's only one chapter in the book. So we don't need to say chapter 1, but it is chapter 1, verses 17 through 21. But, beloved, remember ye the words. which were spoken before of the apostles of our Lord Jesus Christ. How that they told you there should be mockers in the last time Who should walk after their own lust, ungodly lust. These be they who separate themselves, sensual, having not the Spirit. But ye beloved, building up yourselves on your most holy faith, praying in the Holy Ghost, keep yourselves in the love of God. Looking for the mercy of our Lord Jesus Christ unto eternal life Let us pray. Father, now bless thy word to our hearts, and bless our stony hearts that they might be opened by the Spirit to receive thy word. In Jesus' name. Amen. Verse seventeen. Beloved, remember ye the words. Let us stand for prayer and close our service. Is not that a fitting service? Is not that a fitting sermon? Does not it say everything? For faith cometh by hearing, and hearing by the word of God. Remember it. Remember the words. And notice who is addressed there. Beloved. Who are the beloved? But the elect of God. It is speaking to the true church, not the visible church, but the invisible church. The visible church is filled with tares among the wheat. My father passed away thirty years ago this past Friday. And I was pondering, particularly yesterday morning, that dad has been in heaven for thirty years. What a glorious moment that has been. It's been thirty years for me. It has not been for him. But my dad, after pastoring for thirty-eight years and more years than that in the ministry, made the comment to my brother, who is currently the pastor of that same church. That after 38 years and thousands of professions and thousands of baptisms My father wondered how many had been saved. What a frightening thought that is. But here we find the address is to the beloved. And if you look up at verse three He says, beloved, when I gave all diligence to write unto you of the common salvation. And then in verse 17, where we are, beloved, remember the words. And then verse 20, which is our actual text for this morning, but ye beloved, build up yourselves in the most holy faith. And faith cometh by hearing and hearing by the word of God. And so three times in the 25 verses of this book, the address is to the beloved. But remember what was the purpose of this book? Go back to verse 3. Beloved. When I gave all diligence to write unto you of the common salvation, the salvation received by the beloved. It was needful for me to write unto you and exhort you that you should earnestly contend for the faith which was once delivered unto the saints. And why was he telling them that they must earnestly contend for the faith Because there were wolves. Because there were those that it entered in who were not part of the beloved. Oh, they gave all the appearance, but they were not saved. And so coming back to the verses which we read there beginning in verse 17 and looking again at the passage. In verse 18, he says they told us, the apostles told us, that in the last day there would be mockers. There would be schoolers Who walking after their unlust would bring in ungodly unlust and they would bring in heresy and error into the church. And verse 16 talks about the murmurers. Verse 11 talks about the way of Cain and Balaam. And so as we come to verses 20 and 21. Where we find that we're to build up ourselves in the most holy faith, and we're to be praying in the Holy Ghost, and we're to keep ourselves in the love of God, and we're to look for the mercy of God. We first have to understand that there are two classes in the world, the saved and the unsaved. And there are two classes in the visible church, the saved and the unsaved. And we remember the parable of the tares and the wheat, and the source of the wheat was the wicked one, an enemy has sown them. And oh, how we would love to tear out the terrors from the church. But we are not permitted so to do. Because I cannot tell who is a tear and who is wheat. Again, a recent family reference. I was speaking with my brother. Just from the last two weeks. And he made the comment you never know who you're preaching to. Right. Because he and I were discussing a situation that we've observed of an individual who for years would claim the name of Christ, and probably still does today, and yet By their fruits you shall know them. And there's a great and flowing profession that comes from many lips. But it is not followed up with evidence of true grace. And if you look at the last phrase of our text in verses 20 and 21. Verse 21 says, keep yourselves in the love of God, looking for the mercy of the Lord Jesus Christ, unto eternal life. Is that not the goal? Is that not the target? What are we looking forward to? Vacation? Promotion. Better job. Better house. Oh, the world's looking forward to all kinds of things. Many of which are needful in this life. I have own clothes today. I would not stand before you naked. I need clothing. And certainly there are things which we need in this life, but this life is not what it's all about. It's all about eternal life. It's about truly being the children of God by faith. And so a great contrast is set up for us. There in these first two words of verse seventeen. But ye And of course the word but is an exception word, is it not? Mm-hmm. And the word but is placed at the beginning of this verse seventeen because it contrasts us from the murmurs in verse sixteen. And for those in verse 18 that walk in ungodly lust, and those back in verse 11 that went in the way of Kor and Balaam. And so A contrast is established right away between those who are truly the beloved and those who are just hangers on. Those who will be like the wedding guest that showed up at the wedding because of the invitation. And yet he had not a wedding garment. He was not clothed in the righteousness of Christ. And so our text says, Build up yourselves there in verse 20. But ye beloved, building up yourselves on the most holy faith And we see in the middle verses of the passage we read that there are those that separate themselves. You don't build by separating. When I was a child I used to play with Lego blocks. You don't build a building by spreading the Lego blocks all over the living room for someone to step on Ever step on a Lego block? Like anybody that has children has stepped on a Lego block and has howled. But you build by binding things together. You build by assembling, not by separating. But the contrast is here of those that have separated themselves, those who have removed themselves. from the body, those who remove themselves. And so in 1 John 2 in verse 19, John speaks of these. He says, They went out from us, but they were not of us. For if they had been of us, they would have no doubt have continued with us, but they went out, that it might be made manifest. That they were not of us. And dear friends, I believe every one of us can think of someone that we have known that at one time was very faithful in church attendance And maybe would stand and testify, and maybe was baptized, and who would have claimed to be a child of God, but today you will find them far from God. And far from truth, and some even bound up in unspeakable heresies in things that are direct contradiction to the Word of God. They seemed at one time to be part of the b of the body of Christ. They were part of a physical church, but they went out from us. And that's exactly what is being spoken of in verse 19. These be they who separate themselves, sensual. Having not the Spirit. And so, if we were to build up ourselves, there's going to have to be an assembly, not a disassembly. And so, first of all, in order to build up ourselves, we must be bound and assembled and chained and attached and inseparably linked to Jesus Christ. For other foundation where do you build a building, but on a foundation other foundation can no man lay than that which is laid, which is Christ Jesus. And of course Christ gave us the glorious illustration of the foolish man who built his house on the sand. He had not a foundation. And Jesus Christ came to be the foundation, but the stone was rejected by those to whom he came. But that stone which was rejected of ye builders has become the head of the corner. It is the cheap corner stone. And remember the disciples, when we read that from that time forward many of the disciples went away and walked no more with him. And Jesus turned to the twelve and said, Will ye also go away? And Peter gave that glorious profession of faith. To whom shall we go? Thou hast the words of life, and we believe that thou art the Son of God. Amen. My friend, it's one thing to talk about building up yourselves on, not in, on the most holy faith. But are you bound to Jesus Christ? What are you building yourself up on? Because when it says to build up yourselves on the most holy faith, that begins by building on the solid rock, which is Jesus Christ. And so the contrast from verse 19 is of those that separate themselves, just as many of the disciples walked no more with Christ. They were no longer in the way. So, my friend, build yourself in to a relationship with Jesus Christ Build up yourselves in your walk with him. Bind your soul to him, for if you depart from him, to whom will we go? Thou hast the words of life. But not only are we that reference, by the way, is John six, verses sixty-six to sixty nine. If you're Taking notes. I see some of you looking at me. I give you the references sometimes and other times I I don't. I like when a preacher is preaching for him to give the references so I can scribble them down and look at them later. So that's from John 6, verses 66 to 69. But also, if we're to build up ourselves on the most holy faith Not separating ourselves as we see in verse 19 and as we see in verse 11 and as we see in verse 4 and throughout the context of the chapter, it also includes binding ourselves to one another. There is a saying from earth that has application. There are strength. There is strength in numbers. You see, sheep are flocking animals. There are some animals in the animal kingdom that dwell in solitude, that that live singly. They they are together to mate, but beyond that, they typically live as single individuals. God could have chosen to use one of those as the illustration of his people and his church, but it wouldn't have fit, would it? Because God has ordained for the people of God to flock together as sheep. And here Judas saying, These went out from us. They are those that separate themselves. They're sensual. They don't have the spirit. The Spirit of God has not indwelt them. They are not true children of God. And the fact that they separated themselves is evidence. that they were not true children of God. But ye, brethren, in contrast, build up yourselves on the most holy faith. And so we, as the children of God, are to link ourselves together with other believers. Not separating, but binding together so that when one falls, another can grab his hand and help him up. When one is discouraged, another can encourage him. But even more than that, when one sins, a brother can say, Oh brother, no! Oh, brother, don't go in that way. There's danger there. And so, I read in Proverbs 27 and verse 9, ointment and perfume rejoice the heart. So doth the sweetness of a man's heart by, or man's friend, by hearty counsel. So doth the sweetness of a man's friend by hearty counsel. We watch for one another's souls. And that same chapter is the chapter where verse twenty-seven says, iron sharpeneth iron. So doth a man's friend sharpen the countenance of his friend. In the book of Samuel, 1 Samuel, we have the glorious Account of the friendship that existed between Jonathan, the son of Saul, and David. Jonathan was to be king. Jonathan could have had all kinds of reasons to hate David, because David was taking the position which was by birthright his. But Jonathan, as a godly man, recognized that God had chosen David. And a great friendship developed between them. And one of the times when David was fleeing from Jonathan's father, from Saul, and David was fearful. And David was was discouraged. In 1 Samuel 23 and verse 16 it says, And Jonathan, Saul's son, arose. and went to David into the wood and strengthened his hand in God. Isn't that glorious? Jonathan went to David in the wood and strengthened his hand in God. Now I imagine that Jonathan probably brought some bread. And brought some drink and some other things for David's body. But that's not what Scripture records. What it does record is that Jonathan went to his friend and he strengthened him in God. And brethren, that's why we're bound together. So when I am weak, you can strengthen me in God. And when you are weak, another brother can strengthen you in God because God has made us sheep. He hasn't made us wolves. God has made us sheep. He hasn't made us lions. God has not given us the swiftness of a horse. God has not given us the cunning of a serpent. Rather, he's made us helpless sheep that need to be in the flock. And the context here is these separate themselves They removed themselves from the flock because they weren't sheep in the first place. Wolves don't need each other. Oh, they will pack for the cause of hunting. But they can live as solitary animals. But sheep are fearful outside the flock. And so In Isaiah 53, in verses 3 and 4, we read these words: Strengthen ye the weak hands, and confirm the feeble knees. Say unto them that are fearful and hard, be strong. Fear not. Behold, your God will come with vengeance. Even God will recompense. He will come and save you. Are you fearful? Fear not. Your God's coming with vengeance and he'll save you. Are you weak-hearted? Fear not. Your God is coming with vengeance and he will save you. Be encouraged, my friend. Be strengthened in the Lord. For we have bound our souls to Jesus Christ in salvation, and we have bound ourselves to one another in fellowship. So that when one is weak, another is strong. When one falls, another can help him and strengthen him. We're not of them that separate. And so build up yourselves on your most holy faith. And so we see first of all that we are builders and not separators. We are commanded here to be in unity, I believe. But then we have a very strange instruction. Build up yourselves. How can I build up myself? In human terms, in worldly terms, when we think of somebody, oh, he's building up himself. It's a negative thing. It's a prideful thing. He's building up himself. And when you consider that I am a depraved creature. How can I build up myself on faith? And so it seems to be uh I like the word contradiction and really Vince is right to correct me that it should be paradox How can I, a sinful man, build up myself on the most holy faith? How can this be accomplished? Can righteousness come out of the wicked? No, no. And so there must be something that's taking place here. There must be some sort of transformative power that is involved in this building up, because it is not something I can accomplish in a vacuum I cannot build myself up on this faith. God's going to have to do something here. There's going to have to be some sort of transformation. Paul describes it this way in the letter to the Philippians, in Philippians 2, verses 12 and 13. And I'm not reading the whole verse, just picking out phrases. Wherefore, my beloved, work out your own salvation with fear and trembling. For it is God that worketh in you, both to will and to do of his own good pleasure. So when Jude gives us this instruction, build up yourselves on the most holy faith. He is not saying, you that are strong enough to accomplish this get to work. But rather he's saying to the beloved, a bunch of wheat sheep, you have an obligation here. But it's a work you can't accomplish on your own. I know I'm extrapolating from it. But I believe you understand what I'm saying. If we're going to be built up on the most holy faith, it's not going to be purely by our effort. It's gonna be faith on which we're built up. And faith cometh by hearing. And hearing by hearing. the word of God. And so to work out our own salvation with fear and trembling does not mean that we somehow save ourselves. And by the same token, to build up ourselves upon the most holy faith does not mean that we somehow are righteous than more righteous than the next guy, or that we somehow have accomplished something he just couldn't manage But rather it is God working in us, through which we build up ourselves on the most holy faith. And I know I'm belaboring this point, but I think a good way to understand it is this. Many of us grow gardens. I enjoy growing flowers. But I have never made a flower grow. I've done a lot of watering. I've done a lot of planting. I've pulled my share of weeds, though mostly I pushed the weed pulling off to penny. But I have never made a flower grow. I cannot make my soul grow. Oh, I would love to, but I can't. But Oh God, help me to pull the weeds out of my heart. Help me to plow this soil, and may you plow this soil on my behalf May I continually be stuffing the Word of God into my soul, because that is the seed. And so just as the gardener does not by his own will make the garden grow, it is God that makes the seed germinate and spring up into a beautiful flower. Yet the gardener must be pulling weeds and watering and tending, and so it is, if you were to build up your soul, to build up yourselves on the most holy faith, it is God that worketh in you. But that doesn't mean you can be lazy about it. It doesn't mean you don't have a responsibility to faithfully tend and guard your soul, and I'm gonna get ahead of myself, but that word keep Which we're going to find in verse 21. That's what it's talking about. To be watchful. To keep your soul. And so In 1 Corinthians chapter 3, verse 9, for we are laborers together with God. Doesn't that sound like the gardener? We're laborers together with God. For we are laborers together with God. Ye are God's husbandry. Ye are God's garden. Ye are God's field. Ye are God's planting. Ye are God's building. According to the grace of God which is given unto me, Paul says, As a wise master builder, I have laid a foundation, and another buildeth thereon. Let every man take heed how he builds thereon. We're the temple of God. We have to guard the temple. And that brings us to the next element of our passage. We are to build up ourselves on the most holy faith. That's what we're building on. That is the foundation. Not upon our own will, not upon man's philosophies. Not upon what the latest TV preacher has to say, not upon the wisdom of man, but rather upon the most holy faith. And so, again considering the words of Paul at Ephesians in chapter two and verses nineteen and twenty. Paul says, now therefore you're no more strangers than foreigners. In other words, you're not those that are separating yourselves, but our fellow citizens, you're staying here. With the saints, and of the household of God, your beloved, your families, and are built upon the foundation of the apostles and prophets. Jesus Christ himself being the chief cornerstone and we've circled right back to where he began. Because you see, when Paul talks about being built on the foundation of the apostles and prophets, he's not talking about building on Peter. Amen. He's not talking about building on Paul. He's talking about building on the writings of the apostles. the prophets. So that that phrase there in Ephesians two and sorry in in uh yeah Ephesians uh Ephesians 2 and verse 20 built upon the foundation of the apostles and the prophets. It's not built on the foundation of those men. It's built on the foundation of the inspired writings that God gave through those men. And so we are to be built up upon the Word of God. And look at the Jude. Isn't this beautiful? Look at Jude verse 3. In Jude verse 3 he says, It was needful for me to write. It was needful for me to write. These beloved needed the inspired word of God. Mm-hmm. Coming through Jude. Jude said it was needful for me to write. I believe that. These men understood that that which they were writing was not coming from within them. It was the inspired word of God. It was needful for me to write to you and exhort you to contend, earnestly contend for the faith. And then look at verse 17. But ye beloved, remember the words which were spoken before of the apostles. Again, Jude is elevating those words as beyond the word of men. And then look at verse 18, how they told you. Those are old words that speak of words, aren't they? You see If we're to be built up on the foundation, built upon the most holy faith, we have to understand that faith cometh by hearing and hearing by the Word of God. Every stick in your building. Better agree with the Word of God. Every nail that you drive to bind your soul, make sure it's a gospel nail. How many have come up with man's ideas and used that to build? And every cult, not every cult, but many of the cults would claim to be on the foundation of Jesus Christ. But the building that is built upon that foundation is not at all of God. And that's why Paul said, let every man take heed how he build on the foundation. You see, my friend, if you are truly to build up yourself in them on the most holy faith, you've got to make sure you're building the right building. And the only way to do so is to make sure that every stick in your building agrees with the Word of God. If we're going to build up ourselves in the most holy faith, we have to be men and women of the book. And that which does not agree with the book is to be rejected. And then of course Jesus Christ himself is. the cornerstone. I know I've kind of been redundant there and gone back a little bit, but how is it that we build on that faith? Well Peter said in 2 Peter chapter 1 and verse 5, and besides this, giving all diligence Add to your faith. Now that seems like a contradiction in terms of add to my faith. Well, you see, faith that is just sitting still is not living faith. The devils believe and tremble. They have a degree of faith, we could say. And those that separated themselves, who once were very much a part of the church, they had a faith. But it was not a living faith. It was not a growing faith. But here, besides all this, give all diligence, add to your faith virtue, and the virtue knowledge, where do you get your knowledge from? But from the Word of God And the knowledge temperance. What is temperance? But rather the conforming of her life to the Word of God. And the temperance, patience. Oh, brother Howe, I need that one. But where does that come from? It comes from the Word of God. And a patience, godliness, you won't find that outside the Word of God. And to God that his brotherly kindness. By this shall mean that we're his disciples, that we have love one to another. The world is full of strife and hatred. But brotherly kindness is found in the Word of God. And the brotherly kindness, charity. Build up yourselves Add to your faith. But grow in grace and in the knowledge of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. Where are you going to find the knowledge of the Lord and Savior Jesus Christ? On TV? On the internet? In the New York Times? Word of God. Word of God. The Word of God. And why is this important? Because without faith it is impossible to please him. For he that cometh to God must believe that he is, and he is the rewarder of them that diligently seek him. Now, I remember as a young man first starting out preaching I was terrified of the concept of preaching one verse because I thought I'll run out of anything to say in 15 minutes and we've only covered a little bit and we're barely into the passage, but we're going to keep going. We are to be building up ourselves on the most holy faith as we read there in verse 20. But then we're also to be praying in the Holy Ghost. And this is one of those phrases that is so distorted and polluted in our day and age And some people say, Oh, you have to pray in the Holy Ghost, you have to pray in tongues or you're gonna have to be some mystical thing going on here. No. Brethren, if you're not praying in the Holy Ghost, you're not praying. There is no other way to pray. If you're not praying in the Holy Ghost, I hope your cats around because they're the only ones that are hearing. Or your bird or your dog or whatever pet you may have. Brother, we can't pray apart from the Holy Ghost. There's no other way to pray And so this instruction, praying in the Holy Ghost, building up yourselves on the most holy post and praying in the Holy Ghost, it's not a confusing instruction. Rather, it's just pray rightly. You have not because you ask not, and you have it asked not because you ask a miss, because you ask upon your own lust, that you may consume it upon your own lust. But oh brethren, when the true beloved, when the non separators pray. We know not what to pray for as we ought. But the Spirit maketh intercession for us with groanings which cannot be uttered. And that's all he's saying here. Brethren, when you pray, pray not that men may hear you, but pray that the Spirit of God may hear you. Pray in the Spirit, praying rightly, praying. Likewise the Spirit also helpeth our infirmities, for we know not what we should pray for as we ought. Praying always with all prayer and supplication in the Spirit, watching thereunto. Confess your faults one to another and pray for one another that ye might be healed. The effectual, fervent prayer of a righteous man availeth much. Elias was a man subject to like passions as we are, and he prayed earnestly that it might not rain And it rained not upon the earth for the space of three years and six months. And he prayed again in the heavens. The effectual, fervent prayer of a righteous man. We are all men of like passions. But brethren, if we're going to build up ourselves on the most holy faith, we've got to be praying in the Spirit. We've got to be praying. And we've got to be praying rightly. And we've got to be in the spirit. We've got to have the Spirit. For it says the effectual fervent prayer of a righteous man availeth much, and if you're honest with yourself, there's not a righteous man among us. But I am righteous in Christ. Because I am in the Beloved. And I have the same passions and sin as Elias, as Elijah did. But even my prayer, prayed in the spirit, can avail much. And then we come to verse 21. Keep yourselves in the love of God. Stay with me. I know it's getting long. Keep yourselves in the love of God. And this word keep is really a whole sermon in itself. It's also translated in our King James to reserve, to watch, to preserve, and to hold fast. We have 25 verses in Jude, and we have five times this same Greek word used. It's used in verse 1. Where it says that we're sanctified by God and preserved in Jesus Christ. It's that same word keep. He keeps us, he preserves us, and we are to preserve ourselves. And then in verse 6, and the angels which kept not, here's the negative of it, they did not keep, which kept not their first estate. but left their habitation hath he reserved. And it's the word keep again. So the angels, they didn't keep their first estate, but God's keeping them under judgment. And then in verse thirteen, raging waves of the sea, foaming out their own shame, wandering stars, to whom is reserved is kept blackness. And then verse twenty-one Keep yourselves in the love of God. It's interesting that when Christ was in the tomb and it talks about the keepers, there's the same word. They couldn't keep him. They couldn't do it. No way. Jesus used this word when he gave his final instructions to the disciples. When he said, Go ye therefore and teach all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and of the Son of the Holy Ghost, teaching them to observe all things whatsoever I have commanded you, teaching them to keep the Word of God. To observe the things which I commanded to. But then, even more gloriously, when Christ was praying to his Father on behalf of his disciples. In John 17, verse 6, he says, I have manifest thy name unto them which thou gavest me out of the world. They're not separators. Thou gavest me them out of the world. And this um And they uh thine they were, and thou gavest me the gavest them me, and I have kept the uh sorry, let me read that verse again. I'm I'm I'm messing it up. It's John seventeen, verse six. I have manifest my name unto the men which thou gavest me out of the world. Thine they were, and thou gavest me them me, and they have kept Thy word. There it is. They've kept the word of God. And then John six, uh John 17, verse eleven, the same chapter. Now I am no more in the world, but these are in the world. I come unto thee, Holy Father, keep through thine own name those whom thou givest me out of the world And then verse 12, while I was with them, I kept them in thy name. Those that thou gavest me, I have I kept, and none of them is lost. And then verse 15 of John 17, I pray not that thou should take them out of the world, but that thou shouldest keep them from the evil And so we find when Christ was giving his instruction to his disciples, he said, Teach those that you teach to keep the word. And then when in Christ is praying to the Father for the disciples, he says, They've done it. They've kept thy word. And while I was with them, I have kept them. But I'm not going to be with them now, you keep them. And I pray that you wouldn't take them out of the world, but that you would keep them. And so it's all related to God the Father and to the Word of God in all those verses. And then we're told to keep ourselves in the love of God. What shall separate us from the love of God? Is it possible that God will lose me? And so when I'm told to keep myself in the love of God, it cannot be possible that I'm somehow supposed to do something to stay saved. That I am supposed to do something so God doesn't lose me. All that the Father giveth to me shall come to me, and him that cometh to me I will in no wise cast out. Of those which the Father has given me, I've left nothing, but I have kept them. And so when it says, keep yourselves in the love of God, it's not talking about somehow you're going to get outside of the love of God. And so to understand what this verse is talking about, again, we have to understand the context. And the context is of those that have gone astray. Those who were not in the love of God in the first place. And so we find that to keep ourselves in the love of God is to guard ourselves constantly, just as the keepers of the tomb of Christ could not keep him. So we are to keep his truth. And so to keep yourselves in the love of God, first of all, is to watch out! To take heed, to be careful, because there is a roaring lion. Know ye not that your bodies are the temple? of the of God. The Spirit of God dwelleth in you. Defile not the temple of God. If any man defile the temple, him will God destroy. We read in 1 Corinthians 3. And in 1 Corinthians 6 We read what? Know ye not that your body is the temple? And in six fifteen, know ye not that your body that ye are members of Christ. And so, brethren Brethren, we find that we are to keep ourselves, building up yourselves on the most holy faith, praying in the Holy Ghost, keep yourselves in the love of God Watch your soul. Guard your soul. And we read in Proverbs 4 this morning our call to work, our responsive reading. I chose that specifically because of that one verse. Keep your heart with all diligence. For out of it are the issues of life. And our time is getting quickly away. But as we look at this book of Jude, we've seen multiple times how frequently we find the Word of God mentioned there. We find it in verse 3 and in verse I don't have it in front of me exactly here somewhere on my notes, but I'm I'm I'm getting starting to rush here. But we find the Word of God and the Word of the Apostles throughout the passage. And we're to keep it. We're to obey his commandments. We're to keep ourselves in the love of God. And what did Christ say about that? If you love me, keep my love. Commandments. And when Christ says, Keep my commandments, he's not talking about the Ten Commandments in any way, shape, or form. But rather, Christ is saying, This is the instruction. This is what I've told you. Keep it. Keep it. And we're to ever be looking for the mercy of our Lord Jesus Christ of the eternal life, my friend, without that mercy you'll never keep it. For it is God that worketh in you, both to will and to do of his own good pleasure. It is God that keeps us. This is life eternal. That ye might know the only true God and Jesus Christ, whom he has sent. And so, brethren, we have an instruction here. To the beloved, to those who are not the separators. To build up yourselves on the most holy faith. You can't do it alone. It's going to take God working in you to build. And to be praying always, praying in the Spirit. Praying in the Holy Ghost and to keep ourselves from the love of God looking to Christ. Christ, looking for eternal life. May God give us grace to build, to pray, to keep, and to look. Let us stand for prayer. Father, we thank you. Your word is so rich and so full. Uh Lord, how often we we think that there's there's Uh just a s a simple truth in one verse and we find out no there's a hundred simple truths in that one verse. Father, we uh forgive us for rushing through your word. May we take more time to meditate on it. Bless your word to our hearts this day. We thank you for it. Lord, I thank you for the blessing that we have it. I pray, Lord, our for your forgiveness on us for our failing to heed it. failing to make it the guide of our lives, failing, Lord, to be constantly in it. May we indeed be students of the Word of God. Bless your truth to our hearts this morning Lord, send forth your word, strengthen us in thee, edify your church. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.