It is good to see you this morning, friends and brethren. Turn with me your Bible to the Gospel of John And the 17th chapter. And for our scripture reading, I'm going to read verses 1 through 17. I hope you have your nimble fingers and thumbs today, because we're going to be looking at a lot of scripture. And I would invite you to try to keep up. I cheat. I have all the scriptures printed out in my notes. So I do not have to flip to every passage. But if you if you have quick fingers and can find the passages, it's good to set eyes on them. If not, it's fine just to listen intently because I will be moving quickly. If you have your place in the Gospel of John, our scripture reading will be chapter 17, verses 1-2 through 17. These words spake Jesus and lifted up his eyes to heaven and said, Father The hour is come. Glorify thy son, that thy son also may glorify thee. As thou hast given him power over all flesh, that he should give eternal life to as many as thou hast given him, and this is life eternal. that they might know thee, the only true God, and Jesus Christ, whom thou hast sent. I have glorified thee on earth. I have finished the work which thou gavest me to do. And now, O Father, Glorify thou me with thine own self, with the glory which I had with thee before the world was. I have manifested thy name under the men which thou gavest me out of the world. Thine they were, and thou gavest them me, and they have kept thy word. Now they have known that all things whatsoever thou hast given me are of thee. For I have given unto them the words which thou gavest me And they have received them, and have known surely that I came out from thee, and they have believed that thou didst send me. I pray for them. I pray not for the world, but for them which thou hast given me, for they are thine. And all mine are thine, and thine are mine, and I am glorified in them. And now I am no more in the world, but these are in the world. And I come to thee. Holy Father, keep through thine own name those whom thou hast given me, that they may be one as we are one. While I was with them in the world, I kept them in thy name. Those that thou gavest me, I have kept. And none of them is lost, but the son of perdition, that the scriptures might be fulfilled. And now I come to thee And these things I speak in the world that they might have my joy fulfilled in themselves. I have given them thy word, and the world hath hated them because they are not of the world, even as I am not of the world. I pray not that thou shouldest take them out of the world, but that thou shouldest keep them from the evil. They are not of the world, even as I am not of the world. Sanctify them through thy truth. Thy word is truth. Let us bow for prayer. Father, what a glorious, deep passage this is Father, if we did nothing this morning but read this passage aloud in the hearing of thy people three or four or five or ten times, we would be blessed Because Lord, it is so rich and full of truth and meaning. And Father, this morning, we will endeavor to look at multiple passages. Father, may you keep our hearts tuned to thy word. May you keep our senses alert. Lord, it is indeed a rainy day It is a time when it's easy to be weary because it is dreary. But Father, this is the one hour of the week when we gather for public worship. This is the time when our mind should be most alert and attuned to thy truth. And so, Father, may you open our hearts to receive glorious things. May you keep us alert that we might follow the theme of your keeping through the scriptures, through the word. And O Father, may it be an admonition to us. May it be an encouragement to us. May it be a blessing to our hearts. And a reassurance. That our God keeps his people at all times and in all circumstances and through all trials. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. There are multiple forms of preaching that are taught to Bible college seminary students My personal preference is what is called expository preaching. Just open up to one passage and take it apart. Like a carburetor. Take it apart and examine each piece and see how each piece relates to another and what its purpose is and how it relates to the Holy Scripture and then reassemble it back into the package God gave us and let the fuel start flowing through it again. There's another form of preaching that is typically referred to as running commentary where you just take a passage and you just commenting but not diving in as as deep. And then there is what is referred to as topical preaching. And I don't tend to do a lot of topical preaching. But there's a lot of benefit in topical preaching. So the message this morning is a topical message. I want us to follow this theme of God keeping his people through Scripture. There are five hundred and ninety-three times in our King James Bible That we find the English words keep, keeping, keeper, kept, keepeth, etc. That does not even go into all the other English words that are translated from the same Greek and Hebrew. 593 We would not have time to examine all 593. So I have gone through those 593 times in the English Bible that we find this theme. And narrow them down to ten points, ten categories that we can put them in. So that's going to be our theme. God has promised to keep his people. But what does that mean practically? What is involved in God's keeping? And the first passage I'd like you to turn to is 1 Peter 1 and verses 3 and 4. And in 1 Peter 1, verses 3 and 4, Peter, under the inspiration of God, says, Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. According to his abundant mercy hath begotten us again unto a lively hope by the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead to an inheritance incorruptible and undefiled that fadeth not away, reserved for you in heaven. Who are kept by the power of God through faith unto salvation ready to be revealed at the last time. We are kept And we understand what it means to keep something. I have my mom's china closet. It is the one thing that my mom left to me that is very important to me and I have kept it all these years and my children would tell you that I grew up under the threat as one of those old bow front china closets Okay? And I have kept it, and I grew up under the threat that if I broke that glass, my mom would break my neck And I told my mom I wanted her try to closet so I could threaten my children with the same penalty if they broke that try to closet So this week I moved two very large plants out of the living room outside. I'm a plant person too, and these plants can't live outside during the winter So I very gingerly maneuvered my hand truck past that china closet. Now I have kept it. What that means is I'm in possession of it. It means I have guarded it. It means I've been careful how I work around it. I open its door with caution because the glass is very fragile. When I put things in, I put things in there deliberately. The things I put in there are important things. I remove things from it very cautiously. I make sure it is safe. I make sure it is mine. And I make sure it is protected. But folks, God has told us throughout his word that he keeps his people. He keeps us. And so that's what we're going to examine this morning. We read there in our responsive reading this morning in verse 11 of Psalm 91: For he shall give his angels charge over thee to keep thee in all thy ways. And so the first thing that we need to understand in God's keeping of his people is this: God keeps his covenant. God keeps his covenant. He has made promises to us. And his promises never fail. Folks, if God didn't keep his covenant, he would not be God. A God that does not keep his word is not worth being called a God. But our God has made promises to us, and he keeps his covenant. Turn with me to Deuteronomy chapter 7, Genesis X, Leviticus Numbers, Deuteronomy, the fourth book of your Bible, and chapter 7 and verse 9. Fifth book of your Bible. This is Deuteronomy, by the way. I can't count. Deuteronomy seven and verse nine. Know therefore that the Lord thy God, He is God, the faithful God which keepeth covenant and mercy with them that love him and keep his commandments to a thousand generations. Folks, I don't want to guard this other than that. I don't want any other kind of God. I want a God that keeps his covenants. And again in 2 Chronicles chapter 6 and verse 4, O Lord God of Israel, there is no God like thee in heaven. nor an earth, which keepeth covenant and showeth mercy unto thy servants that walk before thee with all their heart. And Psalm 89, verse 28 and verse 34, My mercy will I keep for him forevermore, and my covenant shall stand fast with him. Psalm 99, 34, my covenant will I not break, nor alter the thing that goeth out of my lips. God will not alter the thing that goes out of his lips. He keeps his covenant. Folks, did you ever get a promise from your boss at work? And then the promise changed. Your boss said, We're going to do this. You know, I I have worked a few jobs other than preaching And I I had a boss that said, this is what we're going to do, and made certain promises regarding uh time off and vacation time. And then suddenly it all changed. I said, wait a minute, you said And I've already made arrangements. You have changed your word. Because God never changes his word. He keeps his covenant. What a glorious truth. And so, in light of God keeping his covenant, we read in Isaiah 55 and verse 3: Inkind your ear and come unto me, hear, and your soul shall live. And I will make an everlasting covenant with you, even the sure mercies of David. The first thing we find about God keeping is He keeps His covenant He promises and he fulfills. But not only does God keep his covenant, but secondly, he keeps his word. And this is slightly different than keeping the covenant. The covenants is the promises that God has made that are contained in the Word of God, but He keeps His Word. And we're not going to spend a lot of time on this one because it is one of the major themes. that you hear again and again here at Mission Bible Church, but God keeps his word. Psalm 12, verse 6 and verse 7. The words of the Lord are pure words As silver tried in the furnace of earth, purified seven times, thou shalt keep them, O Lord. Thou shalt preserve them. From this generation and forever. Folks, God keeps his Bible. He keeps his word. He is promised. that not a jot or a tittle shall pass from the law till all be fulfilled. In fact, in Matthew he says, heaven and earth may pass, but my word will not pass away. Heaven and earth will pass away before a jot in the two. God keeps his word. Folks, we have a constitution in this nation, and it is very good, and we are very appreciative of it. But we also have a bunch of amendments. Things had to be had to be added. Things have had to be changed over the years. Folks, there's been nothing added, and if you add anything, you're accursed. There's been nothing changed. There's been nothing taken away. Nothing has been lost. Why? Because God keeps his word, the Bible. Folks. I don't want a God who's going to change his mind tomorrow. I don't want a God who is so careless with his commands toward his people that he allows them just to be to disappear. How many times have you heard of a family where someone dies? And they know he had a will, but no one knows where the will is. And the family goes into chaos because there's, you know, he left his word for us. But he didn't put it in a safe place. Folks, God has kept his word. He keeps his word. But then we find, third, that God keeps his mercy for his people. He keeps his mercy. And here we go to Exodus 34. Exodus 34 is the second time that God gave Moses a law. You know that Moses went up on the mountain, God gave the two tables and tables, he came down from the mountain, and the people were involved in gross immorality. And Moses threw down the two tables of the law and smashed them. He went back up again God gave him the law the second time. Exodus 34, verses 6 and 7 is the second giving of the law. And there we read, and the Lord passed before him, that's before Moses, and proclaimed, this is the Lord speaking, the Lord The Lord God, merciful and gracious, long-suffering and abundant in goodness and truth Keeping mercy for thousands, forgiving iniquity and transgressions and sin. And will by no means clear the guilty, visiting the iniquities upon the children, unto the children's children, unto the third and fourth generation. Here was a time when God had said to Moses, I'm going to destroy them all. And Moses said, No Lord, Spare them, destroy me instead, and God spared them. And God declared at the time that his people had broken the law, I keep mercy. I keep mercy. Now, if man does wrong to man, man may be merciful. But man's mercy is finite. It is not infinite. Man's mercy can run out. You can be merciful for a time, but man's mercy will have an end. Folks, God's mercy never ends. He keeps mercy for his people. In Lamentation chapter 3, the 22nd and 23rd verse, it is of the Lord's mercies that we are not consumed because his compassions fail not. They are new every morning. Great is thy faithfulness. I have a dear brother that I have enjoyed praying with from time to time over the years that I've heard him pray these verses so many times. It is of the Lord's mercies. That we are not consumed. Why did you wake up this morning? The Lord's mercies. Don't raise your hands. Any to sin this week. Why were you not destroyed immediately? Because it's of his mercy, so we're not consumed. Our God keeps mercy. And folks, there are so many passages in that five hundred and ninety-three times that we could bring in. But let me bring another one Daniel's vision concerning God's judgment on Jerusalem in Daniel chapter 9, verse 4. And Daniel prayed unto the Lord And Daniel prayed unto the Lord, my God, and made Sorry, let me read it right. And I prayed unto the Lord my God and made my confession and said O Lord, the great and dreadful God, keeping the covenant and mercy to them that love him and to them that keep his commandments, we have sinned. We have committed iniquity, and we have done wickedly, and have rebelled even by departing from thy precepts and from thy judgments But then down to verse 9, to the Lord our God belong mercy and forgiveness, though we have rebelled against him. Folks, God keeps his mercy. His mercies are new every morning. He keeps it for us if he forgot to be merciful. How terrible our state would be, but God keeps mercy. Psalm eighty-six to uh fifteen But thou, O Lord, art a God full of compassion and gracious, long-suffering, and plenteous in mercy and truth. Psalm 103, the Lord is merciful and gracious. I've got to move along quickly. Number four, God keeps us in perfect peace. His keeping. I mean, I talked about how I protect that China closet, which is just a thing of earth But God keeps his people in perfect peace. Isaiah 26 and verse 3, thou wilt keep him in perfect peace. Whose mind is stayed on thee, because he trusts in thee. Let me read that verse again and emphasize that thou wilt keep him in perfect peace. whose mind is stayed on thee because he trusteth in thee. First of all, our mind is stayed on thee because we trust. It's the mind and the heart Our mind knows, but I don't trust you with my mind. I trust you with my heart. My mind knows the truth of God, but with that inner man I trust in God. The mind is the seat of knowledge, the heart is the seat of faith. And so I know that God will keep me in perfect peace, and yet when the problems come I begin to fret, don't I? I begin to worry. Knowing the truth of God is not enough, I have to believe the truth of God by faith. And my mind knows that God said it, but my heart believes it is true. And so, he will keep me in perfect, those in perfect peace, whose mind is stayed, whose mind is anchored in him, because they trust in him. And then again in Philippians chapter 4, verse 7, the peace of God which passeth all understanding shall keep your hearts and mind through Christ Jesus. Psalm 119, verse 165. Great! Peace have they that love thy law, and nothing shall offend them. And then in studying this, I found a glorious Cooperation, a glorious companionship between Isaiah 32 and James chapter 3. And I believe when James under inspiration, wrote chapter 3 and verse 18. I think he was recalling the words of Isaiah. Consider this, Isaiah 32, verse 17 and 18. And the work of righteousness shall be peace, and the effect of righteousness quietness and assurance forever. And my people shall dwell in a peaceable habitation and in a sure dwelling and in quiet resting places. Isaiah said the work of righteousness shall be peace. But then James in James 3 and verse 18 said, the fruit of righteousness is sown in peace. of them that make peace. I believe James was recalling the Old Testament when he wrote those words. And I love that 18th verse of Isaiah 32. And my people shall dwell in a peaceable habitation, and in a sure dwelling, and in quiet resting places. I told Plenty, that's where I want to retire. I want to retire in a peaceable habitation, in a sure dwelling, and in quiet resting places. But folks, God keeps his people in peace. Great peace have they that love thy law, and nothing shall offend them. Folks, there's a lot that offends our peace. There's a lot that rages in on us. But the peace of God that passeth understanding shall keep your hearts and minds through Christ Jesus. Romans 14 verse 18, for the kingdom of God is not in drink, but righteousness and peace And joy in the Holy Ghost. Number five, God keeps his people in safety. God keeps his people in safety. We read there in Psalm 91 in our responsive reading this morning. for he shall give his angels charge over thee to keep thee in all thy ways Folks, there are no accidents. Have a car wreck? Well, we call it an accident. But it's not an accident with God. You fall and shatter your knee. Now we call it an accident, but it's not an accident with God. There are is no luck. That doesn't mean there aren't consequences. You you lay down on the railroad track and you're gonna get killed. It doesn't mean that we can go do stupid stuff. You know. It doesn't mean that we are free from the consequences of our actions or inactions. You know, if you don't do certain things, you're not going to be healthy. But folks, we live under the protection of God. Nothing can happen to me except that which God ordains to happen to me. And if God ordains it to happen to me, even though it may seem to be the worst possible circumstance, All things work together for good to them that love God, to them that are called according to his purpose. Jamaica is a nation that is Very bad for crime. They don't talk about it a lot because they want the tourism to to thrive. But they warn tourists not to leave the all-inclusive resort. Crime is very, very rampant in Jamaica. Um the the police are a lot of the thieves. There were multiple cases I knew of personally of people being called up pulled over by the police and the police robbing 'em. You know, took everything they had, didn't give 'em tickets, just told 'em to go on. What what you gonna do? And so when we were heading to Jamaica, my mom reminded me, and my dad as well, that the safest place in the world is the center of God's will. You see, there is no danger to the person who dwells in God's will. The perfect place to be, the safest place to be, is the center of God's will God's will. God keeps his people in safety. Briefly, Psalm 31, verse 20, thou shalt hide them in the secret of thy pavilion from the pride of men. Thou shalt keep them secretly in a pavilion from the strife of tongues. Psalm 121, verse 3, 4, and 5. He will not suffer thy foot to be moved. He that keepeth thee will not slumber. Behold, he that keepeth Israel shall not slumber nor sleep. The Lord is thy keeper. The Lord is the shade on thy right hand. 1 Peter 4, verse 12 and 13. Beloved, think it not strange concerning the fiery trial, which is to try you, as though some strange thing happened unto you. But rejoice Inasmuch as ye are partakers of Christ's suffering, that when his glory shall be revealed ye may be glad with exceeding joy. Verse 19, Wherefore let them that suffer according to the will of God commit the keeping of their souls to him in well-doing as unto a faithful creator. The Lord preserves his people. We read in Psalm 32, verse 7, Thou art my hiding place, thou shalt preserve me from trouble. And that word preserve there from the Hebrew is also translated multiple times in the scripture that will keep me. He will keep me from trouble. Number six, moving along quickly, God keeps us from evil and from evil men. God protects us from evil. He keeps us from evil and from evil men. Psalm 140 Verse number four, oh keep me, or keep me, O Lord, from the hand of the wicked. Wow. Keep me from the hand of the wicked. Keep me, O Lord, from the hands of the wicked. Preserve me from the violent men who have purposed to overthrow my go-ings. Keep me for the violent man, it's that's purpose. Well, you know, I um the uh several of the men and probably some of the women in the congregation. Um Walk about armed, let's just put it that way. We exercise our Second Amendment right, but folks, that's not our protection. That's not our safety from evil men. When when we were in Jamaica I uh we had bars on the house and we had Different forms of defense, but those things are not our safety. I will lay thee down in peace and sleep, for thou only, Lord, makest me to dwell in safety The prayer of Jabez in 1 Chronicles 4 and verse 10. And Jabez called on the God of Israel, saying, Oh, that thou wouldest bless me indeed and enlarge my coast. that thine hand might be with me, and that thou wouldest keep me from evil. Keep me from the evil of men, that I may not be grieved, that it may not grieve me. In 1 Samuel 2 and verse 9, he will keep the feet of his saints. God keeps, God preserves his own. Psalm 31, verse 17, and following. Let me not be ashamed, O Lord, for I have called upon thee. Let the wicked be ashamed, and let them be silent in the grave. Let the lying lips be put to silence, which speak grievous things proud and contemptuously against the righteous. Oh, how great is thy goodness, which thou hast laid up for them that fear thee, which thou hast wrought for them that trust in thee before the sons of men. Thou shalt hide them in the secret of thy presence from the pride of men. Thou shalt keep them secretly in a pavilion from the strife of tongues. Wow. God will keep his people secretly in a pavilion from the strife of tongues. Anybody lying against you currently? Can you think of somebody in the past that has told vicious lies against you? Who has striven against you with their tongue Well, God keeps us from evil and evil men. He keeps us secretly in the his pavilion from the strife of tongues. I read for our call to worship from 2 Timothy 1 and verse 12. For he will call for which cause we suffer these things. Nevertheless I am not ashamed, for I know whom I have believed and persuaded that he is able to keep that which com I have committed unto him against that day. God keeps what we committed to him. Yeah, we we had uh sing the old song Take Your Burden to the Lord and leave it there. Folks, have you committed anything to the Lord? I think most of us have There are prayer requests that I prayed and prayed, Lord, I can't deal with this. I'm going to leave it with you Lord, there's this situation that I cannot fix. I commit it to you. Lord, you know my sin, you know my weakness, and you know my faith. I commit it to you Folks, God keeps that which I've committed unto him against that day. Did anyone ever make a promise to you what they forgot? Did anyone ever uh say they would be there for you at a time of trouble and then when you got there they weren't there? Well, God keeps that which we've committed unto him against that day. I will not stand ashamed in the judgment, because God will wipe away all my tears. He's able to keep that which I've committed unto him against that day. We're getting down to the nitty-gritty now. Folks, God keeps my soul in grace. He keeps my soul in grace. And that's what we saw there in our scripture reading today from some from John 17. Christ has been with the disciples, and Christ says, while I was with them, I kept them. None of them has been lost, but the son of perdition, Judas, and that's because the scriptures had to be fulfilled. It's the only reason Judas was lost But I have kept them through thy name. Now, Holy Father, I come to thee, but they are still in the world. I pray not that thou shouldest take them out of the world, but that thou shouldest keep them from the evil. Folks, we read of the seed by the wayside where thorns grew up and choked it. The seed on stony ground that sprang up and withered away. What keeps me in the grace of God? Why have I not departed into apostasy? Because God keeps me in his grace. It is not that I keep myself because I could not. But he keeps me in his grace. Jude 1, 24 and 25, now unto him that is able to keep you from falling, and to present you faultless before the present his presence of his glory with exceeding joy to the only wise God and our Saviour, be glory, majesty, dominion, and power. Psalm 25, verse 20. Oh, keep my soul and deliver me. Let me not be ashamed, for I put my trust in thee. John 6. 37, all that the Father giveth to me shall come to me, and him that cometh to me I will in no wise cast out. John 10, verse 28 and 29, I give unto them eternal life, and they shall never perish, neither shall any man pluck them out of my hand. John 17, we've already read, keep through thy own name those that thou hast given me. And Psalm 86, verse 2, Preserve my soul, for I am holy. O thou God, save thy servant that trusteth in me. And that word preserve is also a Hebrew word off the translated keep. Keep, my soul. But in God's keeping of me, keeping my soul in his grace further, God keeps me back from grievous sin. Folks, there is no sin that you're incapable of committing. There is no sin too heinous. For any believer to commit. Folks, I can think of times in my youth when there was horrendous temptation put in front of me. Opportunity to sin and nobody would know about it. And folks, the only thing that preserved my soul was God keeping me back from presumptuous sin. And so it is with you every day. But him that thinketh that he stands, take heed lest he fall. And so in Psalm 19, verse 13, the psalmist prayed, Keep back thy servant also from presumptuous sins Let them not have dominion over me. Then shall I be upright and shall be innocent from the great transgression. Let the words of my mouth And the meditation of my heart be acceptable in thy sight, O Lord, my strength and my redeemer. Proverb 2, verse 8, He keepeth the path of judgment and preserveth the way of his saints. David was kept back from sin with Nab. Remember when David was going to slay Nabal? And we read in 1 Samuel 25, verses 33 and 34. And blessed be thy advice, and blessed be thou which hath kept me this day from committing uh from coming to shed blood, and from avenging myself with mine own hand For in very deed, as the Lord God of Israel liveth, which hath kept me back from hurting thee, except thou hast hastened and come to meet me, surely There had not been left a man of Nabal. David says, God kept me back. Folks, what restrains the believer from grievous sin? It is the keeping hand of God. He keeps me from grievous sin. But number 10. I said there was 10, and this is the last one. Folks, God keeps my soul in life. Why did you wake up this morning? How many of you think about your heartbeat? Oh I know, yes. Sometimes we think about our heartbeat. My wife just looked at me because I have AFib from time to time and I think about my heartbeat But folks, we don't think about our heartbeating. Why are you alive? Because it is God that keeps my soul in life. He keeps me day by day Psalm 30 and the first few verses, I will extol thee, O Lord, for thou hast lifted me up. Thou hast not made my foes to rejoice over me. O Lord my God, I cried unto thee, and thou hast healed me. O Lord, thou hast brought up my soul from the grave, thou hast kept me alive, that I should not go down to the pit. Sing unto the Lord, oh ye saints, and give thanks at the remembrance of his holiness. Folks, God has kept me alive in danger. There have been multiple, multiple times that I have been in grave danger. And yet God has kept me alive. He has kept me alive in famine. No, I've never been in a situation of absolute famine, but I've been in a situation where people were hungry. I've been in a situation where food was very scarce. But I have never lacked. Because God has provided for me food. He has provided for me shelter. He's kept me alive in famine. And God has kept me alive in health. My heart beats not because of some biological accident, but because God has kept me alive. Folks, he keeps his children alive. And so, indeed, we can cast all of our care upon him. Indeed, in Psalm 41 we read, Blessed be he that considers the poor The Lord will deliver him in time of trouble. The Lord will preserve him and keep him alive. He shall be blessed upon the earth, and thou wilt not deliver him into the will of his enemies. The Lord strengtheneth him upon his bed of languishing. Thou wilt make his bed. Thou wilt make all his bed in his sickness. Folks, I've got grandkids. I want to live. But for me to live as Christ and to die as Cain. I do not have to worry about death. Because Christ has conquered death. And Christ will keep me alive until the day that he's ready to take me home to live as Christ and to die is gain. And so again the psalmist says in Psalm 33, verse 18, Behold, the eyes of the Lord are upon them that fear him, upon them that hope in his mercy. Psalm 91 For he shall give his angels charge over thee to keep thee in all thy ways. With long life will he satisfy him and will show him a salvation. And then Paul says in our uh Luke replies in Acts 17 and verse 24, for in him We live and move. It is Paul. It was Paul preaching, Luke recording. For in him we live and move and have our being. In that same context, seeing he giveth life and breath to all things. In verse 26 of Acts 17, and it determined the times of our times before him appointed. And so in conclusion, I would like to read the eight verses of Psalm 121 and then finish our service service with a benediction. Brother Vince mentioned uh biblical benedictions in Sunday school a few weeks ago. Psalm 121. I will lift mine eyes unto the hills from whence cometh my help. My help cometh from the Lord, which made heaven and earth He will not suffer thy foot to be moved. He that keepeth thee will not slumber. Behold, he that keepeth Israel shall neither slumber nor sleep The Lord is thy keeper. That's what we've seen from about a hundred of the 593. verses in scripture. The Lord is thy keeper, the Lord is thy shade upon thy right hand, the sun shall not smite thee by day, nor the moon by night. The Lord shall preserve thee from evil He shall preserve thy soul, and both those preserves are also the word keep. The Lord shall preserve thy going out, he shall keep thy going out, and thy coming in from this from this time forth, even forevermore. And then we have a glorious benediction in Numbers chapter 6, verse 24, and following, the Lord bless thee and keep thee. The Lord make his face to shine upon thee. The Lord be gracious unto thee. The Lord lift up his countenance upon thee and give thee peace. Our gracious Father, we thank you and take great comfort in the fact, the truth, that you keep your people. In Jesus' name. Amen.