We're in Hebrews chapter 13 and verses 20 through 21 where we read the following. Now the God of peace that brought again from the dead our Lord Jesus Christ, that great shepherd of the sheep through the blood of the everlasting covenant, make you perfect in every good work to do his will, doing that which working in you that which is well pleasing in his sight. Through Jesus Christ, to whom be glory forever and ever. Amen. There's a lot of theology in that, and we're going to somewhat take a little different approach to handling this rich little nugget here. But first our discussion Questions. What is a eulogy? When are they given, who gives it, and why? So our online folks gave this Uh eulogy is an address to honor a person who's passed into eternity. So only given after the person has died. Good observation. Who gives it? Well, A person who knows the deceased very well, or a close relative, and the effect is to honor the deceased and help those who remain to grieve and to remember the person. That was the definition of eulogy. I think that kind of covers it unless you have some other thoughts. I'll ask the audience here. So the bonus question is when does the power of how long does the power of attorney last? Anyone know? Until it's taken away, I think. Okay, and when is it taken away? Right. Absolutely right. When a person dies, yep. I learned that the hard way when my father passed. I uh immediately went to the bank and said, Hey, I have power of attorney, we need to relocate his funds. They said, uh, oh, he's dead? Nope, they're locked up now. You gotta go to probate in the court and then we'll do a with the money that way. So now the power of attorney vanishes when the person does. Well we're in this section of Hebrews which is dealing with a benediction And the reason I asked about a eulogy is the eulogy are good words for the deceased, usually man speaking about another deceased individual. But a benediction is God's glorious and gracious words coming down to the living. The point and the purpose of the two is the same, to encourage the grieved. The the eulogy doesn't benefit the deceased, right? They're they're not obviously a part of that program. So that word benediction is uh comes to us from the Latin term means to speak well. Kind of our word eulogy is to speak well, good words. In the Hebrew it's the word barakah which means blessing and it's a the root is barak which means to kneel. However, the Beraka adds a sense of divine bestowment, and that's where uh the our benediction here comes from. I can't resist just briefly touching on all that is in this this verse. So I'm going to kind of do a Pastor Bird style running commentary as I go through Hebrews 1320 And then we're going to look at some New Testament and Old Testament benedictions in general and look for some patterns. That's kind of what we're doing today. But first to read through this glorious passage, it says the God of peace. It doesn't say the God of wrath, though he is a man of war. God does take vengeance on the wicked, but to his people it's the God of peace That would echo in the minds of the Hebrews. The word shalom means peace, the God of peace. He is the one. And it says that brought again from the dead, speaking about a resurrection. That theme is in there That is part of the encouragement to remind you, this peaceful God brought again from the dead, the last enemy we have, the Apostle Paul says, in 1 Corinthians 15. fifteen is death. But here he brought again from the dead, bringing peace to those who had been deceased. From the dead our Lord Jesus That is the also known as here the Great Shepherd. Our Lord Jesus is that great shepherd of the sheep. Well that ties you back to Ezekiel 34 if you're a Hebrew and familiar with the Old Covenant. It ties you to John 10 in the New Testament. Jesus stands and says, I'm the Good Shepherd. So there's our connection there. Through the blood of the everlasting covenant. So there is a covenantal connection. The reason I asked about power of attorney is that death does have impacts on some legal documents. For instance, in the last will and testament, that will is fungible. It can be changed while the person, excuse me, while the person is alive. But a last will and testament doesn't come into force. It doesn't kick in, as it were, until an individual dies. So by the Lord Jesus dying and coming from the grave, he not only kicked in the old covenant promises, but he continues and ever lives as our reigning high priest. That's an amazing truth that the resurrection turns a lot of things on his head. Imagine, Mrs. Ross, you pass, you've got your will, it kicks in, and then three days later you pop out of the grave, ha, I'm back, give me all my stuff back. Uh that would throw things on their head and people would kinda, oh well what do we do now? I mean the court system wouldn't quite know what to do. You've died, so we've got to carry out the will, but she's here and she's gotta have her stuff Yeah. That's kind of what Jesus Christ did with the resurrection. Through the whole order upside down. Uh make you perfect. Notice the one making you perfect. That was a theme covered in the previous chapter. Jesus is the author and finisher of our faith. Again, just a nice summary of these teachings. Make you perfect to do what? To do that, to do his will, to work in you that which is well pleasing in his sight. There is a brand of teaching out there known as antinomianism, which says you're saved by grace. There is therefore no now Now no condemnation, you're not under the law. They make a big deal about that phrase, not under the law. And therefore you can live however you want to, because it's all paid for. Well, that was not the purpose of God saving you. He didn't save you so that you could continue wallowing in the mire of sin and dirt and filth, expecting no negative consequences to come, you're saved to do that which is well pleasing in his sight. We can actually serve God as a saved person, even in our fallible state. And that's a uh a a wonderful thing. Through Jesus Christ, it's not in our own power. God works in us to do that which is To will and to do his good pleasure, to whom be glory forever. And that is the main universal goal. All of it leads to the praise of God. That's the benediction. That's the explanation in short But I had a question, and the question was, well, why these words? Why this set of phrasing? There's other benedictions in the Bible. Why did the penman to the Hebrews pick these words? And so that led me down a very interesting course of review. So we're going to look at several other benedictions. We're going to start with the New Testament. Now this is where your bulletin is going to come in handy because on the insert I've placed the other main Benedictions we're going to take a look at. There's four of them in particular. Five, actually. But we'll be focusing on three. The first is in Romans 16, 25. It's the end of Romans 16, where the Apostle Paul gives his his benediction to the church at Rome. And he writes this, God speaking to him. Now to him that is of power, to establish you according to my gospel. And the preaching of Jesus Christ, according to, notice the according, you're going to see it several times here. According to the revelation of the mystery, which was kept secret since the world began. But now is made manifest, and by the scriptures of the prophets, according to the commandment of the everlasting God, made known to all nations for the obedience of faith To God only wise be glory through Jesus Christ forever. Amen. That's his benediction. And it is goodly words. Indeed, it's speaking particularly to us Gentiles. Notice that phrase to all nations He also wrote to the Corinthian church, a different benediction, a much shorter one, and it's very Trinitarian in its nature. Listen to this one in 2 Corinthians 13. He says, the grace of the Lord Jesus Christ and the love of God and the communion of the Holy Ghost be with you all. Amen. Notice the Lord Jesus, the love of God, presumably the Father, and the communion of the Holy Ghost, the fellowship of the Holy Spirit, be with you all. So I find in that, as I think about those from the Apostle Paul, a couple of observations. That Romans 16 is kind of more of a doxology because it's ascending upward. It's it's to him There's power to establish you, so he starts off with you, yes, God working it, and preaching and revelation. God being led into his ministry, he knows what it is. He's the one revealing it. Uh according to the commandment made known to all nations to God only be wise. It really is more of an assent than a a an appeal to divine blessings flowing down. So it's really kind of more of a doxology, but we'll call it a benediction. And 2 Corinthians 13 really asks emphasizes the whole Trinity, the whole Godhead in this blessing. That is kind of a doxology because it's it's Jesus' grace be with you. God's love be with you. Fellowship of the Holy Spirit be with you. That is kind of more in line with the benediction. That's more of a descending, God's benefits flowing down to us. These are wonderful verses. And uh uh and and they're they're they're both broadly given notice to all nations, or to you all. It's a much broader audience. Um But now when we look at the Old Testament benedictions, because this concept of God bestowing good words upon his people to encourage them, to comfort them, The most famous is in the book of Numbers. It's called the Iranic Blessing, and I'm sure you've heard of it. The Lord bless thee and keep thee. It's in number six twenty-four. The Lord bless thee and keep thee. The Lord make his face to shine upon thee and be gracious unto thee The Lord lift up his countenance upon thee and give thee peace. Notice that word peace again from the Old Testament coming forward into Hebrews. But it's often cut off right there, but the benediction continues, and it says, And they shall put my name upon the children of Israel, and I will bless them. Very selective. Yeah, well the Gentiles will cut off that last part. But well there's really no reason to do that. There's no reason to fear that because in the New Testament believers are part of that Israel of God. They're circumcised in heart. They can be called a spiritual Jew. We're grafted in to that uh Abrahamic covenant. When you see Abraham's receipt of promises from God, you can put Christ's name, and if you're in Christ, then you're in that too. You have an interest in those were grafted in. God didn't erase that and start over. He said, think not that I'm come to destroy the law and the prophets. I'm not come to destroy but to fulfill. He's making it a force. So that was an Old Testament benediction. But the most notable that are relevant to our text here, and I think will resonate with you. is in 1 Chronicles 29. Now if you want to follow in your Bible, you can, but I did print it for you. I'm going to focus, it's a very lengthy one. This is when David is giving his benediction to the people. And he says in 1 Chronicles 29, the book of Chronicles is about the kings of Judah. The book of Kings is about is Israel's version of what happened. We find in verse 10, wherefore David blessed the Lord before all the congregation, and David said, Blessed be thou, Lord God of Israel, our Father, forever and ever. Thine, O Lord, is the greatness and the power, the glory and the victory and the majesty. For all that is in heaven and in the earth is thine. Thine is the kingdom, O Lord. And thou art exalted as head above all. Both riches and honor come of thee, and thou reignest over all. And in thy hand is power and might. In thy hand it is to make great and to give strength unto all. Now therefore, our God, we thank thee and praise thy glorious name. And then we get to 18. O Lord God, I'm skipping ahead to verse 18. O Lord God of Abraham, Isaac, and of Israel, our fathers, keep this forever in the imagination of the thoughts of the heart of thy people, and prepare their heart unto thee. Okay, so that was David's benediction of the Lord to the people. Solomon likewise gave one, and we read about that in 1 Kings chapter 8, 1 Kings 8. 56. For Solomon writes this. He says, Blessed be the Lord that hath given rest unto his people Israel, according to all that he's promised. There has not failed one word of all his good promise. That's a mighty big phrase. You can compare that to Joshua 21 and Nehemiah as well. Where they both declared, Yep, Lord, you fulfilled all your promise. You made good on your end of the deal. If anybody messed up, it was us. So you can't say there's certain land promises left unfulfilled in the Old Testament when Solomon and Joshua and Nehemiah declare that nope, God kept his promise. We continue. Which he promised by the hand of Moses his servant, the Lord our God be with us. As he was with our fathers. Let him not leave us nor forsake us, that he may incline our hearts unto him. To walk in all his ways and to keep his commandments and his statutes and his judgments which he commanded our fathers. And let these my words wherewith I've made supplication before the Lord Be nigh unto the Lord our God day and night, that he maintain the cause of his servant, and the cause of his people Israel at all times. as the matter shall require, that all the people of the earth may know that the Lord is God, and that there is none else Let your heart therefore be perfect with the Lord our God to walk in his statutes and to keep his commandments as at this day. Now Having read several of these benedictions, which of these would you say seems to align closest with our benediction of Hebrews 13? I'll give you a moment to think about that. Just in the sound of your hearing. There's maybe some you can rule out I like the one that I know. Okay. We always like the ones we know. Yes. Was that the ironic blessing? Uh the second woman she said. The um uh the Lord bless thee and keep thee? Yes. Yes. Yeah. That's a wonderful blessing. That is a good one. Well, if you look ahead at the table I put in your bulletin, you'll see that the ones that we're going to compare. And the yellow portion to the left is the fill in the blank section as I go through and describe the who, what, when, where, why. That's how I tend to look at things. By the way, that's a good way of looking at scripture You can start to ask the who, what, when, where, why questions and try to dissect it and understand its um. So uh David and Solomon's benedictions seem to line most closely. with what we read in Hebrews 13. These Old Testament ones seem to be most similar to what we read in Hebrews 13, and that makes sense because it's to the Hebrews. Why not give them a benediction they're familiar with? So there's five common elements I find, and this is kind of the meat of the study for today. There's five common elements I find between David's benediction, Solomon's benediction, and the one in Hebrews that are thematically connected. And it's quite rich. So the first one answering who, and you're filling the blank, is God's character. That's the very first thing you find across these. In David's benediction, he says, thine is the greatness. And the power and the glory, he's describing God's greatness. He's reminding God, not reminding God, but echoing to the Lord his recognition that you are great, you are powerful, you do have all the glory. Solomon said the Lord has not failed one good word of his good promise. He's acknowledging, hey, you have kept up your end of the deal. We recognize that. By the way, if you ever find yourself in a contentious discussion with someone, and you're pushing your idea, and they're pushing their idea, and you Want to double down in your position and push back more forcefully. Let me give you a hint. One good way to diffuse that is to demonstrate that you are in fact listening to them. And you do that by pointing out the good aspects of their argument. You can stop and say, okay, I see that you are Advocating, you know we use the word argue, that's going to pour a little more gas on the car, advocating this particular view and then report the good things about their position. uh you want some good thing, you want everybody to have free lunches, you want everybody to have free health care. And who doesn't want that? That's wonderful. That's great. My concern is, and then you can get back to your concern, who's going to pay for this, etc. And then we can have a discussion. By acknowledging the other side's position and good aspects, you at least indicate to them, I heard you, got it, here's my concern. All the more so when you're going before a holy God, because you have to ign Acknowledge that you're listening to him until you understand who you're talking to. You can't trip up to him like he's a slot machine. I put him I you know want banana, get banana, push him up, make it. You you can't approach the Lord like that You need to humbly come before him and recognize who he is. Our Father who art in heaven. Hallowed be thy name. That's the very first step in the Lord's Prayer, recognizing that even his very name is holy. For ye to even take up his name in a vain fashion is a massive violation of the Ten Commandments. So just Think about that as we consider at times our prayers to the Lord. So the first thing in the benediction is the recognition of God's character. Hebrews starts off, may the God of peace. You know, there's not going to be peace in the Middle East until they recognize Jesus Christ unilaterally, individually, collectively, as two nations. Because he's the God of peace. If you're worshiping the God of the Muslims or the uh uh uh uh or or uh rabbinic tradition, which is kind of a Bible plus Old Testament plus uh approach to the to the scriptures, which makes an idol, there won't be peace. This is the God of peace. Fundamentally everybody wants peace. Everybody wants it. We all want to live a quiet and peaceable life. But the God of peace is the one who bestows that. Is it possible to have peace in the midst of a storm? Jesus fell asleep in a boat when there was a storm going. I know some people who have been in a rocking ship at the sea and are Hugging the the white throne because they're getting seasick. Yes, you can be at peace in the midst of the storm. The God of peace, he is the one That's the who is the common element. The second part is the when, the historical grounding, and that's our next fill-in-the-blank, the historical grounding Now it's kind of a stretch to put it to win, but I do this because there is a reference to a past event. So in David, He speaks about all that is in heaven and earth is thine. Well, that's post-creation. He created those things. He's acknowledging that God's creator and that was his creative act You made earth, it's yours. You made heaven, it's yours. David is saying he's given rest unto his people. He's speaking about after the Exodus, after the settlement into the land. Defeated many enemies. David has ascended to the throne. Here in Hebrews 13, it says he's brought again from the dead, our Lord Jesus Christ. That's a post-resurrection event. that has impact, that has import, that has importance to us. So that's the when portion of it. It's a reference to some history and it's grounded. Folks, Christianity is actually grounded in space-time history. We ought to expect to find the Lord's fingerprints throughout this world. Indeed, I think we do. If you look under a microscope at a human living cell, it's astounding. We're still trying to make sense of the DNA that we've decoded as part of the genomic project It codes linearly. It codes in three dimensions. There's so many ways that DNA gets coded. It's got code for scaffolding, how to start to build things, how to stop building things, how to shut it down, how to turn it on. It's the switchboard. It's a wiring center of how everything works. We fully don't yet understand it. Now when they map your genome, by the way, they're making it's a model. It's not perfect. It's the best they understand at this point. You may have to rerun your DNA test again as they continue to learn and unpack more about what these different codings mean. We see it in archaeology. We see it in various remnants and artifacts that we found that they're actually You know, they mocked Christians for years. There was no Hittite kingdom. There weren't any Hittites. What are you talking about? Until they discovered the capital of Hattusa in eastern Turkey. And thousands of documents written in Akkadian script in their archives. Oh, there was a large kingdom, Hattusa Hittites. Hmm, okay, I guess they weren't a real people. Yeah, the Bible's very accurate. And so we actually worship and serve a God who really did rise from the dead. He really did walk this planet. This is a real deal, not some mythical envision like evolution. They've never seen it The actual target number three is the where. Where is this benediction aimed at? Everybody wants three things. Financial prosperity, your economic prosperity, political freedom. and uh uh uh health. Good physical health. That's what everybody wants. What does God want? The actual target is this: to keep this forever in the heart of thy people. Prepare their heart. God's interested in your heart Give me thy heart, my son, it says in the in the Psalms. Solomon says this, Incline our hearts unto him. Let's face it, we know that we're not always highly interested in doing what scriptures would say and have us to do. We want to push and lean and go, no, I want to do this. But the prayer is, Lord, incline my heart. God alone can change the heart. He's a mind fixer and a heart changer, as one brother one time said. I like that. A mind fixer and a heart changer. He can incline your heart He will give thee the desires of thy heart, not the evil things. Let these words be nigh. Hebrews says, to make you perfect, working in you that which is well pleasing in his sight. This is The prayer. Notice that God would make you perfect. If you went to a Roman Catholic Church, they would say your penance. will get you a step closer. Your contributions will help and assist. Your attendance at the High and Holy Feast Days, and they have several, will get you closer, but they can't guarantee it It's uh it's the the Bible plus religion, and it's a false religion. The God of peace will make you perfect and will establish you perfect God will not fail one of his good words. So that's the actual target. The where? It's right there in the heart. Right there in the heart. That's where the benediction is towards. The fourth point, the what, is the outward goal. What is the outward goal that we would see and behold? To keep thy commandments, David said. Solomon, to walk in thy ways, to be perfect with the Lord. Hebrews, to do his will, to do that which is well pleasing in his sight. Believers can and do sin. They're not too terribly pleased about it. God, the Holy Spirit dwells in them, gives them that sinking feeling in the pit of their stomach, gives them an unease and a discomfort. David was a saved man, and yet David is an individual that slew Uriah the Hittite, a very admirable servant and noble Jew, I believe, a saved individual of his day, one of David's strongest and best men. And David had him killed All for the sake of his wife. And the Nathan the prophet came and said, gave this parable about a man who had many little ew lambs and and yet his name many sheep And yet his neighbor had one little ew lamb and he went and took that one. What should be done to that man? He says, Well he should be, you know, and David pronounced his own judgment and Nathan very boldly shot out his finger and said, Thou art the man You're the one that's done this with Bathsheba. The thing that God most pointedly ascribed to David was the sin of the death of Uriah the Hittite. That was the thing that was most oft repeated as his sin. Yes, Bathsheba's issue was not forgotten. It's recorded in Holy Writ. And yet David's in heaven. How is that? How is that? Because God Almighty had paid for all of David's sins at the cross of Jesus Christ. And you read In the Old Testament, at the account of David and Bathsheba, the very last verse of that chapter, now the thing that David did displeased the Lord. I've always thought about that. There are things that believers can do that displease the Lord. knock you off the plane of salvation. Indeed it won't. The Roman Catholics will indicate, oh no, you're at greater risk. This is going to cost you. You better dig deep and pull out a lot of money. Oh no. No, the believers fall And uh but they rise again. The wicked fall into mischief. The rest of David's life was kind of rough. He had turmoil in his own house. He had others lay with his uh uh uh his wives on the uh roof of his of his house. He was chased down. He had very difficult times afterward. There was a price to pay for it. He had a difficult lot It certainly wasn't getting off scot-free, so to speak. The Lord does not exact of us all that our iniquities deserve. He will do it to chastise his children, to teach them. No, my ways are best. You're not getting it yet, son. Now this chastisement is for good. It's for not punishment, as it were, but for you're not getting it, son, here's the way you need to walk. It's always Correct i it's corrective, it's restorative. That's the goal of God's chastisement. That was the outward goal, but in part the finality of it is the why Why is the finality? It's to bless the Lord, that all the earth may know the Lord is God, and to him be glory forever. It's always some glorious aspect, some purpose to his name. Well, my observations in all this is that there's an incredibly similar structure to these very familiar Old Testament benedictions. The God of peace, that ties us to that ironic blessing, Mrs. Ross. The Lord give thee peace. That's the shalom. The New Testament benedictions are focusing on the person of Jesus Christ, per se. Which is fine, but this is focusing on Shalom, the god of peace. That was the emphasis of the old The when, the stated reasons are historical. Jesus' resurrection, that's the big deal, and covenantal, the blood of the everlasting covenant. There's a tie to those two things. Those are very important anchors of the old But uh the rat this kind of rationale is missing from the New Testament benedictions. Paul never really mentions the resurrection of Jesus Christ in his benedictions, and he doesn't mention the covenant in his benedictions, which is kind of interesting, I find. He writes about it. He certainly believes and knows and teaches it. He does it in Galatians, but it's not in his benedictions. The where is the gracious work of God in the heart of his people But the New Testament benedictions, particularly in Romans, is focusing on preaching the gospel to all. It's evangelizing as what you would expect for Gentiles, right? That all may hear Here, it's God of peace, give you peace, work in your heart. The what the end-time goal is the same either way to do his will. But the New Testament benedictions are emphasizing the obedience of faith. It's underscoring this aspect of faith, which is a huge deal. And the why, well, both of them have that same goal. There's no change there. It's to the glory of God. So that's the overview of this benediction and kind of a compare and contrasting. I've been dominant here for a while. I uh somewhat apologize for that. One of the most difficult things I have is where to figure out how to put questions in it But I did find three applications, and I trust this will be a benefit, and then I'll close it a little early today. The first is the obvious is that this benediction is very well suited for a Hebrew audience. It's perfect, picture perfect for a Hebrew audience It shows the relevance of Jesus' resurrection to these very familiar Old Testament benedictions. It makes that connection. It continues to connect those dots. They're not abandoning the God, the Jehovah of the Old Testament. The Jews have the right God, so he doesn't want to throw that out But he's showing how this true God came in the person of Jesus and fulfilled those things and is now carrying it forward. So it's a very good benediction for that. It's very suited. And it might in fact persuade a Hebrew mind to become a Christian without abandoning Jehovah's New Covenant promises of the old. It has that persuasive aspect to it. It's not a a club over the head, this argumentative Acts that Paul often uses. It's very persuasive. However, my second application is this. Though it is written for Hebrews But we Gentiles have to realize our connection to that as well, because we were grafted in among them. We are grafted into that Hebrew stock that started with Abraham. We're entering to a rich godly tradition with a singular aim. a heart work of the Lord to do that well pleasing in his sight, not man's sight, all for his glory. So Yes, I'm not with those who are trying to advocate for some kind of a restoration of a physical temple in what some might call Palestine. Or Israel. Really, Israel should be called Samaria. But I'm not advocating for that. I don't think the Bible's expecting that or waiting for it. What purpose would it serve? Because we have a high priest forever after the order of Melchizedek. And who would they get to serve in that temple? They've lost their records. How would they validate that this is a legitimate Levite? They're going to offer sacrifices, sacrifices pointing to what? For what purpose? It doesn't make any sense to me. If God should choose to do it, fine. I just don't understand the purpose. I don't see the necessity of it or the benefit. I do find that Luke says that the uh That the uh temple shall be trodden underfoot until the times of the Gentiles be fulfilled. That's our time now. And it's fulfilled when Jesus returns to take his church home with him. New Testament benedictions, as my third application is this, and I'll close with this short point. Benedictions make really excellent memory verses. If you want to start teaching your children memory verses, find the benedictions. They're in the back of some hymn books. Because there's a lot of rich theology brought together in a nice little nutshell. It's very comprehensive. You know, some of you take multivitamins. What's the benefit of a multivitamin? Well, because if you look at the ingredients If you look at the ingredients on that multivitamin, there's like 12 to 15 different things. If you had to take all 12 or 15 different pills, why do that when you pop one big one in and get the job done These benedictions are like a multivitamin. There's so much packed into one thing, and if you meditate on it and think about it, and ask the questions. Why does he say it this way? What's the benefit of this argument? Why? Well then you might start to squeeze out of that grape a whole lot of juice. So I would commend to you these benedictions for your memory. Now may the God of peace that brought again from the dead our Lord Jesus Christ, that great shepherd of the sheep, through the blood of the everlasting covenant. Make you perfect in his sight to do that which is well pleasing through Jesus Christ. I didn't quite get that wrong. I'm telling you the benefit of Yeah, through Jesus Christ. I got it right. To whom be glory forever and ever. Amen Let's close in prayer. Father in heaven, we thank you that you do give your people benedictions and blessings. We thank you that they are for the living. We thank you that they are based on the resurrection of Jesus Christ and fulfilling that covenant. O Lord, make us and conform us more into the image of thy Son. Help us to be obedient sheep and be patient in all of our sufferings. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen.