All right. Okay, well we're gonna continue with the study about a layman's approach to Bible study. We did the first part last week and we'll continue on to the next one. this week and we have I think one verse that summarizes it very well and it's in Psalm 19. Let's take a look at that Psalm 197-11 describe some of the key elements of what we looked at last week when we talk about Bible study The first thing we had to look at is just what is the Word of God and does that character of the Word of God tell us anything about what we should expect? Psalm nineteen. And Psalm nineteen and verse seven it says this the law of the Lord is perfect, converting the soul. The testimony of the Lord is sure, making wise the simple. Statutes of the Lord are right, rejoicing the heart. The commandment of the Lord is pure, enlightening the eyes. The fear of the Lord is clean, enduring forever. The judgments of the Lord are true and righteous altogether. And I'll just uh stop right there in verse 9. It really illustrates the character of the Word of God. It's called perfect, it's called pure, it's called clean. All of that indicates a very different nature of the book than what most people might have in a historical book or a book that man writes. It's a very different book Proverbs 3. 32 puts it this way. In Proverbs 3 it says, For the foreword is abomination to the Lord, but his secret is with the righteous. And this points out another aspect of the Word of God, and that Not only is it eternal, but God also secrets his truth. He obfuscates it for those whom he does not intend to save. If somebody is not an elect of God, they're not saved. They look at this book and it's quite confusing to them. In fact, it may uh judge them. All right, so we had a homework assignment I think I've got a lot of material, but how many of you did actually try to make your way through the homework assignment? I know Victoria worked on it So we have at least four people. Okay, that's good. I've got uh the answer key for you all to admire and look at later on, so uh you can uh take that home and uh you get first in line at desserts tonight for uh doing your homework. Even before the kids get in, so that's really a benefit, 'cause they start swarming it like bees and you know you can't get into much. So Well, we'll continue on here in our overview. We looked at the nature of the Word of God, it's alive and acted. Now we're going to talk about the nature of it being the teacher. There's some great promises that we have in the scriptures. And I've always been impressed by these. Turn to Jeremiah 31. Jeremiah chapter 31 and 31 through 34. This is a very famous section of Scripture. And it deals with, in very plain language, what we would know as Christians living on this side of the cross, we would refer to this as the New Covenant. And in Jeremiah 31 and verse 31, the Lord says this, Behold, the days come, saith the Lord, that I will make a new covenant with the house of Israel and with the house of Judah. Now notice this, not according to the covenant that I made with their fathers, in the day that I took them by the hand to bring them out of the land of Egypt, which my covenant they break, although I was an husband unto them, saith the Lord. So God says there's a new covenant coming. It's not going to be like the one I made with them coming out. What covenant did he make with them coming out of Egypt? Uh that he would bring him to a land of milk and honey, but uh that was part of the promise. Certainly it was. Uh evolved circumcision, right? What was that covenant? What did what uh hint Moses went up in a mountain and got something? The Mosaic Covenant, the Ten Commandments, and it included a whole bunch of stuff other than just the Ten Commandments. And so he gave them that Mosaic Covenant. He says it's not going to be it's going to be very different. He says in verse 33, continuing on in Jeremiah 31, but this shall be the covenant that I will make with the house of Israel, after those days, saith the Lord. I will put my law in their inward parts, and write it in their hearts, and I will be their God, and they shall be my people. And they shall teach no more every man his neighbor and every man his brother, saying, Know the Lord, for they shall all know me From the least of them unto the greatest of them, saith the Lord. For I will forgive their iniquity and I will remember their sin no more. Part of that promise is that all of the people involved in that covenant would know the Lord, from the least to the greatest. It doesn't matter how intelligent they are, how smart, how capable, it didn't matter how much time they'd spent studying or not, whether they had a formal education or none. If they were a member, a blood-bought son or daughter, member of that covenant, one in whom God put his spirit, their born-again children, God says they would know him. Isaiah says the same thing in Isaiah 54 and verse 13. He also prophesies of this aspect of the new covenant in the future It says in verse thirteen, All thy children shall be taught of the Lord, and great shall be the peace of thy children. They'll all be taught of the Lord. That's very interesting. And then uh you don't have to turn there, but uh Micah uh chapter four and verse two says, Many nations shall come and say, Come, let us go up to the mountain of the Lord in the house of the God of Jacob. He will teach us of his ways, and we will walk in his paths. Now, the reason I say this is all New Covenant language is because the book of Hebrews confirms that to us. So if you, for instance, go to the book of Hebrews, chapter 8, you'll see the exact same language that you just read in Jeremiah. It appears right here in the book of Hebrews. Hebrews chapter 8, 10 through 11 says this Hebrews 8, 10-11 says, This is the covenant that I will make with the house of Israel after those days, saith the Lord. I will put my laws into their mind. and write them in their hearts, and I will be to them a God, and they shall be to me a people. And they shall not teach every man his neighbor and every man his brother, saying, Know the Lord For all shall know me from the least unto the greatest. So notice that language there, and that's a confirmation here. In all this, it says in verse 12, I will be merciful to their unrighteousness and their sins and their iniquities. Will I remember no more? And that he saith a new covenant he's made the first old. Now that which decayeth and waxeth old is ready to vanish away So he's making very clear this is something that's right now in the new covenant, right now in in our time. So I have a question that leads me to, and that is, does this really happen? Does God Himself really teach us? What do you think? Victoria, if you can turn up the audio for the group. Yes, Caleb. Jesus came? Jesus certainly came to teach us. Um uh he did show up on earth, he did teach. It was God in the flesh, yep. And then he died, uh was buried, rose again the third day, was seen of many people, hung around for about forty days, I think, and then he ascended back to heaven. Is God still teaching us today? Some of you are shaking your head, yes, okay. You know, we see in the Old Testament that the presence of God was always with the people of God. Shortly after Moses received the Ten Commandments, he also got some instructions. He got some instructions on how to build the tabernacle. And the temple and the altar, and all of that that portable tabernacle that they had in the wilderness. And soon after he consecrated it, he did everything that was commanded. God's fire uh the fire of God and the glory of God appeared right there in the tabernacle and that was then lit up and that was the thing that moved with them throughout their whole wilderness sojourning. It was there. God was there with them the whole time. And he was there in that pillar of fire, in that cloud during the day. So he was there in the Old Testament, and yes, he does really teach us. He really teaches us now. And then some might say, well, does that mean do we no longer need Bible teachers, preachers, or pastors if it says They're not gonna need uh uh any of those people. God himself is the teacher. Did he do we have any need for these people? What do you think, Caleb? Baby Caleb. No, he's not gonna answer for me. Anybody, what do you think? Um yeah. that we don't necessarily need them because God teaches us on his own on his own even from John two twenty six. Um but But uh he does provide them as uh you know, guides and and and helpers as as he has established um uh elders and advanced Evangelists and apologists. Yep, absolutely. To some extent, you're I mean, um what you said is correct. To some extent, no, we really don't need Bible teachers, ultimately. But they're secondary aids and benefits that God gives to help you. God, in fact, is pleased to aid his children from time to time. They're just helps. They're just helps. That's all they are, really. Uh they're not necessary, uh, but they serve they sure do illumine and enlighten a lot of things and help us out. I've certainly benefited over the years from uh From brethren who have been able to share with me things they found in the scriptures, even as hopefully I'm able to do the same with you. You know, God the Holy Spirit teaches us, and we do see this language fulfilled Let's look at John 6. 45. I'll just take you to a couple of places in the New Testament where this is pretty plain. John 6 is one of them that comes to mind. John 6. 45, Jesus here is speaking to a large crowd of grumbling Jews who really just wanted to come and get their bellies filled And Jesus decides to drop a few more things on their mind other than just what the food offering of the day was. He says that great statement in 44, but then he gets to 45. It's written in the prophets, they shall be all taught of God. Certainly we know about that. We just read some of the places in the prophets, plural, they'll all be taught of God. Jesus goes on to say, Every man therefore that hath heard and hath learned of the Father comes unto me. Isn't that interesting? If God has been your teacher, according to Christ, you come to him. You come to Jesus. So that's interesting. For those who say that God is teaching them some other way, uh through the Quran or something, if they're not coming to Jesus, well they haven't been taught of the Father. Because the Father's not teaching them a different way. The Father is teaching them to come only to Christ. So they haven't learned Christ to write, and they haven't heard from God if they think they're going a different path 1 John 2. 27 is another place that speaks plainly about this in what we might call New Testament language. 1 John 2. 27. It says this, it says, but the anointing which ye received, which ye excuse me, let me try that again, but the anointing which ye have received of him. abideth in you, and ye need not that any man teach you. But as the same anointing teacheth you of all things and is truth and is no lie, even as at his even as it hath taught you, ye shall abide in him. Notice it's an anointing. Anointing is God the Holy Spirit. That's the anointing you've received. God has sanctified you. He's separated you. He's made you special. He's anointed you a king. He's anointed you a priest. We're a royal priesthood, the scripture speaks about. the believers. And that's the anointing oil that God gives his children. Ephesians 4. 21 also tells us this. You don't have to turn there. I'll read it for you if you'd like. Ephesians 4. 21. says, if so be that you have heard him and have been taught by him as the truth is in Jesus. He's pointing out that certain things you you haven't learned Greediness, you haven't learned covetousness, lasciviousness. He says, that's not what you've learned, if in fact you've been taught by God. God's the one that teaches you that your lifestyle will change. God's the one that changes you so that you'll think differently about the way you used to live. All of a sudden you'll have a different perspective in life. Thank you, Victoria. Now let's talk about the tools of the Spirit of God. What are some of these tools that God the Holy Spirit uses? Well, it shouldn't come as a surprise to you that one of the tools is the Word of God. That shouldn't be a mystery to anybody. The sword of the Spirit is the Word of God. Ephesians says, take the helmet of salvation and the sword of the Spirit, which is the Word of God. That shouldn't be a mystery. And the second is one that we've been a big fan of, and that's Bible reading, Bible study, Bible meditation. Of course, it's kind of hard to meditate on the Word of God if you don't memorize it. That's a very effective way to meditate. Psalm 119. 99 says this, I have more understanding than all my teachers. For thy testimonies are my meditation. I understand more than the ancients because I keep thy precepts. Wow, I understand more than the ancients. People think that a Bible-based education is going to produce a bunch of ignorant children. You know, they're so heavenly minded they're of no earthly good. Uh nothing could be absolutely further from the truth. One of the greatest uh uh physicist that has ever lived, Sir Isaac Newton, said all of his discoveries about science and how planets move and some of these uh fantastic laws of physics that he has discovered that still form the the anchor pin for much of our satellite based systems and and many things we we put into action. He says I learned them on my knees, praying to God for insight and understanding. You know, with him is the treasures of the fullness of the riches of the wisdom of God. And people who take his word seriously, God is uh also pleased to bless them with some good understanding. Of course, you remember Solomon's prayer when he was a young fellow, he says O Lord, how can I judge this so great thy people? Please give thy servant wisdom to be able to judge these people. And God was very impressed with that prayer and says, Because you haven't asked for riches, you haven't asked for fame. I'm going to give you wisdom and riches and fame because you ask for the right thing. All throughout the Proverbs it says, seek wisdom. That's the principal thing. With all thy getting, with all thy might get wisdom. And it's talking about the wisdom from the scriptures This is, as it were, the blueprint that God uses to to create the universe and to run it. And why wouldn't we want to learn something about that? Ephesians 4 also talks about another tool the Spirit uses, and it's the role of teachers, as I mentioned before. It says in Ephesians 4, you might want to look at that, Ephesians 4. 11. 'Cause if I'm hot y'all probably getting hot, and that's a pretty good pretty good guess. Ephesians four eleven says this. He gave some apostles and some prophets. Some evangelists, some pastors, and teachers. Now I've had some people try to jam those together. Pastor teachers, meaning the pastor is the teacher. No, those are two distinct roles. There are those who are pastors and there are those who are teachers. Yes, a pastor is expected to teach, but not all teachers are qualified to be pastors. There are some people who are very good at teaching the Word of God, but they're simply not biblically qualified in all the other areas. There's sixteen qualities uh characteristics, excuse me, criteria is a better word, that is required for a pastor, for an elder. Only one of those has anything to do with teaching. The other fifteen are character issues. And so that's a an important distinction to make. Paul continues on here under the inspiration of God in Ephesians 4. He says, why did he give pastors? Why did he give teachers? Well, he says, for the perfecting of the saints, for the work of the ministry, for the edifying of the body of Christ. Um it's interesting he doesn't say for the teaching of the saints. He doesn't call that out. God is the one that's the teacher. He's the ultimate teacher that does this. Why did he give it? Till we all come to the unity of faith. The implication is we're not all in the unity of faith currently. And of the knowledge of the Son of God and to a perfect man to the measure of the stature of the fullness of Christ, that we henceforth be no more children tossed to and fro and carried about with every wind of doctrine. One of the big benefits that you get from teachers are they can help shore you and push you away from error. Every heretic has his verse. And the most effective heretic are those who have a handful of verses that on face value seem to be pretty comprehensive. How do you keep from getting moved astray from that? How do you keep from getting attacked with those kinds of false gospels and false doctrines? Those are the more serious ones, and we'll talk a little bit about some ways to do that. Let's go now to 1 Corinthians 2. I want everybody to follow along in this passage, 1 Corinthians chapter 2. This is most instructive Because when it comes to studying the Word of God, there are some passages I think that do speak fairly clearly to the matter. 1 Corinthians 2, I'm going to walk us through verse, starting at verse 11, and we're going to go through verse 16. These six verses here in 1 Corinthians 2. And I'm going to take it kind of slow here because there's some explicit guidance God gives us on how to understand the Bible. The first one in verse 11 says this. For what man knows the things of a man, save the spirit of a man which is in him? Even so, the things of God knoweth no man but the spirit of God. So that's more confirmation that these teachings, these truths are revealed, exposed, disclosed, illuminated by God the Holy Spirit. No Holy Spirit, no insight into the things of the Spirit of God. You know, when you look at another person, you could say, well, what is he thinking? Well, if he's alive, he's got an inward soul that's searching, he's meditating, he's ruminating on what's going on inside. If he's dead, there's no thought processes. This spirit is gone Nothing's going through his head. The scripture says his thoughts depart from him. They're all gone. Nothing's left. So it is with the Spirit of God. He is the one that teaches us about the things of God. And verse 12 says this, now we have received not the Spirit of the world, but the Spirit which is of God. He's making it clear. God's children have his Spirit, that we might know the things that are freely given to us of God. One of the purposes of God, the Holy Spirit, is to help you know what is a free gift of God. That's a tremendous benefit. That's like getting the gift that keeps giving. Here you get this spectacular gift, and then it's so wonderful, so marvelous, I don't understand it. What is this? I can imagine Thom uh Donald Trump one day if he ever passes, well not if, when he passes, uh and if he's made a will that donated some things to his children. I can't imagine what his estate looks like uh his he has property in like fifty, sixty, seventy different places and locations around the world, I wouldn't even know where to start. I mean it would just be a very complex you'd want to get an attorney. or some property manager or somebody to say, okay, what is all this stuff? What do I get? And then they can go through it and they can read it and they can explain and peel away. Well you happen to have this one property here. It's worth forty seven million dollars. It's generating a hundred and ten dollars million dollars of revenue every year. And da da da you know, and all the wonderful things that go with all that, right? You'd need somebody to explain that. You have something far greater than just a handful of properties. You have all of heaven, all of earth, all of eternity, God Himself. Pretty much the storehouse of heaven is emptied. And it's going to take us a lifetime to really fully grasp what's going on. It's a gift of God to explain those things to us. And then he says in verse 13 Which things also we speak, not in words which man's wisdom teaches, but which the Holy Ghost teaches, comparing spiritual things with spiritual things. So I want to split that into two pieces for you. The apostle here as a prototype teacher, the first New Testament teacher who did much of his teaching through writing. Tells us this. He says that as he's speaking about the things of the Word of God, he's not using man's wisdom. He's really giving an excellent uh first example. He's setting a good precedent, if you will. Because the best thing a Bible teacher can do is point you to where in the Bible he gets his ideas from. That's the best they can do. Um if you're listening to a teacher that's giving you a lot of thus saith man, a lot of reasoning, a lot of argumentation, and so forth, a lot of logic. And there are some very eloquent people out there. And there are some people that are very intelligent. One that I that comes to mind right off the top of my head is a fellow named Robbie Zacharias. Now I think he's probably a a a a a dear brother. I I would like to hope so. Uh I I I I I don't know or can't judge the heart, but I frankly just can't listen to the man because you'll go a very long time before you hear, Thus saith the Lord It's a lot of logic, it's a lot of reasoning, it's a lot of philosophy. He's very wise. But I can't follow him because I'm not hearing, thus saith the Lord. He's not pointing me to the scriptures. Where are these ideas coming from in the Bible? Why isn't that plainly being made known? And then the second part of this verse is also very important, verse 13, comparing spiritual things with spiritual. That is very important. Earlier in Romans 7, he said in verse 14, we know the law is spiritual. This is a spiritual book So how do you understand it? Okay, you need God the Holy Spirit. Okay, well I get that. Now what? I'm reading my Bible. Well, this is the best part right here. Comparing spiritual with spiritual. You compare the Bible with the Bible. You look in other places. God has so written His Word that it is its own dictionary. You can go find what a particular concept of God means, for instance baptism, by looking throughout the rest of the Bible. Hebrews 9. 10 says there were diverse baptisms in the Old Testament. It uses the word washings, but it's the word baptism. It says they were very diverse. There were many different types. And because of these diverse types of baptisms, you can therefore go into the Old Testament and you can find all kinds of washings of various sorts By the way, when Moses was up on the mountain, one of the things he commissioned them to build was a labor. It was a very large bathtub, if you will. It had four feet. It holds a bunch of water. And you might think, yeeha, we're going to jump right in and get wet. Well, the only thing that was washed there were hands and feet. That was it. That's all that was washed out of that. So you can look in the Old Testament and get indications. as to what God means by things. You can compare spiritual with spiritual. We don't compare spiritual with secular. Verse 14 continues on. It says this, but the natural man receives not the things of the Spirit of God. For they are foolishness unto him, neither can he know them because they are spiritually discerned. This is an interesting text. It makes it also very plain. Somebody who's dead in sins and trespasses isn't born of God, isn't interested in the things of God. He looks at it, he doesn't get it. Worse yet, he may be judged by it. And that's kind of the sense of what's going on here. That word spiritually judged is the same word judged in verse 15. So we could read the tail end of verse 14 this way. Neither can he know them, because he, or uh it says they, it could be he, uh, is spiritually judged. That's an equally valid rendering of that passage. Both senses are there in that Greek. So one says he can't discern it. The other says one reason he can't discern it is because he's judged by it. It tells him awful things. And I know that was my experience personally. As an unsaved person, I really didn't like to read the Bible because it was just raining down on my parade. I just didn't particularly like it. Verse 15 tells us this: He that is spiritual judges all things, yet he himself is judged of no man. Holy Spirit indwelt folks possess the means to discern all things, but they don't discern it all at once. It's a process. It's a lifelong process. And it just continues to get better. Lastly, in verse 16, it says For who hath known the mind of the Lord that we may instruct that he may instruct him, but we have the mind of Christ. That doesn't mean I'm as smart as Christ. The mind of Christ is the Spirit of God. That's how I understand these things He's here he references the mind of Christ. We only have a portion of the Holy Spirit of God. Ephesians refers to him as the earnest of the Spirit And Jesus Christ has the Spirit in all his fullness, because God gives not the Spirit by measure to Christ. So we can't say we have the fullness of everything of God the Holy Spirit. it gives. But what he does give is freely given to us and to our children that we know the things of God. Alright, so that's the explicit guidance And this was nothing new. It was the same as in the Old Testament. Psalm 1 is a classic psalm that talks about this teaching, this idea. Psalm 12 and 3 says, But his delight is in the law of the Lord, and in his law doth he meditate day and night. And he shall be like a tree planted by the rivers of water, that bringeth forth his fruit in his season, his leaf also shall not wither, and whatsoever he doeth shall prosper When the Bible talks about fruit, one of the fruit we have is the fruit of knowledge, the fruit of understanding. And I like that word fruit because I'm sure some of you know something about fruit trees, if you've ever gone perhaps to Butler's Orchard or other orchards in the area where you can go and pick your own fruit. When do you go to an orchard to pick fruit off of a tree? In the summertime, whenever it's ripe for su certain type of fruit. In the um I like it when the peaches come on. That's really one of my favorite activities is to go and pick a uh a peach ripe off of the tree, nothing tastes quite like a a fresh Maryland ripened peach. They're fantastic. And if you go Pennsylvania in the fall, late fall, you get some apples and uh they come much later in the year and boy there's some fantastic tasting apples and Uh here in another mu uh couple of months we're gonna have uh blueberries off the uh Klouf blueberry bushes. The point is that you get fruit in a season. So it is with a believer. So don't beat yourself up because you're not getting something. It may just not be the right time or the right season. God gives you understanding and knowledge as much as you need. I've often seen it where husbands are like one step ahead of where the wife needs to be. Because God would have it so that the husband's going to be leading in the family. He's going to be the one who has to have that understanding. And that's why there's a biblical principle in Corinthians and Timothy that if she will learn anything, let her ask her husband at home. There's a benefit to that because God's going to use him to be just a step further along. I've often seen that. It's not, you know, uh across the board, but more often than not, God works that way. Proverbs 2 speaks about this kind of guidance as well. I'll read that. Proverbs 2 says, My son, if thou wilt receive my words, and hide my commandments with thee So that thou incline thine ear unto wisdom and apply thine heart to understanding, yea, if thy criest after knowledge, and lift up thy voice for understanding. If thou seekest her as silver and searchest for her as for hid treasures, then shalt thou understand the fear of the Lord and find the knowledge of God. So there's nothing new there in all of this, really. What's wonderful about our time frame is that we're seeing much of it come to fruition. Because God the Holy Spirit has poured out in the whole in the heart and the soul of every child of God. God's obligated himself to teach all of his children. And he's doing it through a completed word. And that's a great thing. All right, question time Question time. Somebody's needy over here. So how does this affect your confidence in tackling Bible study? Everything I've just told you, how does this affect your confidence in tackling Bible study? This should give you some confidence to be persistent, yeah? What else? You got a hand up? Spirit to to teach you, but he will teach you. You will grow gradually, not enter. Yeah, if you come with an open mind, God the Holy Spirit will teach you. One of the first things you should do anytime you crack open the Bible is to stop and say, Pray. Pray to the Lord. Lord, please help me open my understanding as I read this passage of your word. We need that. We need it. We're dependent on it. He is the the gatekeeper to open it. Um and so it's kind of like I saw this picture, I thought it was great. It's kind of like riding a bicycle. And uh you know when when kids finally figured out how to ride a bike they really get it and But uh, you know, sometimes uh this is where the role of uh teachers can help. They can help keep you up on that bicycle, but at a certain point You kind of don't need the teacher anymore. You know, I expect in a number of years really not to see any of you here. You know, there comes a point in time when you're kind of on your own two feet well enough, you feel like, you know, I'm kind of getting this and I think I want to go do something else. And if you're still here in five years, I'll be ecstatic, right? But I mean what I'm saying is that it doesn't surprise me that people come through and move on Uh I'm just one of the, you know, tools in the tool shed. I like what one of the elders at our church says I'm a broken shovel digging an irregular hole. If the Lord's pleased to use it, that's great. So it should increase your confidence. Some people are going to ask, well, what about commentaries? What about using commentaries? What do you think about those? Yeah, it's uh man has written that book, right? So it's it will contain some truth, contain some error in it, yeah. You take it with a grain of salt, that's a good way to put it, sure. You know, I've looked at commentaries, uh uh frankly, um I'll tell you kind of the extent of my opinion on this. I would say honestly, for the first 20 years of time that I was saved, I really didn't spend any time in commentaries. I really just didn't. I I found far more prophet just with a strong concordance in the Bible and just literally comparing scripture with scripture, getting to know the Bible. That was fantastic. I I just I I really got a far better anchoring in what the Bible teaches. And um Then when I w then later when I went and you know started poking in the commentaries, I was shocked at what I found. Some of these commentaries that were hailed as being really impressive people and great, I'm talking John Calvin. I'm talking some of these reformers. I'd go reading their stuff and I'd go, huh? Where'd they get that from? And I would just look at things and I'd go, well, that's weak. And it and it was I I just wasn't that pressed with it. Um and I'm not saying I'm smarter than John Calvin, but I'm just saying it just it just didn't benefit me nearly as much. Um Calvin commentaries, you can think of them as this is the homework assignment of saints of old as God was teaching them. They were moved to write their insights and understanding down. And it's just a record trail of the things that God helped them understand in their generation, right? God the Holy Spirit hadn't died. When those men died. You know, wisdom from the planet didn't disappear when they died. And oh by the way, to write these commentaries you have to be Pretty wealthy to be able to do that. You have to have an independent source of finance to be able to spend all the time to document that stuff. And so it's not everybody that can really write that sort of thing. Some people write more clearly, others are kind of scatterbrained And it's kind of hard to follow them. Um I find that they they can be of some benefit, but I don't rely on them that much, to be perfectly honest. And you don't need to. You really don't need to. It's not all that helpful. Alright, so I want to validate this. How do you how do we validate uh uh this business? Uh Kevin hit the the nail on the head with the taking it with a grain of salt. Why don't you read Isaiah 820 This is a classic passage. If this is not one of your memory verses of late, it ought to be. Isaiah chapter 8 and verse 20 You got that maturia for you. Yeah, go ahead. If they speak not according to this word That's a very, very powerful passage. If they speak not according to this word. You know you're listening to somebody who's very helpful to you when you hear a lot of thus saith the Lord fitted in their lips. When they're speaking and it sounds like, oh, this person's very obviously spent some time in the book. They seem to know something about the Bible because I'm hearing a lot of Bible passages. They're not saying where it's coming from, but I'm hearing phrases and things coming from their mouth. It's very obvious they've spent time with the book. Uh their speech betrayeth them that are get that they are Galileans that's one set. And uh If you're not hearing a lot of thus saith the Lord, boy, that's just a big red flag. That is just a big red flag. I don't know how else to put it. And Isaiah tells us about that. I'll read for you Jeremiah 8. 9 and Matthew 22. Jeremiah 8. 9 gives us this here. Oh, I had time permitting, I would get to that, and now I've got to do some page flipping. Jeremiah chapter 8 and verse 9. Says this, the wise men are ashamed, they are dismayed and taken. Lo, they have rejected the word of the Lord, and what wisdom is in them? You know, there's some people that reject the wisdom of God, and they're going to come and they're going to speak as if though they're declaring the words of God, but they've rejected it. God says, what wisdom's in you? So this is your wisdom, is that of the scriptures In Matthew 22, the Lord Jesus is on his final, I guess you could say, final press conference. The scribes, the Pharisees, and the lawyers are all trying to interview him in front of the people so they can stop his mouth, so they can make him say something embarrassing, and it ain't working. And he says in verse 29 He's speaking to the Sadducees. He says, Jesus answering and said of them, you do err, not knowing the scriptures, nor the power of God. The Sadducees were the ruling elite. They were the upper crust. They were very powerful. They held all the very powerful positions and seats. Pharisees were the rank and file holy people. In fact, they were uh uh uh mostly from among the people, the pious ones. Uh their name means the separate, the separate ones, the separatists. But the Sadducees were very distinct. They were an upper crust cloud crowd, and he says of them, You're you err. You don't even know the scriptures. That's quite the condemnation from Christ. They knew a lot, but they for sure did not know the scriptures. And that gets us to the main point of scripture, because here they are standing talking to Jesus Christ, the Son of God, the Messiah to come. And they're arguing with him. It's not a good position to be in to be arguing with God. You're going to lose that battle. You're not going to win. Nothing positive can come from that. And yet they're arguing with him. How is it that these fellows missed him? Well, because the main point of scripture is this. Look at Luke 24. And I tell you, this is just reiterated so many times. Luke 24, 25-27. Here Jesus is speaking to two people on the road to Emmaus. He's risen from the dead, they don't recognize him. He's apparently in a body that they don't perceive, what he looks like. And he says to them, O fools and slow of heart, to believe all that the prophets have spoken, ought not the Christ to have suffered these things? And enter into his glory. And beginning at Moses and all the prophets. So he started all the way back in Genesis through Exodus, Leviticus. Numbers, Deuteronomy. And all the prophets. He went through Isaiah, Jeremiah, Ezekiel. They had a lot of time on that road. He expounded unto them in all the scriptures the things Concerning himself. He's really shearing up a walk of faith here, isn't he? Not a walk of sight. He could have revealed himself physically first, but he doesn't. He wants them to see him in the volume of the book first Before they see him in the flesh. It's a very important thing. Verse 44, look at that. He says, These are the words which I spake unto you while I was yet with you. That all things must be fulfilled which were written in the law of Moses and the prophets in the Psalms concerning me. Well So he points himself again and again and again as to that which Moses writes about. Turn a few pages over to John 5. John 5, 39. 539 He says this, search the scriptures, for in them ye think ye have eternal life. And they are they which testify of me. He makes it plain. When you're searching in the scriptures, somewhere Jesus Christ is in the volume of the book There's some gospel message, there's something pointing about the work and the person of Jesus Christ that's all throughout the scriptures. It's a hymn book, H-I-M book. Verse 46, for had you believed Moses, you would have believed me, for he wrote of me. He said it plainly. Moses is talking about Jesus Christ. Somehow that tabernacle is ref reflecting different aspects of Jesus Christ, the mercy seat, the showbread. Christ is the bread of life. Yea, the law of God is within my heart, that whole tabernacle, that mosaic Ark of the Covenant, all of that reflects some aspect about Jesus Christ. That's where a mercy seat is. When I see the blood, I'll pass over. Here the blood is sprinkled on the mercy seat. You have the wings of cherubim over it, and the law of God looks up, it sees blood sprinkled on top, and it says, I'm satisfied. All of that's very Typical. It's a fantastic picture of the work and the ministry of Christ. I've already quoted it. Psalm 40, verse 7. Lo, I come in the volume of the book, it is written of me. I come to do thy will, O God. Hebrews 10 repeats that verse and says the same thing. It's an easy memory verse. They're both in verse 7. Psalm 40 and Hebrews 10. They say the same thing. That Christ comes in the volume of the book. Alright, well let me close it out here with some helpful guidelines. Start off with the King James Bible. You need to be in a Bible that's got the Textus Receptus as its basis. It's a formal equivalent. It's trying to translate it on a word-for-word basis as much as possible. And one of the benefits the King James translators do is they put words that are not actually in the text In italics. That doesn't mean it shouldn't be there. It just means the sense of the word is there. Hebrew is very colorful. So is Greek. Uh English is the same way too. There are certain idioms we say in English that just don't render in other languages. I'm sure you that know different languages here know of an idiom that's very common in your land and it would be very difficult to translate in English because there's a lot packed in that word. Greek and Hebrew are no different. And so an italicized word is fine. But it's just a clue, a little insight into the underlying Greek and Hebrew that's helpful. Context is very important when trying to understand the scripture. And I'll give an example of this in a bit. Does everybody know what I mean when I say context? As you're reading a passage. Yes, Caleb. What do I mean by I say context? When you're reading something and displays the name and Right. Yeah, you're looking um so that's what you've defined is a paraphrase, but I'll go with that because I think what you're talking about is you look at the the verses above and the verses below. Context will help you a lot. I found that nine times out of ten, somebody comes to me, I'm just saying they're antagonistic, okay? They're coming to me and they're trying to find fault with the Bible somehow And they say, what about this verse? Remember I said every heretic has this verse. They all want to talk about what about this verse? Now if they're not just on a you know hit-and-run mission where they just want to hit you with it and then just go run off You can ask him, okay, well let's look at that. If you don't have an answer, if you're stone cold, you've never considered that before. Don't say, well, I know somebody really smart is named events, I'll go ask him. No, no, don't do that. I'll show you, I'll I'll cut the quick, cut cut to the chase for you, right? Just say can we look at that? And open it up and find the verse. Number one, read it. Does the verse actually say what they said? Half the time they're misquoting the verse Okay, so that's half the problem. They they think they know what it says, but they really, oh I guess that verse isn't in the Bible. Well, yeah, it's not. So get it right. Number two, if they do have it right Keep reading. I find that if you just keep reading, read a little bit before, pick up some context. Who is Jesus talking to? What is this narrative? What is this section Kind of look for the little paragraph marks. You can see the the the the body that it's in. Is it part of a parable? Is it a narrative? Is it what? Pick it up before, go read after it. Nine times out of ten, doing that alone. Shuts the mouth of whatever your adversary is. Nine times out of ten. It's amazing how much people think they they know something about it. But they haven't even bothered to open the Bible themselves and look at the context and very plainly realize that it's it just doesn't fit. It just doesn't fit at all A grammatical approach, looking at the grammar. Some people think words mean something else and they don't take the time to make sure that the word they Think it means something is really what it means. And you uh you you you have to use basic rules of grammar. You can't A commonplace is the he's and the they's trying to track who belongs to who. Greek is actually very specific. There's no guesswork in the Greek as to who the he or the they refers to. For instance, Ephesians, I'm going to give an example of this now. Ephesians 2, 8 and 9, for by grace are you saved through faith, and that not of yourself. So when it says, and that not of yourself, it's not talking about grace. It says, For by grace are you saved through faith. And that not of yourself. The faith is what it's referring to. Even faith is not of yourself. It's the gift of God, not of works, lest any man should boast. It's very clear who the that is referring to. That's a grammatical construct. You have to deal with the basics of the Greek language and it translates well into English. You have to deal with that. You can't just chop it up any way you want to. A sentence is a sentence. The context is there. You've got to deal with that. Some people tack on some other words to this, and that's why I stick with grammatical. You may have heard of these things. Historical grammatical method. How many of you have heard of that approach to understanding the Bible? Historical grammatical So what that means, that's a pretty classic tried and true approach, and what it effectively means is this The grammar part you got, right? You have to understand the grammar of what they're saying. You just can't rip it out and mean whatever. But what they mean by historical is this The first audience who heard this in space-time history, what did they take it to mean? How did it hit their ears? How did they understand it? Now that's what they mean by historical grammatical. What did the first audience understand by that? Now I have a little bit of a problem with that. I'm okay with people who use that because I see how they use it and they use it well. But I have a little bit of a problem with that, and this is this is the problem. I have no idea how the first audience heard it. I don't know what these people are thinking. I I have no way to validate that. I can't go back. I can guess And frankly, I can think of several passages in the scriptures where that doesn't matter. Where it's utterly irrelevant what they thought. It sailed clear over their head. I'm thinking of the place in Hosea where it says, I've called my son out of Egypt. When Israel was a child, then I loved him and I called my son out of Egypt. Okay, how would that have hit the first audience? Well, it would have sounded like Hosea was talking about when The children of Israel had just been pulled out of Egypt. God took them out, and God took them out by the hand. So the child that he's talking about is the nation of Israel. They were just very young, and God brought them out. Except we have the book Matthew, which records the death of the innocents, all the children aged two and under that Herod went and slew. And his parents fled and went to Egypt, and after a while it was safe. Jesus Christ and Joseph and Mary came out of Egypt. And under divine inspiration, Matthew writes, that it may be fulfilled, I have called my son out of Egypt. So according to Matthew, who was under inspiration of God, that had nothing to do with national Israel coming out of of of Egypt, that had to do with Jesus Christ coming out. So much for what the first hearer would have thought. And if I had been a hearer there, there's no way I could have Said, well that's going to refer to Jesus Christ because you know Herod's going to go and kill everybody in in Bethlehem, Judah, and in that region, and then they're going to flee because he's going to get this for there's no way I could have put all that together. Not going to happen So there are some weaknesses with that. Another way that they'll use grammatical is they'll tackle on the word redemptive, redemptive grammatical, or redemptive historical. And that's got other problems, and you just kind of put that over here to the side, and that's we we we don't need to get into that. Here's the big one. We're looking for the gospel. Somehow there's a gospel connotation of the Bible has multiple levels of meaning. We know this from Isaiah 29. Let's go take a look at that here, so I'm not running afoul of my very own advice to you, that I'm giving you some ideas that aren't based on something in the scripture. Isaiah twenty eight. I'm sorry not twenty nine. Twenty eight nine Which says this, Whom shall he teach knowledge, and whom shall he make to understand doctrine? Them that are weaned from the milk and drawn from the breast. For precept must be upon precept Precept upon precept. Line upon line. Line upon line. Here a little and there a little. Now what that's saying is No different than the way your clothes are made. No different than the way a very thick coil of rope is made that can hold even a ship. You have individual little strands that are woven together, and those little strands form a bigger rope, and multiple ropes can be woven together. That's how the Word of God comes. And that's how you learn. As a child, you're memorizing scriptures. You're going to learn a little piece, a precept. Right? And you learn to memorize another scripture. That's another precept. All you're just getting these little individual precepts. You can't quite tie them all together that just yet. That's okay. That's really okay. Get those precepts in your head. And as you get older, as your mind starts to grow and connect You'll begin to connect those precepts together. And all of a sudden you'll be meditating on it and you'll wake up one night and you go, hey, you have an aha moment. Ding! Wow. Hey, I didn't know these two passages connect. That is interesting. And then you kind of get all excited, and all of a sudden God starts showing you that thing in several places of the Bible. That's a line. A line that runs through the whole Bible Line upon line. Pretty soon you get into something called a doctrine, a doctrinal position. Because there are some doctrines in the scriptures that you can't go to one verse and find You cannot go to one verse and find the uh the definition of the Trinity. It's very you're not going to find it. It's a principle, it's a line, it's a pre that goes throughout the whole Bible. Jesus said that Moses wrote of him, we ought to look for him in the volume of the book. There's got to be some aspect of God in there, so we ought to look for it. And lastly, tools. There are some tools that are helpful, and I'll get to that. Let me give some more examples of context. Let's go to Romans 14. We're going to put some of these to practice here. Three little practice sessions here. I'm not going to hit you with another homework assignment, although I do have one, if you're interested. Romans 14. We're gonna get interactive here. Kinda went long on that, but Romans 14. How many of you are familiar with Romans 14? Well I mentioned Romans 14. Does that ring a bell to any of you? Is that any familiarity? Alright. Well, in Romans 14, I don't know if many of you are familiar with this passage, but most people will say that this is a passage that's talking about the weaker brother. And we got to be real sensitive to the weaker brother. That's what everybody looks at. And Boy Romans 14 spends a lot of time talking about how we really got to just be sensitive to the weaker brother. Most people will say that, okay? Now let's read, before we go on, let's read verses 1 to 4. Anton, belt that out for us. Romans 14, 1 to 4. Him that is weak in the faith is See he, but not to doubtful disputations. For one believeth that he may eat all things, another who is weak eateth herbs. Let not him that eateth despise him that eateth not. And let not him which eateth not judge him that eateth. For God hath received him. Who art thou that judgest another man's Servant to his own master, he standeth or falleth. Yea, he shall be bold enough, for God is able to Alright. So there's the passage, and I want to ask you the question. You just read it, you just saw it with your own eyes. Somebody tell me who's the weak brother? How's how what's his characteristic? I'm not trying to pick on anybody here. Who's the weaker brother? What's he described as? Vegetarian, okay, somebody's eating herbs. Now that's for faith reasons. One believes. So it's a faith, it's that's not a dietary preference. They're doing this because of a it's a it's a spiritual position. That's what's going on here. Okay? Bear with me. Alright, who's the strong brother? One that eats all things. One that eats all things. Now, what's interesting is that in the historical context, I'll bring a little historical context for you. Some of these things were, some of this meat would have been offered as a sacrifice to idols in the Roman agora. And then they would sell it after it had been offered for sacrifice, and whoever received it they'd sell it, and then it was just meat that had been, you know stupidly offered as a sacrifice, nothing else had happened to it, and they were selling it. And some Christians would say, I'm not going to touch that. That's offered to a a a false God. I'm I'm I'm not going to I'm not going to touch that. Another brother says care less that God's zero zip squad has no power. Uh so there I don't I'm not worried about it. He'd eat it anyway. So that's some of the historical context that's going on. Now the halal food, let's talk about that. The Muslims have a tradition, halal food, and they think, oh, okay, well that's just the Jewish version of kosher food. Well it's not. Halal food can include roadkill, so if somebody ran over a possum, so long as a Muslim uh priest or whatever uh blessed it, then it's fine to eat So I wouldn't touch halal food with a ten foot pole. Because it has nothing to do it's not kosher. It's not doesn't have the same rules. It's just Is there a priest there to bless it? In other words, it doesn't matter. They don't care where it came from. It could have been dead three days in the field, as long as the the the Muslim Sheikh uh uh blessed it It it's good. They think he's got some super supernatural power to help you out there, so I wouldn't touch that nonsense with a with anything. These verses have any reference to historical biblical history where I think K and Evil one was a hundred and one you know. That's an interesting question. I haven't heard that one. Uh no, not a historical reference there. Uh but that's an interesting tie. But uh if you'll hold on that one we'll talk about that in a bit. Okay, so weak brother um eats herbs, strong brother eats everything. What? Somebody pointing? Keep going, you might touch on it. Now, who is the one that does the despising? This is the trick. Who's the one doing the despising? Okay, verse three. Let not him that eateth despise him that eats not. Alright, so the strong brother is the one despising. Who is the one that's doing the judging? The weaker brother. The stronger brother is doing the despising, it's the weaker brother that's doing the judging. Isn't that interesting? So when you look at Romans read verse three. Read it from your Bible. Read verse three. Huh? You have to have that Bible so she can read verse three. Look at look at this is important. You want to see this? Yeah, read it again. It says, Let not him that eateth who's the one that eats? Who's the one that eateth? When it says, Let not him that eateth. Yeah, the strong one. The strong one is the one eating. Let not him despise him that eats not. Who's the one that's not eating? Weaker, brother. So let not the strong despise the weak, and let not him which eats not, who's the one not eating The weak brother. The weak one not judge him that eats for God has received. In other words, the weaker brother is going to be judgmental. Why are you eating meat? Why you're not You're supposed to be so high and holy and righteous. Why are you doing that? You see how that's playing out? If you read through that too quickly, you might come to the conclusion that it's the stronger brother that's judging. Oh, leave this poor weak brother alone And in fact, what it turns out is that most of Romans 14 is addressing the weaker brother. Most of Romans 14 is all the way up to at least verse 12 is addressed to the weaker brother. Most people take Romans 14, and I've heard this countless times from I can't tell you how many pulpits. That we ought to bear up with the weak. Don't be judging them. Oh my goodness, they're just don't judge, don't judge, no but. No, that's addressed to the weaker brother The weaker brother's the one doing the judging. He's gotta get uh he's gotta start to strengthen up a little bit, and the reproof is mostly to him, not the other way around The stick is that the weaker one, not the quote-unquote stronger brother. In the context. So again, that's where context comes in. And again, it's for spiritual reasons they're doing this, not because somebody just grew up eating meat and is sick of it. All right, grammar. Let's go to Romans 14. Uh 14? Romans 11, 26. I got a bum reference there. Let me fix that. Romans eleven twenty-six. Let's go take a look at that. All right. This passage says this, and so all Israel shall be saved. As it is written, dot dot dot. What do most people think this says? And so all Israel shall be saved. All the Jews are going to be saved. All the bloodline descendants of uh Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob are all going to be somehow saved. There's going to be a huge conversion process, right? Now what's interesting is the word so, if you look at it in the grammar, that word so does not mean then. It's not a time reference. The word so is the word in this manner. You could hyphenate that if you want, but it's the phrase that indicates in this manner, not then. So you could read it this way, and in this manner, or you could say, and thus, all Israel shall be saved. It's a reference to an approach, not a time. It's a how, not a when statement. So Romans 1. 26 is not saying, then all Israel shall be saved, but in this manner all Israel shall be saved. So when you understand it that way, Then you start to ask the question, well what manner is that? What do you mean what manner is all this we're going to be saved? The manner the context has been talking about? The manner that the Apostle Paul has been describing since Chapter 11 verse 1, when he's talking about grafting in Gentiles into the the Jews were broken off And you're grafted in, and it's going to be one tree, and it's got Jews and Gentiles, and that's the thing that God's talking about? That not all Israel shall be saved. It's talking about those who are the elect of God. Again, just on a grammar. Eleven twenty-six or eleven twenty six. Uh chapter eleven, verse twenty-six. Yeah, chapter eleven, twenty-six. Romans eleven oh. I'm still messing it up. I give one of these days I'll get my There we go. Romans eleven twenty six it doesn't say all Israel shall be saved, but in this manner. Okay, got that. Gospel focus We've already looked at Psalm 47. Lo, I come in the volume of the book. Jesus said that Moses wrote of me. He makes it very plain. So we ought to be looking for Christ, especially in the Old Testament. And to get there kind of quick here, there's the story of Joseph. Boy, it's hard to miss Christ in the story of Joseph. Here's the beloved son of Father Jacob. His name was Israel. And uh and his beloved son gets sold off into slavery, ends up in a pit. He goes to Egypt, he's in prison, he's accused, he doesn't open his mouth at his accusation, he's falsely accused, he's put in prison for a long time, forgotten. And but he's brought up out of prison and he uh is highly exalted and he's uh uh because of his uh words he's able to save the nation. He interprets dreams. He interprets things that the that were in the king's mind. He's made second unto the throne of Pharaoh. He feeds the people of God. So many things that just stand out in his life You can't miss that he's just a phenomenal picture of Christ, from the beloved son to the prisoner to an exalted ruler. I don't know any minister who doesn't see Christ in the picture in the life of Joseph. You have it in Boaz, who in the book of Ruth is the kinsman-redeemer, the one who's near to redeem. And that's who Christ is. He's our kinsman-redeemer. He has the right to redeem. And he has the uh uh potential he he's got an obligation, he's obligated as a result of buying. There's all kinds of things that tie us in with some Old Testament language. You find these littered throughout the Old Testament. They're there if you look for them So that's an example of gospel focus. And to wrap it up, tools. I also use literal Bibles, Young's Literal Bible. as a literal word-for-word translation. It's just strictly how that individual Greek or Hebrew word would be uh just shy of transliteration, meaning letter for letter, it just comes over as a hyperliteral uh uh use of the word. That can be helpful sometimes. Green's literal translation has some good things in it as well. Concordances, Strong's concordance, Young's concordance are very helpful. Nowadays with electronic Bibles you can just track uh the Greek or the Hebrew very readily. Uh electronic Bibles already do all that hard work for you. That makes it very powerful. Very interesting to look. For instance, uh I just noticed here in a footnote of mine in Romans 14 And it says in verse 2, another who is weak eateth herbs. That's the word asthenio, which is used in James. Is any sick among you? That's the word asthenio. Is any weak among you? It's also rendered weak or sick. So there's kind of that sense of it as well. Interesting things like that that you'll find throughout the Bible. The last thing I would point you to, and again it's the very last thing, are commentaries. If you're just dead level set. And you're gonna have some, you just want some guidance. Uh these two or three I would recommend. Matthew Henry is a pretty solid uh fellow. Uh I've uh he doesn't get into debatable things if there's uh uh contentious part of scripture that's got a lot of debate about it. He kinda goes around that and gets to the, you know, the solid stuff and uh and and he's pretty comprehensive and he and he does try to find Christ a lot in the volume of the book, so he's very good. In that John Gill has just phenomenally studied. This man knows multiple languages. He's consulted Arabic, Syriac, Latin. He read the Jewish Targums, just a phenomenal breadth and depth of knowledge. I'll give him a pass in the book of Revelation. He does what a lot of the Reformed guys do, which is to look at that as Rome and that uh the Church of Rome meaning uh the Roman Catholic Church. And so, you know, for him, Revelation is all about the evil of the Roman Catholic Church, and that's pretty much all you'll get out of his Revelation. So if you You know, give him a pass for that. You can ignore that. And he's hard-line Baptist, but uh there's some really good stuff. He's got a lot of really good stuff in there. Jamison Fawcett Brown also have some good things, but not nearly as comprehensive, but uh that those are those are reasonable ones to go to that I've found. Okay, well that's all for tonight. I did have another assignment here, and I will just mention it to you. I'll pass it out here at the end because I forgot to make copies, so my apologies. This one is in Colossians chapter 4 and verse 6, where it says, Let your speech always be with grace, seasoned with salt, that you may know how you ought to answer each other. And it's a real simple assignment. Salt refers to blank because of these passages. What's it talking about? Oh, did I hand that out last week? Okay. Well, some of you may have it Yeah, it was the last page. Salt refers to blank because of these passages. So you might want to take a look at that using the principle that I gave you today. So that will be a good way to exercise that and kind of get familiar with it. Cut your teeth on this approach Alrighty. You can do it. It's not hard. Just take time. Okay. Parting questions? Went kind of fast, but had a lot of material No, alright. Okay, well let's pray.