Back to Hebrews as we are nearing the end of this marvelous book. After today's study, there's probably about six more to go, and then we'll figure out what we do after that But for now we hit a a third and final exhortation to the Hebrews, which bears relevance to us as well, but I'd like to kind of dip us back into the Hebrew mindset a little bit uh to understand what's being said here uh a little bit before we jump to our New Testament understanding because it's so much more enlightened and it's harder for us to envision what this really meant to the first century audience. Our passage is Hebrews 13, and we're going to be looking at two verses today, 13 and 14, where we read this. Let us go forth therefore unto him. without or outside the camp, bearing his reproach. For here have we no continuing city, but we seek one. to come. So to get you into the Hebrew mindset, I'm going to start with something that's more perhaps uh reachable by us, and that has to do with traditions. How would you, you know, just if you were to describe to your uh grandchild or to a uh first or second grader, how would you dis define a tradition, first of all? Anybody Simple explanation for tradition. What's a tradition? Something observed. uh over a period of time, years, maybe handed down by the uh parents and great grandparents Something we just do year in, year out, it's just something we always do. And it's uh it's something we observe And now thinking now about secular traditions, right, I I kind of want to keep us out of the religious viewpoint, because Israel was a theocracy. Both the secular life and the spiritual life were wrapped into one. They had no concept of secular life. But we do, so I want to keep us on the secular side for a moment. So think about secular traditions, okay? There are some. Does your family, your country have any traditions? And if so, what are they So when my oldest was two years old, we started a tradition of painting Christmas cookies. And we would make cookies in bizarre shapes and make ice from paint and we would all gather around for an entire afternoon and just talk and laugh and drink cookies. And this year we did it for the first So it's kind of now passing on to the next generation. It's just fun. And what was the event that triggered that? That would be the Christmas. Christmas time. Always made like dozens and dozens and dozens of bookies So we decided just to update you and make it a little more unique. Yeah, that's a nice one. That's a real nice one. Obviously the point of that is to bring family together and just to enjoy the time and uh And there's but there's still something to do as you go along. That's nice. That's a nice one. Other traditions maybe of the country or in your family that are present. Joey, you look like you have no traditions in life whatsoever. None. Well the country certainly has some and you're a bit of a historian, so what are some uh US traditions that we have? July 4th. Uh Memorial Day, Presidents Day? Right. Yeah, we actually memorialized them as a holiday and we're we've been doing that now. Well this year will be the 250th uh celebration. So Fourth of July where we shoot off fireworks and that was the fun part for me as a kid. Go buy a bunch of bottle rockets and shoot them off. They made those things illegal and they were so fun. Yeah, it's a shame. What are the benefits of a tradition? What are the pitfalls? Protection. Protection? Okay, uh that's interesting. Uh uh amplify that some. Uh well that's the difference here in our country for example uh in Lebanon uh uh the girl doesn't go out with a boy unless they're engaged Once they are engaged in the uh very nice. Yeah that's a really good tradition where the uh young woman is not seen uh with the man, she has to have someone with her, so it's a chaperoning, and she's just not to be with the man. I think that's true in the Mexican tradition as well. uh they say that uh after after they agree then they had the engagement party And then everybody knows that when they see each together they are engaged. Yeah. So there okay, there's an expectation of chastity during the uh uh you know Courton period. So that's a very good tradition, right? There's a lot of benefit to that for sure. What are some of the pitfalls of traditions? What are some of the downsides? They become habits that lose the purpose that they started with. Like like Memorial Day used to really be a memorial to the fallen. Now it's just a picnic Yeah, yeah, we can forget the reason why we're doing it and we just keep doing it because we've always done it this way. That's one of the signs to a corporate leader that you're dealing with a closed mind when you come up with an idea or a premise for a change and the pushback is, well, we've always done it this way Got it. You've got a closed mine. I'm not going to point it out to you. Well, I figured I'd open that mine later. Yeah, they just they've always done it. They've forgotten why. What keeps people in traditions I don't think you're bringing your family at gunpoint to this cookie making you that. No, it's fun. It's fun. Yeah, it's fun. It's fun. What else keeps people and traditions Oh just is it like a family one? You gotta health uh family family bonders. Yeah, just the rebonding, just you you don't want to be seen as an outcast in the family. You want to stay connected somewhat, so there's certain benefits, uh but Uh the pitfalls is that you why are we doing this? You know, why are we why are we still doing this thing? Here's a bonus question Alright, now this is a trick one. Well, it's not trick, but it's just different. So I'm talking about formally Christian traditions now, all right? A formally Christian tradition that has since become blatantly secularized. Can anybody name one or two or three? Easter has been blatantly secularized. Okay? Um in what sense? What's the secular aspect of it? used to be actually celebrations of the Christian Christ. Now it's all bunnies and eggs and chocolates and Okay, okay, yeah. You see a lot of bunnies and eggs and chocolates, all right. What's the other that has been blatantly secularized? Christmas, alright. Yeah, how has that been secularized? It's about five years. I mean people go overboard Find present for Santa Claus. That's the only one. There's no those things. We talk about Santa Claus. He just crushed Joe's heart. I'm you know, brother, truth comes here sometimes and just really hurts. Plug up the boys' ears. I was a lady when I found out there was no such thing as Santa Claus. I don't know why I had a perverse sense of joy in that. I love the Rockwell picture where the kid finds the Santa suit in the drawer You know, the ones that I thought had become blatantly secularized, and certainly Christmas and Easter have, yet you still see remnants of Christ in it. the campaigns for keeping Christ in Christmas or Easter that He has risen. Even at the Dollar Store you'll see that. But we have one coming up this week that we as Christians don't even think about advertise having our calendar whatsoever. It's St. Patrick's Day. Now, St. Patrick was the fellow that Christianized Ireland. He was a tremendously successful missionary. He baptized hundreds. There were 300 churches started on the island of Ireland as a result of his evangelical zeal. He had been a slave and he came to the island uh after his conversion and wanted to bear the cross of Christ. The druid priests there were doing all kinds of wicked things. Did you even remember any of that history? Right. It has become so overrun with secularism we forgot why it was even celebrated. Now it's just a bunch of green drunk Irish people, which has nothing to do with where it came from All Hallows Eve on October 31st. This was the uh Christian celebration for the uh the saints who have laid down their life and blood for the sake of the Lord. And now it's become about ghouls and ghosts and spirits. And it totally erased any memory that this was a Christian holiday. Totally gone. Just shot. We've absolutely forgotten why it's even there. And that kind of gets to my point here, which is there are pitfalls to tradition. And you can, as Pastor aptly put it, you can totally forget. They're good if you observe them rightly. You know, the Lord would have his people set up memorials to remember. You know, hitherto has the Lord helped us. But there are times when The tradition doesn't help, and it's of no benefit. It's of no value. So in our passage in Hebrews 13, there's a gentle encouragement to the Hebrews in verse 13 to leave Judaism. And this is not the first time it's been encouraged. Um they're told to leave Judaism, which is a hard sell for a bunch of Jews, and to follow Jesus You know, these it's been threatened before. If you look back over a page to Hebrews 12, 25, you read there, see that you refuse not him that speaketh For if they escape not who refused him that spake on earth, how much more shall not we escape if we turn away from him that speaks from heaven? And verse 29, our gods are consuming fire. That's a pretty hefty threat. That says, you know, turn or burn pretty much is the exhortation there. But here it's a much more gentler one. He's ending it very gently. Let us go forth, therefore, unto him, without the camp, bearing his reproach. Now, the Hebrews have heard this language before about leaving. Uh it's in the prophets. The prophet uh you don't have to turn there, it's Micah 2. 7, where a prophet is speaking to the house of Jacob, and he says, Arise ye and depart, for this is not your rest, because it's polluted It shall destroy you even with a sword of destruction. He says, get out of this place. It's absolutely polluted. It's going to be your end Now, this business about going forth outside the camp unto him, this isn't a day trip. This isn't the idea that Pharaoh had. Well, you can go out in the wilderness for a little while, and you've got to come back. No, no, this is a permanent departure. Going forth unto him implies something very important. It says Messiah is not in the camp. He's not in the camp, and the camp would be referring to Jerusalem, to Judaism. You look at John chapter 4 and turn there for a moment, if you will, John 4, verse 20. Jesus spoke to this point in John chapter 4 and verse 20. We read here in this section of scriptures, he's having a dialogue with the infamous woman at the well. She's a Samaritan. Samaritans were half-breed. This is the northern part, the northern ten tribes, where the Assyrians had intermixed and uh to make sure there wasn't a pure race. And the woman is having some questions about Jesus, and she says this to him, our fathers worshiped in this mountain. All right, so here's the tradition. And ye say that in Jerusalem is the place where men ought to worship. So in her mind there's a clash of traditions. Her father said Gerga said Samaria, you say Jerusalem. And then Jesus answers her saith unto her, Woman, believe me, the hour cometh when ye shall neither in this mountain, not in Samaria, nor yet at Jerusalem, worship the Father He says you're you're worried about some mountain. Which mountain is right? I'm telling you neither one is right. He says, you worship you know not what. We know what we worship for salvations of the Jews, but the hour cometh and now is when the true worshipers. Notice this distinction there. The true worshipers shall worship the Father in spirit and in truth. For the Father seeketh such to worship him. God's a spirit, and they that worship him must worship him in spirit and in truth. He just dropped a load of truth on her that, frankly, I'm not sure her ears were prepared to receive. But it's recorded to us in Holy Writ for us to receive and to consider. And certainly it did have an impact on her. You know what happens if people worship God incorrectly? The wrong place, the wrong manner. What what's God's response typically? Any ideas Well we didn't saw in the uh account of Exodus the spring of strange fire before the Lord. There were uh spins instantly for that. Anton's referencing the account of uh Levi's two sons, I think it was Hoffney and Phineas, who decided to offer strange fire to the Lord. If I have the names wrong, somebody correct me, but they concocted a different Formula than what God had, tried to offer it, and God immediately killed them. Israel always fell into problems when they messed up worship consistently. They would go to some high place. They would go to every green tree. There's some beautiful trees which have very you know you you can trim them so they have a really tall canopy that reaches out and there's a lot of shade and there's a lot of they can be a beautiful little park-like setting. This is a good place to worship God. He said, no, I want you over here because this is where I place my name. Imagine that the m the McKnight household's cookie painting exercise. They decide to paint cookies over by the CNO Canal where a hundred million gallons of sewage is spewing out and we'll paint our cookies there. And what a lovely place to go. No, why are you over there? Let's come to grandma's house and do it there. If you're in the wrong place, you begin to scratch your head. Have you forgotten something? Don't you know what the point is? Is it hard for people to leave an established tradition? Why or why not? What do you think, Joey? Look at the Catholic Church. They're so drowned in tradition they become pagan. Yeah, that's a good example of it. Yeah, it's very hard for people to leave a tradition. Traditions can have the effect of keeping people in a good path, whether they know why it's in that path or not, but it's a benefit to them to know when that path is actually strayed away from the original intention And so that can be a difficult thing. So these are the initial observations. It talks about going outside the camp and bearing his reproach, speaking of Jesus. Obviously, the first century Christian audience would have no difficulty understanding what type of reproach Jesus bore. He certainly bore a lot of it. You know, we read in the cross in Matthew 27, I'll read this account because boy, this was a great example of it. It says Matthew 27, 39, they that passed by reviled him, wagging their heads and saying, Thou that destroyest the temple, and buildest it in three days, and save thyself. If thou be the Son of God, come down from the cross. What a taunt. Was he the Son of God? You better believe it. Could he come down from the cross? That's an interesting theological question. We don't doubt he had the physical power, the ability to do so But would he dare stray from the Father's will? That's an interesting question. I think the answer would be no. He couldn't save himself Likewise also the chief priest mocking him with the scribes and elders said, He saved others himself he cannot save. If he be the king of Israel, let him now come down from the cross, and we will believe him Right. They wouldn't believe him if he did that. He trusted in God. Let him deliver him now if he will have him, for he said, I am the Son of God. What's amazing is these chief priests are literally quoting Psalm twenty-two Whether they knew it or not, but they're absolutely fulfilling what David under inspiration said they would say. And they literally said it And then it says, just to add insult to injury, as if the religious world mocking him wasn't bad enough, it says the thieves also which were crucified with him cast the same in his teeth. Anybody that was somebody was thumbs down on Jesus when he was around. Unless you were healed by him, unless he had done some great wonder to you, unless he had changed your heart and you knew, yes, this is the Son of God, the Messiah, the one to come. I'm going to read some verses here. I need some volunteer readers. I need somebody to look at Matthew 5, 10, and 11. And I need somebody to read Matthew 10, 25, and somebody Matthew 16. So who would like to cover Matthew 5, 10, and 11? Graham. Rick, okay. And who's going to cover Matthew 10 25 and 26? Alright, Jeff, thanks. And Anton, I'm going to voluntole you for Matthew 16, 24 to 26. Alright, so as you hear these verses read, describe to me. Reader gets first cut, and then others if they're a little if they have uh some extra insight. What is the reproach of Christ as you read these verses? So uh Matthew 5, 10 and 11. Rick. Blessed are they which are persecuted for righteousness' sake. For theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Blessed are ye when men shall revile you and persecute you and shall say all manner of evil against you falsely for my sake. Yeah, so what's the reproach of Christ in in these verses here? You're blessed for this reason because they hated me. If they hated me, they'll hate you. Yeah, if they hated me, they'll hate you. Okay. Uh Uh uh what what else comes to mind there? You're not wrong. Uh I want to kind of just dig through a a first grade level here. I'm trying to keep the gear in first gear right now What happens if you're right in this verse? You're actually right. What happens? Anybody? False witnesses against you. You know the false witness against you. Yeah. You're persecuted for righteousness sake. You're doing that which is right. But you get beat up for it. Imagine doing a good job, an attable way at work, you're expecting a reward, instead you get a pink slip. Why? I I did something right. Oh, because you're a Christian. You're an infidel. We don't particularly care to have your likes around here Oh yeah, well that's that's gonna be true regardless. Uh you get punished with more work. Uh But yeah, there is if they've treated the master that way. In fact, that's one of the verses coming up next, is Matthew 10, 25, so you're prescient in that. That's our next verse. Matthew 10, 25 and 26. Jeff, I think you had that. Yes. 25. It is enough for the disciple that he be as his master and the servant as his Lord If they have called the master of the house the elderbow, how much more shall they call them of this household? Fear them not, therefore, for there is nothing covered that shall not be revealed, and hid that shall not be known. Alright, so what's the reproach of Christ here? Give you a hint, it's connected to that phrase Beelzebub. They if they've called the master of the house Beelzebub, they're gonna Well what's first what's Bael's above the reference to? Is it a good one or a bad one? It's a bad one, that's for sure. uh a reference to the devil himself. So what are they what what's the reproach that one would be bearing here? What's the bad name they're bearing here? Satan. Yeah. They're being called Satan. Are Christians actually acting satanically? No, that you know we view Satan as the height of immorality. They're going to be judging and assessing that good thing you do and say, well, that's about as satanic as it gets You're not inclusive enough. You're not diverse enough. You're so narrow-minded not realizing they themselves are hypocritical mockers because their narrowness of mind is extreme. They accept everything but the truth of the gospel The early church baptized their babies and celebrated the Lord's Supper. And the pagans accused them of sacrificing their babies and eating them. And it's interesting, that's true. And they were also called atheists because they didn't worship all the Roman gods. How times have changed. Now atheism is a good thing. Yeah, you're called satanic. That's bearing the reproach of Christ when your life, your demeanor, your principles, the things you stand for, the things you won't do, many a time just by saying, No, I won't do that Can label you, well, you must you're acting like a Christian. Surely you're not one of them. And so you get this tag, this tag, this label of immorality. Alright, let's look at Matthew 16, 24 Is it just the one verse? Twenty-four through twenty, the first part of twenty-six. Okay. Um then said Jesus unto his disciples If any man will come after me, let him deny himself, and take up his cross, and follow me. For whosoever will save his life shall lose it, and whosoever will lose his life for my sake shall find it. For what is a man profited if he shall gain the whole world and lose his own soul? This has to do with taking up your cross and bearing a reproach. This is kind of the reverse question. What is the sense here of saving your life? What does it mean to save your life in this sense? Preserve it. Okay. Yeah. Uh I like that. Let's keep keep spiraling that out, come keep unwrapping that. Give me some more synonyms. Give me some more ideas about what does it mean to save your life Not being willing to speak up for Christ. Uh okay, you put a knot in front of there because you're going to what the point was. So if I remove the knot, saving a life would be to to to to uh oh uh Uh uh may maybe uh uh yeah, you're right. To save it would be to deny Christ, but what is it that you're saving? What Marissa? Yeah, you're trying to avoid persecution or trials. Here life in the sense isn't the ultimate, I'll take a bullet for you, honey. And it's not that. It's You know, I have a reputation. I have a um a business to run. I I have customers and clients. I that's kind of your life, how you operate And being a Christian can impact that. And it may make some clients, it may make some potential friends, it may make some potential suitors. Not be too interested in you. And the temptation comes. Yeah, no, I don't believe that. I sadly fell prey to that as a young unbeliever. In a religious tradition, going to a church, because we always did a Tuesday night uh Bible youth fellowship event at the church across the street. But I had a good friend named Paul He was nothing like the Apostle Paul. He was a worldling. We were doing what kids did in the 70s, walking around a mall. uh and just you know exploring different stores and they had this one shop that sold a lot of black light things black light posters and other devilish accoutrement and I at least sensed enough as a young fellow to say, no, I really don't want to go in there. I don't think that's you know I I might have even said God honoring, I don't know. I I'm not sure that phrase would have been in my mouth, but I tied my reason to not going into the store in my justification to my friend, my very good friend, that I didn't want to go there. And he turned with a sharp rebuke, so you don't believe that stuff, do you? I was like, oh, okay. And went with him in the store. I had no conviction. There was no route whatsoever. Yeah, save your life. Yeah, I could have said, see a palp, go over there. But that's not, you know, that's not bearing his reproach reproach. Did people in the Old Testament bear Jesus Christ's reproach? Notice that said Jesus Christ. Did people in the Old Testament? Well, yes, indeed, they did. In fact, if you look at Hebrews 11, we had read uh some time before in verse 24 speaking about Moses. It says Moses, Hebrews 11, verse 24, says Moses, verse 26 says, he esteemed the reproach of Christ greater riches than the treasures of Egypt. It cost Moses everything. It cost him his job, his reputation, his home his family, he had to absolutely depart. But he would not save his life, his Egyptian life, his life privileges in this world at that time when they didn't know he was a Christian. But when they found out that he was a devout Hebrew interested in the redemption and the re uh and the restoration of God's people. He was an outcast. He was not accepted. Abraham was the same way. Well then in verse 14, and I've only got a very I've left myself very few minutes here, so I'm gonna kind of jump it into third gear And move ahead quickly. But this is nothing new. You've if you've listened to me for any length of time, you know where I stand on this issue. It's not a mystery. I've still remained astounded that people look at Hebrews 13, 14 where it says, For here we have no continuing city, but we seek one to come. And people say, you see, a new temple is going to be built in Jerusalem, and they're going to sacrifice the red heifer. And there's really another building and a restoration of the Jews coming to Palestine. That is an absolutely alien thought to everything you've been reading so far in the book of Hebrews. Completely alien He's actually adding a subtle point to it to say, look, we don't have a continuing city here. There's no continuing city, meaning Jerusalem will not continue. It will cease. It will Peter out and disappear and actually it would be destroyed by the Romans not much later from when this was written. You know Turn now to Hebrews 12, 22 to 24, and I'm going to close out in that section of Scripture because if you haven't heard the study on that, I'm going to give you a second take. I didn't refer to that. I don't know if I covered all these points. But in Hebrews 12, 22 to 24, it says, ye are come unto Mount Zion. unto the city of the living God, the heavenly Jerusalem, to an innumerable company of angels, to the General Assembly and Church of the Firstborn Which are written in heaven, and God the judge of all, and to the spirits of just men made perfect, and to Jesus, the mediator of the new covenant And to the blood of sprinkling that speaketh better things than that of Abel. Just bear with me as we examine every phrase and just see which city matches. Are we talking about a A physical Jerusalem? Are we talking about a heavenly Jerusalem? Alright, let's see if we can kind of just break this down. Stupid simple. City of the living God. Alright. Well one thing that happened is Jesus departed from earthly Jerusalem. And on his way out, his last final set of warnings, he said in Matthew 22, 38, Behold. Your house, speaking of Jerusalem, speaking of Judah, speaking of Israel and its entity, particularly in Jerusalem, your house is left unto you desolate. Now desolate means you're not going to have any continuation. You're not going to have any spiritual progeny. Oh, you'll have kids. But Christ won't be there. So that's a strike against a physical one. Then it says a heavenly Jerusalem. Well, I don't know how you get around that. It's pretty obviously the heavenly Jerusalem. The Apostle Paul is even more clear on this point as if Just by adding the adjective in front of Jerusalem wasn't enough. He said in Galatians 4. 25, this agar is Mount Sinai in Arabia. And answereth to Jerusalem, which now is and is in bondage with her children, but Jerusalem which is above is free, which is the mother of us all. So the Apostle Paul makes it pretty clear that he's got two Two Jerusalem's in view. And then it says in Hebrews about an innumerable company of angels, a number of angels in this city that are so many, you can't even count them. Now what about earthly Jerusalem? Well, there was an angel that actually hung out at earthly Jerusalem. It was at a pool. And people would go once a season to get healed, and the angel would go down the water and stir up the pool, and this was the impotent man who couldn't get down there in time because he stirred it up and you know he lost his chance But lo and behold, that's in John 5. 4 if you're interested in reading the account. But in Revelation 5. 11, the Apostle John, under inspiration, is in the Spirit in the Lord's day. And he says, I beheld, and I heard the voice of many angels round about the throne, and the beasts and the elders, and the number of them, speaking of angels, was 10,000 times 10,000 and thousands of thousands. Some of you maybe have been to stadiums, concerts. sporting events and you're trying to tell your friends how many people were there and there's so many you can't count every head. You're just estimating. Well the stadium holds 60,000 people and it was mostly full. This is 10,000 times 10,000. This is almost as much money as Anton makes a year. This is a lot of stuff. This is a lot of angels here. No, he doesn't make that much money, so they'll go hit him up for a loan. It's an innumerable company. It's just an innumerable company. And then it says you're come to the General Assembly and Church of the Firstborn. Notice this. They're all firstborn. Every single one here are firstborns. That can't be said in physical earthly Jerusalem. And it says that It's it's it's a it's a church. It's the elect church, not Jews, but those who are born of God. There's a big difference This is what Nicodemus should have understand, that except a man be born again, he can't enter the kingdom of heaven. God doesn't have grandchildren. He only has firstborn. They're written in heaven. Now, earthly Jerusalem did have a list. They had a list of people who were eligible, but eligible to be Levites. They had that so that they would know who would be on the government take, because it was a family tradition to be employed in that service of the Lord and his sacrifices. But this is not this is not that lineage. This is something that are called whose names are in the book of life This is a different list. If you're a child of God, your name is in a book. And that's the only book God consults at Judgment Day. There's their book of works, and there's this book of life. And it's a simple gate check. Are you in this book? It's that simple. It's a glorious, glorious book. To God the judge of all. And I don't want to get too dismissive though, because God did for a season dwell at Jerusalem He would meet with them there. You read about that in Isaiah 37, 15. In fact, you might want to turn there because this is an interesting one between Isaiah 37 and Acts 7. We're going to compare those two for a moment So yes, while Jerusalem of old was in that pre-covenantal dispens uh dispensation, that season of time. We read in Isaiah 37, 15, where Hezekiah, yes, this young fellow, yeah, he prays unto the Lord, saying, O Lord of hosts, God of Israel, that dwellest between the cherubims This is a reference to the two carved angels over the mercy seat in the Holy of Holies. Thou art the God, even thou alone of all the kingdoms of the earth, thou madeest heaven and earth. So we read from this That Jehovah God was there, and he is the one who created heaven and earth. It's that God we're talking about, that creator God, not this fake God, the idols of the people. But now go to Acts 7. Acts 7 verse 47. In Stephen's testimony, marvelous deacon, you know, deacons don't have to be theological sluggards. They need to be sharp. This brother Nigh into being stoned, facing an angry audience, gave an exceptionally accurate recitation of Israel's history. He gets to the part about David and Solomon and the building of the temple, and we read this in Acts 7. 47 Stephen reports this, Solomon built him that is God in house, howbeit, the Most High dwelleth not in temples made with hands. As saith the prophet, heaven is my throne, earth is my footstool. What house will you build me? What is the place of my rest? Here's the connection. Hath not my hand made all these things? God says, I'm the creator. And that was what you read about in the in Isaiah. So number one, we're talking about the same God, creator God. Number two, Stephen under inspiration, says God doesn't dwell in temples made with men's hand. He isn't eating dead. Pastor Mahan one time spoke about the Lord of glory. He inhabits all of eternity. And he would turn up to a Baptist church and says, but you put him in a picture frame. How can you constrain the God of eternity into a frame? That's ridiculous. We don't have a picture of Jesus up here, but you understand what I'm talking about. And to the spirits of just men made perfect. True believers are in their spirit now justified by faith. That which is born of the Spirit is Spirit. And the apostle said, are you so foolish? Having begun in the Spirit, are you now made perfect in the flesh? Well that's all old Jerusalem, physical Jerusalem, could offer was things after the flesh. They could do nothing pertaining to the conscience. And the point is this, is that this continuing city we seek is the same one Abraham sought. after. The very same one. Hebrews 11. 8, by faith Abraham, verse 9, sojourned in the land of promises in a strange country Dwelling in tabernacles with Isaac and with Jacob, the heirs with him of the same promise. For he looked for a city which hath foundations Real foundations, deep and true foundations, immovable, eternal foundations, whose builder and maker is God. That's the city we're going to And that's the city where Jesus is. So the whole point that he's making to the Hebrews is this. Yeah, that tradition you kept is empty in vain because Jesus isn't in it anymore. The whole reason for that is because he's moved over here. A lot of traditions we keep would be useless if the point were not still there. We don't imagine trying to celebrate a 4th of July, and there is no America. The memory is lost like the memory of the Assyrian Empire back in 600 BC. It's gone. I'm sure the Assyrian Empire had some wonderful holidays. We don't celebrate them. Why? Because there's nothing to celebrate. It's gone. So the whole point of the tradition that the Hebrews had which is Jesus and worship of him is gutted if the Jesus of that tradition is removed. And that's a very good reason to leave a tradition when that purpose is absolutely gone. And thus the exhortation Let us go thereforth unto him. He's without the camp. He has left this behind. And the Hebrew might think, well Is this a sect? No, this is the same one that Moses sought. This is the same one that Abraham sought. This is the same maker of heaven and earth. He's actually moved. This is a hard right turn to the Hebrews They had a good tradition. It was a tradition given to them by God on tablets of stone, commanded to prophets. It's hard to leave it when it's got some very good and valid sources, but When the aim of the tradition has been removed, you've got to go follow the substance of it, not the picture, not the sign. So leaving a tradition is hard, leaving a religious tradition is harder still, like Joey pointed out in Roman Catholicism. Leaving a divinely appointed Jehovah-based tradition is impossible unless you have the Spirit of Christ in you through the new birth. And then you'll see it. Then you'll go, oh, I get it Are we reproached by Jews and Zion Christians alike because we don't embrace the present-day earthly Jerusalem? That's another way to get persecuted as well. There's certain politicians that make a big deal about that. We have to support Israel. Well, I like Pastor Joe's point that I really wouldn't call them Israel That that was the name given to them by the UN in nineteen forty-eight, but the UN, if they had been a little bit theologically mighty, would have called them Samaria, because they're half-priests. They have no proof of any pure bloodline Jewishness in them, but I take it aside there. Well that's our consideration for today about traditions. When the Christ has left it, you've got to follow him. You gotta follow him. And that's hard. That's hard for people. Very good. Anton, could you close us in prayer? Well it's no excuse. You gave him permission to leave. Gracious Father, you are good and kind. And Father, we thank you that you have delivered us from the people. You've delivered us from the traditions of this world. Lord, you have given us a new view on everything And said, Father, we have not f followed cunningly devised fables, because many of the traditions that men follow today are nothing more than cunningly devised fables. But Father, we we are indeed of the Church of the Firstborn, Church of the Living God. And Lord, we thank you that um as as our brothers said, you know, those that save their life will lose it. This it's not about uh storing up treasures here, but about treasures in heaven. It's not about our pleasure here, but rather the pleasure of the God who has saved us. So Father, we thank you for these things. Lord uh may they find deep root within our hearts and souls. They praise this in Jesus' name. Amen.