Second Samuel seventeen. Verses one through fourteen of Second Samuel seventeen Refresh your memory, David has fled Jerusalem. He's hiding out up in the mountains across the Jordan River. And we pick up where his son Absalom isn't through with his father yet. And we read in verse 1 and 2 fourteen. Moreover, Ahithophel said unto Absalom, Let me now choose out twelve thousand men, and I will arise and pursue after David this night. Won't even wait till daybreak. And I will come upon him while he is weary and weak handed, has two troops of support with him. And I will make him afraid, and all the people who are with him shall flee And I will smite the king only. And I will bring back all the people unto thee The man whom thou seekest is as if all returned, or he'll be he's as good as dead, and the people are as good as returned unto you. And so all the people shall be in peace. Verse 4. And the saying, what saying? Well, I'm going to kill your father. That's the saying. And the saying pleased Absalon well. And all the elders of Israel. And then said Absalom, call now Hushai the Architect also. And let us hear likewise what he saith. And when Hushai was come to Absalom, Absalom spake unto him, saying, Ahithophel has spoken his saying If not, speak thou, I'm missing something, hath spoken after this manner. Shall we do after his saying? If not, speak thou And Husai said unto Absalom, The counsel that Ahithevel hath given is not good at this time, implying that his usually his advice is very good all the time. For said Hushai, verse 8, Thou knowest thy father and his men, that they be mighty men, and they be shaped in their minds, as a bear robbed of her whelps or her cubs in the field. And thy father is a man of war, and he will not lodge with the people. Behold, he is hid now in some pit. Or cave, or in some other place, and it will come to pass when some of them be overthrown at the first, that whoever heareth it will say There's a slaughter among the people that followed Absalom. He's saying, you know, you go up there now, your father's he's hidden somewhere. He'll spring out all of a sudden upon you, and he'll route your first troops, your leading troops And then it will say, There's a slaughter among your people, Absalom. So verse ten. And he is also that is valent, whose heart is as the heart of a lion shall utterly melt. He said, He said, Absalom, you got some valent men. You got men with the hearts of lions. But their hearts will utterly melt, for all Israel knoweth that thy father is a mighty man, and they which be with him are valiant men. Therefore, I counsel that all Israel be generally gathered unto thee, from Dan, that's all the way up in the north, even to Bathsheba, all the way in the south. As the sand that is by the sea for a multitude, and that thou go to battle in thine own person. He says, Gather them all up from all the twelve tribes, and then go up after your father David And so you shall come upon him in some place where he shall be found, and you'll light upon him as the dew falleth on the ground, and of him and of all the men that are with him, there shall not be left so much as one. Moreover, if he begotten into the city, if he escapes into some city, then shall all Israel bring ropes to that city, and we shall draw it into the river. You'll drag the city itself into the river. until there be not one small stone found there. And Absalon and all the men of Israel said, The counsel of Hushai the Architect is better than the counsel of Ahithophel For the Lord had appointed to defeat the good consul of Ahithophel to the intent that the Lord might bring evil upon Absalom. Not unlike Absalom here and the elders of Israel, we are often confronted by conflicting information that we're being fed. We need to pray that we be led of the Lord when we make our decisions because there's so much information out there. They talk about the internet being the information highway. We're being fed so much And there are decisions to be made and we need to make them as we are led of the Lord. And some of that information we get out there It's familiar with you, but I'll just run it by you again. You'll hear people say, Hath God said? And others, thus saith the Lord. Decision to make, isn't there? When we look at this, look at the Holy Scriptures. Hath God said, or thus saith the Lord. It's a decision to make for all of us, isn't it? We might also hear Darwin and what he's teaching. And then there's what the deity In the heavens, God, the Lord Jesus Christ, the word has also written, contrary to Darwin. And then there's those who teach that we can attain heaven by our works or by our good works. And then we have the Word of God that says we attain heaven by the substitutionary work. of Christ shedding his blood on the cross. Lots of choices out there to make. Every choice has a consequence as well. So we really need to pray that we're led to the Lord when we make these choices. And we find here there's a choice that's about to be made, beginning at verse 1, when Ahithophil came. And he had information to give to Absalom. And Ahitavil said, Let us let me pursue David this night Don't wait till morning. Let's go this night. There isn't a moment to lose. Let's hit David before he can fortify his position Let's hit David before he can rest up and he's weary. Let's hit David before he can gather more troops around him or dig in, as it were. Ahithophel had been David's counselor. He had counseled David in the strategy of war. He had counseled uh counsel david in in the logistics of how to gather and set supplies out in a battlefield. Ahithevel, he knew how to eliminate a king of other nations, and he had done it with David's help He knew how to eliminate the anointed king. And David was the only anointed king to this time. He was the anointed king. Of Israel. He knew how to eliminate the anointed king from society. And Ohithel knew how to do that. And the way to do it was to pursue, pursue him this night. Pursue, pursue, pursue. Don't let up Ahithophel was so convinced that his plan would work, he was willing to go himself. He said that Ahithophel said, Let me pursue David this night. He knew that his plan would work. He'd seen it work against the Philistines And the Amalekites and the Moabites, he knew how to get rid of a king. And it wasn't any different to get rid of the anointed king of Israel. Let me go this night. So confident was Ahithabel he could find David in the night when King Saul with all his army couldn't find David day or night for years. But how how convinced the Hippophae was, he perhaps knew many of the hiding places of David. I will come upon him and I will smite the king. Wow. I will smite the anointed king. History is full of those who are just not content to rule. Absalom is now ruling. David has abdicated the throne. David has led Absalom is now ruling over Israel. He's got the armies of Israel. He's in the driver's seat. He's ruling. What more could he have? But we find that rulers all throughout the history are not content unless they can eradicate, as here Abzon wants to eradicate the influence. Of the king of the Jews, the anointed king. It wasn't enough to be ruling, but King David must be gone. The anointed king of the Jews must be eradicated. And all through history we find the same thing going on. Even up till today. There are people who rule in all they rule in China, they rule in Russia, they rule all about the world, and they're not content with this ruling. They want to eradicate the anointed king of the Jews, the Lord Jesus Christ. And they have in those governments pretty much eradicated Christ. These rulers are never satisfied just to rule. We find it going on in other countries, in England and America today, that the rulers are not satisfied just to rule, but they must eradicate the king of the Jews. from the courts, from the classroom, and from the country's conscience. Have they made any inroads on your conscience this morning, Pill Have they removed the King of the Jews from your conscience? They think it's going to solve the world's problems if we can just get rid of the words and the remembrance of the The King of Israel, the King of the Jews, the Lord Jesus Christ. And I first would ask you this morning, pilgrims, do you still have a Christ-centered conscience? Because they want to get rid of that. They want to get rid of they want that our conscience shears of the hot iron. And so we have Ahithophel here, and he says, Let me pursue him, let me pursue him, and I will smite the king. And in verses three and four, the saying. I want to smite. I want to kill. I want to shed the blood of the anointed King David. Anointed of Samuel. Anointed of God. I want to kill. I want to shed the blood. of the anointed king of Israel. And it says that the saying pleased Absalom. It pleased his son that his father would soon be bleeding out and dying. Wow. And you thought you had problems with your kids. Hmm. It not only says that it pleased Absalom, but that verses 3 and 4, it said it pleased Absalom. And all the elders of Israel. The elders of Israel. This would incorporate some of the scribes and perhaps some of the uh the priests Not many the priests from what we read earlier, but this is d unbelievable that all the elders of Israel were pleased that they would kill the anointed king. They've lost their conscience sake. They've lost their consciousness. In fact, they are lost, lost, lost. That's what it is really saying to us here. Not one of the elders turned to Absalom and said, kill the anointed king. Kill David. Kill the old king? He's fled, he's gone, he's abdicated. Why kill him? And he's gone. We'll never hear from him again. He's got a small little following, but we don't need to kill him I mean, why not one servant said, why would he want to kill the man? Why would you want to kill the old man, the old king? I mean We owe him something. He he defeated the Philistines many a time for us. He killed Goliath. I mean, we ought to be appreciative of some of the things he's done. And he wrote He wrote so many of the psalms. Why do we want to kill the old anointed king? All that he's done for us And he's a man after God's own heart. Isn't it enough that we've driven him out? But not one of them raises an objection, not one of the elders, all the elders agree. All the elders were pleased with the fact shed the blood of the anointed king. Isn't it amazing? with the votes that take place in Parliament overseas and other countries in our own Congress and our Senate, the large numbers Of our elders in the different countries around the world who are pleased to eradicate the thoughts of what the anointed king of Israel would have us to do. Open attacks against Christ, the King of the Jews, are so commonplace today. As I said in 1 Timothy 4. 2, the conscience of a large segment of society is seared with a hot iron. See, when you sear something with a hot iron, it becomes it's it's more than just callous, it becomes rough and coarse and it scars up and and boy you'll scar is thicker and stronger than the what was there before and hard to get through so when you have a heart Seared like with a hot iron. It's hard to get through that heart. The conscience is gone. Outside the heart is seared. And these people have the seared heart. That's only the beginning of their searing when they die They'll find themselves in an eternal place of torment called hell, the lake of fire. And their souls and themselves will be seared like a steak in a frying pan is seared. Those of a seared heart. However, after Hithophel's advice, which everyone seemed pleased with What kind of surprise is he in verse 5 that Absalom being pleased with a Hisophel's suggestion? Pursue, pursue, pursue, and for all the elders to also be pleased with, and they're all supportive of Ahithophel, and they're supportive of Absalon. They all it's like one happy party. They're all they're all together on this thing. And And surprisingly, amazingly, astoundingly, Absalom calls for Hushai. He says, let me hear what he has to say. Why? You've got the consensus of all the elders. You've got a Hippophilia You're all pleased. Why go for a second opinion even? Because Ahithophel pleased Absalom. Why would he do that? And Hustrai's reputation for wisdom, it was not equal to Ahithophel's. So why bother? And not only that, but Hushai had not given a whole lot of proof of his absolute loyalty to Absalom. So why? Why even ask him? Well I'll I'll tell you why Absalon asked him. And you'll see it later on in Scripture, so it won't just be my opinions. It may seem right now, but Absalom was led of the Lord to ask for Hushai's opinion. You see, you can be led of the Lord whether you're saved or not. Those people that end up in hell, they're led of the Lord to hell. And those that are not in heaven, they're led of the Lord to heaven. We're all being led of the Lord. It's just a matter of where is the Lord taking you? You hear lots of messages. And which message do you like the most? We'll tell you where the Lord is taking you. He's in control of you. Now before that turns you off and gets you upset, just wait for the rest of the message and I think you'll understand why I'm saying that. Absalom has led the Lord, and the Lord does it. The Lord behind the scenes of secret schemers, the Lord behind some nefarious nations' plans. The Lord behind the basest of men. He controls those who defy Christ's word or that would harm his sheep. God is in total control. God is sovereign God is either sovereign over everything or God is not sovereign anything. To prove how sovereign God is, how God leads us whether we're saved or not. You don't have to go back to the days of Moses and the Pharaoh at the Red Sea when the Red Sea parts and Moses and the people have talked about this many a time They're fleeing through the open parted Red Sea and Pharaoh's men come across this and they see the sea standing up on the left side and the right side, and the Pharaoh says, Oh, we see this every day No, he had to stop and say, what on earth are we looking at? What has Moses God performed here? This is this is bizarre. And dare we There we step in, we step inside and say, Collapse on us. What do we do? And Pharaoh, he hates so much that he and his men go charging through the Red Sea, and when they're about in the midst of the Red Sea I mean why would you go after a man whose God can part the Red Sea? Why would you do that? It doesn't make sense. It's irrational. But but he he he does this Because he's led of the Lord, isn't he? He's led of the Lord. His hatred is so great. God parts a Red Sea, sets a trap. It's not even an invisible trap. It's totally obvious. And the Pharaoh was led of God, as we read in Psalm, that God might drown him and his men, soldier and chariot, to the bottom. Of the sea. Pharaoh was led. There was a king named uh Ahaziah, and he was so mad at Elijah. That he he because Elijah said, You're gonna die. You've been seeking out information from other gods. You've got the God of Israel, but you want to know are you gonna recover from your health? You fell through the latest and And and now you've got maybe it was an infection or something. Am I going to die? And he he goes to one of the gods of the Philistines in Ekron. And then Elijah said, because you sought out the wrong God, you went the wrong direction, you got the wrong information He said you're gonna die. And King Ahaziah, he sends these fifty men to arrest Elijah and bring him back. And they come charging up the mount. And Elijah says, What are you seeking? And they tell him we want you. We've come here to arrest you. And he says Really? So if you don't think I'm of God, and if you think that the gods of the Philistines are are the gods you should be listening to, then I won't be able to call down fire and burn you guys to a Chris. And he calls down fire from heaven and fifty men are burned to a Chris And the word gets back to King of Zion. He says, send 50 more. And the 50 more men, they come to the mouth. And they're walking up and they're stepping over this burn crispy guy and this burn crispy guy and this burn crispy and they're going up and they say the same thing to Elijah I mean, what would make 50 guys walk up the hill over all the dead burned to the Christ guys? And Elijah said, if I'm not of God, I can't call down fire as I've just done. And they don't think. You know, let's back up a bit. You know, let's talk about this. No, they think they keep charging up. Why would they go up to all these crispy critters and think that Elijah can't do it a second time? Because they're led up the Lord. And if you read the story, you know the third group goes up and they're led the Lord to say, wait a minute, we've got 102 bodies here now, or 100 bodies here. Uh we would like to we we want to talk about this, Elijah, right? And they were led of the Lord to question what had happened. And to think that maybe Elijah was a man of God. But the first hundred and the last fifty, they're all led of the Lord. God's in charge of everything He's even in charge of the day in Jerusalem when Pilate says, Who would you have me to release to you? The Christ or Barabbas. And all the people shouted, What? Barabbas! Barabbas! Why? Because God would have it that his son would die on the cross and shed his blood for your sins. If the majority of the crowd had cried cried out, release the Christ, what would have happened? We still will be sitting here in our sins, not cleansed, not covered, not washed away, not redeemed. So why do the people shout out for Barabbas? Their letter the Lord to fulfill prophecy. It was prophesied that the Messiah would come and die. Daniel 9 and 26. Messiah shall be cut off. He will die. It was prophesied of God, and God leads the crowd. A crowd who, by the way, within that crowd, there had to have been, according to the scriptures some of those who had been healed by the Lord Jesus Christ. And if not healed by Christ, were their children or their spouse or their uncle or their neighbor. They knew people personally who had been raised from the dead or healed of leprosy, and still they cry out, give us Barabbas. Why? Because a sovereign God Is leading them to cry out for the blood of Christ. God led them to cry out for Barabbas. Led of the Lord. And Absalom was led of the Lord here too. God is behind the scenes leading us. Where is he leading you this morning? You know, when we were first born, we were all being led for hell. We were born as sinners, heading for hell. It doesn't have to stay that way. We can repent. We can call out to God. And if he said, Well, you can't call to God, you can't repent, you're dead and trespass on sins. A person dead and trespass on sins, they can't call out to God to save me and heal me. That's true. So what you did is say, God, I'm dead in trespassing sin. I can't call out to you. Quicken me, make me alive, so I really can in my heart call out to you. And I know you can't even do that unless God is led to send the Holy Spirit and quicken you first. But you're being led somewhere not that ought to upset you enough if you're on the wrong path this morning to want to Come to some Christians and say, what can I do? And I've had people say it to me, what can I do to be saved? And I say, just repent, ask God to forgive you. And more times than not they say, I can't do that. And I walk away and I say, he can't do that because he's not being led of the Lord to do that You can lead a horse to water, you can't make him drink. You can lead a person to the gospel, the truth, of repentance, and they can't unless God is leading them. We owe everything to God, our salvation. Our health, our prosperity, our hearing, our artistic abilities, our athletic abilities. There's nothing we have we don't owe to God. What do you have that's not come down from above? We read in Corinthians Everything we've got has come down from above. Our salvation came down from above. In the body of his only begotten Son, Jesus Christ. Everything we got. Absalom was led of the Lord. In fact, we read in Daniel 4 and 35 how much control God has in his world, in his universe. He doeth, God doeth according to his will in the army of heaven. That's among all the angels, all the hosts. And among the inhabitants of the earth, and none can stay his hand or say, What doest thou? Can the pot say to the potter, Why hast thou made me thus? Out of the same lump of clay, he made one vessel unto honor. And another on the dishonor. One vessel the potter makes for a beautiful bouquet of flowers. And out of the same clay, the other vessel the potter makes for a spittoon. Can the potter make what he wants out of the clay? And that's what Paul is asking in Romans, can God not make out of the clay what he desires, one vessel for honor? And he says, Such as the Pharaoh was made a vessel of dishonor, can not God do that with his own? He does. He certainly does. When we read the history of how the Lord controls things in some of the most unlikely places, we find a Jonathan in the palace of the wicked King Saul. What a place to have a Jonathan, wasn't it? And now we find here under the wicked King Absalom a man named Hushai. Oh, I wonder if God ever did those kind of things again. Oh, go into the household of King Ahab and you find a man there named Obadiah who hides fifty prophets. in one cave and fifty in another. Isn't that wonderful? Oh, but that's the Old Testament, really. Go in the New Testament and Paul, he's writing the New Testament. I think it's in the book of Timothy, and he talks about the saints Of Caesar's household in Rome. Wow. God has got his Hushai's and his Jonathan's and his Obadiah's all throughout the world in the most unique places. Because God is in control. He is so sovereign. There is somebody in the White House in D. C. , there's somebody in the Kremlin of Russia. There's somebody in Peking, China, in the right place at the right time. God controls all of this. Oh, I know those people are never going to hit the news. Or film at 11. You'll never know their names. But they're led of the Lord. Pilgrim, have you ever asked God to lead you? That person in Ahab's household, Obadiah, was a man who he'd asked God to take control of his life and to use him. Have you asked God to do that? Boy, you may be surprised where he'll take you. You may think that he's taking you to some Godforsaken place you'll never affect you. anything in society or in the world or for eternity. But if you ask God to use you in a mighty way, you may never understand how he is using you. But he will. And it won't be on the evening news, but in heaven the angels will rejoice and the saints will applaud and praise the Lord for it. We have a God that we should want to lead us. We have a God that flooded the whole universe, the whole world. He flooded the whole world, and yet if we ask God to lead us With all the floods and all the destruction that are still going on in smaller areas today, he will lead you beside still waters. Psalm 23. With all the warfare and everything else that's going on out there, he will lead you in the paths of righteousness? When the world is telling you that you can go into the girl's bathroom, young men? Let the Lord lead you in the path of righteousness instead, alright? The Lord, you see battles taking place all over the world, warfare everywhere, wars and rumors of wars, and you and you find there's going to be the great battle at the end, the battle of Armagadon, right? Or I like to hear Douglas MacArthur call it the Battle of Armageddon. The Battle of Armageddon Don't be fearful of that, because he says he will lead us to the valley of the shadow of death. And he will lead us into his the Lord's house where we will dwell with him forever. I want the Lord to lead me. I like where it ends up. I like where it takes us. So he brings Hushai in. Why? Because Absalom is led of the Lord to ask for a second opinion, even though he loves the first opinion. All the elders love the first opinion, but he wants to have a second opinion. And the only reason he can come up with is He's the letter of the Lord, and we're going to see that he really is that's not just my opinion as we progress through this. So Hushai says in verses 6 through 10 That the counsel of Hippel he have given is not good at this time. That counsel given at a different time or a later date would be very good counsel In fact, if we just gather an army as big as gather men from the all the way up north and dan all the way down south in the Sheba, gather men from all the tribes, get a large large army so that we're like the dew falling on the grass and then we'll follow Ahithel's plan, pursue, pursue, pursue. And we won't just kill David, as Ahithevel has said, we'll kill 'em all Wow, Absalom liked that idea. Let's not just kill my father, but let's kill anybody that's loyal to my father. That sounds good You don't want to go after him. His advice, Hitler's advice, is not good at this time. Your father is a mighty man. In fact, in Joshua 23, 10, when he he surrounded with men that one man shall chase a thousand. That's the kind of men your father has got with him. One man that can chase a thousand. And there is a bear robbed of her whelps of her cubs And your father, he's a man of will of war. He is well versed and very experienced in all the arts of war. And he's probably hidden some pit. And it will come to pass That when you come out, he'll spring out of the pit, him and his men, like an ambush, they're going to surprise you, and they're going to overthrow you at the first. And your men are going to panic and they're going to and they're going to be routed and they're going to be fleeing. And the word getting back to Jerusalem will be this. Whoso heareth it will say, There was a slaughter among the people that followed Absalom. It may not have been a slaughter, it was just a rout A surprise route. We can regroup and go back up the hill after David and his men. But they're going to hear that there was a slaughter. And those back in Jerusalem and those of the army of Absalom who have not yet crested the ridge or have not made it to the top. They're seeing everybody else fleeing. And he said, and though they have the heart of a lion, they their hearts will utterly melt. They're going to panic. You don't want that to happen. David has hid from Saul. But he can ambush your troops subtly and put them to flight, and the initial defeat will do nothing but animate David's men that they can do this. That victory is not that far away, and it will intimidate Abalzal's army, and they may never want to engage David again. That's Hushai's advice. Therefore, he says in verse eleven, I counsel all Israel, be gathered and thou go to battle. I think a lot of times we like that idea. You know, people say let's do this or let's do that, and we look around to see how many others are gonna do it too. You know, we don't want to do it alone or two or three of us. We we We don't want to do something unless we've got a a a large group. A large a large consensus, you know, when people say, hey why don't we why don't we go down and pick it in Annapolis? Or why don't we go down there and and protest the uh the bathroom bill or something like that, well who else is gonna go? How many are gonna get going? We you know we we we like to look at the numbers We we always feel like there's there's a a a consensus or a safety in numbers, right? We want to know. And so he says, let's gather all Israel together, and then we'll go to battle. We like that. There's a safety in numbers. Have you ever heard that? Safety in numbers, right? Unfortunately, that's not a Bible verse. Safety in numbers. I mean the Bible talks about God's people being a remnant, a residue. The few in numbers There was a thousand Philistines that thought they were pretty safe going after one crazy little guy with a jawbone in his hand. They had safety in numbers, didn't they? Boy, what a surprise, Samson. What he could do with just the jawbone of an ass. Safety in numbers? The Midianites. You read about the Midianites, it says they had more people Than you could count. They were innumerable. The Midianites and the Malachites had gathered together against Israel. Their numbers were so great, and the number of camels you couldn't even number them, a tremendous number What's Gideon got? Well, Gideon had 22,000 guys. It's a drop in a bucket compared to what the Midianites had. 22,000 against us? Wait a minute, flash. This came in. Gideon's down to 300. Oh man, 300. Just send a mop-up squad. This is ridiculous against 300 of Gideon? Gideon's not even a soldier, he's not a mighty man, he's not a mighty man of valor, but come on, what do we got? What do we got to worry about? There's safety in numbers, and we got the numbers, and Gideon's got 300 guys. So how'd that turn out? Hundred and twenty thousand Midianites died. Safety in numbers. Judas Iscariot. He says, I know where the Christ is tonight. I know where his secret prayer place is. Let's go and get him while he's praying. Isn't that nice? We're gonna we're gonna arrest this guy. We're gonna torture this guy. We're gonna crucify this guy. Uh so what kind of a guy is he? Well, I'll tell you where he's praying He's a guy that prays. He's a man of prayer. Forget about that. If you want to catch him, that's where we're going to catch him. We're going to catch him on his knees Before we can stand up and run, we're gonna get this guy and and just to be safe, yeah we want to be safe. Well, you know, safe in safety in numbers Let's get a band of Roman soldiers. Let's get a band out of the the out of the the Templeists. Let's get at least five hundred. A band means five hundred, alright Let's get a band, five hundred. Safety in numbers, right? And so they show up. There's Judas, Iscariot, he's got a band of five hundred soldiers with swords and spears and torches, and they walk in the garden. What's the first thing Christ does? What's the first thing that Christ does? He announces that I am he and boom, 500 guys go backwards, falling on their backs They were like slain in the spirit. In fact, one of the few examples there is of being slay in the spirit. People tell you, I was slaying in the spirit. Really? You were leading somebody against the Lord Jesus Christ? Why would He slay you in the Spirit? Well, there's got to be other examples of Oh yeah, there there is Anani and Sophias. They were slain in the Spirit too. I don't understand why Charismax loved the latch on I was slain to the Spirit. Because in the Bible everybody that was was going against the Lord Jesus Christ or his church So here's 500 people and they're safety in numbers where Judah's a scared. We're going to catch him while he's on his knees praying. Safety in numbers. There's no safety in numbers when you're going against God, when you're going against his son, when you're going against His principles and the righteousness? People think because they they vote something in Annapolis, safety and numbers, we're all going down together. Yes, you are The Titanic went down. Was there safety in numbers on the Titanic? There was no safety in numbers on the Titanic Was there safety and numbers not getting on the ark in the days of Noah? There was no safety in not getting on the Where's the safety and numbers idea? It doesn't come from the scriptures. God plus one is the majority. I know you've heard that before. Let me tell you where there's safety. Jude chapter one and verse one. It teaches us that there is safety there for those preserved in Jesus Christ That's what Jude 1 says. You want safety? You want to be preserved? There is safety for those preserved in Jesus Christ. There's your only safety in this world. Are you preserved? And some of you you sit here and you say, I'm in Christ. I'm a preserved. And so it is. And so you are. You are trusting that God can preserve your eternal soul Is that where all Christians are? We trust that God, through his son Jesus Christ, can preserve us. You know where the weak spot in that is? People don't think that that same God can preserve his word. Why are you trusting a God to preserve your soul when you got preachers out there telling you, well, God didn't preserve the Word of God? He inspired it And then somewhere along the way, verses got lost, sections of chapters got lost, books got lost. I mean, how can you trust a guy who can't even preserve his own inspired word and he says he's going to preserve your soul? But Jude 1 says that he can preserve our souls. We can be preserved in Jesus Christ. That's where our safety is. And after Hushai had spoken this way about getting everyone together and safety in numbers, let's do it this way, in verse 14, Absalom and all the men of Israel said, The council of Hushai is better than the consul of Ahithophel. Wow. Well, David had prayed, hadn't he? If you go back a little ways, David had prayed in 2 Samuel 15 and verse 31. He said, Oh God, he says, turn the counsel of Ahithophelt into foolishness. If that would have been me, I'd have probably prayed, Oh God Smite Absalon with a stroke like you did Nabal. Oh God smite Absalom uh with an angel like he did the Assyrians when he came against them and killed 186,000 that he wants to be dead, Lord. Oh God, may he fall like a liar, Eli, and break his neck and die. That's the way I would have prayed How do you pray about your enemies? Absalom was David's enemy and his son, but David just prayed that God would turn the counsel the heterothell into foolishness. I think sometimes when we pray against our enemies, not God's enemies, but our personal enemies, we're pretty hard I'm not asking for a show of hands, but I'll tell you right now, I've had problems in my life and situations where I said, oh God, I just wish that person was dead and out of my life. That's a wrong, that's a wrong way to pray And I would I would tell you this right now, God has never honored that prayer of mine. But there are people that just make your life so miserable. Am I the only one that's ever thought that way? Don't answer How do you pray against your personal enemies? David just prayed that Hethophil's wisdom would be turned into foolishness. And when you look at the story and you read these verses, you know what you find out? God didn't answer my prayer. There's nobody out there dead because I wanted them dead, all right He doesn't answer David's either. He doesn't turn Ahithophel's advice into foolishness. In fact, we read here in these verses 13 and 14, it says that the console of Ahithophel was good It would have worked. It was good console. God does not turn the console of hit them on the foolishness. He turns Absalom, who foolishly ignores Ahithophel's counsel. So David's prayer is not answered Because God had another way of dealing with the things in our life than the thing than the way we think He's going to do it sometimes. So why did Absalom reject Ahitabil's plan if it was so good? Now think about it Hithebel says, I will go this night. I will pursue him and I'll kill the king. And Hushai says, no, no, no, no, no. Gather a large group, Absalom, and you go. And you will get the glory, not Ahithophel. See if Ahithophel goes tonight and he kills David, who gets the glory? Ahithophel gets the glory because he just stayed back in Jerusalem. But if you go gather a large number of people, safety numbers, and you defeat David and all his men, you get the glory. And Hushai is feeding the eagle of Abbas. Absalom. People in positions of power have egos. They can be arrogant. And this is what he's doing here. He's feeding the ego of Absalom But why does his plan, Hushai's plan, feeding the ego of Absalom, why does it also convince in verse 14 all the men of Israel? I mean they're just following orders. You know, they're just kind of walk step with the, oh, yeah, I agree with Hithop, oh no, I agree with Husha, oh, I'm back with I'm back with Hithopha, oh, I'm back with Hus And we deal with them here. We talk to people today. Well I'm going to vote for this one. Well I'm going to vote for that one. Back and vote. Fickle fickle are the crowds. Why do they why are they all convinced? All of them in Israel are also convinced whose size was better The answer is found in the Word of God. The actual answer of why Absalom and all the Israelites thought Hushai's advice was better is found in the Word of God. God. We're going to show that to you in a second. I just want to precede that with this. Pilgrims, are you looking for the answers in life? I have told you many times before, they're found in the Word of God. They're not found with some psychiatrist. They're not found with some counselor on your radio and call at night. They're not found in the dear Abbey and Lamb. They're not found in the in uh you know the the your astrologies that you can look at in the newspapers. They're found in the the answers to the things in life are found in the Word of God. If you just had time to read Ecclesiastes 3, just to give you a variety of the things that you can find in the Word of God. It says in Ecclesiastes 3, there's a time to plant. It tells you when to plant your crops. There's a time to kill. That is when he's defending your family or your household. There's a time to weep, there's a time to laugh, there's a time to dance, there's a time to embrace, there's a time to keep silent. That's not just for the ladies There's a time to speak. There's a time to love. There's a time to make war. The Bible has all the answers you'll ever need for all the problems you have. The answers are in the Word of God. If you're looking for the answers, go to the Word of God. You'll find them there. And here we have why we ask ourselves, at least I am, maybe nobody else is interested, but I I'm interested. Why would Absalom do this? Follow Hushai over Hitchema. Why would all the elders decide to change your mind and follow? The answer is in the Word of God. The answer is found here in the Word in verse 14. Why The Lord had appointed to defeat the good consul of Ahithophel. That's why God was leading in this whole situation And although Hithophel sounds great in what he's saying, God leads Absalom, God leads all the uh elders of Israel to follow And that's why he says, For the Lord, verse 14 had appointed to defeat the good counsel. It was good counsel Heathel gave. It would have worked. And the intent it says that the Lord might bring evil upon Absalom. God is leading here. He is leading Absalom to his death. He is leading the elders of Israel and the Hithophel to his death. God is in control of the saved and the unsaved. God is always leading. He's a sovereign God. The king's heart's in the hand of the Lord. That means King Absalom, his heart is in The Lord's hand, the heart of the king is in the hand of the Lord, as the rivers of water he carryeth whithersoever he pleaseth. Proverbs 21 and 1 God, tough thing for you to swallow, but don't get up and walk out to hear that the second half. God imposes his will upon Absalom. God imposes his will upon all the men of Israel. God imposes his will on the free will of man. The kings of the earth and the rulers take counsel together against the Lord and against his anointed. Psalm 2, but he sitteth in the heavens and he laughs at what we propose to do and what we will think we're going to do and what we want to do. You ever murmured When your alarm clock didn't go off, maybe the battery was dying out or you forgot to set it. Have you ever had the alarm clock no go off in the morning? Oh And you run around getting your clothes in and you can't shave and you can't brush your teeth and you gotta get you ever been in a situation like that You ever had a traffic light that you had to be at a doctor's appointment somewhere and it's a very important doctor's appointment, and all of a sudden you got a traffic light that's malfunctioning? We had one this morning It stayed a red, everything else is going green, but our traffic lights stayed red and everybody else this went to went to two or three sittings. We had to make an illegal right turn through a red light and make a UI around it. I mean you ever have that where a traveling light malfunctions? Alarm clock doesn't go off The elevator is stuck between floors and you've got to get out of here or you've got someplace to go. What's this all about? God is leading. And for someone out there last week, they missed with their car that large sinkhole on Jopper Road. Because of their alarm clock. God is leading. And somebody out there, uh, made their immune systems down and had they stepped on that elevator at that exact time, somebody just sneezed, a flu germ. That would have killed them and their immune system. God is leading. The traffic light kept you from that sale at Macy's. It's at 9 o'clock. You've got to get there because when the door's open, there's only got so many. And and you didn't get there. But the shooter did, and people are dead, and you are not, because God was leading. leading you. That you would not lose your soul, perhaps, until you had repented. He's kept you safe. Pray to be led of the Lord. Don't we sometimes pray that? Luke 11, lead us not into temptation. Pray that we be led of the Lord. And that Christ's presence will become more obvious And life less frustrating if Christ's presence in our life, that He is leading us no matter what's going on, life will be a lot less frustrating. And worrisome. Pray for the leading of the Lord and that you can observe it in your life from time to time. Let's pray. Oh Lord, first we praise you this morning that you've led this body of people here for the 11 o'clock service. We pray, Father, that many here you've led them to salvation. You've led them to repent. We pray, Lord, that you have also led them to witness to others. And we pray, Father, that as some leave here today, that they may have come and they were not conscious of your leading, did not want your leading in control of our life. But Lord We would know that your sovereign will trumps man's free will every time. And Lord, today we ask you would trump the free will of someone who is not led yet of you and begin leading them. As they leave this place today, Lord, may they leave a place. A changed soul for all eternity. Oh Lord, what a blessing to know that if we're led of the Lord, then Christ can proclaim, Of all you have given me, I've lost none. That proclamation comes from a God that is We ask this and praise you for this in Christ's name today. Amen.