Turn your Bibles with me, please, to the book of John and the 15th chapter, John 15. And this morning we're going to consider fruitfulness. as compared to unfruitfulness. John 15, and I'll be reading the first eight verses of the chapter. I am the true vine, and my father is the husbandman. Every branch in me that beareth not fruit, he taketh away And every branch that beareth fruit, he purchased it, that it may bring forth more fruit. Now are ye clean through the word which I have spoken unto you Abide in me, and I in you, as the branch cannot bear fruit of itself, except it abide in the vine, no more can ye, except ye abide in me. I am the vine, ye are the branches. He that abideth in me, and I in him, the same bringeth forth much fruit, for without me ye can do nothing. If a man abide not in me, he is cast forth as a branch, and is withered, and men gather them and cast them into the fire, and they are burned. If ye abide in me, and my words abide in you, ye shall ask what ye will, and it shall be done unto you. Herein is my Father glorified, that ye bear much fruit, so shall ye be my disciples. Let us bow for prayer as we approach God's holy, inerrant, inspired, and preserved word this morning. Our gracious Father, we thank you for the truth that is expounded to us in thy word. Father, we thank you that the entrance to thy word giveth light. Lord, we pray today that as we consider your truth, you would grant us light in the scriptures. We pray today that the Holy Spirit would teach us and direct us. Father indeed, may we be firmly rooted, planted, and attached to the vine And O God, may we be fruitful. And Father, even in our fruitfulness, may you, in your loving care and mercy of the branches, may you prune us. May you purge us, O Lord, that we might bring forth more fruit for Thee. Bless your word to our hearts today. Bless us your people in our fellowship together and our fellowship with Christ. And bless us, your people, that we might bring forth much fruit. to the glory of our God. And Lord, we pray this now in the name of Jesus Christ our Lord. Amen. Scripture does not record for us the exact time or setting that this particular passage of John was written. The Jewish historian Josephus records that there was a golden vine that decorated the entrance to the temple. And so Some have supposed that possibly Jesus was walking with his disciples into the temple and seeing the golden vine, he said to the disciples, I am the true vine. Others have supposed that Jesus may have been walking through the roads and past the vineyards. as we find with many of the parables where it is it is assumed or evident that they were seeing certain things and Christ used the visible things around them as examples. It may have been that Christ and the disciples were walking past the vineyards, and Christ then said, I am the true vine, and my father is the husbandman, as you see the men working in the fields. Others have supposed that this discourse may actually be part of the upper room discourse After Christ has instituted the Lord's Supper, when he has taken the fruit of the vine, the wine, and said, this wine is my blood in the New Testament. Or possibly as Christ and the disciples left the upper room and were on their way to the Mount of Olives, to the Garden of Agony. Christ may have at that time said, I am the true vine. Scripture does not tell us for sure. But we do know that the teaching here is very sure. And in the first verse of this chapter, Jesus declares, I am the true vine. And it's easy to read over that word true and not take note of it. But Christ here emphasizes not that just I am the vine, as we read down later. He says, I am the true vine. And my father is the husbandman. Not all vines are true. In fact, there is only one true vine. The world is filled with false teachers. And our natural world is filled with false grapes. We have a wild grape that grows in the part of Harper County where I live, and it is a menace. And it will grow up into the trees and choke the trees and kill them. It never produces any fruit. It looks like a grapevine. It will get very big. The stalks of it will be as large as your arm. But it's a menace. It is an invasive species. It does not belong here. But Jesus says that he is the true vine, not a false vine, but the true. In Isaiah 5 God compares Israel to a wild vine that does not produce fruit. And again in Jeremiah, God says of Israel in Jeremiah 2, verses 21 and 22 Yet I have planted thee wholly a right a right seed, a noble vine. How then art thou turned into a degenerate plant of a strange vine unto me? For though though thou wash thee with nitre and take thee much soap Yet thine iniquity is marked before me, saith the Lord God. And so there in Jeremiah, God says, I planted Israel as a true vine. But they have become degenerate. Israel was polluted and was no longer a true vine God created Adam in the Garden of Eden. And how was Adam created? Well, he was created sinless. He was created perfect. He was created in a righteousness. And yet Adam sinned. And now all the seed of Adam die, for as in Adam all died, but there is a second Adam. There is a true seed, a true vine. And Jesus Christ is the true vine. And so we dare not skip over that little word, true vine. For it is vital to understand the context. Israel was a vine planted by God and they departed. Adam was created by God in holiness and he departed. There are many false vines around us. But there is only one true vine, and that is the second Adam. And this theme of Christ being the true one is found throughout this Gospel of John. In John 14 and verse 6, the chapter prior to where we could we're considering this morning, Jesus said, I am the way, the truth, and the life. No man cometh to the Father but by me. In John 1, verse 9, Christ is declared to be the true light. In John 6. 32, he is the true bread. Here in 15 and 1, the true vine. And in 1 John 5 and verse 20, he's declared to be the true vine. The true shepherd of Israel is contrasted in this book of John from the false shepherds in verse, or John chapter 10 and verse 8. All that came before me were thieves and robbers. But the sheep did not hear them. And so Jesus Christ alone is the true. He is the true vine. And that is what he declares for us here. But he continues in this first verse, I am the true vine, and my father is the husband. God the Father is the one who tends the vine. God the Father is the one who planted the vine, for God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son God sent his own begotten Son into the world to save sinners, Paul said, of whom I am chief. And I mentioned before that Israel is often compared to a vine, and then Psalm chapter 80. Verses 8 and 9, we read, Thou hast brought a vine out of Egypt. Thou hast cast out the heathen and planted it. Thou preparest room before it, and hast caused it to take deep root, and it filled the land And yet we find in Matthew chapter 21 the parable of the householder, where the householder has planted a vineyard And he has made room for the vineyard, and he has put a hedge about the vineyard. And at the time of grapes, he sends his servant into the vineyard, and they take the servant and they beat him. And he sends more honorable servants and they beat them as well. And finally, there in Matthew 21, we read the but uh 21 and 37, I'll read the verse for you. But last of all, he sent unto them his son, saying, They will reverence my son. But when the husband saw the son, they said among themselves, This is the heir, come, let us kill him, and let us seize on his inheritance. And they caught him and cast him out of the vineyard and slew him. And so Jesus is the true vine. Israel was a picture of a vine, but they were polluted. Israel was the human source through which the Messiah would come And yet Israel was false and condemned throughout the Old Testament because of their apostasy. And when the true vine came They caught him. They killed him. And they slew him. And so Jesus Christ is the true vine. God the Father is the husbandman who has planted this true vine And Christ continues in verse 2, Every branch in me that beareth not fruit, he taketh away. And every branch in me that beareth fruit, he purgeth it, that it may bring forth more fruit. So Christ is the true vine, God the Father is the husbandman, and every branch that is in Christ that does not bring forth fruit, the husbandman, the Father, he takes it away. And every branch that does bring forth fruit, that he purges, that it may bring forth more fruit. Notice here that Christ says, every branch in me. There are many that give great appearance of being in Christ. of being in the true vine, and yet they are barren. They are not fruitful. They will not remain. They will be taken away. They will be destroyed, because though they give the appearance of being in the true vine, as Christ said to the false prophets, by their fruits, ye shall know them. And so they are removed In Matthew 21, again, we made reference to that chapter earlier, we find the parable, or not the parable, actually the true story, of the barren fig tree. And we find there in Matthew 21 and verse 18 that in the morning Christ was hungered. He was a man with all the uh physical needs of man, and so he became hungry. And he saw the fig tree, and he and the disciples go to it. And when they get to the tree all there is is leaves. There are no figs And Christ curses the fig tree. And he says there, let no fruit grow on thee henceforth forever. And presently the fig tree withered away, and the disciples are amazed that this fig tree has so quickly withered away. And in Matthew 21 and verse 20, and when the disciples saw it, they marveled, saying, How soon is the fig tree withered away? Jesus answered and said unto them, Verily, verily I say unto you, if you have the faith, have faith and doubt not. Ye shall not only say do that which is done to the fig tree, but also if ye shall say unto this mountain Be thou removed and cast into the sea, it shall be done. Now, there's a double meaning here, or double uh comparison. First of all, the unbe fruitful tree, the barren fig tree, it is condemned. But that phrase, be thou removed, which Christ speaks of in reference to faith, is this same word we find here taken away. In Matthew 21 and verse number 21, that be thou removed is the same Greek phrase as we find here in our text Every branch to me that beareth not fruit, he taketh away. In other words, it is cast out. It is removed, never to be restored again. This phrase be removed again in Matthew and in the first part of this verse again is the same phrase that we find in the last part of the verse where he says, Every branch that beareth not fruit He purges it. He purges it that it may bring forth more fruit. He purges it. There is also a reflection here again of Israel. Because remember in Romans 17, where Paul was talking about the uh uh Talking it was admonishing the Jewish belie the Gentile believers that they not boast themselves above Israel. He refers to Israel as the natural vine and the Gentiles as a wild branch that has been brought in. And there in Romans 17 and uh Romans 11 and verse 21, he says that God spared not the natural branches Take heed that he spare not thee. And so another warning here, that that those that are not fruitful, those whose who do not show forth the true graces of God they will be removed. And there are many other illustrations we could go to. You remember the illustration of that Christ gave of the parable, the talents. And the one man received one talent and he hid it in the earth And God's response was, Thou wicked and slothful servant. In the final judgment, we find in Matthew 13 uh verses forty and forty-one and therefore the tares are gathered and burned in the fire. So shall it be in the end of the world The Son of Man shall send forth his angels, and they shall gather out of his kingdom all things that offend. and them which do iniquity. And so if you look back to our text in verse six, if any man abide not in me, he is cast forth as a branch and is withered and men do gather them in into the fire and they are burned And so Christ declares that every branch in me that bringeth not forth fruit, he taketh it away, and every branch in me that beareth fruit, he purgeth it, or he prunes it. I spent um many summers and evenings after school from the time that I was ten years old all the way through uh the time that I was in college. working in the local orchards. Actually three different orchards I worked in, but one primarily. And one of the skills that I was taught by the owner of the orchard was how to prune apple trees. When pruning an apple tree, the first thing you do is remove the suckers. And the suckers are a reference to little branches that will grow up around the roots of the trees. And small little branches all through the trees. They will never produce. The only thing they will ever do is suck strength out of that tree. And so you go through the tree and you cut off all those suckers, and the ground will be littered with them. And then any branches that are growing in the wrong direction in the tree, branches that are growing back through the tree or towards the main stalk of the tree. Those had to be removed because by growing backwards through the tree, they would prevent the sunlight from coming in. And the apples that did grow would never ripen properly or ripen all the way around because the sunlight wouldn't hit them properly. And then we also would remove branches that would cause the tree to split, where you had two branches growing up and they grew into a very tight V if both those were allowed to grow and become large When apples were produced on them, it would cause the whole tree to split and destroy the tree. And so for the good of the tree, those were removed as well. When we would cut a branch off in the pruning process, the sap would immediately begin to gather up. It was a difficult thing for the tree to be pruned. And there were times when we would have to go back to the orchard with special tree coats, and we would paint those wounds in the tree where we had pruned a branch. And there were many times you would walk through the trees and you would see scars, sometimes 10 and 15, 20 years later, on the more mature trees, where the trees had been pruned. and branches had been removed. And then finally, after all the pruning was done, the the cut branches were were thrown out into the middle of the rows, and we would go through and gather them up, and we would have huge fires. to burn them. Now, why do I go through all of that? The branch that does not bring forth fruit, it is pruned away. And even the branch that brings forth fruit, it is pruned for the purpose that it might bring forth more fruit. The pruning process is not pleasant to the tree. The pruning process is very painful in the life of the Christians. God has to work with us And mold us and chasten us. But he does it not to harm us, but for our benefit So we won't have branches that are splitting. So we won't have branches growing back through our lives, which are blocking out the sunlight God makes the wound, and then God heals the wound himself, all that we might bring forth more fruit. And so in Hebrews we read that no chastening for the present seemeth pleasant, but afterward it yieldeth the peaceable fruit of righteousness. And so the husbandman will prune the vine that we might bring forth more fruit for his glory. In Psalm 118, verses 17 and 18, the psalmist declares, I shall not die, but live and declare the works of the Lord. The Lord hath chastened me sore. But he hath not given me over to death. The pruning of the tree is not to kill the tree. It is that the tree might bring forth more fruit. And so Job said, But I know, but he knoweth the way that I take. And when I am tried, I shall come forth as gold And continuing in verse 3 of our text, now are ye clean through the word which I have spoken unto you. In the Beatitudes, Christ said, Blessed are the pure in heart, for they shall see God. The word pure in heart therein Matthew 5 is the same word here in John 15, 3, the word clean. Now are ye clean through the word which I have spoken unto you. For the Word of God is quick and powerful, sharper than any two-edged sword, dividing even to the uh Piercing even to dividing asunder of soul and spirit, and of the joints and marrow, and as a discerner of the thoughts and the intents of the heart In the morning when we would come in to do some pruning, the first thing we would do is we would gather our tools and go over to the shop. And we would take a file and we would sharpen the pruning tools very quickly and very very sharply. And I still have scars on my hands from sharpening some of those tools. You see, if the pruning instrument was not sharp, rather than cleanly slicing through the branch. It would mangle the branch and and deform the branch. The Word of God is a very sharp cutting tool. It is not designed for our harm, but for our good. It is designed to cut sharply to the dividing asunder of soul and spirit and joints and marrow, for the purpose that we might bring forth more fruit. And so Christ said to his disciples, or prayed for his disciples, sanctify them through thy truth. Thy word is truth. And Christ also loved the church And gave himself for it that he might sanctify and cleanse it to himself by the washing of water by the Word. The Word of God is the sharp pruning tool that God uses to remove from our lives those branches growing errantly or those branches that would cause the splitting and the destruction of the tree. We are pruned by the Word of God. We are pruned through the teaching of Jesus Christ. And all the pruning is for the purpose that we might bring forth more fruit, that we might be fruitful for Him. And so in verse 4, Christ says, Abide in me and I in you. As the branch cannot bear fruit of itself, except it abide in the vine, no more can you, except ye, abide in me. This word abide means to continue. It means to remain, to be rooted, or to be established. It's also translated in our King James to tarry with. When Christ was in the garden and he said to the disciples, Tarry ye here, and I'll go yonder and pray. It was this same word. And the Samaritans pleaded with Christ that he would tarry with them. It's this same word, abide, we find here. It's found three times in this fourth verse And actually, twelve times in this chapter, we find this same word abide. It is the overreaching theme In verse 15, he that abideth not, or abideth in me, the same bringeth forth much fruit. Verse 6, if any man abide not in me, he is cast forth Verse 7, if ye abide in me and my words abide in you, ye shall ask what you will. Verse 9, As the Father hath loved me, so have I loved you. Continue ye in my love. That word continue is that same word. Abide. In verse ten, if ye keep my commandments, ye shall abide in my love. And my father and his love will abide in you at the end of the verse. In verse eleven. These things have I spoken to you that my joy might remain in you. That remain is again the same word. And then in verse 16, ye have not chosen me But I have chosen you, and ordained that you should go and bring forth fruit, and that your fruit should remain, that your fruit should abide. And so this word means to continue Christ says that we are to abide in him. This word means to tarry. Oh, oh, how we must wait upon the Lord This word means to be rooted. Oh, how we must be rooted in Jesus Christ. It means to be established. The foolish man built his house on the sand. But the wise man built his house on the rock, and that rock is Jesus Christ. And so Abide in me, and I in you, as the branch cannot bear fruit of itself, except it abide in the vine. No more can ye, except ye abide in me. I've spoken a lot about those branches that we would cut off from the tree. They were not fruitful because they did not abide in the vine. They could not produce leaves very quickly, they would wither, and by the time they were gathered up to burn It would be a roaring fire we had to call the fire department and let them know when we were going to burn the the uh prune branches because it would be such a huge roaring fire. It was dead, it was dry, it could not produce leaves or fruit anymore. And so if we are not established in Jesus Christ, If we do not abide in him, we cannot be fruitful. We cannot bring forth fruit. We must be established in him. We must be firmly planted and attached to him. to the Master. It is through our abiding in Christ that we receive of the Holy Spirit. It is through our abiding in Christ that we have access to the Father in prayer. That's why whenever we pray, we pray in Jesus. name, abide in me. Verse five, I am the vine. Ye are the branches. He that abides in me and I in him, the same, bringeth forth much fruit, for without me ye can do nothing. Oh, if we are abiding in Christ, we bring forth much fruit after the Spirit of God, through the Word of God, has pruned upon us. and purge from our hearts and lives all those things that would hinder our fruitfulness, ah, then we can bring forth much fruit. And if you look down to verse 8, herein is my Father glorified that ye bear much fruit, so shall ye be my disciples. But Christ says there very pointedly in the last part of verse five, For without me ye can do nothing. Remember in Matthew 17, the case of the poor man with the lunatic son, who brought his son to the disciples, and he said sometimes the The evil spirit cast him into the water or into the fire, and he foams in his mouth, and I brought him to your disciples, and they could not do anything for this poor man. Christ heals him in Matthew 17 and verse 17. Then Jesus answered, O faithless and perverse generation, how long shall I be with you? How long shall I suffer you? Bring him unto me And Jesus rebukes the devil and casts him out. And the disciples question, why couldn't we do this? Why did we not have this power that we were assuming was ours? And Jesus said unto them, Howbeit, this kind goeth not out, but by prayer and fasting. Isn't that interesting? This kind goeth not out, but by prayer and fasting. What are prayer and fasting? Well, they're that communion with God. They are that abiding in Christ. They are the the branch receiving strength from the root and sap from the tree that brings forth the fruit and produces that which is necessary. Without me Ye can do nothing. Our minds go back to that great hymn from Martin Luther, A mighty fortress is our God. In that hymn, Luther says, Did we in our own strength confide? Our battle, our striving would be losing Were not the right man on our side, the man of God's own choosing? Dost ask who that may be, Christ Jesus, it is he, Lord Sabyatha's name, from age to age the same. And he must win the battle. If we're striving in our own strength, our battle must be losing. This kind goeth not out but by prayer and fasting. But he that abideth in me, Christ says, and I abide in him, the same bringeth forth much fruit. Without him we can do nothing Now how do we sum up this passage? How do we make application of it? How do we bring it to conclusion? And you always have to be careful when you say the word conclusion because people start turning off their minds Don't turn off your minds just yet. We're not yet done. But I'd like to make application from what we've seen here in these first eight verses by going down to verse 16 of the chapter. Look with me there at John 15 and verse 16. Ye have not chosen me. But I have chosen you and ordained you that you should go and bring forth fruit, and that your fruit should remain And whatsoever ye shall ask of my Father in my name, he may give it you. We have not chosen Christ. But oh he has chosen us. I have planted a small orchard of trees in my yard, and I very specifically chose three different varieties of apple tree for the purpose of cross-pollination. And I chose two different varieties of peach tree that they might propagate well. And I chose two different types of grapes for my grape arbor. As the husbandman, I specifically chose the varieties. And not only that, when I was looking at the trees at the nursery, I s chose specific trees which I thought would have the best quality to be able to grow. And when I was choosing my grapevine roots I chose ones that already had bits of sprout on them that had clear evidence of life. We have not chosen Christ, but oh he has chosen us. And He has ordained us. He has given to us a charge that we might go and bring forth fruit. And that our fruit should remain. Our fruit should have permanence. It should not wither away. And whatsoever we shall ask in the Father's name, we will have it. And so how do we make application to this passage today? First of all, I have a see. That the believer abiding in Christ has fruitfulness in abundance. Verse 5, the same bringeth forth much. fruit. 1 Corinthians 15, verse 58. Therefore, my beloved brethren, be ye steadfast, unmovable, always abounding in the work of the Lord. For as much as ye know that your labor is not in vain in the Lord, ah is the child of God, the child of God attached to the vine by Christ Abides in Christ. There is the promise of abounding fruit. Oh, may our lives be fruitful for God. The believer abiding in Christ is fruitful with abundance. Secondly, the believer abiding in Christ has answers to prayer and blessings in abundance. Look at verse 7. Ye shall ask what ye will, and it shall be done unto you. Verse 16, and whatsoever ye shall ask of the Father in my name He may give it you. We have the answer of prayer, but also we have the abundance there, for he says you may ask what ye will And whatsoever ye shall ask, God will bless us with good things. There is abundance there. The believer abiding in Christ has answers to prayer and blessings in abundance. Thirdly, the believer abiding in Christ brings glory to the Father in abundance. Look at verse 8. Herein is my Father glorified, that ye bear much fruit. So shall you be my disciples. In Philippians 1 and verse 11, being filled with the fruits of righteousness which are by Jesus Christ under the glory and the praise of God. Ah, the fruitful believer, abiding in Christ, brings glory to God the Father. Fourthly, The believer abiding in Christ has joy in abundance. Look at verse 11. These things have I spoken unto you, that my joy might remain in you and that your joy might be full. The joy of the Lord is our strength. The joy of the Lord is that which keeps us going when we're confined to our homes. The joy of the Lord is that which encourages us when we see uh turmoil in the markets and turmoil in the stock market and and turmoil all around us and fear of sickness and all these things The joy of the Lord is our strength. The believer abiding in Christ has joy in abundance, that my joy might remain in you, and that your joy might be full. And fifthly and finally, the believer abiding in Christ will bear eternal fruit or has fruit that remains. Again, verse 16, ye have not chosen me. But I have chosen you, and ordained you, that ye should go and bring forth fruit, and that your fruit should remain. And that whatsoever you shall ask in my Father's name, he may give it unto you. Remaining fruit. Ah, we read. That if any man's works be burned, he shall suffer loss. Every man's work will be tried, we read in 1 Corinthians 3. We have abiding fruit. We have remaining fruit. In John 4, verse 36, and he that reapeth receiveth wages and gather fruit unto eternal life. that both he that lay soweth and he that reapeth may rejoice together. And in Revelation 14 in verse 3 Blessed are the dead, which die in the Lord from henceforth. Yea, the Spirit saith, they may rest from their labors, and their works do follow them. And so, dear friends, God the Father is the husband. Christ is the true vine. Those abiding in Christ remain, those that are unfruitful. They are purged, they are pruned, they are removed. Those that are fruitful are further cleansed by the word of God that we might bring forth more fruit. Are you fruitful for God? Do you abide in the vine, Jesus Christ? Let us pray