Turn with in your Bibles, please, to the book of First Samuel and chapter twenty-five. I uh mentioned to uh brother Vence and the others that are on the bulletin preparation list that I have wanted to preach from this 25th chapter of 1 Samuel for many years And in some ways didn't know how to preach it, in other ways just didn't get around to it because how could you ever preach the whole counsel of God in a million lifetimes? I I know some young preachers that say, What am I gonna preach? And I think everyone is that's called upon to preach at some time or another has thought, well, you know, what do I preach this week? And yet the more you get into Scripture and the older you get in the ministry, which I'm not an old man yet, but I'm getting there. The more you realize that you're gonna run out of Sundays before you preach at all or even scratch the surface of this marvelous book If you have your place now in 1 Samuel chapter 25, I'm going to read verses 1 through 42. It is a little bit longer than of scripture reading than we often read. And yet when I get done reading the scriptures, I really don't need to preach, because this one preaches itself like all scripture does. And yet we'll endeavor to to uh bring out some exhortations from this script. passage. A glorious story here. 1 Samuel chapter 25 verse 1. And Samuel died. And all the Israelites were gathered together to lament him, and buried him in his house in Ramah. And David arose and went down to the wilderness of Peran. And there was a man of Manon whose possessions were in Carmel, and the man was very great. And he had 3,000 sheep, but a thousand goats. And he was shearing his sheep in Carmel. Now the name of the man was Nabal. and the name of his wife, Abigail. And she was a woman of good understanding, and of a beautiful countenance, but the man was churlish and evil in his doings. And he was of the house of Caleb. And David heard in the wilderness that Nabal did shear his sheep. And David sent out ten young men, and David said unto the young men, Go you up to Carmel, and go to Nabal, and greet him in my name. And thus ye shall say unto him that liveth in prosperity, peace be both to thee and And peace be to thine house, and peace be unto all that thou hast. And now I have heard that thou shearest Now thy shepherds which were with us, we hurt them not, neither was there aught missing unto thee all the while they were in Carmel. Ask thy young men, and they will show thee. Wherefore, let the young men find favor in thine eyes, for we come in a good day Give, I pray thee, whatsoever cometh to thine hand unto thy servants and to the son of thy son David. And when David's young men came, they spake to Nabal according to all those words in the name of David, and ceased. And Nabal answered David's servants and said, Who is David? And who is the son of Jesse? There be many servants nowadays that break away every man from his master. Shall I then take my bread and my water and my flesh? that I have killed for my shears, and give it unto men whom I know not whence they be. So David's young men turned their way and went again and came and told him all those sayings. And David said unto his men, Gird ye every man his sword. And they girded on every man his sword. And David also girded on his sword. And there went up after David about four hundred men, and two hundred abode by the stuff. But one of the young men told Abigail, Nabal's wife, saying, Behold, David sent messengers out of the wilderness to salute our master, and he railed on them. But the men were very good to us, and we were not hurt, neither missed we anything as long as we were conversant with them when we were in the fields. They were a wall unto us both night and day, all the while we were with them keeping the sheep. Now therefore know we consider that that what thou wilt do, for evil is determined against our master and against all his household, for he is such a son of Belial. that a man cannot speak to him. Then Abigail made haste and took two hundred loaves and two bottles of wine, and five sheep ready dressed, and five measures of parched corn, and an hundred clusters of raisins, and two hundred cakes of figs, and laid them on asses And she said unto his servants, Go on before me. Behold, I come after you. But she told not her husband Nabal. And it was so as she rode on the asses that she came down by the covert of the hill. And behold, David and his men came down against her, and she met them. Now David had said, Surely in vain have I kept all that this fellow hath in the wilderness. So nothing was missed of all that pertaineth unto him, and he hath requited me evil for good So and more also do God unto the enemies of David, if I leave of all that he hath, all that pertaineth to him by the morning light, any that pisseth against the wall. And when Abigail saw David, she hastened and lighteth off her ass, and fell down before David on her face, and bowed herself to the ground, and fell at his feet, and said, Upon me, my Lord. Upon me let this iniquity be. And let not thine handmaid I pray thee, and let thine handmaid I pray thee. Speak in thine audience, and hear the words of thy handmaid. Let not my Lord, I pray thee, regard this man of Belial even Nabal, for as his name is, so is he. Nabal is his name, and folly is with him. But I, thy handmaid, saw not the young men of my Lord, whom thou dost send. Now therefore, my lord, as the Lord liveth, and you'll notice there it's Jehovah As Jehovah, my Lord, as Jehovah liveth, and as thy soul liveth, sing, the Lord hath withholden thee from coming to shed blood. And from avenging thyself with thine own hand, now let thine enemies and they that seek evil to my Lord be as Nabal. And now this blessing which thine handmaid hath brought unto my Lord, let it even be given unto the young men that follow my Lord. I pray thee, forgive the trespass of trespass. Pass of thine handmaid. For the Lord will certainly make my Lord a sure house, because my Lord fighteth the battles of Jehovah And evil hath not been found in thee all the days of thy life, all thy days. Yet a man is risen to pursue thee and to seek thy soul, but the soul of my Lord shall be bound in the bundle of life. Which the Lord thy God, with the Lord thy God, and the souls of thy enemies, them shall he sling out as out of the middle of a sling. And it shall come to pass when the Lord shall have done to my Lord according to all the good that He has spoken concerning thee, and shall have appointed thee ruler over Israel. That this shall be no grief unto thee, nor offence of heart unto my Lord, either that thou hast shed blood carelessly, or that my Lord hath avenged himself But when the Lord shall have dealt well with my Lord, remember thine handmaid. And David said to Abigail, Blessed be the Lord God of Israel, which has sent thee this day to meet me, and blessed be thine advice. And blessed be thou, which hath kept me this day from coming to shed blood, and from avenging myself with mine own hand. For in very deed, as the Lord God of Israel liveth, which hath kept me back from hurting thee, except thou had hastened And come to me, surely there had not been left under Nabal by the morning light any that pisseth against the wall. So David received of her hand that which she had brought him, and said unto her, Go up in peace to thine house. See, I have hearkened to thy voice and have accepted thy person. And Abigail came to Nabal. And behold, he held a feast in his house, like the feast of a king. And Nabal's heart was merry within him, for he was very drunken. Wherefore she told him nothing, less or more, until the morning light. But it came to pass in the morning, when the wine was gone out of Nabal And his wife told him all these things that his heart died within him, and he became a stone. And it came to pass about ten days after that the Lord smote Nabal that he died. And when David heard that Nabal was dead, he said, Blessed be the Lord, which hath which hath pleaded the cause of my reproach from the hand of Nabal. and hath kept back his servant from evil. For the Lord hath returned the wickedness of Nabal upon his own head, and David sent and commanded communed with Abigail to take her to him to wife. And when the servants of David were come to Abigail, to Carmel, they spake unto her, saying, David sent us to take thee to thee, to be his wife. Let's bow for prayer. Father, now bless your precious and holy word to the hearts of your people. In Jesus' name. Amen. That was a long passage, but I hope you see in this reading why I felt we need to read Read it all. I would direct your attention to the twenty-fifth verse. And there Abigail speaks these words. Let not my Lord, I pray thee, regard this man of Belial, even Nabal For as his name is, so is he. Nabal is his name, and folly is with him. But I, thy handmaid, saw not the young men of my Lord. The name Nabal means fool or foolish. This is a foolish man. This is a man lacking of understanding. And in the 17th verse, his servants say of him, He's such a man abelial that no man can speak to him. He's an unreasonable man. Why does Scripture give us Such an account? I believe there is much we can learn from this chapter. And the first one's obvious men, don't be a Nabel. Don't be a fool. Fellows, don't raise your hand on this one. Have you ever walked into your wife and apologized for being nable? I have. I'm sorry. I was a fool. I shouldn't have said that. I shouldn't have done that. That wasn't right. Thank you for being an Abigail. The first lesson that I would have us to learn from this chapter. I've got nine of them. Don't worry about the time because they're they're all short. But the first lesson that we learn from the story of Nabal and Abigail and David is that problems don't wait their turn. Problems don't stand in line. Problems don't wait till you've settled all the other problems before another one comes along. Here is David. He is running. from King Saul. King Saul has 3,000 men that are chasing him. This is in chapter 24. David has 600 men with him. We know that because he took 400 to wipe out Nabal and he left 200 with the stuff. And Samuel's died, verse 1. David's heart's broken. David's mourning. David loves Samuel. The nation's in turmoil. It's a time of trouble. Samuel has been the spiritual leader of the nation, having formerly been the political leader of the nation as well, before King Saul. David's heart's broken, David's mourning. It's not a convenient time to deal with a pipsque squeak like Nabel. It's not a time to deal with a fool. Yeah, Brother Vences mentioned to me that some people are like trying to hug a cactus. Well, it's good Texas expression, but we understand what it means. Why is it that problems come in threes? Well, they don't come in threes, they come in dozens. But we've got to understand that life is short and full of trouble. And problems don't wait their turn. And our adversary, the devil, knows just when to poke us with something. And so the first lesson we learn Is that problems aren't gonna wait their turn. Be ready for it. Be expecting it But in the middle of our problems, God says, My grace is sufficient for thee. And that came when Paul had prayed three times that God would remove a thorn in the flesh. But God said, My grace is sufficient for thee. Psalm twenty seven, verse five For in the day of trouble he shall hide thee in his pavilion. In the secret of his tabernacle shall he hide me, and he shall set me upon a Rock. You see, when God is hiding us in his pavilion and in the secret of his tabernacle, all these broken parts and locked-up computers, and slow traffic when we're in a hurry, and perpetual red lights when we need to get there, and all these little nibbles that come at us all the time. They can't get into his pavilion. They cannot invade his secret place. But the verse before Psalm 27, 5 is this: One thing have I desired to the Lord, that will I seek after, that I may dwell in the house of the Lord of the Lord all the days of my life, to behold the beauty of the Lord, to his choir and his temple, for in the day of trouble he shall hide You see the problem when all these little things of life inconvenient that come along when we're mourning and we've got enough problems already that bother us, they bother us because we're stepping out of his pavilion Because rather than dwelling in the house of the Lord, we're dwelling in this world in which we dwell. It's not our home. And so the first lesson is new problems will not wait for a convenient time. And they certainly didn't The second lesson that we learn is great possessions are not the mark of the man. Nabal is very wealthy, and his wealth is laid out for us here very specifically and graphically. He has 3,000 sheep. And that doesn't mean that he didn't have 299 or 2999 or 3001. It means he's got a lot of sheep. And he's got a lot of servants. And it says he was a great man. He had everything that the world could offer. So much so that when David comes into the area, David knows who Nabal is. Oh, yeah, that's the rich guy that lives up on the hill. We've seen his house. But the things of this world are not the mark of the man. Nabel is his name, and he fits his name. He's a fool. And even his servants say he's such a man of belial that no one can talk to him. That word belial means worthless. His servants would go to him and say, Mr. Nable, Mr. Nabal, this is what's going on. I don't need advice. I don't need somebody to help me out. He was a man of Belial. Take heed. Beware of covetousness, Christ said. For a man's life consisteth not in the abundance of things that he hath. They that will be rich will fall into temptation. So is he that layeth up treasures for himself. And is not rich towards God. Riches are not the mark of the man. All the money in the world cannot buy favor with God, and having all the money in the world is not an indication of favor with God. Godliness with contentment is great. Jane. This man of Belial was like the man who tore down his barns to build greater, and the Lord said, Thou fool, this night shall be required of thee. Do you think that Nabal had any clue when David's servants came that he had ten days to live? And if it hadn't been for his wife, he was down to the last 24 hours. Because he wouldn't have lasted ten days. Well, if the wisdom The things of this world are not the measure. The things of this world, having food and raiment, let us therewith be content Number three, family heritage is not enough. Family heritage is not enough. Each succeeding generation must take their own stand for righteousness. Look with me at verse 3 The last phrase of the verse, but the man was churlish and evil in his doings, and he was of the house of Caleb. He was in the house of Caleb. Remember when the twelve spies were sent out and ten came back and gave an evil report? And only two said, The Lord is greater than these men. I know where his grasshoppers in their sight But the Jehovah will give us the land. It's a good land that flows with milk and honey. This is the fruit thereof. And Joshua and Caleb stood forward and said, We can go in and take the land. And ten spies said, no, we can't. And because the people followed the ten spies rather than the two, there were two men of that generation that went to the promised land Joshua and Caleb. And Caleb as an old man could testify that I'm an old man and yet my strength is the same to go out and to come in. Give me that mountain. This is Caleb's grandson. greats. But this fool Nabel, these are the household of Caleb. And I I would suspect that this fool had not accumulated his wealth on his own. Caleb owned a mountain. He left quite an inheritance to his family. He had more possession than the typical Israelite. The tribes were given their regions, which were determined according to the size of the tribe. But Caleb had an extra piece. He had a mountain. And so probably Nabal's wealth was because he had inherited quite a bit because of his family. If you come from a godly home, thank the Lord. Rejoice in it, but it's not enough. If you're starting a new home, lay a good foundation. Because God has promised his blessings to the third and the fourth generation. Ezekiel 18 gives the glorious picture in Scripture. Where the fathers had eaten sour grapes and the children's teeth were set on edge. And God says there's going to be no more reason in Israel for the parable we use. All souls are mine, and the soul that sinneth, it shall die. Your Father's righteousness cannot get you to heaven Thank the Lord if you had a righteous father, because God will bless the righteous of the fathers to the third and fourth generation of them that fear him. But it's not enough. Right. It's not enough. Family heritage is not enough. David had a son named Solomon, who was the wisest that ever lived. David had a son named Absalom, who was a fool, and broke his heart. David had a son named Amnon, who raped David's own daughter, his sister. Stir and then was murdered by Absalom. The third lesson is that family heritage is not enough. Lesson number four. The Word of God commends and rewards hospitality. Hospitality are commended and rewarded in Scripture. Starting in verse 5, David sends out his young men, ten of them. Uh they needed enough food for 600, and so we take ten to carry it. He sends ten young men. This is not a war party. This is not a raiding party. This is ten young men that are sent out. And David speaks to Nabal through his servants there in verse 6. Peace be both to thee, peace upon thy house, and peace unto all thou hast. We come to you in a good day, there in verse 8. It's a good day. Nabal was in a day of rejoicing. The shearing of the sheep was a very joyous time. It was a time of celebration. It was a time of a great feast when a multitude of food was prepared. We see when Abigail comes back to her foolish husband that he's drunk and he's so happy in the feast. It wasn't like this was an inconvenience for Nabel. It wasn't like he had to put on a party for David's men. The party's already thrown. There's plenty. And we don't find that Abigail had to tell the guys, go out and kill five sheep, but rather she's taking five sheep ready prepared, ready dressed. Instantly. The grapes, the raisins. It says two bottles of wine. We're not talking two bottles of wine. Remember the big big pots, probably fifty gallon drum size that Christ turned water into wine. That's what's being referred to here. There's an abundance and Nabal's not going to miss a thing. Scripture commends hospitality. David's not making an unreasonable request. Oriental culture would require Mabel. To meet David's request. It was, remember the parable of the man who knocks on his neighbor's door in the middle of the night and says, A friend is coming in the journey, give me five loaves. Christ may have been thinking back even to the story of Nabal when he multitude of times used these parables that when the neighbor asks you, you open up your storehouse and give them as much as they need and more. And yet how easy it is for us to start to guard our little pile of nuts. Generosity is commended in Scripture. Then shall the righteous, we read in our call to worship, say, When did we see you naked and didn't clothe you? When did we see you hungry and we didn't feed you? And Christ says, as much as you've done it unto one of these, my brethren, you've done it unto me. Nabal was given the opportunity David being the four-type, the four figure of Christ himself, Nabal was given the opportunity to go down in religious history To go down his scripture as the man who fed David 600 men in the wilderness. We could have been reading in the Word of God about Nabal, the righteous man, who sustained David's army when he was running from King Saul. Instead, the opposite's the case. And we read in scriptures, in Hebrews, that some have entertained angels unawares. How easy it is for us when someone comes along with a genuine need. And I realize there are beggars that are professional beggars and You know, we can't give everybody everything they want, just like Jesus didn't heal everybody on earth when he was on earth But Scripture commends hospitality and generosity. Withhold not good from them to whom it is due, we find in Proverbs. Proverbs. That's number four. Number five. Doing God's work and God's will in God's way does not guarantee immunity. From problems. And we say that one again. Doing God's work and God's will in God's way does not guarantee immunity from problems. I mentioned previously that in chapter 24, in the chapter right before here, we have the story of Saul and 3,000 men chasing David. We're not going to go into it because we've got a lot lot a lot to cover here, but let me give you the nutshell and you'll know the story right away. David is hiding in the sheepcoats. That's the word used in chapter 24. The sheepcoats were caves and little valleys, where, as Brother Vince mentioned in Sunday school this morning, the shepherds would take their sheep into the folds. It was natural folds among the hills, and there were even caves, and the shepherds could even take their sheep into a cave and sleep at the entrance of the cave, and the sheep were protected at night. And David and his friend his 600 men, who have been protecting the shepherds of Nabal as they've been out in the fields caring for their sheep. David goes into one of these caves, into one of these sheep coats, and lo and behold, Saul comes in. And as Saul was sleeping, David's men say to Saul, God has delivered your enemy into our hand. Go and smite him. And David says, I will not touch the Lord's anointed. But David cuts off a piece of Saul's coat. And then David is smitten with conscience because he cut off the coat. Of the Lord's anointed. And yet, David was also the Lord's anointed. David had been anointed to be king instead of Saul. That's the context here. David has just confessed before God, even cutting the coat of Saul. And then he runs into Nabel. And I alluded to this in our first point that problems don't wait their turns. But David is in the wilderness for a righteous cause. David is out here trying to feed 600 men in the wilderness because he's where God would have him to be. And David is doing the will of God. Certainly doesn't mean there shouldn't be problems. I've told you all before about how four weeks into our years in Jamaica I climbed up the ladder to check the water tank and there was a rotten, falling-apart rat floating in our water. And I stood there on the ladder saying, Lord, we have given up everything to be here in Jamaica. Why is there a rat in my water tank? And not just a fresh one, a rotten rat. And I looked across standing there on the ladder, the Lord just smote my heart, and I looked across Crowder. Tears came to my eyes and I said, Lord, now I know why there's a rat in the water tank. Because you put the rat in the water tank. To teach me a lesson right here. Right now. And standing on the ladder, and I don't mean to get too much into a personal testimony. But standing on the ladder, I prayed, Lord, if it takes rats in the water tank for this ministry to go forward, give me rats in the water tank. Just because you're doing God's work and God's will in God's way doesn't give you immunity from it. There's still going to be nables. There's still going to be foolish men of Belial that stand in your way and do everything they can to oppose you. Don't let them discourage you. Don't let 'em stop you. Don't let them hold you back. Even Abigail in verse 28 acknowledges that David's calls is righteous. Look with me down there to verse 28 of a chapter. And she says, I pray thee, forgive the trespass of thine handmaid. For the Lord will certainly make my Lord a sure house, because my Lord fighteth the battles of the Lord. Of Jehovah, and evil hath not been found in thee all thy days. Even Abigail acknowledges that David's way is right. And he's having to contend. With her foolish husband. Number six, follow the golden rule, but don't expect it of others. Follow the golden rule. Do unto others as you've had them do unto you. Therefore, Matthew 7, do you uh Matthew We've got 7112 of my notes. There is isn't any such. That's that's in Brother Bence's version. Therefore, all things whatsoever ye would that men should do unto you, do ye even to them. For this is the law of the prophets. Do unto others as you have them do unto you. David's already done it, hasn't he? When David was in the wilderness with his 600 men, he could have taken Nabal's sheep. But instead, Nabal's servants said, he was a wall to us. We lacked nothing. As long as we were with him, the bandits couldn't get us. We were protected. David has already done unto Nabal as he would have Nabal do unto him. But we can't expect the sons of Belial. We can't expect the grandchildren of Caleb. We can't expect even the people that claim to be a part of God's family to follow God's will and God's Law. But we need to do it in spite of all. Follow, obey the golden commandment. But don't expect it from others. In verse 15, he says, ask your young men. They will tell you what David was to us. Number seven And this is where we really get into the meat of the chapter. Don't be hasty for your own revenge. Boy, this was a lessons for me. Somebody cuts me off in traffic. If I was driving an old junker that I didn't want to scratch, I didn't mind scratching, we'd trade some paint. I hope not. Don't be eager for your own revenge And verse thirteen, and David said unto his men, gird on every man his sword. And they girded on every man his sword, and David also girded on his sword, and there went up after David four hundred men, and two hundred abode with a stock. And in verse 22, David said, Also do God unto the enemies of David, even if I leave of all that pertain unto him by mourning anything, any male left. among them. David said I'm gonna wipe them all. I'm gonna kill them all. I'm gonna kill every man. I'm gonna kill the dog. I'm gonna kill the cat and I'm g Dub out the fish bowl. I'm not gonna leave anything left. I'm gonna go get him because I can. I'm gonna go get him because I'm stronger than he is How often we want to settle the score? We find here We find here the words of Christ. For Christ said in Matthew 5, Ye have heard that has been said of you an eye for an I. And a tooth for a tooth. But I say unto you that ye resist not evil. But whosoever shall smite thee on the right cheek, turn unto him the other also. Folks, I'd love to tell you that I live by that one. But oh how the nable in me comes up. And I act like David did. For David says, I'm gonna go get him. But if we look at this story, We find, as we've mentioned before, that Abigail points out that God is going to fight your battles, David. Look with me at verse 29. Yet this man, that's referring to Saul, not to Nabal, yet this man is risen to pursue thee and to seek thy soul. But the soul of my Lord, that's David, shall be bound up in the bundle of life with the Lord God. David, your soul is bound in Jehovah's bundle. Nabal can't hurt you, and Saul can't hurt you. Your life is bound up in the bundle of the Lord. And the souls of thine enemies, we're still in verse 29, and the souls of thine enemies Them shall he sling out as out of the midst of a sling. David, don't you know that Jehovah, he is going to sling out your enemies? As a sling, as a stone in a sling. What do you think Abigail's talking about here? David. David. Remember Goliath? David, remember the day when you said, Thou comest to me with sword and spear and shield? But I come to you in the name of the Lord. And David, what did you have in your hand? Did you have Saul's sword? Did you have his shield? No, you said I can't take these. I haven't proved them All you had, David, was a sling. Sling can't kill a giant. David, your life is bound up in the bundle of Jehovah, and your enemies will be slung out like a stone in a sling. Wow. Abigail's a prophet. Abigail is speaking the inspired word of God. We know that because it's recorded. Don't be eager to avenge yourself. Abigail was wise to point out to David that in the end it really wasn't a very big deal. You see, our problems always seem worse when they come in threes. And when we're mourning for Samuel, the little things seem to be so big. And my wife has pointed out to me before that it's not a big deal and when she points it out when I'm frustrated I I say, Yeah, it is a big deal. You don't understand. But our problems are not a big deal. Look with me at verse 30. And it came and it shall come to pass. This is Abigail speaking. And it shall come to pass when the Lord shall have done unto my Lord according to all the good that he has spoken concerning thee and shall have appointed thee ruler over Israel, that this shall be no grief unto thee, nor offence of heart unto my Lord, even as thou hast shed blood carelessly Or that my Lord hath avenged himself. She says, David, when you're king, Nabal's not going to be any d any big deal. Oh, but when I'm in a hurry and there's a slowpoke in front of me, it's a big deal. What difference does it make? If I get there 20 seconds later, is the store going to be closed? You see, we get so wound up in these things that frustrate us that really are no big deal. And oh, how we want to avenge ourselves. over the little things. And that's the last thing that we find here. Well, I'm I'm getting ahead of myself. David acknowledges the Abigail said he look at look at verse 23 32 to 34. David acknowledges that God has sent Abigail to hold him back. And David said unto Abigail, Blessed be the Lord God of Israel, which has sent thee this day before to meet me, and blessed be thy advice And blessed be thou which hath kept me back this day from coming to shed blood and from avenging myself my own hand. David said, The Lord sent you, Abigail. That I might not avenge myself. Okay, number eight, and our time is really getting away, and this is probably the most important one. Don't underestimate the value of a good wife. We're not Baptists but c will I say can I get an Amen? If you have to ask for an Amen you don't need one. You're not saying anything if you've got to ask people for amens But don't underestimate the value of a good wife. Here, Abigail makes haste. She grabs some food. And she comes down to David. And in verse 20, and it was so as she rode on the ass that she She came down to the covert of the hill, and behold, David and his men came down against her. David's ready to kill Abigail first. Here's his wife. She's first from the list because she's first at Shot. Verse 23. When Abigail saw David, she hasted and lighted off her ass and fell on the ground. Verse 24, and fell at his feet and said, Upon me, my Lord Upon me let this iniquity be. Isn't that amazing? Remember when Moses stood between the people of Israel and the wrath of God? Remember when David when um Paul said I could wish that I myself were a curse for my people for Israel? Remember when Christ Stood between the wrath of God the Father and his justice on me. Oh, here David is ready. Here David is ready. To do a very foolish thing. Oh, David could find all kinds of justification for it. He could find all kinds of reasons why he was doing the right thing. But here, wise Abigail says, No, on me. On me. Never underestimate the value of a godly wife Abigail's words were prophetic. She understood the will and working of the Lord. In verse 26: Now let thine enemies and they that seek evil to my Lord be as Nabal. Verse 28, I pray thee forgive the trespass of thy handmaid, for the Lord will certainly make my Lord a sure house. Because my Lord fighteth the battles of the Lord. Verse 29, but the soul of my Lord shall be bound in the bundle of life with the Lord. She recognizes the working and will of the Lord. But there's something else here. Abigail had the worst possible circumstances. She was a woman of good understanding. She was a beautiful woman. She was wise. How did she end up with a fool? Do you ever consider that Abigail was not at liberty to choose her husband? We pointed out that Nabel's name means a fool. Abigail's name means her father's joy. The joy of This was a day of arranged marriages. Someday, fellows, when you have a daughter, you'll be more understanding of that concept than you were before. And young ladies, when your father helps you pick a mate or tells you that one's not a good one, take his word for it. Abigail's father, who dearly lovedly loved her, married her to a very wealthy man. Probably thinking this will be good. This man is wealthy. But he was a fool. He was a fool Abigail could have become churlish like her husband, but she chose righteousness. She chose wisdom. She chose integrity And so while we say never underestimate the value of a good wife, young ladies, you can choose to be a good wife. Or you can choose iniquity. Abigail chose well. She was a godly woman. He that findeth a wife findeth a good thing and obtaineth favor with the Lord. House and riches are the inheritance of fathers, but a prudent wife is from the Lord. And then the final thing that we would see from this amazing chapter, said God will make it all right. God will make it all right in the end. Look at verse 38. And it came to pass about ten days after that Jehovah smote Nabal. That he died. David was ready to take his own sword and run it through Nabal's guts. But God took care of it for him. And Abigail became David's wife. God will make it all right in the end. Dear friends, we can be nables and be foolish. Or we can be David's, restrained by the grace of God, to be righteous. And it was only, I know our time's gone, but it was only God's grace that restrained us. David from being just as bad as Nabah. It was God's grace to held him back. Young ladies, wives. Your husbands aren't always right. We didn't even get into the fact that Abigail stood by her husband even when he was wrong, though she stood to defend him. But you see, our circumstances don't make us. Our God makes us. And our fellowship with our God makes us. And so may God help us, husbands, not to be nables. Not to be a churlish fool. May God help us wives to be like Abigail, to be righteous discerners of the truth of God. Let us stand for prayer. Gracious Father, we thank you for your word. Father, I thank you for the attentiveness of this group of believers that you brought together. Lord, I I thank you that that uh I never see anybody watching on their watch or or hurrying to to leave. Uh Father, we thank you for the hunger and thirst after righteousness that you've given to us. Father, bless your word to us this day. Strengthen our hearts through us. Make us godly men and husbands. Make us godly wives. Make us into lights and dark world. May we not be influenced by the things of this world. May we not be swayed by the rich or the poor, but may we be servants of the Most High God. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.