Our gracious, kind, and loving Heavenly Father, we thank you for the privilege we have this morning to gather here. and to gather online as many of our congregation are uh even the locals are not with us today because of the weather. Lord, we thank you for the far-flung congregation that we have, Lord, that there are saints. Scattered abroad across the nation that are able to join with us in worship. Father, we thank you that we are one body in Christ, that we are one family in Him Father, bless our assembling together this day, as we in obedience to thy word do not forsake the assembling of ourselves together. Father, we thank you. The book we will open is indeed the inspired Word of God. May your Holy Spirit bless it to our hearts. May you remove from us the chaos and nonsense of a fallen world that we might think on Christ. Lord, as those that came to the disciples said, Sirs, we would see Jesus. Bless thy truth to us we pray in Jesus' name. Amen. I'm reading our call to worship three verses from Isaiah chapter one Come now, let us reason together, saith the Lord. Though your sins be as scarlet, they shall be as white as snow. Though they be red like crimson, they shall be as wool. If ye be willing and obedient, ye shall eat the good fruit of the land. But if ye refuse and rebel, ye shall be devoured with the sword. For the mouth of the Lord has spoken it. Excellent. Excellent call to worship. We turn to our opening song today, number two hundred and twelve, in our blue song book, two hundred and twelve. Delightful Christmas song. Who is he in Yonder Stall? Number two hundred and twelve. And we will sing all five stanzas. Who is me in yonder stall, and is meet the shepherd's fall Who is deepening deep distress by the wilderness? Here's the Lord of wondrous glory. Here's the Lord, the King of Glory And his feet we must crown him, crown him, Lord of all. Who is he of people pass for his words of gentleness? Who is he to whom they bring almost sick and sorrow link? Is the Lord O wondrous story? Is the Lord the King of Gory That is being humbly fall, welcome, crowned Lord of all. Who is he that stands and pleats at the grave where Lazarus sleeps? Who is key a gathering straw? Break with love tried often. Had this be long before Brown, crown in border all Look at midnight, who is he? Praised in cargas, who is he on yonder tree? Ties in great and agony Is the Lord of wondrous story Is the Lord the king of war? That you see we only fall. Round him, crown him, Lord of all. Through the three that drunk is to overlook, and we'll put all the Is the Lord a wondrous story? Is the Lord the King of Glory? That is the three months we fall. Round him crown is Lord of God. Very good. Amen. Yeah. Yeah. Appreciate these songs that rejoice him that has. They're really a a blessing. It's a rich collection of uh famous Christmas tier. Firstone, if you would, leave us to the confessional reading. Good morning. Please turn to the back of your bulletin. Today we look at the Belgic Confession, the 31st article, and this is the last portion of Article 31, regarding the ministers, elders, and deacons. Christian, in what do you believe? Moreover, that this holy ordinance of God may not be violated or slighted We say that everyone ought to see the ministers of God's Word and the elders of the Church very highly for their words. and be at peace with them without murmuring, strife, or contention as much as possible. Last week we looked at the equality of ministers, that there isn't some sort of a hierarchy, that somebody deserves more glory as far as those that minister to the Lord. But rather they're simply m uh vessels that are molded to serve the Lord. And this week we consider how believers ought to value their ministers. This isn't to worship them, but to value them, to highly esteem them, and this is a biblical concept. I'll read to you from 1 Thessalonians chapter 5 verses 12 and 13. We read, and we beseech you, brethren, to know them which labor among you, and are over you in the Lord, and admonish you, and to esteem them very highly in love for their works' sake. And be at peace among yourselves. Well, what does this mean to esteem the minister highly for their work's sake? I think it's good to first think through what the opposite of that is and where so many fall into error. The opposite is, of course, to speak badly of your ministers. to have a critical spirit, to uh as Brother Vince has mentioned in the past, have a have a season of roast pasture on your way home or uh following a service to see how you can find something that they've spoken uh that might be wrong and and try to twist it, try to see some way that you can um Speak evil of them, to disdain their teaching or their fellowship, uh, though they come to you with the word of God to disregard it uh to count these things lightly. And of course we know that rebels have always done this. They always will do this. And we see it all throughout Scripture. Those that murmured against Moses didn't appreciate the labor that he did uh for the Lord. But instead what God calls us to is to honor our ministers. And It's noted in the confession as well as in the scripture that I read to you from 1 Thessalonians, it's for their work's sake. We think about the work that they do and we honor them for this noble work. This is a good deed. Uh you think about uh the um what occupations it is that you do value. We think about a good teacher in any class, a good teacher is somebody who will labor to know what your misunderstandings are. What is it that you don't get? And then they'll also labor to try to simplify it to you, to make it so that it's clear to you. And we value that. We value a good teacher. We also value good doctors, those that actually care about your medical needs Very when you come in they're not just checking a list, but they actually care about your well being. And they have a real desire to see you improve and they'll research to see what the very best option is for you. What's the best medication that you can take, what is it that you need for your specific situation? Well what about your pastor or your elder or your minister? Do you value their labor? They labor for the most important part of your being, and that's your soul. You know, your flesh is going to wither away one day and it's going to die, but it's your soul that remains. It's the thing that has a eternal uh place. Your soul lasts forever. With it, you're going to have to give an account before God. With it, you're either going to endure an eternity in the presence of the glory of God and of saints and an unspeakable joy. Or the other option is, with your soul, you're going to endure an eternity in the lake of fire, the place of outer darkness where there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth. This is a very important matter. And ministers of the Word of God are there to minister to your soul that eternal thing that you have. They warn you to turn from the wrath to come. They encourage you And they uh teach you and admonish you in the walk with Christ. They also pray for you throughout the week And they do all of these things as they that must give an account for your soul. That's what we read in Hebrews 13, 17. Obey them that have the rule over you and submit yourselves, for they watch for your souls. As they that must give, account. What a blessing that is. Somebody actually cares for your souls. A faithful pastor, a faithful minister of the Word of God actually cares for your soul. What gratitude there must be, how we ought to be earnest and ready to listen to what it is that they're bringing forth from the Word of God. And uh how easy and how light of a thing it must it be to invest into this. You know, we as people pay a lot of money for good doctors. But why not be ready to invest in faithful preaching of the Word of God? This should be an easy thing to do. So even as we read in 1 Timothy 5, 17 through 18, it says, Let the elders that rule well be counted worthy of double honor. Especially they who labor in the word and doctrine. For the scripture saith, Thou shalt not muzzle the ox that treadeth out the corn, and the laborer is worthy of his reward And just uh in closing, I wanted to mention that it also speaks of uh from the the the verse that we read earlier in First Thessalonians, it talks about knowing. Talks about um to know them which labor among you and are over you in the Lord. It's uh you know, you're not just supposed to know their name. Okay, I know a Pastor Joe, I know a brother Vince But it's actually to have fellowship with them. Make yourself be known to them as well so they could know how they could minister to your soul. You're to acknowledge them as as your pastor. You're to take seriously their teaching and their counsel from the Word of God. And it's always a bad sign spiritually when there's a lack of attendance to the pastor's labor, whether it's a lack of attendance in the actual church or a lack of actual listening to what the preacher is bringing forth from the word So as uh we read in the scriptures, may God help us to esteem the laborers in our midst very very highly in love for their work's sake. Thank you. Thank you, Anton. Um I try not to often make a lot of comments after the confessional reading, but um just two things very briefly. Uh something that Brother Vince and I have have spoken about and prayed about often is that we don't own any sheep. We are entrusted with the oversight of God's sheep. And that is a very fearful position to be in. It's just like if a good friend leaves her child in your care. You will do everything you can to see if that child is well fed, that that child is well rested, that that child does not fall and get into danger. And so it is when God entrusts the care of his children to ministers that we will give an account. Then one of the things I grew up in a denomination which had deliberately shunned clerical garb. Um I've never worn a robe to preach. I've never worn a backwards collar. And the reason for that was they did not want the Ministers to seem in some way above the congregation or drawing attention to themselves. Um love my wife, but she's not the first lady of the church. And you will hear that phrase used in a lot of congregations. Oh, the first lady of the church. Well that must mean that the pastor is somehow the president. Or the king. And that is not the case. We are brethren together. God assigns to various ones within the congregation various responsibilities. And we find that the foot is not to say because I'm not the head, I'm not a value. Um God has given to some the assignment to be the ones that exhort God has given to others the assignment to be the ones that pray. And let me tell you, the ones that pray often accomplish far more than the ones that speak And so it is marvelous the way in which God has structured his congregation. Well, let us join our hearts together in prayer this morning. Gracious Father Lord, we thank you and rejoice that we are here together. We thank you, Lord, for safety and travel. Lord, we thank you that you have uh allowed us to assemble and we pray Lord for those that would be here if they could but were hindered by weather or by health. And Lord we pray for those that would be here if they could, but because of geographical Well dre geographical location. They are uh sundered far, as the old hymn says, those sundered far by faith we meet around one common mercy seat. And Lord, I pray especially for those that are um Routinely unable to actually be here with the physically. Lord, I know that they desire to be here. And yet, Father, they live out there in spiritual wastelands. They live out in areas of the country where there simply is not a solid biblical Bible preaching church with whom they can fellowship. Father, may they know sweet fellowship with us. And Father, I pray that you would feed their souls and enrich their spirits mightily by thy word. Father, we know that there are several of our congregation that are facing recent onset of illnesses Father, we thank you that these are known to thee, and Lord, that you are able in each of them. Father, we pray that you would strengthen, Lord, that you would uh clear kidneys from kidney stones, that you would uh Cause the inner workings of the body to w function well in all cases. And then, Father, we know that there are many in our congregation that have long-standing ongoing illnesses And Father, we understand that living is the process of dying, and it is indeed appointed unto man once to die. These bodies that were intended to live forever were cursed by the fall of our father Adam. And Lord, that these bodies are in the process of decay and dying. And yet, Father, we know that you were able to sustain these bodies even in this life. And Father, we find a multitude of instances in Scripture where those who were gravely ill, those who had been told by the medical profession that they would die, and even told by the prophet to set their affairs in order, yet through much prayer, their lives were extended. And Father, we believe that that power of prayer and that healing power of the hand of our God, the great physician. Still is with us today. And so, Father, we pray for those that are uh suffering greatly in the body. Oh Lord, that you would restore them to health according to your will. That you would give them grace for their days, and Lord that you would restore them to us in person, if that be possible, and be in thy will. And yet, Father, in all these things, we pray thy will be done. Father, we pray for the furtherance of the gospel of Jesus Christ. Lord, it's often been said that when the night is the darkest, the smallest candle gives the greatest light. And so, Father, we live in a dark day and a dark age. We live in a day and age when many who have been brought up in church Who have been brought up under the sound of the gospel are turning from it. Lord, returning to Catholicism, turning from the truth to error, turning to fables. And Father, we pray, O Lord, that you would indeed continue your work of purifying to yourself a glorious church without spot and without wrinkle. For Father, your word tells us that there will indeed be a great falling away. And Lord, we we see the day when the major denominations are gone and have been gone for decades, Lord. Turning from thy truth. We live in a day and age when many churches who would claim to be true and claim to be lighthouses for truth. are using defective scriptures, are using an errant um an errant word, a polluted word, one 1% of poison within truth. A little leaven spoils the whole lump. And so, Father, we pray that in this day and age you would continue to raise up a faithful testimony and a witness. And Father, bless those ministries with whom we have association that are sounding the alarm and giving warning of these things. Father, may you prosper the word at their mouth, we pray. Father, we uh we pray as we come closer and closer to a new year, Lord, that you would continue to bless Mission Bible Church We are indeed as a refuge in the wilderness, Father, as a place of preaching in a dry and thirsty land. And so, Father, I pray that you would prosper the ministry of the gospel that goes forth from this congregation. Bless the Gen Z outreach and the videos that are being posted online. Father, may they be encountered by your lost sheep. May they be listened to in their entirety. May they become even addictive to hungry souls that will seek out more. Father, we thank you, Lord, for young believers in our midst who are desiring to grow and pray, Lord, as we have prayed since our first Sunday, O Lord. uh approaching seven years ago. We have prayed all along that you would allow us to be a nursery of souls, that we would be a place where young believers could be instructed and taught where they could find a refuge from the world, where they could grow within a spiritual greenhouse, protected from false doctrine, protected from the attacks of the wicked one. Father, we thank you for visitors in recent weeks, and Lord, we pray that you would send in many that would come hungry to hear thy word and to hear thy truth. Father, we pray for our poor nation. Lord, this nation indeed deserves judgment, deserves any wrath you may pour upon it. But Father, we pray for the sake of thine own elect dwelling within Sodom. O Lord, may you spare us, and Lord, may you even be gracious to grant to us a true revival. Not simply a stirring of dead souls, not simply a tickling of itching ears. But Father, may your word go forth in truth and in power to the salvation of thine own elect and to the strengthening of the body of Christ. Father, we pray these things this day in Jesus' name. Please turn to Luke chapter 4 for a responsive reading. Once you've located Luke 4 in your Bibles, please rise. Just be reading a portion this morning, Luke 4, verses 14 through 27. Luke 4, 14 through 27. And Jesus returned in the power of the Spirit into Galilee, and there went out a fame of him through all the region round about. And he taught their synagogues, being glorified of all. And he came to Nazareth, where he had been brought up. And as his custom was, He went into the synagogue on the Sabbath day and stood up for Tere. And there was delivered unto him the book of the prophets. And when he opened the book, he found the place where it's written, The Spirit of the Lord is upon me, because he hath anointed me to preach the gospel to the poor. He hath sent me to heal the brokenhearted, to preach deliverance to the captives, and recovering of sight to the blind, to set at liberty them that are bruised. To preach the accessible year of the Lord. And he closed the book, and he gave it again to the minister, and sat down. And the eyes of all them that were in the synagogue were fastened on him And he began to say unto them, This day is this scripture fulfilled in your ears. And all bear him witness. and wondered at the gracious words which proceeded out of his mouth. And they said, Is not this Joseph's son? And he said unto him, He would surely say unto me this proverb, Physician, heal thyself. Whatsoever he hath heard him also in thy country And he said, Verily I say unto you, no prophet is accepted in his own country. But I tell you the truth, many widows were in Israel in the days of Elias When heaven was shut up three years and six months, when great famine was throughout all the land. But unto none of them was Elias sent save unto Sarepta, a city of Sidon, unto a woman that was a widow, and altogether in Israel in the time of Elisha and none of them was friends. Save him. May the Lord add a rich blessing to the reading and hearing of his holy word. Marvelous section of scripture just to delight that account before we turn to uh our sermon Psalter number 34A Number 34A, which is an adaptation of the first few verses, the first ten in fact of Psalm 34. The tune is Champs Elisus. Trust you'll pick it up in short order. Somewhat unique to this particular song. So thirty-four A in your red songbook and we close with the Amen. At all times I will bless the Lord in praise my mouth and boy My soul shall in the home beat shall hear with joy. Oh hang old Lord with me and let's go his name. In all my fears I sold so from him delivered came. They look to him and radiant work, ashamed they shall not be. His poor men cried over from trouble, set him free. The angel of the Lord intent and Roman professors All those are thou that do him fear, and then deliver. Oh faced and say the Lord is good to trust in Him our Christ. Here God is space, man, man, and fear shall be with God of Christ. The high end shot may hungry be and they may work the fool. Thank you, thank you very much. Please receive Open your Bibles will be pleased to the book of First Kings And the 17th chapter, 1 Kings chapter 17. And I'm going to read the entire chapter in our hearing this morning. We read there from the book of Luke. Which referenced the widow of Zarepath, and we're going to consider that account today in 1 Kings chapter 17. If you have your place there in the 17th chapter of the first book of Kings, I'll begin reading with verse number one. And Elijah, the Tishbite, who was of the inhabitants of Gilead, said unto Ahab, As the Lord God of Israel liveth, before whom I stand, there shall not be dew nor rain these years, but according to my word. And the word of the Lord came unto him, saying, Get thee hence, and turn thee eastward, and hide thyself by the book Chirith that is before Jordan. And it shall be that thou shalt drink of the book, and I have commanded the ravens to feed thee there. So he went and did according to the word of the Lord, for he went and dwelt by the brook Chirith that is before Jordan. And the ravens brought him bread and flesh in the morning, and bread and flesh in the evening, and he drank of the brook. And it came to pass after a while that the brook dried up, because there had been no rain in the land. And the word of the Lord came unto him, saying, Arise, get thee to Zarephath, which belongeth to Zidon. and dwell there, behold, I have commanded a widow woman there to sustain thee. So he arose and went to Zarepath, and when he came to the gate of the city, behold, the woman, widow woman, was there gathering of sticks And he called to her and said, Fetch me, I pray thee, a little water in a vessel that I may drink. And as she was going to fetch it, he called to her and said, Bring me, I pray thee, a morsel of bread in thine hands. And she said, As the Lord thy God liveth, I have not a cake. But a handful of meal in a barrel, and a little oil in a cruise. And behold, I am gathering two sticks that I may go in and dress it for me and my son, that we may eat it and die. And Elijah said unto her, Fear not. Go and do as thou hast said, but make me thereof a little cake first. And bring it unto me, and after make for thee and thy son. For thus saith the Lord God of Israel. The barrel of meal shall not waste, neither shall the cruise of oil fail until the day that the Lord sendeth rain upon the earth. And she went and did according to the saying of Elijah. And she and he and her house did eat many days. And the barrel of meal wasted not, neither did the cruise of oil fail according to the word of the Lord, which he had spoken by Elijah. And it came to pass after these things that the son of the woman, the mistress of the house, fell sick. And his sickness was so sore that there was no breath left in him. And she said unto Elijah, What have I to do with thee, O thou man of God? Art thou come unto me to call my sins to remembrance? And to slay my son. And he said unto her, Give me thy son And he took him out of her bosom and carried him into the loft where he abode, and laid him upon his own bed. And he cried unto the Lord and said, O Lord God, hast thou also brought evil upon the widow with whom I sojourn by slaying her son? And he stretched himself upon the child three times, and cried unto the Lord, and said, O Lord, my God, I pray thee. Let this child's soul come into him again. And the Lord heard the voice of Elijah And the soul of the child came into him again, and he revived. And Elijah took the child. And brought him down out of the chamber into the house, and delivered him unto his mother. And Elijah said, See, thy son liveth. And the woman said unto Elijah, Now by this I know that thou art a man of God. And that the word of the Lord is in thy mouth in thy mouth is truth. Let's pray. Father, now open thy truth to our hearts today. Lord, teach us lessons of faith. Teach us lessons of thy sovereignty Teach us lessons of disappointment this day. And Father, we pray these things in Jesus' name. Amen. This is one of these marvelous passages that preaches itself. I love to hear scripture read well. I wish I could read it better. These passages are dramatic. They are better than any I I'm a literature nut. I minored in English in college, which an English minor is largely literature. I I know good literature, I like to read good literature, I love Shakespeare, but this beats them all. It is glorious truth. I want us to consider this passage and I haven't outline this morning, lessons in sovereignty, lessons in disappointment, and lessons in faith. And I started initially to preach it in that order, but then just being overcome with the passage itself, I realized we're better just to go through the chapter verse by verse. And bring the outline in and out as we see these different elements in this passage. This is a book of God, this book of 1 Kings. This is a story of God's glorious working on behalf of his people and within his people. There are lessons of faith, lessons of disappointment, and lessons of God's sovereignty. And it begins with a glorious lesson of faith. In the first verse of this chapter, suddenly we're introduced to Elijah. It's the first time we find him in Scripture. You think of Elijah and his prominence within the Word of God, but he just suddenly comes on the scene and Elijah the Tishbite. says to Ahab. First time we first time we find him. And look what he says. As the Lord God of Israel liveth Before whom I stand, there shall not be dew nor rain these years, but according to my word. Who are we dealing with here? Well, Elijah is the prophet. Ahab is the king. Ahab is not the king of Judah. He's not the king of the continuing line of David, but rather he is the king of Israel, of the northern kingdom. Ahab has his kingdom in Samaria. Now, most of the ministry of the prophets was to Judah, to the southern kingdom. But here we find that Ahab is going to Samaria. He is going to the throne room of Ahab, and he is going to tell Ahab, Ahab, it's not going to rain until I say so. That would make any king happy. That would be a message the king wants to hear. There's a famine coming because I'm going to stop the rain. Because you have sinned against God. And if we consider scripture, we find that this is exactly the uh Prophecy that God had made in Deuteronomy chapter eleven and verse sixteen and seventeen Take heed yourselves that your heart be not deceived, and ye turn aside and serve other gods to worship them And the Lord's wrath be kindled against you, and he shut up the heavens that there be no rain. We find that Ahab was the wickedest of all the kings of Israel. If you look back to chapter 16, And verse 30. And we find in Ahab, this is in verse 30 of the previous chapter, and Ahab, the son of Omri, did evil in the sight of the Lord above all that were before him. And it came to pass as if it had been a light thing for him to walk in the sins of Jeroboam, the son of Nephat, that he took to wife Jezebel, the daughter of Ethbale, king of the Zidonians And went and served Baal and worshipped him. And he reared up an altar for Baal in the house of Baal, which he had built in Samaria. And Ahab made a grove. And Ahab did more to provoke the Lord God of Israel to anger than all the kings of Israel that were before him. Ahab is the worst of the worst among the kings of Israel. Do you think Ahab has much respect for Elijah the prophet? No. No. You see when Ahab, when Elijah comes in to Ahab He's also coming into wicked Jezebel. Jezebel, whose father was the priest of Baal, Fael was her father. Jezebel really is the one pulling the strings. Ahab was a weak king. He was king, but Jezebel ruled the kingdom. And he's coming in here to bring judgment on Ahab and on Jezebel. Folks, that took a lot of faith. He had to know what he believed. Elijah has to be certain that his message is from the Lord. Otherwise, he would have run. And notice also in that first verse, he says, as the Lord God of Israel liveth. That's a direct front to who? To Baal. Baal's not a living God. Baal is is is an idol. Baal is the problem. Baal is why God is going to shut up the heavens for three and a half years. And further, notice he says, the Lord God of Israel, before whom I stand. Where is Elijah when he speaks those words? He said, Samaria. Where in Samaria is he? He's in the throne room of Ahab. Who is he standing in front of? Ahab and Jezebel. But this man of faith says, the Lord God of Israel, the living God, before whom I stand. Now, folks, there's a great lesson of faith here because how often we are timid in our witness. Ah, I'm afraid to tell this person that I'm in front of. And yet, folks, we stand before the Lord. And we find in the New Testament that the apostles were told that they would stand before kings, and in that time God would give them the word to say, You see, it doesn't matter who's in front of you. We stand in the presence of God. And we stand there with the authority of the God of Israel who liveth. And so we begin this whole account with a great lesson in faith. And Ahab says, it's not going to rain until I say it does. In other words, Ahab Jezebel, if you want it to reign, you've got to go through me. Why is that significant? Because God would not listen to Ahab's prayer. Jezebel had no entrance unto Jehovah. But here The lonely man of God who would later say they've slain all the prophets and I only am left alone, and God says, No, I still have 7,000. But here, he is declaring to Ahab, if you want to talk to God, you've got to go through me. Folks, that is our position. In evangelism. Neither is there salvation in any other. For there's none other name under heaven given among men whereby ye must And it's not that we individually are the only ones with the gospel, but we corporately, the Church of Jesus Christ, we're the only ones with the gospel. You're not gonna find it anywhere else. But it takes a lot of faith. To stand in front of the most wicked king of Israel and his wife, who was more wicked than him, and declare I come to you in the name of Jehovah. Remember David, a Philistine, with the Philistine? David said to Philistine, You come to me with sword and spear, but I come to you in the name of the Lord. Folks, it takes a lot of faith. It's a lesson in faith to learn. But we stand before God and we stand with the only way. Of salvation. And so it begins with a lesson in faith. But then verses two and three give us our first lesson in disappointment. Look at verses two and three. And the word of the Lord came unto him that's unto Elijah, saying, Get thee hence. Turn thee eastward and hide thyself by the brook Chirith that is before Jordan. Run. Leave your home. Leave your place of security. Run, Elijah. See folks Serving the Lord is not always going to leave you in comfort. Serving the Lord is not always going to work out the way you think it is. Elijah could well have gone into Ahab and Jezebel and thought, okay, they'll hear and they'll repent, and I'll be the latest day in you of the kingdom. Daniel was exalted in the kingdom for speaking the word of Jehovah. But Elijah's told, run. You better run. Why does Elijah need to run? Well, he's the most wanted man. His picture will be up at the post office tomorrow morning. He's Ahab's most wanted. Jezebel has already slain prophets left and right. And now Ahab, or now Elijah, is on the re on the list. Elijah was doing the work that God sent him to do, but now he has to run for his life. But verse 4 gives us the first lesson in sovereignty. And it shall come, and it shall be, that thou shalt drink from the brook. And I have commanded the ravens to feed thee. Elijah has just declared that God controls the rain and the dew. It's not going to rain until I say so. But now Elijah himself is being called upon to believe that God controls the birds as well. Now folks, there's a lesson in sovereignty here. You know, sometimes it's easy for us to stand up and proclaim that God can do great things. But then it's harder for us in our own personal lives to believe that God controls the little things as well. It's easy to say, hey, it's not going to rain until God says it's going to rain. But it's a little harder sometimes to say, I'm going to have to depend on the birds to feed me. And God said that the birds are going to feed me But I have to believe it. But look what God says. I have asked the ravens to feed thee. No, it doesn't say that at all, does it? I have commanded the ravens to feed thee. And so in verse 4, or verse 5, and so he went and did according to the word of the Lord. May I ask you a question? Do you ever see seagulls fighting over a French fry? Have you? This summer I was at the beach with my daughter and my grandchildren and I had a little uh hamburger thing and I was taking pieces of bread and I was throwing it so the seagulls would come to entertain my grandson. And he was the only one entertained. Everyone else around was was bit angry that I was attracting the seagulls to the area. But my grandson thought it was great. He liked seeing the seagulls. And uh he talked about seagulls from then on. Seagulls were his favorite animal But folks, it is totally against the nature of a raven to share its food. But folks, think about this. The ravens will share their food with their young. The ravens will share their food with the ones they love. There are several animals where The female will be nesting and the male will be bringing food into the nesting female that sits upon the eggs. And folks, these ravens are under the command of the Master, and therefore, because the Master commands them to feed his choice servant, the ravens will go totally against their own nature because they obey a higher king. Just as Elijah has told Ahab, I obey a higher king. I'm in your court, but I'm in his presence. So the ravens, commanded of God, obey the higher king. They obey not their nature. But they obey the king of heaven. Folks, that's a lesson in sovereignty. God can control the reign. But he also controls the ravens. Birds do share their food with their chicks. And this one was the son of God, Elijah the prophet. Not the son of God, but a son of God. You understand what I mean there. And so in verse six And the ravens brought him bread and flesh in the morning, and bread and flesh in the evening, and he drank from the brook. Think about this, folks. The ravens are bringing in bread and flesh. Well, I can tell you where they're getting the flesh. The animals all around are dying. The animals are dying because there's no grass for them to eat. They're dying because the ground is parched. There is no There's no water for them to drink. And so for the ravens to be finding flesh for Elijah is not that big of a task. But where does bread come from? Well it requires green. And you probably seen or or heard advertisements on the radio for this food that's supposed to last twenty-five years all twenty-five years, this emergency food supplies. I don't feel like eating twenty-five-year-old food But this was not the day of 25-year-old food. People would have to somehow be preparing bread. But then the ravens have to have access to the bread, and I guarantee you the bakers aren't leaving their bread out unattended for the ravens. Folks, I don't believe these ravens are collecting dead animal food, the dead animal meat, and stealing bread. I believe with all my heart that God is sending manna to Elijah by the hand of the ravens. I don't believe this is carrion. The Israelites were not supposed to die that or eat that, which died of itself. But I believe that God is giving to these ravens bread and flesh twice a day. And just as the lions could not touch Daniel, so these ravens could not dare eat of the flesh and the bread that they were assigned to bring to the prophet. Folks, the sovereignty of God. It's all through this glorious passage of his word in Psalm 114 verse 9, he giveth the beast his food and to the young ravens which cry. And in Luke 12, verse 24, consider the ravens, for they neither sow nor reap, which neither have storehouses nor barns. And God feedeth them, how much more are ye better than the fowls? And Psalm 91, verses one and verse four. He that dwelleth in the secret place of the Most High shall abide under the shadow of the Almighty. He shall cover thee with his feathers, and under his wings shalt thou trust His truth shall be thy shield and thy buckler. Elijah learns a great lesson in faith. And then he learns a great lesson in the sovereignty of God. But how often a great lesson in faith and a great lesson in God's supply is followed by a great lesson in disappointment. And so in verse 7 we find another lesson in disappointment. And it came to pass after a while That the brook dried up because there had been no rain in the land. Okay. Elijah is drinking from the brook. You know we can go several days. The human body can go a multitude of days without food. But the human body can only go a much shorter time without water. Water is far more important to our bodies than food. But the brook dried up. His source of water is gone. And why did the brook dry up? Because he had prophesied it wasn't going to rain. Think about that folks. Think this through with me. The very reason the brook dried up is attributed to the message he preached. He said it's not going to rain until I say so. And as a result, his own source of water is taken away from him. Folks, how often we can get discouraged in the Word of God. Because it seems like we're faithfully preaching what God has told us to preach, and it just doesn't work out the way we expect. In fact, preaching the faithful truth of God can cause you problems. It can cause your heartaches. It can cause your difficult disappointments. He proclaimed that it wasn't going to rain, but because God fulfilled the prophecy, now he has no water. It's a lesson in disappointment. What are you going to do with this, Elijah? Wait, this can't be right. Come on, this is not fair. This is what why couldn't there just be one spring that would continue to give me water? Why does my water have to dry up with everyone else's? The brook dried up because there had been no rain. Remember Elijah's complaint when he ran to Mount Horeb In chapter 19. And God comes to the cave and says, What are you doing here, Elijah? And Elijah says, I have been very jealous for the Lord God of hosts. For the children of Israel have forsaken thy covenant, thrown down mine altars, and slain thy prophets with the sword, and I, even I only am left, and they seek my life to take it away. Lord, it just didn't work out the way I thought it would. A lesson in disappointment. We find Jonah as well crying out against God because he felt like God had taken his Remember when Jonah is out on the side of the city, the east side of of Nineveh, and we find in Jonah four and verse seven, and God prepared a worm in the morning and it next day and it smote the gourd. Eli or Jonah is there under a gourd that has sprung up, and he's enjoying the shade of the gourd. But God sends a worm and takes his gourd away. Folks, sometimes God will send a worm to take your gourd away. Sometimes in the midst of serving the Lord, He'll take away your comforts. I when my when my dear friend you've you've heard me speak of often who was a fellow missionary with me when he told Penny and I that he and his wife were gonna have to leave, his health was broken, he uh he had burned himself out there, his health was broken, he had to go home. And I told him and said, brother, my my gourd is withered when the Lord took away that piece of comfort. That fellow laborer that I depended upon, that that we we enjoyed that fellowship. I said, Brother, my gourd has withered. Folks, God sometimes will take away your comforts God will put you through disappointments in His sovereignty and in His plan. And so we have another lesson in disappointment. But then in verse 8, we come back to a lesson of faith. Look at verse 8 with me. And the word of the Lord came unto him, saying, Get thee to Zarephath, which belongeth to Zidon, and dwell there, behold, I have commanded, and it's the same phrase there that God says about the ravens, I have commanded a widow woman there to sustain thee. Why is this a lesson in faith? Elijah is the most wanted man in the country. The brook Chirith is before Jordan. In other words, it's a tributary of Jordan. Jordan River flows into it. But it's in the south, folks. It's down in the land of Judah. And we find from Obadiah's testimony in chapter 18. Uh chapter 18, verse 10, As the Lord thy God liveth, there is no nation or kingdom whither my Lord is not sent to seek thee. And when he saith he is not there, he taketh an oath of the kingdom and nation that they found thee not. Ahab and Jezebel have been looking everywhere for Elijah, and he's been hiding beside a brook. He's under the radar. You see, Ahab has looked everywhere, but out in the middle of the wilderness. And the little tributary tributary of Jordan, the brook Chirith. I'm safe here. When Elijah laid down his head to sleep by the Brook Chirith, He can sleep in peace. I am safe here. But folks, what do you know about Zidon? Zarephat. Well, there was a lady named Jezebel. That's her hometown. God is telling Elijah, leave the safety of the brook and go to Ahab's backyard. Go to Jezebel's hometown. His nights of peaceful sleep are done. He has been hiding way out of sight. Now he's going to have to hide in plain sight. He has been able to sleep peacefully. Now he will sleep with one eye open. He's been able to rise in the morning and pray beside the brook, but now he's going to have to pray in hiding. Because he's leaving a place of great safety and supply to go to a place of overwhelming danger. Folks, it's another lesson. Another lesson in faith. And so verse ten, so he arose and went. Folks, we don't find any complaint here, do we? We don't find any arguing. Remember when when um uh Simon was sent to Saul Tarshus to not Simon. I've got their wrong name there, but you know what I mean, was sent to Saul Tarsus. And his response was, Lord, I've heard many things about this guy. It was fearful. We don't find any complaint here out of Elijah, do we? We don't find him saying, Lord, Zara God? Are you sure about that? Maybe there's someplace else that's a little bit safer than the backyard of Ahab. No? He puts faith to action. So he arose and went to Zarephat. Verse 10. And when he came to the gate of the city, behold, the widow woman was there gathering of sticks. And he called unto her and said, Fetch me, I pray thee, a little water in a vessel that I might drink. This guy's thirsty. This guy has come all the way from the dusty, dried Chirith brook without any water. When it comes into the Zarephath, the first thing he needs is something to drink. He didn't ask for food first. This guy is thirsty. Give me a little bit of water. He's very thirsty. And as she was going to fetch it, he called unto her and said, Bring me, I pray thee, a morsel of bread in thine hand Notice that here that the um widow has already recognized him as a prophet of God. I I believe, and I'm getting ahead of myself here, but this was a believing woman in an idolatrous city. She believed. When Elijah said, go get me some water, yes, okay. But Elijah says, Well, give me a little morsel of bread too. And look what she says there in verse 12. And she said, as the Lord thy God liveth. Where have you heard that before? It's the same words that Elijah had said to Ahab. Elijah said, as the Lord God of Israel liveth, she says, As the Lord thy God liveth, the same God that commanded the ravens has commanded her. He rules and reigns in her heart. And we saw there in Luke 4 in our responsive reading, there were many, many widows in Zarephath I'm sorry, many widows in Israel, but to this one widow was Elijah sent, and her need was supplied. Because of Elijah. Because the barrel of meal would have run out after one cake. The cruise of oil would have been done, and she and her son would have died of starvation. And think about this as well. Don't you think she's been shepherding her funds? She knows exactly how much meal is left. She's been washing the loaf of bread. Do you do that in your house? You know, we we do it in our house. We we see the loaf of bread getting fewer and fewer slices, and it's time to go buy more bread. She's been pouring oil out of the cruise. She's been looking at the barrel of meal. And she knows this is all that is left. I'm going to get two six. I'm going to make a small meal for me and my infant son that is a young son, and then we're going to die. And so she says, As the Lord thy God liveth, I have not a cake, but a handful of meal in a barrel. And a little oil in a cruise, and behold, I am gathering two sticks that I may go in and dress it for my son, that we may eat it and die. This is all that is left. But what's Elijah say to her? Well, we have another lesson in faith. And Elijah says unto her, verse 13, Elijah said unto her, Fear not, don't be afraid, dear widow. Fear not. Go and do as thou hast said. But make me thereof a little cake first, and bring it unto me And after make for thee and thy son. And folks, the wording here is very important. God doesn't say, Elijah doesn't say, go make a cake big enough for three people and cut me off a piece. Rather, Elijah says, go make me a cake, and once you have made a cake for me, then go back to the barrel, then go back to the cruise, and then make another cake. For you and for your son. Folks, that's a lesson of faith Because she knows full well that when she scoops out Elijah's meal and pours out Elijah's oil, it's done. It's finished. Oh, how the flesh would like to say, oh, but I'll just keep a little bit back. I'll just, okay, I will give the prophet a cake, but I need a cake. And more than that, my son needs a cake. I'll give him a cake, but I'll hold back a cake for myself. But that was not the instruction God gave, and that was not what the widow did. It's a lesson in faith, folks. We used to sing a little chorus when I was a kid. When the Lord says what to do, you better do it, you better do it, you better do it. When the Lord says what to do, you better do it Or like Jonah, you'll find out the hard, hard way. It's a good little course for for kids to sing. This widow obeys the word of the Lord. God will provide. God will provide all that is needed. And God's provision will last until the end of the famine. Verse 17, for thus saith the Lord God of Israel, the barrel of meal shall not waste. Neither shall the crews of oil fail unto the day that the Lord sendeth rain upon the earth. And she went and did according to the saying of Elijah, and she And he and her house did eat many days But she obeyed God's word exactly as it was given to her. She didn't come up with her own plan. She didn't come up with her own version of God's plan. She simply obeyed. And the barrel of meal wasted not. Neither did the crews of oil fail according to the word of the Lord. Which he spake by Elijah. Remember the children of Israel? The manna ceased on the day they went to Jericho, and they ate of the old corn. Their feet did not swell, and their clothing did not wax old upon their feet, as long as they were in the wilderness. But when God's time for that was done, it was done. Verse 17. And it came to pass after these things that the woman and her son lived with food and with water and everything was fine and hunky-dory. Obviously that's not what the passage says, is it? We have the next lesson in disappointment in verse seventeen. And it came to pass after these things that the son of the woman, the mistress of the house, fell sick. And his sickness was so sore that there was no breath left in him. Come on! Are you kidding? That can't be to where the story goes next. How could it possibly be that this widow who has just demonstrated such amazing faith, not to mention danger, do you think Ahab would look on her favorably if he knew she was hiding this guy? Certainly, her life must be easy. Certainly, the wind of the heaven must pour a blessing on her. No, her son's sick. He's sick to death. Now folks, this is not a y an old widow. We think of widows as being old. This is a young widow. This child is carried by Elijah up to the loft and carried down. The child's described as being taken from her bosom. This child is probably a year to two years old. This is an infant. This is a young widow we're talking about. And now this child, she's lost her husband. This child that she loves so dearly, he is sick, and not just with a passing cold, but he's sicker to death. Another lesson in disappointment. Verse 18, and she said unto Elijah, What have I to do with thee? How could my world have gone possibly any worse? How could any greater Calamity come upon me. What have I to do with thee, O thou man of God? Art thou come unto me to call my sins to remembrance and to slay my son? This is why I believe she's a believer I believe here she is acknowledging that Jehovah has forgiven her sins, but maybe the prophet hasn't Maybe the prophet is praying against her because he knows of her sin. And so she says, Are you come, O man of God, to call my sins to remembrance to slay my son? You ever been in the ministry? And have something blamed on you that wasn't your fault? And I see my brother smiling. Did you ever get accused of things that you had nothing to do with in the service of God? Yeah. Yeah. It's your fault, Elijah. It's your fault. I've been feeding you. I've been housing you. It shouldn't be this way, Elijah. And he said unto her, verse 19. And he said unto her, Give me thy son. And he took him out of her bosom and carried him up into the loft where he abode. and laid him upon his own bed, and he cried to the Lord and said, O Lord, my God, hast thou also brought evil upon this widow? God brought evil on all the kingdom of Ahab and Jezebel Are you also going to bring evil on this widow with whom I sojourn by slaying her son? And he stretched himself upon the child three times and cried unto the Lord and said, Oh Lord, my God I pray thee, let this child's soul come unto him again. It's not one of our lessons, but there's a lesson in prayer here. Yeah. But with thee all things shall be possible. And he stretched himself upon the child three times and cried to the Lord and said, O Lord, my God, I pray thee, let this child's soul come into him again. And the Lord heard the voice of Elijah, and the soul of the child came unto him again, and he revived. And Elijah took the child and brought him down out of the chamber into the house, and delivered him to his mother And Elijah said, See, thy son liveth. And then we had the final lesson in faith. And the woman said to Elijah, Now I know. Wow. She knew before. When Elijah said, go make me a cake first, she obeyed. She knew before, but the trial of her faith worketh patience. When she'd been put through the ringer of her son's death. He's got food, folks. He's got water. What else does he need to live? He needs God Now I know by this, uh said, now by this I know that thou art a man of God. And that the word of the Lord is in thy mouth. Sorry, I read that wrong. And the word of the Lord in thy mouth is. Truth. Every bit of it is true. Folks, a lesson in sovereignty. God controls the weather. He controlled the snow this morning. Though your sins be as scarlet, they shall be as wool, though they be red like crinsal, and they shall be as white as snow. God controls the weather, God controls the animals, He rules the animals, God rules the supply, and God even rules death The issues of life and death with him. Blessings in disappointment. God may dry up our brook. Yeah. When he has something else to teach us. God may greatly try our faith To give us greater faith. The woman had faith to believe the barrel of meal and the cruise of oil. But then God made her have faith to believe in the life of her son. What is beyond your faith? What are you not willing to believe that God is able to do? God may test you to see if you will obey Him. But He will always be faithful to us. And then lessons of faith with God, nothing shall be impossible. May God teach us through the account of Elijah and the widow of Zarephath to trust of him at all times. Let us stand for prayer. Father, I thank you for thy word. I thank you, Lord, for these marvelous, true accounts, not fables, not fairy tales. But these marvelous true accounts of thy faithfulness in ages past that assure us and confirm in our hearts that you are faithful today Bless thy word and thy truth to us this day, we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Thank you, brother. Excellent word. Excellent word. We turn to our closing hymn, our blue songbook, number 225. Angels we have heard on high. Two hundred and twenty-five. A wonderful. Wonderful section. of scripture and we close it with a very pleasant tune. Angels we have heard on high. Number 225. We'll sing all four stances. He shall sweep out word or why we came in order and no mountain reply Sector spy dispute why you're so young alone. They want me long. I can see with inspired your hands. Harry shows up angel race Sekään noeste alors, oh, no, elästä. Amen. Amen. Please proceed.