We started a couple weeks ago. We're gonna be there for some time. Turn with me to Mark chapter one, verses twenty twenty three through twenty-eight And there was in the synagogue a man With an unclean spirit. And he cried out, saying, Let us alone. What are we to do with thee, thou Jesus of Nazareth? Art thou come to destroy us? I know thee who thou art, the Holy One of God. And Jesus rebuked him, saying, Hold thy peace and come out of him. And when the unclean spirit had torn him and cried with a loud voice, he came out of him. And they were all amazed, so much so that they questioned among themselves, saying, What thing is this? What new doctrine is this? For with authority commanded thee even the unclean spirits, and they do obey him. And immediately his fame spread abroad throughout all the region round about Galilee. We live in a day and age where people talk a lot about angels. It seems everybody believes that there are there are angels. They don't question that. But when you start talking about demons and devils, they don't buy that. Same thing. They talk about heaven, heaven, everybody's gonna go to heaven, everybody's happy about heaven, but they don't really believe there's a hell. It's amazing how the same scripture, the only the only real evidence we have for angels Is the scriptures. The only real evidence we have for heaven are the scriptures. And yet when you see something about demons and unclean spirits and devils and Satan and Lucifer, they don't buy any of that. When you look in the scriptures, you see the things that God has created. You see that God has created the camels. In fact, camels are mentioned in the scriptures about 40 or 50 times. And so you don't have no problem believing there are camels. You've seen them. The scriptures say they exist. The same with dogs. Dogs are mentioned many, many times in the scripture. Serpents are mentioned many, many times in the scripture But demons, unclean spirits, devils, are mentioned more than the camels and the dogs and the serpents all put together. So why is it we have such a hard time believing there are demons when they're mentioned more in the scripture a hundred and some times? Why do we have so much trouble believing that they exist? I would submit to you that if you don't believe demons, Satan, Lucer, or the devil And his devil, the devil, and his devils, his his partners are also called devils. If you don't believe that the devils exist, you've already been reached. They've already touched you. We believe in a lot of things we can't see like wind and electricity, but we don't want to believe the Bible says it exists just because we can't see it. And so we find here that as Christ went in the synagogue, there was a man there with an unclean spirit. Luke calls him an unclean devil. Now I have to say to you first off, devils are filthy, filthy creatures But if you call it an unclean devil, that must really be a filthy, filthy creature. And Luke here describes it as an unclean devil. Here Mark is described as an unclean spirit The terms are interchangeable. It's a filthy spirit. And these spirits we read in Ephesians 6, where we were doing the response of reading this morning, these spirits They are not only invisible, they're not of flesh and blood. We're so used to seeing things with flesh. Camels have flesh and blood. We know that. Monkeys have flesh and blood. So we have a hard time comprehending that God created a creature without flesh and blood. The angels are ministering spirits. You've never heard of an angel bleeding Angels don't have blood. They don't have flesh like us. And neither do the evil angels or the the uh unclean devils as we have them here. Their their job, the unclean devils, it seems that their biggest job is they just want to influence Us of the flesh and blood, they want to oppress us, they want to harass us, and they want to possess our flesh if they can and sometimes do They love taking control, if they can, of our faculties, our tongue, what we speak and say. The things that we'll do with our hands and our feet. And this is what Christ is confronted with there. He's confronted with one of these unclean spirits who recognized him, by the way, immediately as the Jesus of Lazarus, of Nazareth. And we see that these unclean spirits are capable of taking over flesh and blood. We see in the Garden of Eden, how Satan, the old wily Satan called the dragon How he took over a serpent in the garden and used his faculties to speak to Adam and Eve. We see the same thing where Satan went into the heart of Judas Iscariot as he went out to betray the Lord Jesus Christ. after the Passover Supper. You might wonder this morning, and I'll cut to the quick on this, can the devil, can the demons, can the unclean spirits Can they enter into a believer's heart and take him over and use his faculties? The answer is no. If you're a believer, the Holy Spirit has set up his reign on your heart And where the Holy Spirit is, he will not allow the entrance of a demon, an unclean spirit, to enter in. In fact, we read in Matthew 12 and 44 that the unclean spirits are seeking an empty heart And so if you have Christ in your heart, the Holy Spirit's abiding in your heart, it's not an empty heart. The demons look for an empty heart Scripture describes all angels as spirits in Hebrews 1 and 7, but we also find that among the angels there are the elect angels. And there are the non-elect angels. Just as in church of Christ, there are his elect and there are his non-elect. We find in Hebrews uh Hebrews 1. 7, of course it talks about these spirits, but the elect angels are referred to in 1 Timothy 5 and 21. They are the elect angels. And then we find out there are the evil spirits, there are the non-elect, angels which did not keep their first estate, we read in Jude, but left their own habitation, Jude 1 and verse 6. And then they ascended up into heaven To exalt Lucifer's throne, it says. We read this in Isaiah 12 or 14, 12 through 17. They want to exalt Lucifer's throne above the stars of God, sit upon the mount of the congregation declaring that we will be like the most high. Those are the angels that fell from heaven, that fell with Lucifer. Christ said I saw Lucifer falling as lightning from the sky. And so those are the unelect angels. Those are the lost angels. And by the way, Christ when he shed his blood on the cross It was not shed for these spiritual creatures who have sinned. He did not have to shed his blood for camels or dogs as well. He shed his blood for those made in his own image. Scripture describes these evil spirits or unclean uh demons. They have numbers of names that that we can refer to and we'll be covering some of them today. But they fell from heaven as Satan fell. Luke 10 and verse 18 describes that. And now they are described as they are wandering to and fro, north and south and east and west with Satan They're described as principalities, powers, rulers of darkness. For anybody here who's looking for for the dark side. I saw a two of the t-shirt the other day looking for the dark side. I thought, whoa, he will find it. And whether he'll ever come out of it will be up to the Lord. People looking for the dark side. They're looking for the demonic side. They're looking for the devil side. And that's where the spiritual wickedness reigns. And these these spiritual wickedness in high places, the dark side, the rules of darkness, the principalities, it says in Ephesians 6 and 12 and in Isaiah 14 again and twelve, they are out there to weaken nations, shake kingdoms kingdoms Destroy cities and possess souls. That's the job of these on-elect angels or these Unclean spirits. That's what they want to do. If you aren't familiar with the term unclean spirit or evil spirits, King Saul had an evil spirit. And David would come and play the harp to drive the evil spirit away. We find Mary Magdalene in the New Testament. It said that she was filled with seven unclean spirits or evil spirits. Christ drove them away. We find the same thing written of the angel of light, that Satan can appear as an angel of light. Some people say, I saw an angel. I was almost positive as an angel. It's this glowy white thing I was going through the dark in my room. I even got a picture of it. An angel of light. So when someone thinks they've seen an angel, the Bible says we entertain angels unawares. So if you think you've seen an angel, maybe what you've really seen is an angel of light, a satanic image of an angel of light. The evil spirits who were around in the days of Ahab, we read of them both through the Old and the New Testament. And so that they said here, their job is to weaken nations. Shake kingdoms, destroy cities, possess souls. And in this case here that we read this morning, another one of their jobs is to attend the house I mean we may think we're pretty safe coming to church We may think, well I'll stay all the nightclubs. If there's any evil spirits, that's probably where they are. Any unclean spirits round in the bars, they're in the dens of iniquity, no doubt. But they probably don't ever miss A worship service either. No, they're following their own. They're following those who are caught up in the dark side, and all of a sudden someone's invited to church and they come to church And say, I don't want to lose that one. We got his soul. We got possession of him. We don't want to lose him. Follow him. Find out where he's going, who he's spending time with. We've got to mess it up. Give him a flat town away to church. Get him to argue with his wife or his husband so they'll turn around and go back home. Whatever we can do to keep him out of church, but they attend church. Unclean spirit, attend church. Devils, attend church. And in this one particular in verse 23 and 24, he cried out as Christ came in. in the synagogue. He said, Let us alone. The word usher implies there might have been more than one unclean spirit in this man, or maybe he was just saying this for all of his other unclean spirits who are tracing back and forth across the earth. Let us alone. Why are you bothering me? Let me alone. Let all of us alone. Let us alone You ever been witnessing to somebody or talking about the Lord Jesus Christ? Or you have a track in your hand? He's just mentioned briefly the gospel Or maybe you're singing a song, Jesus Loves Me. This I know. Have you ever done something like that? And somebody says, Don't quote that Bible to me. Don't bring Jesus up in the conversation. I don't want that. We're at work. This is a workplace, and that shouldn't be brought up here. Just let us alone. Leave us alone. And you can say to them, ah, you're quoting a famous unclean spirit when you say that. Don't give up on those people that say, Let us alone. Mary Magdalene was one of those unclean spirits, evil spirits. Don't give up on those people that say, Let us alone. That'd be a cruel thing not to share Christ with a lost soul, a soul in darkness. That'd be a cruel thing to just let him alone Like a man hanging off a cliff by a rope and you walk by and you say, Doing okay down there, buddy? As long as the rope doesn't break, looks like a good rope to me, and you keep right on walking by and you don't leave them alone He says as he goes on in verse 24, what have we to do with thee, thou Jesus of Nazareth? Art thou come to destroy us, verse 24? Boy Come to destroy us. The unclean spirits know that what their end is. They know that judgment day is coming. They know that someday God, in the Lord Jesus Christ, who is coming back as the judge of all the earth will judge them and destroy them. They know this. You think they'd repent, but they won't. They're evil incarnate. And they will not repent, but they do know what their end is. Have you come to destroy us? Have you come to destroy us? Is it time already? I mean we've only been down here about four thousand years and We we thought we had more time. What what are you doing here? Have you come to destroy us? Is our time up? Is the gig up? Are you about to destroy us? And and uh what what what what's going on here? They're they're in a panic here. He cries out, he's in a panic They're horrified by the presence of Christ. For we read in 2 Peter 2, the angel has sinned are reserved on to judgment. They know their day is approaching. And so they, as it says in James 219, the devils believe that judgment is coming. The devils believe that Christ is God, that He is a judge of all the earth. They believe and they tremble. At the coming of judgment day. Wow Sometimes we wonder if we ever run into someone that's possessed or obsessed by a demon. You talk to psychiatrists and doctors, and they'll tell you they've got people they have to put in padded cells. They tell you they got people out there that speaking gibberish they don't understand. Uh they they're out there running against the padded cells. Uh people call them insane, but maybe they're just infested with a demon sometimes. And even the ungodly psychiatrist will say some things we can't explain. It's like paranormal. They've got such strength. We had a grandmother, I think she was ninety two. I forget how how old she lived 87 in a wheelchair and she was at Shepherd Pratt and had to put her in a padded cell. And we talked to her about the Lord Jesus Christ. And we said, Grandma, you haven't got much time left, and you know Jesus paid for your sins. And she said in a guttural voice we'd never heard, I pay for my own sins. Nikes. We came in the next day and they had her in a wheelchair and and uh we asked how the night had been and they said well she had beat up five attendants at Shepard Pratt. She bit one, punched another, threw hot coffee at a third one, kicked another one. She took on five attendants. Four or five attendants is Shepherd Pratt and they said She just is uncanny how quick she can move and how strong she was and how she caught us off guard. And we said, Well, did you have her on a stenatip? He said, We had her on a stereotyp, could have put out a horse when she did all of that And they said they're gonna try something different. And they did. And they called us the next day and said grandma had died. That's how close she was We need to talk about it. We need to know that these demons are real. Christ ran into a demon that all he wanted to do was cut himself. He was running the cemetery, cutting himself on the stones. They would put shackles and chains on him, and it said he could pluck them off. It wasn't like Samson, boom, you know, or Elysis in the movies. He would just, this man infested with demons, he would just pluck them off. The change And the shackles. Tremendous strength of those possessed of demons. People you talk to police officers, they go to arrest somebody. sometimes and they're on a drug or at least they suspect they are. They shoot 'em with a stun gun. Doesn't affect 'em. They'll shoot 'em with two stun guns. Three sun guns doesn't affect them. People say, why did you shoot my my son, my my little boy? 39 years old, long police record like this Why did you shoot him? Just tell him to drop the knife. He was coming. Shoot him with a stun gun. A stun gun doesn't normally stop people You can't take the chance when a guy's charged you. He's 25 feet away, and you shoot him with a stun gun, and now he's six feet away, and your partner shoots him with another stun gun. In fact, sometimes they'll shoot a man like that seven and eight times, and it doesn't stop them. And the autopsy will show bullets went right through the heart and it didn't stop them. If you're a hunter, you know that you can shoot a a water buffalo or you can even shoot a uh a deer sometimes and he'll run for a hundred yards and the bullet went right to the heart. There's such a thing as demonic possession that gives people superhuman strength, gives them bizarre behavior, cutting themselves. We have there's a people today, a group of punk rock And they slash themselves all over with razors and knives, cutting themselves. You have to wonder, we look at punk rockers. The scripture says that of those who are possessed, and of those on the dark side, they love death And you see some of these punk rockers, they look like Death Walking. They they they almost revere the zombie movies that are out there, all of this stuff. And you wonder about it Are we looking at and are we envisioning and we don't want to tattoo everyone with the term uh demonic possession? But it's out there You see people practicing cannibalism in the United States, killing and eating their victims? I mean really this is bizarre stuff They say that they heard them say, I think it was yesterday, if we could just put 10,000 more cops in the streets of Baltimore, we could take care of all of this. It doesn't take too many demon-infest individuals to take care of 10,000 cops, I'll tell you that If an angel can take about take care of 186,000 Assyrians in one night and kill all of them, what could one demon do in Baltimore City? You know, I don't think we have to have one demon for every individual. We just have to have one demon who can move about as fast as the He can probably cover Baltimore and Chicago in one night We don't need more cops. We need more Bibles, more chaplains, more Bible-believing churches. That would really help Baltimore. 10,000 churches in Baltimore City. Wow, that would straighten out Baltimore. And it wouldn't cost the city a dime. Need to start sending missionaries to America. The devils, James 2 and 19, they tremble. They believe and they tremble at the judgment's coming. It is insane that a man laughs at the certainty of judgment Which scripture describes. How insane is it to laugh about something that the Bible says is coming? The angels don't laugh about it. They tremble. They're petrified. They're mortified. They're horrified. And then the typical man laughs about it. This demon continues speaking here, and he says in verse 24, I know thee who thou art. You are the holy one of God. This unclean spirit or devil, he acknowledges that Christ is the Holy One. And when he says you are the Holy One, he doesn't say you're one of the holies. He said, You're the Holy One. There's only one Holy One. God, who reigns in the heavens, the triune Godhead. God is the only holy one. And he sees in Christ God manifested in the flesh. He sees him as God incarnate. He sees Christ Jesus the carpenter from Nazareth. He sees him as God come down in the flesh. Emmanuel God with us. He said, Thou art the Holy One. And how many holy ones are there? There's only one holy one. And this demon recognizes who Christ is. I have to ask you, think of it, these radical, liberal uh college professors with their doctors, they mocked the scriptures They deny the existence of Christ. They deny the deity of Christ, that He is a holy one. I want you to think about this. When you hear someone say that, and it's not only the the the professors in colleges, but the liberals out there The atheists, the agnostics, the scientific scholars that are out there, the media moguls, they all think, well, did Jesus really exist or not? Was he the Holy One or not? Of course he wasn't the Holy One. Of course he wasn't God. Of course he didn't do miracles. When they start talking like that They have less theological insight than an unclean spirit. I mean think about that. The professors who grade your paper or determined your next promotion has less theological insight than an unclean demon, devil, or spirit. Yet we send our children to the schools where some of these people rant and rave against Christ. Why should we trust the words of anyone whose thought process and lifestyle is in sync with an unclean spirit? I mean we're trusting our children with those who are in sync with an unclean spirit. We note by their lifestyles how they live and what they promote and what they're protesting and they're carrying they're carrying these plaques and you read the words up there and you say, whoa, that's horrible what's on that sign. And you and they'll interview them and say, I I see you're out here protesting uh you're you're for abortion or or some other you know Yes I am. And and uh where do you work? Do you work here? Do you live in Baltimore? Yes I do. Well well I'm a professor at Towson You know, you see, they're in sync with the unclean spirits. They want to sell body parts to the babies. In sync with the unclean spirits They want to mutilate their bodies, they want the military to pay for surgeries so that the man can be a woman the next day. Unclean spirits. In sync with him. Christ was here and he says, Thou art the Holy One. And Christ, Christ is not interested in what the devil has to say. Even if it includes some truth. You know that? He is not interested in what the devil has to say. He says, Thou art the holy one. This is true. But I'm not interested in hearing you preach the gospel. I don't want you to preach the gospel Truth from an unclean spirit is only going to muddy the waters. Truth from an unclean spirit is only going to mangle the minds of the listeners. Truth from an unclean spirit, people won't know what to believe about the gospel of Christ if the unclean spirits are allowed to preach the gospel And so he says, thou art the Holy One. And Christ says to him, silence. Hold thy peace. I don't need the help of Satan's crowd to promote the gospel. And furthermore, we don't need Hollywood today to promote the gospel either do we. I wish I had time to go through all the steps I think the heat has simmered down a bit, but when Mel Gibson put out that movie years ago, uh Star with a P, what was it? Passover. I didn't see Passion of Christ. I didn't see it. But I'm gonna tell you, it muddied the waters. It taught that Mary Magdalene was a prostitute. She was not. She had seven demons in her. You you think that these movies Jesus Christ Superstar. I saw that one It taught that Jewish Iscariot got saved, went to heaven, gave him a set of wings, he became an angel. That's Jesus Christ's superstar. God spell. Huh. I don't know how you ever saw that. I couldn't get through that one because the angels in heaven were all women and they were dressed like harlots. That's muddying the gospel. That's mangling the mind. They don't know what's true about heaven. You have to be careful what Hollywood puts out. Actually Hollywood didn't put out the Mel Gibson movie, did he? Good thing it would have been way, way worse if Hollywood had done it. Hollywood. Hollywood was originally called Hollywood. Holywood. And then they changed it to they didn't like the word holy and they're not holy. Those movies that come out of Hollywood. But that was a the it was originally called Holywood. So Christ says to this demon, this unclean spirit, be silent, hold your peace. He muzzles him and come out of him, he says in verse 26. And the unclean spirit had torn him. And and tossed him out. Now Luke 4, verse 35. We might want to look at that later on today. He did not hurt the man. He tore himself out and threw the man down, but the man was not hurt, because Christ had come out of him And the man was not hurt. All right? But he tells him to come out, and he cries with a loud voice, and he came out of him. The devil hates to part with his possession. Don't you hate to part with your possessions? Someone comes up with a gun or robs you and takes your wallet, your credit card. You hate to part with your possessions, right? The demons hate to part with those flesh and blood individuals that they have possessed. They hate it. And so here he is, he's crying with a loud voice. Probably shouting, no, no, no, as he goes out of him. They're not able to resist the Lord Jesus Christ's commands. They will immediately obey the Lord Jesus Christ. Though they are unwilling to do so, they will obey. They must obey. These unclean spirits have no free will at all. When Satan wants to have fun with Job and torment Job, he he goes up to heaven, he comes to the Lord, and he says Uh have you uh God says, Have you considered my man Job? And Satan says, Oh yeah, I've been seeing him. Where'd you see him? I've been going north and south and east and west. I've been watching Job. Yeah, he he sure praises you, God, because you just you treat him so good. And God says, Well, go ahead. What do you want to do to him? You can do it. And he releases Satan for a time. But you see, Satan had to give permission, and then God told Satan what he could do and he couldn't do. He said, He can't touch his life. And we know he got boils and and uh destroyed his had his sheep and cattle and camel all stolen. Horrible things happened to Job But only with the permission of God. These evil, unclean spirits and demons and devils, they have not got free will. This might bother you a little bit. These are creatures, right? These are a set of creatures that do not have a free will. You can't see them, but they don't have a free will. In fact, since Adam and Eve sinned in the garden and fell, no creature, and your creatures, God created you, none of us have free will. We're either in bondage to the God of this world, Satan, or bondservants of Christ. But we're never free. Now being a bondservant to Christ, it feels like freedom. But being a bond in bondage to the dark side of Satan, there's no liberty at all. And they did what Christ told them to do because the They he made them willing in the day of his power to do so. They had to obey. Just as Lazarus come forth, John 11, 43, Lazarus laying in the tomb, he's been dead for four days, his body already stinketh, and Christ commands Come forth, and just like the unclean spirit, when Christ said, Come out of him, come forth. The unclean spirit came, and the dead man Lazarus, he came too. What kind of will did Lazarus have to come forth? None. But he came. When Christ calls his sheep, and he calls them by name, he knows them by name, they come. That's what we call the effectual call. This possessed man, I want you to note how much did he have to do with his I mean he's out walking around, he's going to the synagogue, he seems to have a lot of liberty, he seems to have a lot of free will. He's just walking about, but he is possessed with a demon. An unclean spirit. And now all of a sudden he is cleansed and delivered. And he's a saved man. But how much did this possessment have to do with his deliverance and his salvation? You take a look at the story. Go back later today and read it. It doesn't say he had any faith. It doesn't say he offered up any prayer. It doesn't say uh he had any free will. He was in bondage. The only thing you read about this man is the resistance on display. Let me alone. Let me alone. Let me alone. That's the only thing you hear from this man's mouth. He has no free will, he has no interest in Christ being there. He has no He offers no prayer, He has no faith, He has no will, nothing, even bondage There is nothing anyone ever contributes to their deliverance unto salvation. There's nothing anyone ever contributes to their deliverance from darkness It says Christ came into the world and it was dark and he he was the light and the darkness, some of them saw the light, but if you haven't seen the light and you're still in darkness, you have nothing to do with getting out of the darkness It's the mercy of God. It's the abundant mercy of God if He calls you by name out of darkness. The people that sat in darkness had seen a great light. But there may be someone sitting here this morning you haven't seen the great light. Christ is the light of the world. You're still in darkness. Now if you're sitting here thinking, eh, I don't care. You're in darkness. I've heard this all before. You're in darkness And if you're one of those I've heard before, yeah, yeah, yeah, I got it, I got it, okay. Uh someday I'll do I'll I'll make a profession. Someday I'll I want you to know this right now. If you're in darkness this morning, Hope for you. Christ threw out the unclean spirit, then he can still do it. If you're in darkness, he can still throw that unclean demon out of you and make you free and deliver you and give you salvation. He even came for the chief of sinners, Saul of Tarsus. And what did he say when he was on the road to Damascus? Paul said, Lord, what would you have me to do? Paul didn't say, well, now that I've been saved, I guess I'm going to go off To Damascus, or I'm gonna go back down to Jerusalem. No, he says, Lord, what would you have me to do? Paul has been in bondage to sin, and now he's a bondservant of Christ And he says, Lord, what would you have me to do? I don't want to do anything you don't want me to do. I want to do your will, Lord. We pray in the Lord's Prayer. Thy will be done You see, we don't ask for our will to be done. We want God's will to be done. And Paul in the road to Masses, he is freshly saved. He's a born-again, blood-washed, baby Christian, and yet he says, Lord, what would you have me to do? I don't know what to do, and I don't want to do anything. It's wrong. I don't want my own free will. I want to do your will, Lord. What would you have me to do? Now, in the synagogue, verse twenty-seven, they were all amazed They probably had had some experience with this unclean spirit, with this individual. They probably sat there in the synagogue every Sabbath day said, oh boy Here comes Rodney again. Oh man, what's he gonna do this time? He's always jumping up and shouting, throwing chairs, disturbing the congregation. The rabbi can't get halfway through his message Here he comes again. They probably all knew him. And all of us said he's no longer insane. He's he's not he's he's not out of his mind anymore And they hear this voice come out of Radi, which they've probably heard before. And now it's gone. And they're amazed insomuch that they question among themselves, saying, What thing is this? What new teaching or doctrine is this? With authority commands that even unclean spirits and they obey him And if we read on verses 32 and 34, we find that Christ tossed out more unclean spirits in Capernaum. This is just the first one he tossed out. And yet in Calpernium, as amazed as they are, they never conclude. Most of them, that Jesus of Nazareth was the Savior, the Messiah. They never conclude that He was the Emmanuel, God with us, God in the flesh We read of that in 1 Timothy 3. 16, Romans 9. 6, Acts 20, 28, that Christ is God in the flesh. They do believe he's the teacher come from God And they also believe he's no ordinary rabbi. Wow. But not the redeemer of lost souls. Just they don't see that. But because he's no ordinary rabbi, they think that he's worth talking about. And so it says in verse 28: Amelia's fame spread abroad throughout all the regions round about Galilee. You have to ask yourself, okay, the Lord leaves Calpurnium and his fame spreads all over. Where did the unclean spirit go? Where do the unclean devils go when Christ tossed them out? He tossed out many of them. They're in Calpurdium, not just there in the synagogue. Where do they go? They don't die. Angels don't die. Fallen angels don't die. The elect angels don't die. The the evil angels, the evil spirits, they don't die. They've been around since creation. Thousands of years they've been around. They don't die. They don't sleep. They don't retire. They don't take a break. They don't go on vacation. So where do they go? They want to continue to harass people, oppress people, and possess them if they can. And if you open yourself up to the dark side, if you're wearing a t-shirt, looking for the dark side, you will be the first person To know that they really exist among all your friends. You'll know that the evil spirits around you when you run to people who make evil excuses for their dirty decisions. An unclean spirit will encourage you to make evil excuses for your dirty decisions and the filthy offenses And when you look around society today, you look at the filthy offenses that are being embraced by our society, and you have to be sure that the unclean spirits are surely in the mix somewhere. They say, let us alone. You know, let us alone and we'll take this man to the synagogue every Sabbath day. Let us alone, we'll bring others to the synagogue every Sabbath day. Let us alone, yeah, we'll let you alone, but you won't let them alone. We'll let you alone, Christ should say, but you won't let others alone. No, we're not gonna let you alone. You come out of them. You think about the filthy offenses in our society today, the Holocaust victims over in Germany, how they made lampshades out of the skins of the people they executed. They weren't all Jews Some of them were Protestants, some of them were gypsies, but they made lambshades out of their skin. That that's a horrible thing. When you look at the uprising of the Mama's in my day back in the sixties where they they killed a man and cut his heart out while he was still beating and eating I mean you don't think there's evil spirits still in this day? Oh there's no devils. You just look around, you watch the news tonight. My goodness, you've got to believe in the stuff that's going on, the offenses When you see the evil excuses and the dirty decisions, the filthy offenses embraced by society embraced by society, how can you not think that these demons that Christ cast out are still pretty busy Looking for a new location, moving up in the world, bigger house. This guy in the synagogue. Yeah, okay. Now let me get a member of parliament, a member of the Senate of the Congress moving up, bigger house. More influence. We live in a world where selling baby parts, slave markets over there in their Muslim lands. We live in a society where the demonic movement is growing, and I believe because they know that the time is near. It's getting closer to the second coming of Christ. actively trying to get as much done, as much damage as they can. It is in our best interest this morning to come to Christ who has the power over the Unclean spirits. Let me say that again. It is in your best interest to come to Christ who has power over the unclean spirits. The fame of Christ doesn't appear to be spreading so much right now, does it So here's the important question to ask yourself. If the fame of Christ isn't spreading so much, has Christ's fame at least spread to the inner part of your heart? There's hope if the fame of Christ is in your heart. No hope for the world as we see it, but there's hope for And someone here on the dark side, there's hope for you too. Hope your friends are praying for you. Because if they're not praying to Christ You haven't got a prayer because you can't pray for you. Is there the fame of Christ in your heart? Let's pray. Father, we thank you this day. Not that there are demons in the world, but that Christ can cast them out. Not that there are unclean creatures in the world, but that it might make us appreciate more our salvation. Oh Lord, this story is one of many, many in the Old and New Testament that we would not be ignorant of the wiles of the devil, of the device of the devil. We can't see him. But like the wind, he's just as real and can do as much damage or more than any tornado. He can destroy souls. The wind only destroys trees and barns. Barns and trailer houses. Oh Father, open our eyes. Open some of the eyes who may be hedging and edging towards the dark side to come back to the fame of Christ. And it's a In his name, for his glory, we pray. Amen. Amen