Gracious Father, it is so good to be together. Lord, indeed, by this shall all men know that you are my disciples, that you have love one to another. And Father, this is such a joyous gathering of your people. It is such a blessing on Saturday afternoon to think and to anticipate, ah, tomorrow we will be together We thank you for that. Father, this day, may you indeed clear our hearts and minds from all that would distract. And Father, may we glory in thy word and rejoice in thy truth. May we find the promises of thy word and the admonitions of thy word to be precious to our hearts. O Father, bless, encourage, and rebuke us this day. And Father, we thank you that you are purifying to yourself a glorious church without spot and without wrinkle. Lord, we look at our own hearts and our lives and we see a lot of spots and wrinkles. But we rejoice that when God the Father sees us, he sees us through the righteousness of Christ. And sees us as spotless. And Lord, we rejoice that the day will come in glory when all the spots and wrinkles indeed will be removed from thy church. And we will be righteous because we are found in him who is righteous. Lord, what glorious truths they are, these are. Bless them to our hearts this day. In Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. I'm taking our call to worship this morning from Psalm fifty and verse twenty-three, and this will also be one of the key verses for our message from the Word this morning. Whoso offereth praise glorifieth me, and to him that ordereth his conversation aright will I show the salvation of God. Good morning. Return to our opening song in our blue songbook. It's number fifty, Praise to the Lord the Almighty. Familiar tune. Back from the 1600s. Praise to the Lord the Almighty, King of Creation. Number 50 in your songbook. And we sing all five stances. Lord meighty the king of creation. Oh my soul praise and for the Salvation for evil here now to his temple from me join me. In flat operation raised to the Lord who will all take so wonderfully raised. Shelters be under his wings yet, so gently sustainable. Explain how these are in what we are dangerous. Praise the Lord for the roster, I would be surely. Under what the old mighty will do. Praise thou no more with our love as a blessed one. I've done it wrongly. Praise to one Lord only all that is in me. All that has And breath come now with praises people. Let me a man's people. Amen. Amen. Glorious to him. Please be seated. You brother Antonio. Good morning. Please turn to the back of your bulletins. This morning we're looking at portion B. of the 18th article of the Belgic Confession. This is again regarding the incarnation of Jesus Christ. And pay attention, if you would, while we read today, this there's a good number of promises that are directly from Scripture that point out that Christ verily did come in the flesh. Christian, in what do you believe? Therefore we confess in opposition to the heresy of the Anabaptists, who deny that Christ assumed human flesh of his mother That Christ is become a partaker of the flesh and blood of the children, that he is a fruit of the loings of David after the flesh Made of the seed of David, according to the flesh, a fruit of the womb of the Virgin Mary, made of a woman, a branch of David, a shoot of the root of Jesse. Strung from the tribe of Judah, descended from the Jews according to the flesh of the seed of Abraham. Since he took on him the seed of Abraham, and became like unto his brethren in all things and accepted So that if he truth he is our Emmanuel, that is to say, God with us. Amen. This portion of the eighteenth article, masterfully, persuades us that Christ did indeed indwell human nature. when he uh took on that that season of the incarnation. He truly did become uh part of human flesh. He took on human flesh. Today the language is common that Jesus Christ is the God-man. That's a pretty common thing to say. In Christian circles, Christ is the God-man. He's truly God, and at the same time he's truly man But it does take some laboring in the scriptures to come to uh a good understanding of that position, a a good explanation, a good way to phrase that language. You know, theologians had to wrestle with the idea of who is Christ exactly for centuries until they could praise it well and put it out well. And the difficulty is, if Christ is truly man, then how is it that he would be without sin? Since all men are sinners, and yet we hear of Christ that he's the sinless one, that he's the spotless lamb. Even men have inherited sin from Adam, the first man who had fallen and passed down sin unto all men. So how was it that Christ was without sin? Well, we understand that he was conceived by the Holy Ghost in Mary's womb. And therefore He wasn't brought forth in sin. He didn't have the sin inherited from a father, but he did truly have real flesh. It's a difficult thing to consider, but it is there. The scripture does point it out correctly. It says it says, it's great as the mystery of godliness. God was manifest in the flesh. It's a difficult thing, but the scripture does pour does point out that truly Jesus Christ is God, and at the same time when he came as a man, he is truly man as well. The Anabaptists at that time, that's uh the what the confession opposes, they had one point that's wrong in their theology, one point that's wrong in their understanding. And uh They took it a little too far to say that Christ didn't come in the human flesh at all, but he came in a celestial body. Yes, he came through Mary's womb, but he had a heavenly body. He wasn't really man, and that's the only way it could be possible that he didn't sin, that he wasn't sinful They took it a little bit too far. I understand that they were trying to point to Christ's perfection, but this article points out no, verily he did really come in the flesh. The language from the theologians of the Anabaptists says that Christ was born out of Mary's flesh and not from it, that he just came out of it, but he was really a heavenly body, but that's not the case. And so um the 18th article provides a plethora of verses refuting that point And uh it's it's helpful to really track these and I do encourage you to actually look up the verses to see, yep, this is this is true. This is what the Bible is really pointing out. The the the lineage through which Christ came, it was so important that he came through the seed of Abraham, through Judah, through Jesse, through David, and even that he was of the fruit of Mary's womb, pointing to his human nature as he came to the earth. But I think the most compelling passage is in Hebrews chapter 2, verses 14 through 18. I'll just read you some portions of it. But listen how clearly it points out and how important it is that Christ really did take on human flesh. Hebrews two fourteen says, For as much then as the children are partakers of flesh and blood, just like we have flesh and blood He also himself likewise took part of the same. It's kind of hard to get around that. In verse 16, same same uh chapter. For verily he took not on him the nature of angels didn't have an angelic body, but he took on him the seed of Abraham, wherefore in all things that behooved him to be made like unto his brethren. So he was just like his brethren, those that he came to reconcile, that he might be a merciful and faithful high priest in things pertaining to God, to make reconciliation for the sins of the people For in that he himself hath suffered being tempted. He as well went through these trials, these temptations that a man faces, and yet he did not fail once It says, uh, for that it in that he himself hath suffered being tempted, he is able to succor them that are tempted. He is able to rescue, he's able to strengthen those that are tempted. It was important. That was a very important part of his ministry that he would actually take upon human flesh, that same one that he came to reconcile. So may God help us to grow in our understanding of Christ, understanding of what uh the Scriptures points out about him, even as it's commanded in the Scriptures, for us to grow in grace and in the knowledge of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. To him be glory both now and forever. Amen. Amen. Thank you, brother. We are, as I've said many times before, very blessed here at Mission Bible to have a uh multitude of counselors and a multitude of expositions. Uh if you are Not here for Sunday school, you you miss the beginning. If you don't listen during the uh uh confessional reading, you miss the middle. And then Lord willing we'll have more as as the Spirit of God directs later. So we're very, very blessed. Thank you, brother, for the exhortation. I have a lot to be praying for. Um The brother of our dear sister in Alabama passed away rather suddenly, unexpectedly, this week, and so we need to be in prayer for them. And then our our sister in Wisconsin has a sister who is is very near to death. So we need to be in prayer for them as well. Let us go to prayer at this time. Gracious Father. Lord we thank you that you are the God of our strength, you are the God of our song, and you are the God of our comfort And Lord, as was admonished to us during the prayer request on Wednesday night, Lord, we do pray for the widows among us, Father, that you would be very dear to them, that you would comfort their hearts That they would know your presence in their lonely hours, Lord, that they would find in thee One that is is the true husband of the church, the true husband of their soul, even though their help meet here on earth is departed. Father bless them and give them comfort Lord, we do pray for our dear sister in Alabama, whose brother has passed away. Lord, we pray that you would strengthen and comfort there and our brother in Arizona as well. Father, be very, very dear to them at this very tender time. And then, Father, we thank you for your healing hand upon our sister there in Wisconsin and pray for her sister. who to all appearances does not know the Lord. Father, we pray that even now a word spoken, though she does not seem to be cognizant of what is happening around her Lord, may a word spoken find root in her heart and spring up into everlasting life. Father, work your perfect will in that situation, we pray. Father, we do pray for the health of our congregation. We see chairs that are empty, seats that are empty today. And Lord, we understand why. And we know that we live in these bodies that though redeemed, though we our souls are redeemed by the grace of Christ, yet our bodies still live under the effects of the fall. And we suffer pain, we suffer sickness. And Lord, we pray that you would give us grace to endure that which you ordained for us to endure. And Father, we pray for the healing of thy people. And Lord, we read in thy word, the prayer of faith shall save the sick. And Lord, we pray that in absolute faith, knowing that there is no illness of these bodies which you are unable to heal. Father, I pray for my mother-in-law, who will be having a procedure really rather complicated on Wednesday. Father, may you bless and help there. Lord, we pray in particular for uh the the the wife of our dear pastor emeritus, who is not with us today. And Lord, uh we we long to see her here And yet fully understand the reasons why she is unable to attend most of the time. Lord, another of our sisters is not with us today. And Lord, we we pray for these. Lord, you are able. Father, we do pray for the unsaved loved ones of this congregation, and we pray for those that have shown signs of grace and yet today are wandering. And today are being carried about by every wind of doctrine and the slight and cunning of man. Father, may you rescue them from false doctrine. May you draw them to a true living faith in Christ, and may they show evidence thereof. Father, we pray, Lord, that you would meet the daily bread needs of the congregation. Father, we do not pray for wealth. We do not pray for prosperity. But Lord, you have promised that you would supply all of our needs according to your riches and glory. And Lord, we know that your eye is on the sparrow. We know that you clothe the flowers of the field. And so, Father, we pray that you would provide for and clothe your people. Lord, that you would provide better employment for some That you would provide business coming in the door of their companies for others. Lord, that you would provide sales, Lord, that you would right financial wrongs Lord, that you would indeed open the windows of heaven and pour out a blessing upon your people. Father, we recognize that all that we have Is not ours to have. It is thine. And so, Father, we as individuals and we as a congregation seek that we might have to give, O Lord. That we might have resources placed within our trust, just as the talents were distributed by the Master before he went on a journey. We pray that you would put talents within our trust, that we might use them and multiply them and give them for the cause of Jesus Christ. Blessed in these things we pray. Father, we thank you that at this period in history, you have allowed the United States to exist. And Lord, we have been blessed to enjoy religious freedoms that most believers through the centuries have not known. Father, help us not to be negligent of these blessings, but may we truly cast our bread upon the waters. May we spread the seed of the gospel to the ends of the earth. Father, bless our leaders. Save them, O Lord, give them righteous judgment. Protect them from evil men, we pray. Father, we pray for our two young men that are in college. Lord, that you would help them, Lord, to do well in their classes, to learn well. May the above all seek thee in every subject, in every line. But Father, may you be with them and bless them and encourage them. Father, we have Several young single adults in our congregation. And Lord, we pray that in your perfect will and in your blessed time That you would bring to them godly mates who will be true helpmates. Bring to them godly spouses with whom they may seek the Lord together. and with whom they may establish godly Christian homes. Father, we pray for our young married couples That you would bless them with children, that you would bless their homes with spiritual food, that as they sit down to a meal, they may first feast upon thee. And they may have fellowship growing with one another because their fellowship is with Christ. Bless them, we pray, and may they establish godly homes. Father, we thank you for the senior saints of our congregation. Lord, we have those who have walked with thee many years. And O Lord, what a great blessing they are to us. What great wisdom in thy word and understanding they have to share. In fact, your word teaches that the older women are to teach the younger women. And so the older men are to be that testimony and that witness, that example to the younger. And Father, we thank you that in this small congregation, we have that wide range from those that are senior saints to the little children. We thank you, Father, for the children of this congregation. Lord, those that are with us here. Lord, we pray for the young children there in Alaska as well. O Father, may you save them, everyone. Oh God, we pray for our children and our grandchildren. May there not be a rebel among them, O God. May you reach their souls with the saving gospel of Christ. May they be found to have been chosen in Christ before the foundation of the world. And oh God, may you raise up a new generation to make up a hedge, to stand in the gap. Father, bless these things we pray Lord, there are sisters of this congregation that are in grave physical condition as well as spiritual. Father, bless and help there. There are sons in this congregation that do not know thee. We pray that you would save them. Lord, there are parents represented in this room, that though they have a form of godliness, yet they deny the power thereof. And Father, we would save them if we could, but we cannot. But we rejoice that Jesus Christ is come to seek and to save that which was lost. Oh Father, blessed to these ends we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. Please turn to Psalm 71 for our responsive reading this morning. Once you've located Psalm 71 in your Bibles, please rise. We'll read all twenty four verses of the seventy first Psalm. In thee, O Lord, do I put my trust. Let me never be put to confusion. Deliver me in thy righteousness. And cause me to escape, incline thy ear unto me, and save me. Be thou my strong habitation, whereunto I may continually resort. Thou hast given commandment to save me, for thou art my rock and my fortress. Deliver me, O my God, out of the hand of the wicked Out of the hands of the unrighteous and cruel man. For thou art my hope, O Lord God. Thou art my trust from my youth. By thee have I been holding up from the womb. Thou art he that took me out of my mother's bowels. My praise shall be continually of thee. I am as a wonder unto many But thou art my strong refuge. Let my mouth be filled with thy praise and with thy honor all the day. Cast me not off in the time of old age. Forsake me not when my strength faileth. For my enemies speak against me, and they that lay wait for my soul take counsel together. saying, God hath forsaken him. Persecute and take him, for there is none to deliver him. O God, be not far from me. O my God, make haste for my help. Let them be confounded and consumed that are adversaries to my soul. Let them be covered with reproach and dishonor that seek my hurt. But I will hope continually, and will give praise thee more and more. My mouth shall show forth thy righteousness and thy salvation all the day, for I know not the numbers thereof. I will go in the strength of the Lord thine. I will make mention of thy righteousness, even of thine only. O God, thou hast taught me from my youth. And hitherto have I declared thy wondrous works. Now also when I am old and grey headed, O God, forsake me not. Until I have shown thy strength under this generation and thy power to everyone that is to come. Thy righteousness also, O God, is very high Who hast done great things, O God, who is like unto thee? Thou which has showed me great and sore troubles. Shall quicken me again and shall bring me up again from the depths of the earth. Thou shalt increase my greatness and comfort me on every side. I will also praise thee with the psaltery, even to thy truth, O my God, unto thee will I sing with the harp. O thou holy one of Israel. My lips shall greatly rejoice when I sing unto thee, in my soul which thou hast redeemed, and altogether, my tongue also shall talk of thy righteousness all day long. For they are confounded. They are brought to shame that speak by hurt. May the Lord add a rich blessing to the reading and hearing of His Holy Word. Verse 22 spoke of praising him with the psaltery, and we have an opportunity to do that now. We turn to our psalter selection, number three. in your red songbook number three, an adaptation of song three. And the tune should be familiar. It's the tune of amazing grace. Psalm 3 in our red song book and we will conclude with the Amen. We sing all five stanzas. For the posing place, I can't be many words almost. When paying for help, we are his God relations. You are my shield and glory. I cry out more than broadness to I lay down sound and woke up where the Lord is me. If they we'll not be ten thousand men and friends are down the week. Save me by God to punish all my cause. There is break with your goals However Salvation is all alone. Oh, let your blessing. Thank you. Open in your Bibles with me this morning to the book of Ephesians and the second chapter. There's actually two texts listed in your bulletin, one from Ephesians and one from Psalm 50. And I believe your bulletin says verses 1 through 7, but I'm actually going to read verses 1 through 13 of Ephesians chapter 2. And then make reference to the passage in Psalm 50 as well. So if you have your place, first of all, in the book of Ephesians and the second chapter. New Testament book of Ephesians, chapter 2, and I begin reading with verse 1. And you hath he quickened who were dead in trespasses and sins, wherein in time past ye walked according to the course of this world According to the prince of the power of the air, the spirit that now worketh in the children of disobedience, among whom also we all had our conversation in time past in the lusts of our flesh, fulfilling the desires of the flesh and of the mind, and were by nature children of wrath, even as others But God, who is rich in mercy for his great love, wherein he loved us, even when we were dead in sins, hath quickened us together with Christ. By grace ye are saved. And hath raised us up together and made us sit together in heavenly places in Christ Jesus. That in the ages to come he might show the exceeding riches of his grace in his kindness toward us through Christ Jesus. For by grace are you saved through faith. And that not of yourselves, it is the gift of God, not of works, lest any man should boast. For we are his workmanship, created in Christ Jesus unto good works, which God hath before ordained that we should walk in them Wherefore remember that ye being in time past Gentiles in the flesh, who are called uncircumcision by that which is called the circumcision in the flesh made by hands, That at that time ye were without Christ, being aliens from the Commonwealth of Israel, and strangers from the covenants of promise. having no hope without God in the world. But now in Christ Jesus, ye who sometimes were far off, are made nigh by the blood. Hallelujah. Let us pray. Gracious Father, now we do pray that you would open our understanding to receive the glorious truths of thy word As we consider this matter of our conversation, Father, may you bless your word to our hearts in Jesus' name. Amen. Keep your finger there in Ephesians chapter 2 because we will be spending a lot of time there in those New Testament texts. But I'd also like to draw your attention to one verse in Psalm 50, Psalm 50, verse 23. It is the verse which I read for our call to worship this morning. And it reads thus. Whoso offereth praise glorifieth me, and to him that ordereth his conversation aright will I show the salvation of God. And again, if you notice in your bulletin this morning, the title of our message message is, Let's have a conversation And when we think of that term conversation in our modern-day English, we think about talking with someone. But the root of this word conversation means more than just Brother Vince and I talking about something. Rather, the conversation that is spoken of here in Scripture encompasses our whole manner of life. It is the way in which we conduct ourselves in this world. It is our testimony and it is the manifestation of our devotion to God. There are five different words in the original languages that are translated with this same concept of conversation in our English Bible. And though it's five different words, it all really means conversation. It's all the same meaning. It is the way in which we live. Of course, we read there in The Old Testament and Psalms, which would be back in the Hebrew and Aramaic, and now we read also of a conversation in the New Testament. With regard to that verse that I had that should be in front of you there in Psalm 50, the last part says, and to him that ordereth his conversation aright Will I show the salvation of God? To the man or the woman Who orders his life according to God's word, according to God's law. God says, I will show him the salvation of God. Now, obviously, it's not talking about some kind of work salvation. We understand that. That salvation is by grace. But I'd like to read to you The comment that Charles Spurgeon, the Prince of Preachers as we call him, had on this 23rd verse of Psalm 50. Mr. Spurgeon says holy living is the greatest evidence of salvation. Okay? There are some people that talk of good talk, but holy living is the greatest evidence of salvation, a holy conversation, a holy way of conducting and behaving yourself in this evil world. He continues. He who submits his whole way to divine guidance and is careful to honor God in his life Brings an offering which the Lord accepts through his dear son. And such a one shall be more and more instructed And made experimentally to know the Lord's salvation. He needs salvation. For the best ordering of a life cannot save. But that salvation he shall have. The best ordering of your life The best structuring of your character, the best control of your tongue, the best control of your temper, the best control of your hands, the best control of your mind will never save you. But the man who is controlled by the Spirit of God will have control of his tongue and his eyes and his mind and his hands, because the Spirit of God, which dwells within us, rules and reigns. And so it is indeed true that the one who orders his conversation aright, God shows him his salvation. God shows to that person the blessings of life. God shows to that person the blessings of testimony. God shows to that person that this world doesn't mean anything. But Jesus Christ means everything. And so indeed this old English word, conversation fits our manner of life very well because God speaks to us. And we speak with God and we live before the world in the Spirit of God. Ye are my witnesses. And so, with that introduction, I would like us to consider this matter of our conversation. I have six points But I promise you we won't be here till supper time. The first conversation, the first manner of life we find in Scripture to look at this morning is our former conversation. Our former conversation. And this is found in Ephesians chapter 2, where we read earlier. We read there that you would be quickened, verse 1, who are dead in trespasses and sins, verse 2, where in times past you walked according to the course of this world Verse three, among whom we all had our conversation in times past. So if you can testify the days when your conversation, when your manner of life was among the vilest of this world. And maybe you may have been the vilest of this world, and that was Paul's testimony, chiefest of sinners. There was a former conversation. There was a way you used to live. And Paul talks about those things whereof now we're ashamed. And I'm sure most of us, myself included, would be very ashamed to stand up and confess all the mischief. and the evil that we have gotten into. But isn't it a glorious truth? A glorious blessing? To sit here today and say, that's my former conversation. You see, because the Spirit of God has arrested your soul, and according to some 50 verse 23, you have ordered your conversation to write. God has showed you his salvation. God has delivered you from that former conversation The kids in Jamaica used to sing a little chorus. The things I used to do, don't do them anymore. There's been a great change since I've been born again. It's a former conversation. And if you look at that passage there in Ephesians In verse 1, who were dead. In verse 2, times past. Verse 3, in times past. Verse 7, that in the ages to come. Verse 11, in times past you were Gentiles. Verse 12, at that time. Here Paul is talking about a transition of time These things used to be, these things now are. Therefore, if any man be in Christ, he's a new creature. Old things Former conversation are passed away. Behold, all things are become new. And then again Paul talks about that sin and iniquity, that former conversation in Ephesians 4, verse 21 through 24. In verse 21 of Ephesians 4, Paul says, if so be that ye have heard him, and have been taught by him as the truth is in Jesus, that ye put off concerning the former conversation. the old man, which is corrupt according to the deceitful lust. And that ye be renewed in the spirit of your mind, and that ye put on the new man But not only have we been delivered from the former conversation of our old sinful nature, the way we used to live, the things we used to think, the things we used to enjoy. But we find also that this new conversation is a deliverance from the old conversation of self-righteousness and self-religion. And in Galatians chapter 1, verse 13, again Paul giving testimony. Paul says, For ye have heard of my conversation in time past in the Jewish religion. Paul said, you've heard about my former conversation, I lived as a Pharisee. I was self-righteous I was one who, Paul says, would stand on the corner and say, Oh, I thank God I'm not like him and not like him. And Paul was very convinced in his former conversation that everything was right between him and God. But Paul said, I have a new conversation. You know my former conversation. Paul says there in verse 14 of Galatians 1 that I profited in the Jewish religion. He was prosperous in false gospel. He was if you wanted to stack up good works, Paul could give you a pretty good stack of pancakes But none of it yielded righteousness. But when his light was ordered aright, God showed him his salvation. And again in 1 Peter 1, verse 18, for as much as ye know that ye were not redeemed with corruptible things as silver and gold, from your vain conversation Which you received by tradition from your fathers. Your vain conversation was received by tradition from your fathers. Oh, this is the religion our families always had. Well, we go to church over here because that's where our family goes to. I was born a Christian because I was born in a Christian nation All these trappings of religion that are nothing but rocks to trip you to hell. But you see, Paul learned that that former conversation, that trust in good works, that trust in religion was all gone. And now he was a new man in Christ. And so first of all, we have a former conversation. That's what we used to be. But hallelujah, the child of God should have a faithful conversation. A conversation that is filled with faith. A conversation that is according to the Word of God. And we find this in 1 Peter 1, starting in verse 13. Wherefore, gird up the loins of your mind. Be sober and hope to the end for the grace that is to be brought unto you at the revelation of Jesus Christ. As obedient children, not fastening yourselves according to the former lust in your ignorance, but as he which hath called you is holy So be ye holy in all manner of conversation, because it is written, Be holy, for I am holy. Ah, the child of God is to have a faithful conversation. We're to be holy in all manner of conversation. That's when the lights are on and when the lights are off. That's when your brethren are watching, and that's when no one sees. That's when you're at home with a believing family and when you're at work with unbelieving co-workers. All manner of holy conversation. And of course, this was the admonition that Paul gave to his young student Timothy in 1 Timothy 4 in verse 12. Let no man despise thy youth, but be thou an example of the believers in word, in conversation, in charity, in faith, and in purity. And again Philippians 1, verse 27. Only let your conversation be as it becomes the gospel of Jesus Christ, that whether I come unto you and see you or be absent I may hear of your affairs, of your way of life, of the things you do, the testimony you have. I may hear of your affairs, your conversation, that ye send, fast in one spirit. with one mind striving together for the faith of the gospel. So Paul in 2 Corinthians 1 and verse 12 gave this testimony. He says, For our rejoicing is this, the testimony of our conscience that in simplicity and godly sincerity, not with fleshly wisdom, but by the grace of God, we have had our conversation in the world. and more abundantly to you, Word. Paul said, I can rejoice that we had a conversation in this world. And in this world, we lived according to God's rule. And you Corinthian believers to who Paul is writing, you know our conversation. You know our testimony. Folks, what a glorious thing for your grandchildren to say, yeah, I know the conversation of my grandfather. I've been blessed to have very godly in-laws. And I know their conversation. And it's been consistent throughout. That they stand for truth, that they stand on the Word of God. And folks, we've been praying for believers abroad who today are suffering great persecution in in Nigeria and different countries And I read the testimony this week of those who were told to deny their faith or die. And their bodies died, but their spirits are with the Lord today. And they have joined those under the altar that cry, How long, how long, O Lord, strong and mighty. We are to have a conversation today. Not the former conversation, but the faithful conversation of the child of God. And folks, this is exciting to me. In 1 Timothy chapter 3 and verse 15, 1 Timothy 3 and verse 15, Paul is instructing young Timothy, and Paul says, if I tarry long That thou know may if I tarry long, that thou mayest know how thou oughtest to behave thyself in the house of God, which is the church of the living God, and the pillar and ground of the truth. And that phrase when cr there when Paul says to Timothy, how to behave thyself It's the Greek word for conversation. But you may know how to have your conversation, how to behave yourself in the Church of God. And of course we know the church of God is not a building of brick and mortar with a steeple The Church of God is not even this house that is so generously open for us to meet. The Church of God is these people sitting here. And Paul says to Timothy, that you may know how to behave yourself. That you may know how to have your conversation among the body of Christ, that you may have a faithful conversation. And folks, the third conversation is the fearful conversation. As the children of God, we're to have a fearful conversation. Oh, I'm not talking about going around trembling for the fear of man. I'm not talking about fearing because, oh no, the economy is getting bad. I'm not talking about fearing because there could be a nuclear missile. But rather, we're talking about living in the fear of God We should have a fearful conversation. And here again, I go back to 1 Peter chapter 1, and I read earlier there, but I'm going to start at 1 Peter 1 and verse 15. But as he which hath called you is holy, so be ye holy in all manner of conversation, because it is written, Be ye holy, for I am holy. And if ye call on the Father, who without respect of persons judges according to every man's work, pass the time of your sojourn here in fear Forasmuch as ye know that ye were not redeemed with corruptible things as silver and gold from your vain conversation received by tradition from your fathers. And I hope you have that passage open because if you look there at verse 17 Reading again, 1 Peter 1. 17, and if ye call on the Father who without respect of persons judgeth according to every man's work Pass the time of your sojourning here in fear. And folks, that little phrase, past the time, is the Greek word conversation. It's the word we're studying. In other words, have your conversation sojourning here in fear. Past the time is a very good translation that our King James translators gave us, but it's the same word as conversation. Folks We're to live our conversation in the fear of the righteousness of God. Oh Lord, this day, don't let me do what I did yesterday. Oh Lord, this day, don't let me speak the way I spoke yesterday. Oh Lord, this day may I reverence your word, may the reading of your word be important more important than the reading of the news. May my time and prayer be more important than doing this little thing over here or doing that little thing over there. May indeed I not just start my morning in prayer and then forget you the rest of the day, for I should be in prayer morning, evening, and at noon will I trial out. Folks, we know the former conversation is gone. And we're to live a faithful conversation before our brethren, but only we have a conversation, a manner of life that is lived in the fear of God. A fearful conversation. Folks, none of us would deliberately do something that would hurt or offend someone we love very, very dearly. But how often we are so casual about our relationship with the one who gave his own son to die for us. The fearful. The fearful conversation. But folks, I'm not done with the fearful conversation yet. Because we read in 2 Peter 2, verses 7 and 8. And delivered just lot, vexed with the filthy conversation of the wicked. Here was just Lot. He's called just Lot. And yet he hung around in Sodom. And his lingering in Sodom vexed his righteous soul. And he lost two of his daughters in Sodom. And his wife did not know devotion in the family enough not to turn back. Folks, no lot is called just Lot. I don't know that we can say that he lived a faithful conversation or that he lived a fearful conversation. We have an example of that failure. But there's more yet. For in Jude chapter 1, and there's only one chapter in Jude, but Jude 1 and verse 7 Even as Sodom and Gomorrah and the cities about them, in like manner giving themselves over to fornication and going after strange flesh are set forth as an example of suffering the vengeance of eternal fire. And folks, you know what that phrase like manner is? It's our same Greek word, conversation. Even as Sodom and Gomorrah and the cities about them in light conversation Giving themselves over. Folks, our King James translation is beautiful, but understanding where some of these words come from, it was their conversation that they gave themselves over to the wickedness around them. There is no fear of God before their eyes That word in like manner there in Jude one verse seven is the same word we find in Hebrews chapter 13 verse 5, let your conversation be without covetousness. And be content with such things as you have, for he hath said, I will never leave thee, nor forsake thee. Let your manner of life be without covetousness. How did Lot end up in Sodom? Do you remember Do you remember? Lot lifted up his eyes and he saw the well-watered plains of Sodom, and that's where he went Lot went to the dry wilderness. Abraham went to the dry wilderness. Lot went to the well-watered plains of Sodom. That was his conversation. A fearful conversation. Well, folks, there's even more. For we read there in 1 Peter chapter 1 Verse 17 And if ye call on the Father, who without respect of persons, judgeth every man according to his works, pass the time of your sojourn here in fear For as much as ye know that you were not redeemer of corruptible things from your vain conversation. Back in verse 17 If ye call on the Father, who without respect of persons judges every man according to his works, pass the time of your sojourning. Guess what that phrase pass the time is? Conversation. It's our same Greek word. If ye call on the Father without respect of person, judgeth every man according to his works, pass your conversation. Of your sojourning in fear. Folks, we should have a fearful, a fearful conversation. For we are all In the sight of God at all times, and we are all likely to fail. Let your conversation be is becometh the gospel. In 2 Corinthians 1 verse 2 or verse 12, I may have read this verse before, but for our rejoicing in it is this The testimony of our conscience that in all simplicity and godly sincerity, here, fear, there, godly sincerity, not with fleshly wisdom, but by the grace of God, we have had our conversation in the world. Number four Number four, we should have a fruitful conversation. Our manner of life should be Fruitful, I almost missed that one. Fearful conversation, I have former conversation, faithful conversation, fearful conversation, but then our fruitful conversation. And here I talk about our testimony, and I go to 1 Peter 3, verses 1 and 2. 1 Peter 3 verses 1 and 2. Likewise, you wives, be subject to your own husband that if any obey not in word, they also may without the word be won by the conversation of the wives. While they behold your chaste conversation coupled with fear. If you have an unbelieving husband, ladies If you have an unbelieving wife, men, if you have an unbelieving child, your conversation before them should be fruitful. It should be a conversation that is a constant testimony, both in word and deed, that Jesus Christ has come to seek and the Savior. And obviously, the husband is not saved simply because the wife is saved, but the wife living with her husband in godly fear, not living in a former conversation But living in a conversation that is a daily testimony, it'll be a fruitful conversation. And folks, our manner of life should be a witness at work Our manner of life should be a witness at home. Our manner of life, the very way we live, should be fruitful. It should be a fruitful conversation. I'd share with you before the little phrase the little phrase that I learned back in college, your walk talks and your talk talks, but your talk your walk talks louder than your talk talks. The things you d say, speak, the things you do, speak, but the things you do speak a lot louder than what you say Talk is cheap. But folks, this is a fruitful conversation. And again, Philippians 1 verse 27 Let our conversation be as becometh the gospel of Christ. Our conversation be as becometh the gospel of Christ. that our conversation may adorn the gospel of Christ. And so that is the fourth one, a fruitful conversation. But folks, remember back there when we read in Psalm 5023 And it said that the one that orders the conversation conversation are right, I will show him the salvation of God. Folks If you have a faithful conversation and a fearful conversation and a fruitful conversation, you will also have a fulfilling conversation. Great peace have they that love thy law, and nothing shall offend them. Folks, the children of God should be the most peaceful, happy people in the world. Oh, we don't have the world's goods, and frankly, don't want them. But we have Christ, and what more do we need? And we find this in 1 Peter 3, verses 12 to 16. For the eyes of the Lord, 1 Peter 3, verse 12, for the eyes of the Lord are over the righteous, and his ear is open to their prayer But the face of the Lord is against them that do evil. Which side do you want to be on? Verse 13. And who is he that will harm you? What are we afraid of? Our faith is in the Lord. Faith isn't enough anything else. Our faith is in the Lord. Who is he that will harm you if you be followers of that which is good? But if ye suffer for righteousness' sake, happy are ye, and be not afraid of their terror Neither be thou troubled we're in first Peter three verse fifteen now, but sanctify the Lord in your hearts, and be ready always to give an answer to every man that asketh you a reason of the hope that is in you with meekness and fear Having a good conscience, that whereas they speak evil of you as evildoers, they may be ashamed that falsely accuse your good conversation in Christ. Huh. Folks, that that's a fulfilling conversation. Who is he that's going to harm you? Well, you know, to live as Christ to die is gained, so if you harm my body, you really haven't harmed anything. You've helped me. What what is there that I lack? The eyes of the Lord are on the righteous, and his ears are open to a cry. Just as we hear the cry of a baby and we feed them, so God hears the cry of his people and he feeds us, he clothes us, he houses us. Oh, they may make accusation against our conversation, but this conversation is fruitful. And then again, in Hebrews 13 and verse 5, let your conversation be without covetousness. And be content with such things as ye have. For he has said, I will never leave thee nor forsake thee. Folks, that is a fulfilled conversation. That's a life that is just okay, Lord. Enough is enough. You supply my needs. What more do I need? Second Thessalonians three and verse sixteen. Second Thessalonians three and verse sixteen. Now the Lord of peace himself Give you peace always by all means. The Lord be with you all. Let me read it to you again, and then I'll expound on it Now the Lord of peace himself give you peace always by all means. You know what that phrase by all means is? It's the Greek conversation. It's the same concept that we're studying. And so we can read that verse. Now the Lord of peace himself give you peace always by all conversation. By your whole manner of life, by everything that you face day by day, it's a fulfilling conversation But then folks to wrap it up quickly, it's a future conversation. It does not end here. It's a conversation that continues. Hebrews 13, verse 7 and 8. Remember them which have the rule over you, who have spoken unto you the word of God. Whose faith following follow, considering the end of their conversation. Jesus Christ, the same, yesterday, today, and forever. Here, while the writer of Hebrews is Urging the believers to consider those, to remember those that have the rule over them, remember those who have labored among them in the gospel. He says, consider their conversation Consider the end of their conversation. Where is it leading? It is future. And you remember when I read there in Ephesians 2, I showed you the future and past. Future and past throughout the champ chapter. The end of their conversation. And that word end there is an interesting word. It's only found two times there in um uh Hebrews seven verse thirteen Sorry, Hebrews 13, verse 7, the end of their conversation. That word end in the Greek is only found two times. It's found there, and it is also found in 1 Corinthians chapter 10, verse 13. And folks again this is blue beautiful. There hath no temptation taken you, but such as is common to man, that God is faithful, who will not suffer you to be tempted above that you're able, but will with the temptation make A way of escape. And that word away is the word end. It's the same word that's only found two times. It's found there in Hebrews 13, 7, and it's found in 1 Corinthians 10, 13. He'll make a way of escape. He'll make a door of escape. He'll make a pathway of escape. He'll make a conversation of escape Folks, God has made a way for me to escape. Considering the end of their conversation, there is a way. Remember them which had the rule over you, who have spoken unto you the word of God. whose faith follow, considering the end of their conversation. Consider the pathway of their conversation. Consider those that have ministered to you in the gospel and the testimony. Have they had a faithful pathway? Had they had a fearful pathway. Considering where their pathway leads. The next verse there is Jesus Christ the same, yesterday, today, and forever. Consider the pathway of the just that leads to eternal life. Consider the pathway alone. That leads to escape from hell. Folks, let's have a conversation. Oh, I don't mean let's sit down and talk. I love sitting down and talking with you. Our time over lunch is pleasant, enjoyable. But folks, we've forsaken the fear of the former conversation. Let us have a faithful conversation, a fearful conversation, a fruitful conversation. Let us live faithfully for our God, for there indeed is a fulfilling conversation, and all leads to the future of eternal life. Let us stand for prayer. Oh Lord, we rejoice in the truth from Philippians chapter 3 and verse 20, for your conversation is in heaven. From which also we look for a Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ. Father, bless your word to our hearts today. Lord, may the former conversation truly be former in our lives. May our conversation day by day be faithful before thee. Use us for your glory. Mold us to your purpose. And oh Lord, we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Thank you, brother. Appreciate your labors in the word this week. It was very, very helpful and insightful. We turn to our closing hymn number 267 in your songbook. 267, O Word of God Incarnate. Another one from the music is from the 1600s, the words from the 1800s. 267, the word of God infinite, and we will sing all four stanzas. This is a very important thing. Unchanged, unchanging, oh life of the We praise thee for the rain that from the hell days a lantern. To our four steps, time taught from Hurts from her dear pastor received. And still I might see live for holy earth to shine. It is A golden casket where gems of truth are stored it is an Like the beacon of all the dark wounds. It is the short and compass that horizons. My church is savious I lap of your escorn to bear before thy nation's thy true I am As a gold, go to each thy wandering pilot, my best there patches, will not have Amen, amen. Please be seen.