Good morning. Good to see everybody here today. Our passage should be just kind of very familiar if you've heard uh things and teachings about Christianity for some time. It comes to us from Hebrews 10. 38, and it's the last two verses of that chapter And it reads like this, it says, Now the just shall live by faith. But if any man draw back, my soul shall have no pleasure in him. But we are not of them who draw back unto perdition, but of them that believe to the saving of the soul. Alright, so that's our two verses we're going to cover today. And as I sent out our discussion question, perhaps, and I'm pretty sure you have, you've heard this phrase, the lifestyle of the rich and famous. Right? That's kind of a po popular phrase. I think there might have even been a a movie or something about that, or or a program, TV program. I don't know. I didn't watch it. Now how do you imagine that these people would live What what's their lifestyle like that? Carefree. All right. They have a carefree lifestyle. What else is typical of their lifestyle? I don't think they live any better than we do. Oh. Okay. Because happiness is in your heart and in your head. And if you have that, what else do you need Yeah. God godliness with contentment is great games. What do you think when they say the lifestyle of the rich and famous, if they're gonna put these people on TV, is it gonna be people living in a humble home and you know they're just sitting there with a uh Yeah, lots of fences. Okay, so what what what what does the what is what what do these people surround themselves with We talk about people that are born with a silver spoon in their mouth, in other words everything is top quality, um expensive, opulent, um opulent. You know, they they don't drive uh Chevrolets, you know, they drive BMWs or Lexus and um they don't get their furniture from IKEA. Yeah, they're probably driving a Bentley or a Maserati and they probably have more than one. They have a chauffeur. They have a chauffeur. All right. Why bot yeah, why should I bother driving me around? I'm sorry, I didn't hear that. They own more than one house. They own more than one house. And the the latest and greatest. Always for them. The latest and greatest always for them. They're probably not shopping at a thrift store, I would imagine Lifestyle of the rich and famous. You from D. C. , you know what these people look like. What is that opulent lifestyle look like? What do these people, how do they live? In excess, that's a good definition. Yeah. Excess beyond what they need. Right. Okay. Their garbage has more value than our groceries? Okay. Yep. We would have we would be hanging around their garbage can hoping to fish out something of value. uh Branby Hills in California. They have actual mention with your warranty, you know. They they don't care. Right. Yeah, they may live in Beverly Hills, a very upscale famous place. Uh what is it like, uh Li Ying in other countries, say China? What do the rich and famous, what is their lifestyle like They don't hear the style for the uh luxury. It's more like a show off. In China our traditional culture tell you you have to hide The value of these or ads. You should address like ordinary people. You may have a secret uh mansion but it has to be outside of the big city. Yeah. So they at least have a a measure of feigned humility where they just keep it a little bit out of you, but here in America it's in your face. Okay, interesting observation. In in Jamaica there were huge mansions across the street from hobbles and shop and shacks with big gates to get in and private beach access. you know, and twenty four hour day security was hired, you know, so you no one could go through that gate except for the owners and those eight committed. So let me ask a follow-on question. So what do you think these people have to do to achieve this kind of a lifestyle? What do they have to do? They steal with fastest. Certainly fast is one big way of it, yeah. Somebody goes into a political office only making a hundred and twenty-five only paying a hundred and twenty-five thousand a year and they come out making with a $68 million net wealth. I'm quite sure it wasn't their wise investing. Alright, they they get it through theft. How what else do they have to achieve to uh what what do they have to do to get all that opulent lifestyle I don't mean to monopolize monopolize, but look in Jamaica you had some people that worked extremely hard and had come from poverty and had built uh built themselves up through wise investment and the hotel industry. Then you had other people who were drug dealers. Drug dealers, uh people who steal it by theft, people who just are exceptionally diligent in business and all three of those, there's probably something that's being sacrificed to get to that. What what is sacrificed? What does the government thief have to sacrifice to get to to to get to all that wealth His morals? His morals? His integrity? Yeah. That's thrown out the window. He doesn't care about that. Just give me excess. Give me money. What about the the the drug dealer? What does he have to sacrifice to get all that? Safety. Safety, boy, you hit the nail on the head on that one, boy, there. There's a that's a dangerous, dangerous lifestyle. Certainly sacrifice. What about the fellow who's just, you know, he's trying to do it honest and right, but he's super diligent. He's just very, very busy. What does he have to sacrifice? What's that then? His free time. Home life new or I was saying. Oh yeah, home life? Free time? But what else that's important to a Christian do you think he has to sacrifice? Are these people found in church every Sunday? More often than not, no. More often than not. Occasionally you find one. But more often than not, if you're going to be successful in business, you're working 120 hours a week And that Sunday morning rolls around and getting up to just go do something that's not going to put money in your bank or advance your business is out of kilter with their thinking. I don't know of any, I've been through probably a dozen to maybe twenty churches throughout my life. I have yet to meet somebody with that kind of lifestyle, with those kinds of riches, ever. Ever darken the stoop of a church. But not so much of the right church. Well, I was I was going to say that not our kind of church. Right. Yeah. W where there's some financial gain to be part of that group. Yeah, right. It's a it's a cultural or a financial church, right? Where there's some benefit to that Well, we're looking at the phrase today, and the one that's captivated me is this cornerstone phrase. I don't know if you realize it, but we're kind of down in the theological basement at the moment. We are looking at a massive pillar, a central bedrock that holds up everything the Bible has to teach about how to live righteously. Everything. It's held up by this phrase. It's right here. The just shall live by faith. It is a pillar in Scripture. It is a foundational teaching It is a fundamental key platform, and you cannot correctly understand the way of righteousness without this verse. It speaks totally contrary to everything you might Conjure up as a human being. All false religions deny and ignore this verse. They will not embrace it. It cannot be by faith It has to be by works, it has to be by diligence, it has to be by moral uprightness, it has to be in accordance with what so-and-so said in Africa, in Uzbekistan, in wherever. It is never the just shall live by faith. That is an alien concept to the human race because it places your justification outside of you. It in fact is the route to eternal life. You cannot have eternal life without this verse And to show the strength of it, our entire Western civilization came about because of this verse It's the the the great tree under which we currently reside, known as the West, has its roots deeply planted in this phrase that astounded a young Catholic monk In the 1500s, when he read this verse, the just shall live by faith. It was an earth-shattering Conclusion to him. He had absolutely not fully embraced it, and it has totally changed the course of human history. That's how big of a deal this verse is. It is cited as a proof text twice in the New Testament. And I've got them in your bulletin if you'd like to follow along. It's in Romans 1. 17, the Apostle Paul twice appealing to it as a proof for A theological assertion he makes. He said, therein, speaking of the gospel, therein is the righteousness of God revealed from faith to faith as it is written. The just shall live by faith. Paul didn't come up with this conclusion. He is building on something that had already been written, meaning it's in the Old Testament. Again, he writes to the Hebrews. But that uh he's to the Galatians, excuse me, not to the Hebrews, to the Galatians, but that no man is justified by the law in the sight of God, it is evident. Four, and that's an indication that this is an appeal to a previously written doctrine, the just shall live by faith You know, sometimes the phrase is all too familiar to us. We as conservative Christians, Bible-believing Christians, are very familiar with this phrase. If I were to just give you a few words of it, you would be able to fill in the blank. The just shall blank by faith. You would immediately pop in and say live. Or the just shall live by fill in the blank. You would immediately say by faith. And likewise, with any of the words in that phrase, you'd know it Sometimes familiarity though wears a little trench and it's helpful to take a fresh look and to maybe deepen and understand why it has such a large footprint uh when you have a foundational footer. Some of it can lie underneath the dirt. You see the part that's sticking up, but there's some other deeper parts below it that are also there. So what we're going to do is we're going to do a little bit of historical research to figure out who was the first one to say this. The first one to say this was a minor prophet in the 35th book of the Old Testament, the minor prophet of all people, Habakkuk. Habakkuk is practically never quoted by any modern preacher. Habakkuk, I don't even know if people could spell it. I had to look up the spelling of it. It's actually got three K's in it. It's two K's, U last K. People don't name their kids Habakkuk. They don't name streets after this individual. And yet this is a foundational person. I mean this is kind of like the George Washington doctrine, if you will, if I could use a um a a foundational name of Scripture. We find he's quoting uh from uh the Apostle Paul and or Penman to Hebrews, is quoting from Habakkuk 2. 4 And that's interesting to look at. We're going to spend a little time there. Habakkuk 2, 4. Behold, his soul, which is lifted up. is not upright in him, but the just shall live by his faith. So I think we can learn a great depth of meaning. I I I hope you to convey to you a little bit more depth of meaning. From some poking around I did. Something that is an easy layup for those of you who know basketball, you just walk up to it and talk. the basket and the hoop. An easy layup to understand something in scriptures is when the New Testament quotes the old. That is pure gold. It's pure gold for a couple of reasons. Number one, you've got God's commentary on that passage. So this is not you making it up, this is God making it up. Number two, God's leaving you a little trail to say, psst, go look at it. It is written. Number three, you're comparing two languages. You can now search out and tie all the Greek uses of that word to all the Hebrew uses of that word. So it is a safe comparison at a word level, at a phrase level, at a thought level, and you can it's a it's a tremendous bridge. And it's a strong and powerful way to understand the scriptures. When you see that phrase as it is written, do yourself a favor. Stop and go figure out where it's written. Now, hint. Sometimes. You'll see that phrase, but it's referring to a commonly understood and known teaching throughout the Old Testament. . . It may not be in any one verse For instance, it is written, He shall be a Nazarene. You're not going to find that particular phrase concerning the Lord Jesus and his birth city or his city of upbringing in the Old Testament. But here we have a direct quote. And the first thing I'd look at is that word just, that the just shall live by faith. That's a uh a root word. We still use it in our language. It's it's the root behind the word justice. And when we say our justice system is corrupt, what we're saying is it's not right. It's not righteous. It is not morally correct. It is backwards. It is messed up. That's our route uh for justice, is that word just. And in fact, it shows up several times. It's pretty consistently referred to as righteous. You can translate it as the just or the righteous. The very first time we find it is in reference to this fellow, Noah. Genesis 6. 9, I want to say Noah 6. 9. Genesis 6. 9. Noah was a just man. That's God's commentary about Noah. And in chapter 7, verse 1, God says, Thee have I seen righteous. Both times, those are that same word used in Habakkuk 2. 4. Just. Righteous. It's the same. When the angels are talking to Abram to inform him that he's going to destroy the cities of Sodom and Gomorrah. Abram argues is, will you destroy the righteous with the wicked? Same, same word. And nearly every instance of it is the same. So there's no question as to what John is referring to. He's talking about the righteous. Okay? But that Hebrew word for faith has a pretty wide range of meanings. And that's what got me excited, and to be perfectly honest, that formed the bulk of my research in this Bible study. And I want to share it with you because I think it's pretty fascinating. It it deepened my understanding of it That Hebrew word has several things that Strong's lists. It's the word Imuna, so if I mention Imuna, just know I'm using that Hebrew word for faith The just shall live by Imuna, by faith. But let's look at the variety of ways Immuna can be used. You can't just boil it down to one all the time. But here's the range of meanings It literally means firmness. If you boil it down to its most literal meaning, it means firmness. There's something firm there. Okay? Figuratively, it means security. It means moral fidelity. It means faith, faithful, etc. It can mean a set office. It can mean stability. It can mean steady. I like this one. It can mean truth. And let's look at some ways that it's used in the context in the Old Testament. There's about four of them I'd like to draw your attention to. They're all printed in your handout. The first time we find this word faith, the very first time that word faith, Imuna, is used in the Old Testament, is in Exodus 17. 12. It's when there's a battle going on. Moses is standing on a hill. He's overseeing the battle. And when Moses has his hands lifted up, the people are winning. The Jews are succeeding. But you know when you're 80 years old and holding your hands up for a while, that just kind of gets tiring and you let your hands down, but it wasn't giving Moses a break, it was giving the enemy a break because they'd start whooping up on the Hebrews and they began to lose the battle. So a couple of his sidekicks got an idea. Let's prop the old boy's hands up. And that's what they did. And it says in Exodus 17, 12, Moses' hands were heavy And he took a stone, put it under him, and he sat thereon, and Aaron and Hur stayed up his hands. They they held up his hands, the one on the one side, the other on the other side, and his hands were immuna. Steady until the going down of the sun. That's that word faith. It was steady. It wasn't moving, it was firm. Because why? He couldn't do it. Somebody came along and had to hold it up. We read in Deuteronomy 32. 4 another use of this word emuna. He is the rock. His work is perfect All his ways are judgment. A God of Immuna, truth, and without iniquity, just and right is he. So the next time we find it, it's rendered truth. Immuna has to something to do with truth. Of course, if you think about the concept of something firm, something steady, you can understand why they would render that word would come into meaning to associate with truth. It's true because it's correct. The story's not going to change. And then 2 Kings 22, 7, we find a more typical rendering of that word Amuna. This is in reference to the temple workers in the days of King Josiah. It says there was no reckoning made with them of the money that was delivered into their hand because they dealt faithfully. Alright, so this is a totally different set of government workers. They were doing their job so well they didn't bother taking account of what they were doing because it was evident they were doing their job It was transparently, plainly, patently obvious, these fellows are carrying out the job perfectly. We don't need to go in and do some accounting because that's going to slow them up a bit. We don't want to mess with that. Oh, to God, that we could find some of the descendants of that generation to train up those who would go into government these days. Another fascinating one, this is found five times in the Bible. It's an example here in 1 Chronicles 9. 22. All these were chosen to be porters, and the gates were two hundred and twelve. These were reckoned by their genealogy in their villages, whom David and Samuel the Seer did ordain in their set office. And that's that word set office. Isn't that interesting? Now it's referring to King David and um He'd eventually be king. And Samuel, the seer, the prophets were known as seers, they could see the word of the Lord. And they would appoint people to an office And it was said they were appointed, they were ordained in their imuna. I find that fascinating It's referred to as an office. Five times it's used that way. The context demands that it be rent trend translated to be rendered a set office. So I find that to be a fascinating And what about you? When you hear the word faith, the Muna used elsewhere in the Old Testament. What what does that do to your sense of the word faith? Of course, those particular uses, Christ was faithful, he was set, he was sure, he was true, not movable. go to one full of same message of truth. It does show more attributes of the Messiah, more attributes of this concept of faith. It's interesting I I uh I thought, you know, I could replace that word faith with these other translations in our very text here. The just shall live by faith, the just shall live by steadiness, the just shall live by truth. The just shall live by their set office. Do you see how we can take that meaning and import it right back into this passage here and how that kind of maybe gives it a little bit more depth I'm not suggesting you change the translation. It it does say the just shall live by faith. But for us to understand that breadth of meaning is helpful. And my point here is that this, you know, This Old Testament use of this word faith, folks, has a whole lot more to do than just mere mental assent. It's not a check the box done deal. And that's a common view in a lot of the evangelical circles. Oh yeah, I I walked an aisle, I signed a piece of paper, I'm saved. in something at one point in time, don't believe it now, but because I did it back then, I'm I'm okay. It's like you've kind of made your pilgrimage to Mecca and threw a rock at the devil or something stupid like that. It's Making faith in one act of faith. You know, another functional rendering might be Fidelity, because that kind of implies a more enduring position. Some of you have brokerage accounts with a company known as Fidelity. They're a good company Right? They're used as accountants for many other firms as well as their own brokerage offerings. Faith in our language kind of has an element of fickleness to it, right? Uh for instance, uh we've lost faith in Congress. Uh we used to believe that they were, you know, even halfway decent. Now we've lost faith in it completely. We've lost faith in the Department of Justice. We have no faith in medical doctors. I I I have no faith in these labels I read on my food anymore because I can't tell. It's kind of used in the fickle sense. Like it can come, it can go. I believe you now, but I don't believe you later. But that's not the biblical use of that word. You know, uh uh you know the you you you'll you'll cope, you'll manage, I have great faith in you. That that might imply a a little pat on the back, but does it really help that person, right? It just kind of leaves their recovery to themselves Yeah, I just think, you know, the world they see believers as well, those are those people that are just following a blind faith. It's kinda like a weak thing. But when you look here in Scripture, as we pointed out very well, all those things come with it, steadiness, truth, um, something that's set, something that's faithful. That just makes it a lot more of a It's a it's a stronger and serious concept, not like is that just a mental agreement with something. You know, you raised a really good point. Um You know, in fact, Anton, given all these alternative definition uh definitions that we have here, would you say that one can have biblical faith if they don't have truth? Why or why not? Well, no. 'Cause they're 'cause it's not grounded. It's not if their faith isn't set on the truth, then it's uh yeah, it's not real faith Yeah. Faith has to be believed based on something. Faith is faith is not just out there. Faith has to have a foundation. It has an object, I've heard it say. I've heard it said, yeah, it has a uh it has an object has to believe in something jeopardy. I would say of the Pentecostal persuasion, they actually seek something that's antithetical to faith. They have to hear or knew something. And one's new something and the others knew something are different. Right? So uh speaking of walking by faith, they have to have a vision, a a new dream, a new shiny thing. None of which is a steady, a true, a firm. Absolutely. Yeah, good point. Uh can we say that there are different kinds of faiths in the world If I use that word faiths, plural, are there different kinds of faiths in the world? In a broad sense. I'm not talking within the Christian camp. Yeah, absolutely. There's all kinds of different kinds of faith. Is it possible for somebody to change to exchange faith from one thing to faith in another? Yeah. Faith can change. So when it says the just shall live by faith, it's not talking about living by a different fickle thray. You could make faith as a capital F here. the the ultimate faith, the right faith, because it's founded on truth. Jeffrey was mapping all these back to Christ, who said, I am the way, the truth, and the life. Well if one of the synonyms for faith is truth You cannot have true biblical faith apart from the true biblical Jesus Christ. He is truth. There is an intimate connection between those You can't get around that. Some have faith in the Pope. Mom, has that ever worked for anybody? No, it hasn't. And so What then is it to live righteously? Yeah, we say faith in God, but practically speaking, what is that? Well, I would assert that it's a steady confidence In what God has said to us. It's a steady confidence in what the Lord has said to us It's not, I believe that there was this historical figure named Jesus of Nazareth who walked over in ancient Palestine, Judah, whatever you wish to call it. That's not faith. I thought that was faith years ago. I thought, sure, I I believe that Jesus is here. Of course he's a historical figure, so I believe in Jesus. No, I didn't For starters, I had no idea what Jesus actually taught. And Joe, you've reported that being in the mission field, there was a season when As it were, I guess we could say faith strengthened, it sharpened, it changed, it got refined, because all of a sudden there were some truths discovered that, wow, made a difference. And it changed the way one's life, in this case your ministry, began to proceed. You know, it's it really is an enduring trust in his promises. You know, look again back at our verse, Hebrews 10. 39, it says, we are not of them who draw back unto perdition but of them that believe to the saving of the soul. Let's consider the contrast for a moment. You know, Habakkuk said, his soul, which is lifted up, it's so that maps to in Hebrews, those who draw back. You know, we talked about a lot of opulent people here earlier today, the the the the the grifters, the the the thieves in politics, the the um the drug dealers, the those who are opulent, those who have much to show, those who have much to hoard and keep it out of sight. Um would you say that these people are very humble people or these people whose soul is lifted up? I think it's obvious, right? They're very lifted up. But the opposite of that, or the parallel to that, is those who draw back. One of these things that the opulent Those who have the lifestyle of the rich and famous as opposed to the lifestyle of the right and firm, is that they want nothing to do with faith. Faith in Jesus Christ is a detriment because Jesus found a rich man and he said to him, Well sell all that you have and give it to the poor and come follow me, and you'll have treasures in heaven. And he went away sad because he had much riches God actually gives direct commandments to wealthy individuals, and I'm talking super wealthy individuals Yeah, that's kind of tough. They don't want to hear that message. They don't want anything to do with it. They don't want to lay down their life for the sake of the brethren. They don't want to be one that says, if I see my brother have need, and do nothing for him, how and shuts up his bowels of compassion from him, how dwelleth the love of God in him. He's going to say, well I don't have anything to do with that Yeah, he's going to sacrifice that. That's drawing back to perdition. That's declaring yourself to be a child of the devil. That's saying I don't want to have any. That's drawing back. That's throwing faith away. That's what that is Righteousness is seen by faith in believing, even when drawing back is a temptation. And that is the context here. All of the struggles, all the difficulties, all the trials, all the little Satan will dangle money in front of you. He doesn't care He'll steal it. Satan will dangle all kinds of things that your soul might lust after if you're willing to sacrifice your morals. Sacrifice your safety and security. Sacrifice your honor. Just sacrifice that. Isn't that one of the temptations the devil gave to the Lord Jesus? Took him to a high mountain, showed him all the kingdoms of the world in the instance and says, I'll give them all to you. Bow down and worship me. Look, you want a new heaven, new earth? I'll just give you the kingdom right now. You don't have to go through this cross business. Forget all that. That's one of Satan's methods, and that's why the penman here is encouraging you to live by faith. Hang on to the promises of God, even when being drawn away is a very real temptation. It's beginning to tug at you. Listen to this language of the psalmist in Psalm 44. This righteousness by faith, when drawing back as a tempting option. Listen to this in Psalm 44, 7 and 19. All this has come upon us. And the first 16 verses list all kinds of calamities and disasters. All this has come upon us, yet have we not forgotten thee, speaking of God. Neither have we dealt falsely in thy covenant. Our heart is not turned back. Neither have our steps declined from thy way. They're still going to make their march their way in for worship. They're still going to find a way to support the work of the true and living God. They're still going to be there doing what the church ought to be doing. Though thou hast sore broken us in the place of dragons and covered us with the shadow of death Will you serve God even in difficult times? How tough does it have to get going for you before you chuck in the towel and say, oh, this is too hard. I don't want to have to deal with this That's exactly what it's talking about in this context. The just, the righteous, live by faith. They hang on to what God says. They said, Well, he said it, and I believe it Do you really believe it? Satan said of Job. Touch now his flesh. He'll curse thee to your face. His wife came alongside of him and said, Do you still retain your integrity, curse God, and die? Will you still hang on? When everything is working against you, that's the passage. This is it. The just shall live by faith. That's why this is a pillar. This is a bedrock. This is something that you can hang on to, and you must hang on to. You know, what's the description of a life of righteousness and faith? You know, before I get to that, I want to show the flip side, those that throw it away. We see this all the time in ministry The hireling flees because he's a hireling and he cares not for the sheep. That's somebody who's not living by faith. Why does he flee? Heat's coming on. I don't care. I'm just here for a paycheck. I'm just he was there for the wrong reasons. Can people be in ministry for the wrong reasons? Oh yeah, oh yeah, they really can. I want to give now some final closing verses about the life of righteousness and faith. You don't want to be uh in living the lifestyle of the rich and famous. For now, you need to, in your mind, understand from here forward that that's not for you. That's a vile, vulgar thing Your high calling, your high watermark is the lifestyle of the right and the firm, the righteous and the faithful. That's where you want to be at Because it endures forever. It can never fall. It'll never be taken away. It'll endure forever. Let me give you what I think are some of the best descriptions in the New Testament of the word faith and the concept of faith In Hebrews 3. 14 it says, we are made partakers of Christ if we hold the beginning of our confidence. Steadfast unto the end. Confidence. That's the same word substance in Hebrews 11. 1. Now faith is the substance, the confidence. of things hoped for. And that's going to be our study next week. It's in Hebrews 10. 23. I love this language here. Let us draw near with a true heart. in full assurance of faith, having our hearts sprinkled from an evil conscience and our bodies washed with pure water, let us hold fast the profession of our faith, and I love this, without wavering. Without wavering. You get the sense of a steadiness. There's a steady, there's a continual, there's a hanging on, there's a clinging on, there's a not letting go. Oh, you may have a few fingers slip off You may be down to one claw and one toenail, but you're hanging on and you ain't letting go. For he is faithful that promised. That's why you don't let go. He said it. It'll happen I think one of the best examples of faith is good old Abraham. And listen to the description of Abraham. And this is our closing verse. It's Romans 4, 18 to 21. Speaking of him who against hope believed in hope. Go ahead and meditate on that for a minute. Against hope. Everything surrounding him said, there's no hope. God has told you to take this boy up on Mount Moriah and kill him. There's no hope. Against hope, he believed in hope. And we know later in Hebrews that he accounted that God would raise that boy back up from the dead Against Hope believed in hope that he might become the father of many nations. According to that which was spoken, he believed what God said, so shall thy seed be. He had a promise of God, he believed it. He didn't move from it. Even when God himself said Go kill the very future of that promise. You see how God tests you? Why is God doing this to me? I thought he was for me. Why is he pushing me? Oh, he's strengthening your faith. Right? It doesn't appear obvious to us, but that's exactly what's happening. Trials and tribulations are coming upon us to strengthen our faith. And being not weak in faith, he considered not his own body now dead. He's thinking he's going to kill that boy, and I'm supposed to have another one. It's not going to happen. When he was about a hundred years old, neither yet the deadness of Sarah's woman, this is actually speaking about before he would even have an Isaac to sacrifice, he staggered not at the promise of God through unbelief, but was strong in faith Giving glory to God, and I love this, being fully persuaded that what he had promised he was able also to perform. All of that are synonyms, folks, for what faith means. Fully persuaded. So, why do you come to church? Why do you listen to a Bible study? Why do you pray and read your scriptures? Because you want to learn more truth. You want to learn more about God's ways. When you learn more about God's truth and God's ways, that gives you greater confidence to hang on. And it's built line upon line, precept upon precept, so that when the time of testing comes, it's not quite so easy to throw away I have four conclusions. Righteous men and women live by hanging on to God's promises. If you will, it's your office. It's your calling. Speaking of calling, we're called believerers, not believe eds. Believe eds are those who believe they did once, and that's it. They don't keep believing. We are believers. We keep believing, it's an ongoing thing. We continue to believe even when belief doesn't seem worth it. The just living by faith is a pillar of doctrine in Scripture, and even so it ought to be a pillar in your life It ought to be a foundational principle. People may say, what's your life first? And I get it, and I like those life verses. Well add this one to your existing life first. The judge shall live by faith That's a big one. And last, don't envy the rich and the famous. Yeah, I know there's all kinds of interesting TV series about their opulence and their swimming pools and their 500-room mansions and their servants and their cars and All that stuff that's going to rust, it's get termites, oh I look at it and say, great day, what a maintenance bill. I couldn't pay the electric bill in this place. This would be insane. Um Don't envy the rich and the famous, but I want you instead to consider the multitude of the righteous and the faithful, that they're inheriting a kingdom that cannot be moved. They're inheriting something that will not need maintenance. Gold doesn't need a lot of work. They might have some fancy things, but they don't have cities made of gold. They don't have that. They don't have angels as their servants. They don't have that. that. They don't have a raiment of light which doesn't fade in glory. They don't have that. That's what you're getting like. Alright, persevere. God will not let you to fail. Hang tight. Um Gabriel closes on prayer class. uh the Sunday school. Uh what we very simply come to you. Because to to who else will we go to? To who else will we have faith in? Who else can redeem us? Who else can save us from our sins and the judgment that they bring upon us? So Lord, we pray that you would grow your faith in our hearts. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Amen.