Open in your Bibles with me, please, again to the one hundred and third Psalm, the same psalm which we began to consider last Lord's Day. And I'm going to read only the first five verses of the Psalm, and then we're going to focus our attention this morning on verses 3 through 5. Psalm 103, and I'll read the first five verses as we begin. Bless the Lord, O my soul, and all that is within me, bless his holy name. Bless the Lord, O my soul, and forget not all his benefits, who forgiveth all thine iniquities. Who healeth all thy diseases, who redeemeth thy life from destruction, who crowneth thee with loving kindness and tender mercies Who satisfieth thy mouth with good things, so that thy youth is renewed like the eagles. Let us bow for prayer once again as we begin this morning. Gracious Father, we thank you for thy word. Lord, you have told us that the entrance to thy word giveth light. O Father, give us entrance to this passage this morning. Grant us understanding. Grant us blessing, encouragement, and enrichment through the Word of God. Father, forgive us for so often forgetting thy benefits. Lord, may they be brought to our hearts and minds this morning with joy. And we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. We considered last week by way of introduction that phrase, bless the Lord. And we know what it is to be blessed by the Lord. We are the recipients of that blessing. But what does it mean to bless the Lord? And we Saul that the root meaning of that word bless is to kneel. It is an activity of worship We kneel before the Lord and we worship before Him. We cannot add to His glory. We cannot add to His attributes. But when we bless the Lord, we draw attention to them. When we bless the Lord, we worship in kneeling before his throne. We saw also that it is the soul that David addresses with this instruction. Bless the Lord, O my soul. Christ lamented that this people draw near to me with their lips, and they call upon me with their mouth, but their heart has removed far from me. It is the inner man that is to bless the Lord. There's a lot of people that talk about blessing the Lord, and some of us have experienced churches that are very noisy Well, I don't mind a noisy church that is noisy in the right way. I enjoy a church that sings with all their heart and mind. Doesn't matter if you're flat. Sing it out Sing it as under the Lord. But then there are some activities that are referred to as worship that is nothing but rock music and smoke machines and lights and and a great emotional appeal that resembles more of a football game than it does of the worship of the Most High God. Bless the Lord, O my soul. Blessing the Lord with your soul is done here corporately, but it's also done in the closet. It was done by David out with the sheep in his harp. It is an inner, heart wrought blessing of the Lord. He doesn't say bless the Lord my lips. He says bless the Lord O my soul and all that is within me to truly bless the Lord is not half-hearted It's not something that we do and then move on. It's something that consumes the being. Bless the Lord, O my soul, and all that is within me. Bless His holy name. It's all about Him and not about us. It's not about what feels good to me, but rather what He instructs in His Word that He desires Bless his holy name. Bless the Lord, O my soul, and forget not all his benefits. And we concluded last week by observing the great dangers of forgetting the benefits of God and how often forgetting the benefits of God leads us into all kinds of sin. All kinds of temptation, all kinds of discouragement, all kinds of backsliding. Simply because we forget the benefits of God. That word benefits we observed last week is a word which refers to his acts, his works, and his doings. In Psalm 106, which is very close to Psalm 103, just a few away, maybe across your page, in Psalm 106, verse 13, they forsook or so excuse me, excuse me, they soon forgot his works. That word works there as benefits. They soon forgot his benefits. They soon forgot his works. But lusted exceedingly in the wilderness, and tempted God in the desert. And he gave them the request, but sent leanness to their souls. And I believe that's the best biblical illustration of forgetting his benefits. Here, Israel had seen all the mighty works of God that he did in Egypt. They had seen the deliverance, they had seen the plagues, they saw the manna, they saw water from the rock, and they forgot His blessings and his benefits. They soon forgot. And so this morning, as we continue in this chapter, this psalm, We're going to begin through an exposition of the benefits of God that we're not to forget. And the first one we find there is in verse 4 who redeemeth thy life from destruction, who crowneth thee with loving kindness and tender mercies. The first benefit which we examine today is that he redeems our life from destruction. How many people have you seen that have destroyed themselves? In Sunday school this morning the illustration was of companies that make some they're in trouble to begin with and they make some ridiculous move which just makes things worse. Well, how like that we find so many people who resist the will of God and fight against his mercies. And they seem to go from calamity to calamity. They seem to go from worse to worse. Like the dog returning to his vomit. So they go downward. But here we find the great blessing that He redeemeth my life from destruction. Folks, I um I was blessed to grow up in a Christian home. I was blessed to be sheltered from a lot of the iniquity of the world. But I can point back to several times in my life where I was one minute, one sin away. From re destroying all the potential that God had for my life. And folks, why did I resist that temptation that I so desperately wanted? Because he redeems my life from destruction. Because he held me back. And that word destruction is actually the same word as corruption. He redeemeth my life from destruction. And folks, I believe every believer can testify this, that if it were not for the grace of God, there's no sin I would not be committing right now. But he has redeemed my life from destruction. Why am I not an alcoholic as was my grandfather? Because he redeemed my life. He kept me back from those things. Why am I not in jail? Because he kept me back from those things. But folks, how often it is to walk along our daily life and think, hey, I'm doing pretty good. I've established myself, I've got my life all in order, I've got things going on here. No, it is only because God has redeemed your life from destruction. That's right. It's only because He has held back that which you would do. Keep back thy servant also from presumptuous sins. Enter into the straight gate, Matthew 7. 13 For wide is the gate, and broad is the way that leadeth to destruction. Leadeth to destruction. And many there be that go in thereat. Because straight is the gate and narrow is the way that leads to life, and few there be that find it. In uh Psalm 9, verse 15, the heathen are sunk in the pit. They prepared. That word pit there in Psalm 9 is actually the same word destruction that we find in Psalm 103. They dug a hole and fell into it. Well w why didn't I fall into the holes I've dug in my life? Well, because He redeemed me. He bought it back. He kept me from it. And then again in Psalm fifty-five, verse twenty-three, but thou, O God, shalt bring them down into the pit of destruction. Bloody and deceitful men. shall not live out half their days. But I will trust in thee. And that word destruction is there in the same verse. It's destruction. God brings the wicked down to destruction. The the wicked men shall not live out half their days, but but I will put my trust in thee. Why? Because I'm better than them? Because I'm smarter than them? Because I have more resistance to sin than them? No. Because he redeems my life from destruction. Now, folks, it's not just in this life that we're redeemed from destruction. Because that word destruction is the word corruption. And the psalmist said in Psalm 107, 1920, then they cried unto the Lord in their trouble. And he saved them out of his distresses. He sent his word and healed them and delivered them from their destruction. He delivered them from their destruction. So not only do we find this redeeming of our life in this life, but we find who forgiveth all thine iniquities Who healeth all thy diseases. It is worthy to note that David begins this list of benefits by talking about the forgiveness of sins. Because you see, by my sin I am the enemy of God. And it is sin which restrains from me all the blessings of God. The wages of sin is death. It's destruction. But it is God that restrains all those things from me. It is God that redeems me, who forgiveth all my iniquities, and healeth all my diseases. Ezekiel 18 Verse 30: Therefore I will judge you, O house of Israel. Every one of you according to his ways, saith the Lord God. Repent and turn yourselves from your transgressions. So iniquity shall not be your ruin. So iniquity won't be your ruin. Folks, every man born Is born heading for destruction. We have dear little children in our midst today. And we think of them as innocent, and yet they are headed for destruction, except for the grace of God, and that is why the parents repeatedly Request prayer for the salvation of their children. And the only hope is that God redeems. From destruction. So he redeems us in our life, in this physical from destruction. But he redeems us even more so spiritually from destruction. Then when lust hath conceived, that bringeth forth death. Is there no balm in Gilead, uh Jeremiah eight twenty eight? Is there no physician there? Why then is the health of the daughter of my people not recovered? Sin is the enemy of man and man is the enemy of God because of sin. Before the forgiveness of God is granted to the sinner. Before the b before uh grace Man is the enemy of God, but by the grace of God, all the blessings of God are opened up to him. Notice also that word forgiveth, who forgiveth all thine iniquities. It doesn't say forgave. It says forgiven. It is a present tense word that carries into the future. He forgiveth all thy iniquities. If we just said he forgives, that doesn't necessarily mean into the future. But he forgiveth. It is an ongoing forgiveness. And notice also that it says there, reading with me, he forgiveth some of your iniquities. No, doesn't say that at all, does it? Who forgiveth all the iniquities? Who healeth all thy diseases. If you look down to verse 12 of Psalm 103, our text for this morning, as far as the east is for the west, so far hath he removed our transgressions. from us. When does the east we talk about east and west meeting? Well east and west never meet. If you start going west around this globe of ours, you will continue going west forever If you turn around and head east, you will continue going east forever. The two never meet. And that is the illustration that God uses. for the removal of our transgressions from us. David sinned grievously David's sin with Bathsheba. It began with covetousness. He'd broken one of the Ten Commandments. It continued with adultery. He broke another of the Ten Commandments It further was exacerbated by mu by murder. He's broken a third. And then he lied about it. He's broken a fourth. And so in one vile period of his life, he broke four the commandments and was guilty of all. And yet David is called the man after God's own heart. How can that be? Well, when Nathan confronted David with his sin in 2 Samuel 12, verse 13 And David said unto Nathan, I have sinned against the Lord. Think about that. David said, I have sinned against the Lord. But David has sinned against Bathsheba. David has sinned against Uriah. David has sinned against his whole army. David has sinned against Israel. But when confronted with his sin, David says, I have sinned against the Lord. And Nathan said unto David, The Lord also hath put away thy sin. Thou shalt not die. Folks, that is what David was talking about here. When he said, Bless the Lord, O my soul, and forget not all its benefits. You see, he has redeemed this life present from destruction, and he has redeemed my soul for all eternity from destruction. And if Satan can cause you to forget that, you'll wander into more sin. You'll find yourself in discouragement. You will begin to blank backslide. And so we're admonished, bless the Lord, O my soul, and forget not all his benefits, for he has redeemed me, my life, from destruction. And that includes the forgiveness of our iniquities. But the second blessing, the second of these benefits, these works of God that we are to remember Is also found there in verse 3. Our life is redeemed from destruction because it is our God who heals all our desired diseases, who forgiveth all thine iniquities, who healeth all thy diseases. You can turn to Mark 9 if you'd like to. If if you don't wish to turn, I'm going to read a Not read the whole passage, but read scattered verses through Mark 9. Mark 9 records for us the account of the man who brought his son, who had a dumb spirit to the disciples And the disciples were not able to offer any help to the man. And starting in Mark nine, seventeen, and one of the multitude answered And said, Master, I have brought unto thee my son, which hath a dumb spirit. Verse 22. And oft times it hath cast him into the fire and into the waters to destroy him. But if thou canst do anything, have compassion on us and help us. 23. Jesus said unto him, If thou canst believe, all things are possible to him that believeth. And straightway the father or the child cried out and said with tears, Lord, I believe. Help mine unbelief. Verse 28. And when he was come into the house, his disciples asked him privately, Why could we not we cast him out? And he said unto them, This kind can come forth by nothing but by prayer. And fasting. Several things to notice there. There's a beautiful transposition that Christ uses in verse 22 The Father says, but if thou canst do anything, have compassion on us and help us. Verse 23, Christ says, But if thou canst believe, all things are possible. You notice the two hits there. The man says to the Father, or says to Christ, if you can do anything, help us. You declared you can do anything. If you can do anything, help us. And the Father Christ replies, if you can believe, all things are possible. This kind cometh forth not but by prayer and fasting And of course in James 5, we find the prayer of faith shall save the sick. God can do anything. And we have the declaration here that he healeth all our diseases. What do we learn from that? Well, first of all, God Is all-wise. God is all capable, and He heals all our diseases. There is no disease that is beyond His power. Secondly, we find that God heals all our diseases. Any disease that is healed is healed by his hand. Folks, there is no pharmaceutical product That doesn't come from something God created. There is no method that man has learned that is not working upon the body that God created. And so the prayer of faith shall save the sick. We pray in faith believing. And scripture is full of verses that deal with this: thou wilt not suffer thy holy one to see corruption. He he his body would not rot. And Jonah said that he brought my life up from corruption. He's brought me up from the grave. And we find in 2 Chronicles, 2 Corinthians 5, 1, but we know if this earthly house of this tabernacle were dissolved, Well that's speaking of the body going to corruption, isn't it? The body uh you know where is where are the bodies of the saints? Well they're not around. Um sorry Catholics, you don't have John the Baptist finger I know you've got a dozen or more of them, but none of them are his finger. His body has gone to corruption. And Paul said, though I give my body to be burned And so when we find here that he heals all our diseases, there must be something more being spoken of than simply this body. Because The wages of sin is death, as by one man death entered into the world, and death and sin entered the world, and death by sin. If this earthly house be dissolved, we have a building of God and house not made with hands, eternal in the heavens. Does God heal every single disease of his children The answer is yes. That's right. The answer is yes. No disease can kill me. Oh, the disease may ravage this body to nothing, and it may even be dissolved. But the disease can't kill me Why? Because he has healed every single disease. What did Paul say? Well, I give my body to be burned. You see, Paul realized that this body was worthless. This body was simply a temporary tabernacle. Some of you have laughed at me because uh last week when it was snowing Um I slept out in the tent and I encouraged my wife to sleep in the tent with me and she'd get it. Folks, I don't want to live in that tent. It was fun for a night. Penny's words was we're making memories. Folks, this earthly tabernacle will be dissolved if Christ does not come first. But folk, we sorrow not as others that have no hope. You see, there's nothing amiss in this verse. He heals all our diseases. For all eternity. Nobody has the flu for their entire life. Yeah, the flu for a few days and you get over it Folks, what is our life? It is even on vapor. You see, for the believer, God heals the disease of his body that may spend eighty or a hundred or ten years on this earth, which is but a speck in eternity But by faith in Christ, no matter what disease may ravage this body, I am healed. He healeth all our diseases. Now, we know from Scripture that there are many times when God ordains to lengthen the days we live in this tent. Mm-hmm. To lengthen the time we live in this tabernacle. And that that was the case here with this man that came to Christ and the disciples couldn't help him. This time come not about but by prayer and fasting. Prayer and fasting. We find Hezekiah's life being extended. We find in Scripture many people being healed. The woman with the issue of blood, she was indeed healed But this life is nothing more than a vapor and a tabernacle in the final consideration. We read in Psalm 41, starting in verse 2, these words. Starting in verse 1. Blessed is he that considers the poor, the Lord will deliver him in the time of trouble. The Lord will preserve him and keep him alive, and he shall be blessed upon earth, and thou wilt not deliver him to the will of his enemies. The Lord will strengthen him upon the bed of languishing. Thou wilt make all his bed in his sickness. Thou will make all his bed in his sickness I said, Lord, be merciful unto me. Heal my soul, for I have sinned against thee. The Lord sometimes ordains to lift us out of the bed of sickness. The Lord at other times ordains to make the bed in sickness. If you ever get your covers all twisted around or the pillows in the wrong place and your feet are sticking out of the out of the sheet and you're cold and you're uncomfortable and you're sick and you're hurting And someone comes along very lovingly and readjusts the bed for you. And you're so much more comfortable. And you're able to rest. That is the picture that we have find here in Scripture. Thou will make my bed in sickness. Even in the worst circumstances, God will bring comfort to his people. When Miriam was sick, Moses cried to the Lord, saying, Heal her now, O Lord, I beseech thee. And God did. But Miriam still died. Jeremiah 17, 14, heal me, O Lord, and I shall be healed. Save me, and I shall be healed, be saved, for thou art my praise. Folks, let us not forget that indeed God does heal all our diseases. Maybe not in the time we want, or in the way we want, or in the manner we want. But there's no disease that can kill me. For my soul is immortal, and this sick body is just a tabernacle and a tent. And so our life is redeemed from destruction because God forgives all of our iniquities. Our life is redeemed from destruction because God heals all our diseases. But thirdly, our life is redeemed from destruction, and that God crowns us with loving kindness and tender. Mercies. Verse 4, who crowneth thy life, or who redeemeth thy life for destruction, who crowneth thee with loving kindness and tender mercies. That word tender mercies It's exciting, folks. It's also the word womb. It's also the word bowels. When Joseph's brothers came before him, and they're kneeling before this second unto Pharaoh. And they're fearful for their lives and their c lives and they're crying. They're weeping because they're trembling and they think we're done And we read that Joseph's bowels were moved for his brother, and he went aside privately to cry. It's the same word tender mercies, his bowels. Tender mercies is the word wound. It's a fatherly term. It's the care of a mother. He crowneth thee with loving Kindness and tender mercies. It's been said by the old Puritans that God is too too wise to err and too good to be unkind. And folks, we often look at our circumstances. I often look at my circumstances and say, why? It shouldn't be this way. It could be so much better. It could be so much easier. The potholes are in front of me and I can't miss a single one. And we go through life with all these burdens, and the reason we do is we forget his loving kindness and his tender mercies. We forget that that life has been redeemed from our own destruction. We forget that though this body be burned, though this body suffer, yet I have been made immortal by God. And it doesn't just say he gives us loving, kindness, and tender mercies. Who crowneth thee? Who crowneth they? Who sets them upon your head like a royal crown? Who crowneth thee with loving kindness and tender mercies? Folks, that is indeed redemption from destruction Our lives were destroyed eternally by the fall of Adam. Our lives are redeemed eternally by the redemption of Jesus Christ. And if you look further down in the chapter to verse 13. Psalm 103, verse 13. Like as a father pitieth his children. That's the description of the tender mercies, folks. When our children disobey us, it grieves us to our core. But we don't throw out the baby with the bathwater, like the saying goes. You know, if you're a parent, you change an awful lot of diapers. And that's what it's talking about. God God changes our spiritual diapers. He he Like as a father pitieth his children, so the Lord pitieth them to fear him, for he knoweth our frame here. Remember that we're just here, remember that we're going to be discouraged Remember that we're going to trip and fall. He remembers that he's gonna have to change some spiritual diapers because we're not perfect. But just like the father tenderly cares for the child and does what is best for the child, even when the child disagrees with what is best. You know, a child will live on candy. That's not good for him. He needs some Brussels sprouts. Whether he likes them or not. That's right. Like as a father. Pity his children So the Lord pity them that fear him, for remembereth that we are dust. As for men, his days are his grass. Folks, he redeems us from destruction. These two are not a contradiction. The healing of diseases and our days being as grass are not a contradiction. It's a confirmation. But the might and power of our God, that's why it's right here in the same soul. Remember that we are dust. As for man, his days are as grass. This tabernacle is failing. This tabernacle is failing It's the flower of the field, so he flourisheth, for the wind passeth over it, and it is gone, and the place thereof shall know it no more. We place gravestones, we place tombstones over the place where the body rotted. But we are not there. That's right I read an article, I don't want to get way off subject here, but I read a brief article. I liked some of those then and now pictures that pop up sometimes. There was an article about this house that a fellow found out in the woods and it obviously had been a beautiful dwelling at one time, but there was trees growing up through it and it was all falling apart and he did some research and learned of the family. They've been a very wealthy family that had lived in that house for over a hundred years. And he was able to find pictures of them in the house, the pictures outside the house, and there had been so much joy and family there But who were they? The wind passeth over it is gone, the place thereof shall know no more Can you tell me the name of your great-great-grandfather? I doubt many of you can. A few might be able to. It's your great-great-grandfather They're gone. The wind passeth over it and is gone, and the place thereof should know it no more. Verse 17, but the mercy of the Lord He crowneth thee with loving kindness and tender mercies. See, the things the world crowns with are all temporary. He crowneth thee with loving kindness, but the merchant lord is from everlasting to everlasting upon them that fear him And his righteousness of the children's children, to such as keep his covenants, and to those that remember his commandments, to do them that remember his commandments, that remember, remember. We're talking about forgetting his benefits They remember his commandments to do them. To such as keep his uh commandments to do them, the Lord hath prepared his throne in the heavens and his kingdom ruleth. over all. Surely goodness and mercy shall follow me all the days of my life, even the days of trial, sickness, and trouble. And I shall dwell in the house of the Lord forever, because he heals all my iniquities Psalm twenty-five, verses six and seven. Remember, O Lord, thy tender mercies and thy loving kindness, for they have been ever of old. Remember not the sins of my youth, nor my transgressions According to thy mercy, remember thou me for thy goodness sake, O Lord. Have mercy upon me, according to thy loving kindness, according to the multitude of thy tender mercies, blot out all my transgressions. But then there's one fourth. God redeems our light from destruction, and that he satisfies our mouth with good things. So that our youth is renewed like the eagles. He redeems our life from destruction, and that he forgives our iniquities, and he redeems our life from destruction, and that he heals our diseases. He redeems our life from destruction, and that he crowns us with loving kindness and tender mercies. And he redeems our life from destruction and that he satisfies with good. He satisfies with good. Notice it says he satisfieth thy mouth. The mouth there is a euphemism for the entire being. Mm-hmm. The the nutrition comes in through the mouth. He satisfies thy mouth with good things. And folks that says satisfied I'm hard to satisfy. Doesn't matter what it is, I'm I'm difficult to satisfy. I I'm I'm one of those people that can find something wrong in it in every situation. We we had a kid in Jamaica that I loved dearly, but she was just a complainer. Oh my goodness. She could complain about anything Now I said there were one day, of course you make a hundred dollar bill is different from our hundred dollar bill here. Jamaica $100 bill there was a like fifty cents here. But um I I I said if I gave you a hundred dollar bill you would complain because it was folded And and all the other kids of the youth group laughed because they knew it was true. Didn't matter what you did, she had something to complain about. Well folks, I sad to say I can be that way too Be satisfyeth thy mouth. Sometimes we forget to be satisfied. Sometimes in forgetting his benefits, we forget to be satisfied. We forget to say with Paul, I have learned. Paul didn't say he had it by nature. I have learned that whatever state I'm in, therewith to be content. He satisfies thy mouth. with good things. He satisfieth the longing soul. He filleth the hungry soul with goodness. O tastes the seed of the Lord is good. Blessed is the man that trusteth of him Oh, fear the Lord he is saints, for there is no one to them that fear him. Psalm thirty-four, verses eight and nine. But not only does he satisfy the ma satisfy He satisfies with good things. He satisfies with good things. I You know we have a cat. And I love saying, oh, she's an average kitty. Oh, who's an average kitty? Oh, such an average kitty. It satisfy good. God doesn't satisfy with aver with average things, folks. He doesn't satisfy with the with make-do. He satisfies the good things. Folks, God knows what is good for us and what is not. God satisfies with good things. But further, finally, God satisfies the recovery of the strength. He satisfies with good things, so thy youth is renewed like the eagles. If you look through this psalm, folks, it's an awful lot about the body. It talks about healing. Okay. Talks about children, like as a father, pity for his children. There is a progression here through this tent life. There's a progression here through this tabernacle life. And he satisfied with good things so that thy youth is renewed like the eagles. I didn't complain, but I mentioned to the men this morning um during prayer time that I need to get my diet back in control under control because through the holidays I tend to start eating cookies and carbs and chips and all these things and my muscles hurt, my joints hurt because our diet affects this body. Okay. It affects us more as we age. He satisfies thy mouth with good things, not the cookies and the junk that our body doesn't need, but with good things, for the purpose that our youth is renewed like the evil. And I I d don't have time to go into all the things with the eagles. Commentators have all kinds of theories. One of the theories years ago was that the eagle's beak would grow around and he couldn't eat and he would knock off the end of his beak. Ridiculous. But you realize that the eagle's feathers will get tattered and worn. But once a year he will molt. I I enjoy going over to Canowingo and seeing the young eagles. The eagles don't have the white head and the black body until they're close to four years old. But every year the eagle molts off that old set of feathers and a new beautiful plumage comes out. Out. And that's what God is referring to. We go through hard times and we get beat up by it. But God washes all that away. And renews our strength like the eagles. Because he satisfies us with good things. Isaiah 40 verse 29 and following is often often read and repeated. He giveth power to the saints and to them that have no smite, he increaseth strength. Even the youth shall faint to be weary, and the young men shall hardly fall, but they that wait upon the Lord shall renew their strength. They shall mount up with wings as eagles. They shall run and not be weary. They shall walk and not faint. One of my favorite verses, Psalm 22, verse Psalm 92, verse 14, they shall still bring forth fruit in old age. And so indeed, we are called upon to bless the Lord, O my soul, and all that is within me, bless his holy name. Folks, If we forget its benefits, we set ourselves up for all kinds of trouble and heartaches. But oh, may we follow this Glorious command, forget not his benefits. For it is God and God alone that redeems us from destruction. Let us stand for prayer. Father, we thank you for this glorious passage of your word. May we not be forgetful of it, may we not be like a man that looketh into the perfect law of liberty and forgetteth what manner of man he is. Father, may we uh live as children of the King Live as the children of God, live as those who are pitied by the Father like his children. Father, may we be faithful to remember all of your benefits and to bless the Lord at all times. Smith. Bless thy truth to our hearts we pray in Jesus' name. Amen