Turn with me in your Bible this morning to the book of Matthew and chapter five, the fifth chapter of the book of Matthew, the first book of the New Testament. Matthew chapter 5, of course, is the passage which includes the Beatitudes, which are found in verses 1 through 12. But we're going to begin our scripture reading in verse 13 this morning and read just a few verses from Matthew chapter 13. Verses or I'm sorry, Matthew chapter 5, verses 13 through verse 16. Matthew chapter 5. If I said it wrong the first time, I'll give you another moment to find Matthew 5. My tongue gets ahead of my brain sometimes. Matthew chapter five, verse thirteen There we find these words. Yeah the salt of the earth. But as salt hath lost his savor, wherewith shall it be salted? It is therefore good for nothing but to be cast out and to be trodden underfoot of men. Ye are the light of the world. A city that is set on a hill cannot be hid. Neither do men light a candle and put it under a bushel, but on a candlestick And it giveth light unto all that are in the house. Let your light so shine before men that they may see your good works. And glorify your Father which is in heaven. Let us bow for prayer as we begin to look at God's word this morning. Gracious Father, now open the scriptures to our hearts. Open our understanding to receive thy truth. Father, may we indeed understand what it means to be salty And what it means to have no savor at all. Bless thy word and thy truth to us, we pray this day, in Jesus' name. Amen. Our key verse is that verse 15, Ye are the salt of the earth, but as salt hath lost its savor, wherewith shall it be salted? It is therefore good for nothing. but to be cast out and to be trodden underfoot of men. And of course Mark uses these same words in Mark 50, Mark, Mark 9, verse 50 Salt is good, but as salt hath lost its saltiness, wherewith shall it be seasoned? Have salt in your cells, and have peace with one another And again Luke in Luke fourteen, verse thirty-four, uses these same words. Salt is good, but as salt hath lost its savour, wherewith shall it be seasoned? It is neither fit for the land, nor yet for the dunghill. But men cast it out. He that hath ears to hear, let him hear. I Cannot tolerate lightly salted potato chips. They are neither fit for my tongue, nor yet for my table. I would cast them out. If I'm going to have potato chips, I want salty potato chips. And the only thing worse than lightly salted potato chips is a soft pretzel without salt. When I get my soft pretzel at the farmers market, I always ask them to put more salt on it. And last time we were there, they were charging fifty cents to put more salt on the pretzel. That's where things have gone in our economy. We know what salt is. And yes, my cardiologist tells me to Limit my salt intake. And there is a good reason for that, for indeed our bodies sometimes to be oversaturated with salt. But Christians can never be too salty. And here we find that Christians are the salt of the earth. But folks, a lightly salted Christian is not fit. We're not just to be a little bit salty. But Christians are to be full salt potato chips. We're to be a salty believer. Now Some of you may be saying, but Pastor, you've got to get deeper into this. What does it mean to be a salty Christian? And that's what we're going to consider this morning And so basically to give you a roadmap of what we're going to do, we're going to begin by looking at how salt is used in Scripture. Verses where we find salt, what is salt representing? What can we learn from the scriptures about salt? And then we're going to move more into the application area where we're going to look at how we can practically apply these references to salt to our Christian life and our Christian testimony. And then we're going to move into the contrary What is and why is there a condemnation on a saltless Christian? For we find that if salt has lost its savor, what does that mean? If Sod has lost his saber, it's valueless. It's good for nothing. In fact, the Mark passage says it's not even good for the dumbhill. It's not even good for the rubbish heap. And so let's begin by looking at what salt, pictures, or salt represents in Scripture And the first passage I would take you to is to the Old Testament and the book of Numbers, chapter 18, for we find that Salt Is a mark of the covenantal relationship between God and his people. It is a sign of the covenant And this is very important. In Numbers chapter eighteen and verse number nineteen we read this And all the heave offering of the holy things, which the children of Israel offer unto the Lord, have I given thee and thy sons and thy daughters with thee. by a statute forever, even it is a covenant of salt before the Lord And again we read in Leviticus chapter 2 and verse 13, and every ablation of the meat offering shalt thou season with salt. Neither shalt thou suffer the salt of the covenant of thy God to be lacking from thy meat offerings, with all thine offerings, thou shalt offer salt. God says there can't be an offering without salt. There's got to be salt in the offering. You see Cain brought an offering to God, but it was an offering of his own work. There was no covenantal relationship there. Why was it that, as Brother Vince mentioned in Sunday school, that Aaron was placing his hands on the head of the sacrifice? And the sins of the people were imputed to the Lamb, and the righteousness of God was imputed to the people. Why was that? There are many tribes, even some people in Jamaica that still won't practice blood sacrifice from time to time. They'll sacrifice a goat. Throughout the African continent you'll find people that will uh practice animal sacrifice In parts of the Far East, you'll find people that will practice a blood sacrifice. What is wrong with their sacrifice? Well, it's not the covenantal relationship that was designed here in the Old Testament. You see, this salt was part of the agreement between God and man. It was a sign of the covenant. Now, as a Christian, the covenant of God is upon me. God has covenanted the blood of Christ. For the forgiveness of my sin. And so the first thing we see is that this covenantal relationship is established by Saul. We find this even in God's covenant with David For in 2 Chronicles 13, verse 5, when God made covenant with David that his seed would have a perpetual throne, we read this. This is 2 Chronicles 13, 5. Ought ye not to know that the Lord God of Israel gave the kingdom over Israel to David forever. even to him and his sons by a covenant of salt. In other words, by a covenant that God has made that of his seed there will be a man to sit on the throne. And of course we know ultimately that is Christ. It was a covenant of salt. It was a covenant that could not be broken. So the first thing we find about salt is that it is a sign of the covenant. Now carry that to the New Testament if salt has lost its savor Then a covenant is broken. Then there is no salt for the sacrifice. But then also we find in Scripture, and these are in no particular order, by the way, I missed the precipice. that we're going to look at a multitude of the scripture and we're not going most important to least important or least important to most important. They're not in a particular order. So don't try to layer them as this is a big one, this is a little one. They're they're even But another one we find is that salt represents purity. And that is why in the verse there I read in Leviticus 13, or 12, 13, chapter 2, verse 13, that there shall not be a sacrifice without salt. Because the sacrifice had to be pure. And salt was a picture of purity. Now, we know, as we'll see in our application, that salt can be used for the cleansing of a wound. It cleanses. There is an element of purity and cleansing with salt. We find this further in Ezekiel chapter 43, that salt is involved in cleansing. In Ezekiel 43, verse 22 and following, we read this about the cleansing of the altar. Ezekiel 43,22, and on the second day thou shalt offer a kid of the goats without blemish for a sin offering, and they shall cleanse the altar. And then down to verse 24, and thou shalt offer them before the Lord, and the priests shall cast salt upon them. Okay, so the altar had to be cleansed that it might be the acceptable place for the sacrifice, and salt was cast upon it for that cleansing. When we talk about purity and salt We know in Mark chapter 9, verse 49, for every one shall be salted with fire, and every sacrifice shall be salted with salt. But we need to consider the whole context of that passage. So turn with me to Mark chapter 9 in your New Testament and verses 49 through 48. Mark chapter 9, we're finding that salt is a matter of cleansing. Mark chapter 9, verse 47. And if thine eye offend thee, pluck it out. For it is better for thee to enter into the kingdom of God with one eye than having two eyes to be cast into hellfire. where their worm dieth not, and the fire is not quenched, for every one shall be salted with fire, and every sacrifice shall be salted with salt. Now, why is it we find the connection here between plucking out an eye lest you be cast into hell of fire and salt? Well, because The plucking out of the eye in the New Testament is a representation of repentance. We're to cast the sin away. If this is the sin that I bear, it must be removed. If this is the thing that stands between me and God, then I cannot allow this thing to stand between me and God. I must repent of this sin. Except ye repent, ye shall all likewise perish. And we find that every one shall be salted with fire In other words, the fire of judgment comes upon everyone, every individual ever born, and every sacrifice shall be salted with salt. And so that judgment will either fall upon me, where the worm dieth not and the fire is not quenched, or the judgment that should fall upon me will be placed on Christ. And I will be salted by his righteousness. And so salt is an emblem of cleansing. And the plucking out there is a picture of repentance. Paul said in Romans 13, verse 12, the night is far far spent. the day at his hand. Let us therefore cast off the works of darkness, and let us put on the armor of light. And again in 1 Peter 2, verse 11, abstain from fleshly lusts which war against your soul. We also find in the Old Testament that salt is a picture or an emblem of the cleansing that takes place. This is in 2 Kings chapter 2, and verse 19 and following. We find there, and the men of the city said unto Elisha, Behold, I pray thee, the situation of the city is pleasant. As my Lord seeth, but the water is not. In other words, the water is bitter, the water is not fit for drinking, the water is not, and the ground is barren. And he, that's Elisha, said, Bring me a cruise, a new cruise, and put salt therein. And they brought him brought it to him. And he went forth into the spring of water, and cast the salt in there, and said, Thus saith the Lord, I have healed these waters They shall not from henceforth be any more death or barren land. So the waters were healed unto this day Now, what did that little bit of salt do to the water into the land that it was healed forever to this day Well, the little bit of salt didn't accomplish making the water. It's not like tablets the hikers use to make their water pure But rather there was a picture God was showing here. I've healed it. And I've used salt. And why is salt important? Because salt was the mark of the covenant. I've made a covenant with this land. I have purified this land. I have redeemed this land from its sin. And it will not be barren again. The waters will not be bitter again, because God has made a covenant. But another picture of salt in Scripture is a picture of judgment. Salt is an emblem of the wrath of God. And again I go to the Mark passage there in Mark 9. If thine eye offend thee, pluck it out, for it is better for thee to enter into the kingdom having one eye than having two eyes to be cast into hell fire. There's judgment there, where their worm dieth not, and the fire is not quenched And when Mark spoke those words, he wasn't just making something up out of the top of his head. He was quoting from Isaiah chapter 66. For in the Old Testament, Isaiah 66 and verse 23 we find this. And it shall come to pass that from one new moon to another, and from one Sabbath to another, shall all flesh come to worship before me, saith the Lord. Have you ever read in the New Testament, every knee shall bow Mm-hmm. And every tongue shall confess. Isaiah said, It's going to come to pass that they're all going to come to worship before me. Verse 24 of Isaiah 66 And they shall go forth and look upon the carcasses of the men that have transgressed against me, for their worms shall not die, neither shall their fire be quenched They shall be an abhorring unto all flesh. As we observed in Sunday school this morning, those that go to hell aren't simply burn up. But rather they're fitted for destruction. Their bodies are fitted to remain in eternal fire. The worm doesn't die. They burn forever. Salt is a picture of judgment. Of course, remember, remember Lot's wife. Lot's wife rebelled against God God was delivering Lot and his family from Sodom, and Lot's wife looked back, and she didn't become a pillar of granite. She didn't become a pillar of pyrite. She didn't become a pile of dust. But rather she became a pillar of salt A monument of judgment of God's wrath on those Who will not obey his voice, who will not heed his warning. She looked back And of course, Lot's uh Luke told us remember Lot's wife. One more about the judgment when Abimelech destroyed the city of Shechem in Judges nine, verse forty five and Abimelech fought against the city all that day, and he took the city, and slew the people that were therein, and beat down the city, and sowed it with salt. He spread salt upon the city. It was not to be rebuilt. It was under God's judgment. But then one more use of salt in the Old Testament before we move on to the practical application of salt. Salt was a form of payment. It was a form of salary. In Ezekiel 6, we find that Ezekiel included salt in the payment to the men who worked for the rebuilding of the tip of the temple. And in chapter seven, it uh records the uh payment to the priests and their families, how they were to live, they were to pre- Take of the sacrifices. That was to be their living. They didn't go out and work a job. They were working in the tabernacle, in the temple. But part of their payment was salt. Our English word salt comes from the Latin solarium. Solarium, the root word, uh Because salt was used as part of the payment to Roman soldiers. They were paid in salt. And you may have heard the sit saying that guy is not worth his salt. Well, it's an English expression we use that he he's not worth what he gets paid. He's he doesn't really do a good job. He's not efficient at what he does. And so our word salt is the Latin word word salarium, and our word salary comes from the same root. A salary is what you are paid. Our English word salad also comes from the Latin solarium, a salad. Romans would use salty vegetables and they would make a salad, and that's how we get our word salad. And I always put salt on my salads. I like salt on a salad. Even Miss Livy's good salads, I'll put some salt on them. But folks, our English word salvation comes from the same word root of the Latin solarium. It is a payment. Our salvation Is based on the same word. Now, if our salvation has lost its salvationness If the characteristics of a Christian are not found in the Christian If he's not a salty believer, what good is he? For indeed he's lost his saltiness. He's lost his testimony, he's lost his witness, he's lost the very things for which he was saved. And the next verses give us the context. You're the light of the world A city that settled on the hill cannot be hidden. Let your light so shine before men that they may see your good works and glorify your Father, which is in heaven. You see, a believer needs to show forth his salvation-ness to create a word. God has no use for lightly salting Christians. They're good for nothing. They they don't have a purpose because they're not salty. They're the salt of the earth. And yet they Lost their savor. And we're going to talk about that word savor a little bit later. But let's go to some practical classifications. What does salt do? Salt gives sweetness and flavor. Job said in Job 6, verse 6, Can that which is unsavory be eaten without salt? Or is there any taste in the white of an egg? Uh that doesn't taste very good. Add some salt. Put some salt on it. That would prove it. You see, Christians are to have that influence in the world. This community's a mess. It needs some salt. It needs some Christians to be Christians. It doesn't need lightly salted Christians. It needs full salt, extra salt, pretzel Christians. You see, salt adds sweetness. And if we are the salt of the earth, but we've lost our saltiness, it's good for nothing. And Paul's epistle to the Colossians in Colossians 4 verse 6, he said, Let your speed be always with grace, seasoned with salt. Let your speech be always with grace, seasoned with salt, that ye may know how ye ought to answer every man. That's a salty Christian. That's a Christian whose words are always of grace, a pleasant voice, but some salt in what he has to say, because the earth needs salt. And we're the salt of the earth. Salt purifies and cleanses. Salt is a cleansing agent Believers should be salty Christians cleansing believers in their communities. In Ezekiel sixteen, verses three and four, we read this, and say, Thus saith the Lord God unto Jerusalem. Thy birth and thy nativity is in the land of Canaan. Canaan was an evil, wicked land. It's in the land of Canaan. Thy father was an Amorite, and thy mother a Hittite. For as for thy nativity, in the day that thou wast born, thy navel was not cut, neither wast thou washed in water to supple thee. Thou wast not salted at all. nor swaddled at all. It's a picture of the the genesis of the nation of Israel. But those of you who have been privileged to witness the birth of one of your children know that a baby comes out covered in a waxyness. I had the name and I didn't write it down with the the scientific name for what that is. It helps to lubricate the baby through the birth canal. And it helps to protect the baby. It has uh it has properties that uh are good for the skin of the baby. It fights off bacteria as the baby is born. But once the baby's born it needs to be removed. It needs to be washed off. And here, Ezekiel says to Israel, you were not salted at all. You weren't cleansed. You see, a salty believer is a cleansing influence in the world, that they may see your good works, verse 16, and glorify your Father. which is an heaven. We should have a testimony where we live. Salt preserves. We know what salted ham is. It can preserve him for a long time. In Proverbs 14, 34, righteousness exalteth a nation, but sin is a reproach to any people. You realize that if there had simply been ten salty believers in Sodom, Sodom would have been spared. Lot was not a salty believer. Lot was not salty. When he went to his own son-in-laws and told them of judgment to come, they thought him as one that dreamed. There were not ten salty believers in Sodom, and so God rained down judgment on Sodom. And my prayer continually is: God, may there be enough salty Christians in America. To hold back the wrath of God and the judgment of God. Salt is a preserving element Oh, let not my Lord be angry. I will speak yet again this once. Peradventure ten shall be found, and he said, I will not destroy it for ten's sake. So another thing that salt does, salt creates thirst. When you come in contact with something that is salty, you want to drink. Folks Blessed are they that do hunger and thirst after righteousness. But part of the believer's testimony is making unbelievers thirsty. You see, if we are truly salty believers that are on fire for God, that have a testimony for God, that are telling people about God, it will make the wicked thirsty. I want to have what he has. There's something different about this guy at work. I'd like to be like that I would like to be like him. Let your light so shine is the context of the following verses. But if a Christian is not salty, he's just like Lot and Sodom Even his son-in-laws don't know the difference. Or to be salty believers. Do all things without murmurs and disputings, Philippians twelve. That ye might be blameless and harmless, the sons of God without rebuke In the midst of a crooked and perverse nation, among whom ye shine as lights in the world, holding forth the word of life. But there's another thing that salt does. Salt corrodes. Salt agitates. Do you ever hear the expression? It's like pouring salt in the wound. You know, the salt in a wound is good for the wound, but boy does it sting Salt is not always pleasant. Too much salt on your tongue, and your tongue starts to burn. Salt will rust your prized vehicle. It'll rot out the fenders. It'll rot out the floorboards. It'll rot out the running boards. SALT! Is corrosive. Woe unto you when all men speak well of you For so spake thee of the false prophets which were before you. Lot got along in Sodom because he wasn't salty. And I'm not saying that Christians are supposed to be going around stirring up trouble. No, that's not it at all. But if you are truly standing for righteousness and saying, look, this Evolution business is nonsense. God created the world. God is not your mother. There are not many gods. There is one God and creator. And God created male and female, and they are distinct and different, and you don't go one back to the other, you start living and saying those things, and the world isn't going to be happy with you. But you see, that's part of being a salty believer. It's standing for truth even when truth is unprop in unpopular You see, Christians are not good old boys. You know, those of you from Texas, you know, and my my family's from North Carolina raised. We understand what a good old boy is. The good old boy gets along with everybody. Everybody likes the good old boy. You know, he'll do anything for you. That's not the Christian. The Christian doesn't isn't always liked by everybody in the world. We stand for truth. We stand for righteousness. We're not trying to offend people. We're not trying to be obnoxious. But we're not going to give an inch or a syllable or a jot or a tittle of this word up. Line upon line. and precept upon precepts. When Stephen preached righteousness, he wasn't a good old boy. And they stoned him. When Paul was in Athens, therefore disputed he in the synagogue with the Jews and with the devout persons, and in the market daily with them that met with him. He he disputed. He wasn't being rude, he wasn't being nasty, but he was preaching truth. Salt is abrasive. It can corrode. Now, what happens when a Christian loses his saltiness What what does that mean? What what is this teaching here? Well, that word savor, if salt hath lost its save his savor, it is wherewith shall be salted, is therefore good for nothing. Salt is good, but the salt has lost its savor, wherewith shall be seasoned. This is the Luke passage, Luke 14. It is neither fit for the land, nor yet for the dung hill, but men cast it out. What does that word savor mean? Well That word savor is the word moreno. To use our English pronunciation, we would say more moreno. Moron. The word is used four times in the New Testament, the word moreno Two times are Matthew and Luke, where Salt has lost its savior. The other ones are Romans 1. 22, for professing themselves to be wise, they became fools. And then the fourth one is 1 Corinthians 1 verse 20, for God hath made foolish the wisdom of the world. If Saul had lost its savor, its foolishness. Again we go to Lot. Lot went to his son-in-laws and he seemed to them as one that dreamed. What is this foolishness that Lot is talking about? Our father-in-law has gone mad. You see, he wasn't salty to begin with, so when it came time to talk about truth. It was foolishness to them. They wouldn't hear it. There was no testimony. He was a saltless believer. And he had no influence on his community. He was a good old boy. There was no cleansing effect. And there was no ability of preservation. He could not hold back the darkness. He could not hold back the judgment of God because there wasn't ten salty, including a lot. But if Lot had been salty, Lot had two daughters and a wife, that makes four. He had two married daughters and son-in-laws, that makes eight. You only need two more. If Lot had been salty to make ten and to stop the judgment on Sodom. Ye are the salt of the earth, believers, Christians But as thought has lost its savor, it's become foolishness. It's good for nothing to be Trotted underfoot. What do we read about the judgment that they trample underfoot the Son of God? That they tread down that which is holy. And what did what was the judgment on the priest of the Old Testament? You've trampled down the green grass. You've trampled down the grass before the sheep. You haven't been faithful shepherds. You haven't been salty Christians. Remember that our word salvation comes from the word salt. Salvationless Christians Christians who don't show forth their saltiness are good for nothing. A Christian that has lost the character and nature of what it is to be a Christian is a thoughtlistian. Finally, and we'll conclude with this. How are we to be salty? Well, folks, first of all, our doctrine our doctrine is salt. Our doctrine is the way of salvation. Our doctrine also is a message of condemnation. Our doctrine is a doctrine of truth and permanence. This is the Word of God. I don't care what you think. I don't care how you feel or how you identify. I identify by this book. Right. It is the doctrine. Our salt is doctrine. Our witness is salt. Except ye repent ye shall likewise perish. Neither is there salvation in any other, for there's none other name under heaven given among men, whereby ye must be saved. Come unto me, Christ says All ye that labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. Except ye repent, ye shall all likewise perish. The wages of sin is death, but the gift of God is eternal life through Jesus Christ our Lord. That is salt. Our doctrine is salt, and our witness is salt. And our testimony is salt. The way we conduct ourselves in the world day by day, it is salt to our neighbors, it is salt to our friends, it is salt to our co-workers. It is salt to the person in the grocery store. Our testimony may be abrasive to some people. Because we don't go along with the world, but our testimony is salt. And our prayers are salt. Oh Lord, have mercy on this nation. Oh Lord, have mercy on my co-workers. Oh Lord, visit them with thy salvation. Our doctrine, our witness, our testimony, and our prayers are salt. You see, we are to be living salt and not barren fig trees. We are to be fruitful believers. Ye are the salt of the earth. But as salt has lost its savor, it is good for nothing. Stand with me as we pray. Father, we thank you this day for thy word. We thank you indeed. As your word promises, the entrance to thy word giveth light. There is so much to learn from this precious book Lord, bless your word to our hearts. May we not look into thy perfect law of liberty and forget what manner of men we are. May we not be forgetful hearers. But Lord, make us truly salty Christians. May we never be given, be guilty of being lightly salted or being unsalted, O Lord. But may we be salt in the world. Bless thy truth to our hearts this day. In Jesus' name. Amen