To Mark's Gospel and the tenth chapter. The tenth chapter of the Gospel of Mark. And I'll read verses thirteen through sixteen, a very brief reading this morning. A reading that we could take from Matthew or we could take from Luke, because three of the Gospels record this same event. Mark chapter 10, and I'll begin our reading in verse 13. And they brought young children to him, that he should touch them. And his disciples rebuked those that brought them. But when Jesus saw it, he was much displeased and said unto them, Suffer the little children to come unto me, and forbid them not, for of such is the kingdom of God. Verily, I say unto you: Whosoever shall not receive the kingdom of God as a little child shall not enter therein. Let us pray. Our gracious, kind, and loving Heavenly Father, we thank you for the Word of God. We thank you that it has been given to us by divine inspiration. We thank you that it has been delivered to us by the preserving hand of our mighty God. And Father, today we pray that you would bless our hearts Strengthen us, convict us, show us who we are, show us who we should be, but most of all, show us who Christ is. Lord, bless your truth to us this day in Jesus' name Amen. And they brought young children to him. In Luke's account Luke does not refer to them as young children, but rather Luke says they brought infants to them. And it's a beautiful word that Luke uses there in Luke chapter 18. It's only found eight times in Scripture. And five of those eight times are found in the Gospel of Luke. Luke, of course, was the great physician. He was a doctor. He was a medical personage. But what fascinates me about that infant term that Luke uses there in Luke 18 is that it is the same word that was used by John the Baptist. When his mother came to visit Mary, and in Mary's body was the yet unfully formed body of Jesus Christ. And within Elizabeth's body was the yet growing body of John the Baptist. And we read that when Elizabeth greeted Mary, the babe leapt in her womb. It's the same word that Luke uses in his account of the children coming to Christ. They brought infants Very significant verse there. Very significant verse when we consider our world today and the commonality of abortion. They brought young children to him. They were children after birth, and they were children before birth as well. Scripture leaves no ambiguity whatsoever. The first thing I would have us to notice here from this passage is that the children were brought to Jesus. The action taken was not on behalf of the children. It was not their action. They were brought by others. These children did not come to Jesus on their own, but rather they were brought. They were carried And if you compare that back to Luke's account, where Luke uses the term infant, it is one who does not yet have the ability to walk himself. He is carried. And an even more fascinating word in this account than the reference to young children or infant is this word brought. This is another fascinating word which is used 48 times in our scriptures. 20 of those 48 times, it's 48 times actually in the New Testament. It's a Greek word. Twenty of those 48 times are found in the book of Hebrews. And the translation that these children were brought is the secondary use of the word. More often, this word brought is the word offered. It is a presentation. When the wise men brought gold, frankincense, and myrrh to Jesus in Matthew 2 in verse 11. The word used there when they presented unto him their gifts, it's the same word. They offered their gifts, they brought their gifts. But this word offered has far greater significance than that. Because when we come to the concept of dedicating our children to God, And baptizing them before the Lord. We are following the Old Testament pattern where the firstborn was brought, and they were offered to God, they were placed before Him. And so in Hebrews 11 and verse 17, we find by faith when he was tried, or Abraham by faith, by faith, Abraham, when he was tried, offered up Isaac. And he that received the promises offered up his only begotten Son. And so we know what Abraham did there. He took his son Isaac up on the mountain to sacrifice his son to God. And his son was presented unto God. This is my son, this is bone of my bone and flesh of my flesh, but it does not belong to me. This child is given by God, and it is my child. Yes, I raise it, and yet it came from God. This child came from God. From God, and this child belongs to God, and this child is for the glory of God, and this child is in the providence of God, and this child is God's to use as He ordains. And that is what we celebrate today. They brought young children. They offered them. But then there's more in Hebrews with this word. For in chapter 9 of Hebrews and verse 13, and you can turn there if you'd like to. Hebrews chapter 9 and verse 13. There we read, for if the blood of bulls and of goats and the ashes of heifers, sprinkling the unclean, satisfy to the purifying of the flesh How much more shall the blood of Christ, who through the eternal Spirit offered himself without spot to God, purge your conscience from dead works to serve the living God? The word offered there in Hebrews 9. 14 is the same word that Matthew, that Mark, and that Luke use. When these children were brought to Christ. And then flip over to chapter 10 of Hebrews. And in Hebrews chapter 10, verse 11 and 12. And every priest standeth daily ministering and offering the same word, offering off times the same sacrifices, which can never take away sin. But this man, that's Jesus Christ, but this man, after he had offered one sacrifice for sin forever, sat down on the right hand of God. And so the reason that we can meet here in this building that we refer to as a church, and this is the house of worship, this is a church building, but the church is the people in it. But the very reason that we gather here today, the reason that I am not burning in hell at this moment, the reason that we celebrate the birth of children is because God sent his son, and his son offered up himself to be our Savior. sacrifice. And so this word brought here that we find is a glorious word. It's a word which we can read past very quickly. But there is amazing and deep significance. They brought children. They offered them to God. We find that the children were inactive. It was the parents that brought them. And today, parents bring them. We as elders lift them up. And yet, in a very real sense, it is the entire congregation. It is all of us. who this day will offer up this child, covenanting before God, taking upon ourselves a solemn responsibility to train up this child. in the way that she should go. But not only were the children inactive, the children were incapable. They were incapable of coming on their own. Remember the healing of the man that was sick of the palsy in Matthew 9 and verse 2? And they brought, same word in the Greek, and they brought him that was sick of the palsy lying on a bed. And seeing and Jesus seeing their faith said unto the sick of the palsy, Son, be of good cheer, thy sins be forgiven thee. This man had no ability to come on his own, but he was brought to Jesus. But then we find further that these children who were brought to Jesus were insensible. They were inactive, they were incapable, and they were insensible Sensible. And let me explain to you what I mean by that. It's not just alliteration for the sake of alliteration. The children were not aware of what was taking place. Dear little Kyla, beautiful baby, she won't remember her baptism this day. She won't remember her dedication. What God will. Lazarus, lying in a tomb, was dead. He was insensible. And Jesus said, Lazarus, come forth. Every one of us outside of Christ are insensible We know not our own state. We know not our own need of Christ until we are awakened from death in sin. And further, when we say this child is insensible, it is the parent's will which brings the child today. It is not the child at all. And folks, let there be no illusion. There is nothing that we can do for little Kyla today. We cannot save her soul. We cannot guarantee her a place in heaven. So the dedication today is a commitment of the parents Because the child is insensible. It is not the child that is coveting with God today, it is the parents. Man Has a will, but man does not have a will that is free. Man can choose his way. Man can exercise his will. Man can do whatever he wants to do. And so, in that sense, man's will is indeed free. And yet, man's will is not free. Because man's will is captive to the fall of Adam. And the one thing which man cannot do is do good. There is none righteous, no not one, there is none that doeth good. And so it naturally follows that all of our righteousness are filthy rags. All the good I try to do is nothing but filthy rags. I can do no good. And so I am certainly free to do evil. I can go out and commit any evil that can be imagined, and most of us can commit unimaginable evil evil But I can do no good except that good which is done in me, which is of Christ. And so not by works of righteousness which I have done, but by his good. That is the prophet. And so the children were insensible. They could do no good. good. But not only were the children brought to Jesus, the action was that of others. The children were brought to Jesus because the intention was that of others. If you look at verse 13 It says, and they brought young children, we're back in Mark 10, excuse me, they brought young children to him that he should touch them. There was a specific purpose for which they brought these children. They brought them that Jesus might touch them. Do you remember your first child? Those of you who had more that had more than one, I have four. The old saying, when the first child spits out the pacifier, you throw it out. When the second child spits out the pacifier, you sterilize it. When the third child spits out the pacifier, you stick it in your own mouth and then pop it back in. And by the fourth child, you just stick it in. Because we we learn that they're not as fragile as we think they are. And a few germs are good for them actually. But do you walk out on the street with any of your children and find a homeless person and say, here, hold my child. Do you let someone who is covered in sores and obviously in need of medical attention here, touch my child? Do you prevent your child from touching anything that is nasty and polluted? Why? For the good of your child. These children were brought to Jesus that he might touch them. But the parents touched them every day. You see, these parents brought these children to Jesus that he might touch them. In faith, acknowledging that his touch could do for them what their own could not. And that his touch was not harmful, but was amazingly beneficial. There was something in his touch that these parents said, my child needs. Remember with the woman with the issue of blood? I said, oh, if if I can just touch the hem of this garment. And she comes to him in the pressing crowd where everyone is jostling and bumping up against him like they're on a subway bus. And she touches this garment and she knows she's healed. And Jesus turns and says, Who touched me? And the disciples are like, What do you mean, who touched you? Everybody's touching you. And Jesus Jesus turns to her and says, daughter. He calls her daughter. Daughter. Your sins are forgiven. You're healed. These children were brought to Jesus, and the intention was of the parents: God, my child needs something that I cannot do for them. Lord, do what I cannot. And that is what we do today We bring a precious child before the presence of God and we say, Lord, we can't save her. We would if we could We would die ourselves for her own salvation, as Paul said he would offer up himself on the sacrifice of the faith of the Jews. And yet he could not But Lord, you can. Oh Lord Jesus Christ, touch this child. Redeem this child. Change this child. Give this child the life which our bodies cannot. The intention was that of the parents. These parents came in faith believing that there was great value in the touch of Jesus Christ. They believed that that touch was what the child needed. More than wealth, more than health, more than fame, more than success. For what shall it profit a man if he gain the whole world and lose his own soul? But not only was the action that of others, and the intention that of others. But these children were brought to Christ, and the faith was that of others. others. These parents believed. They did not take these children to the priest. They did not bear these children to the Sanhedrin, or to the Pharisees, or to the Romans, or even the Dr. Luke. They took these children to Jesus in faith, believing. But not only do we notice from the passage that these children were brought to Jesus, but we find in verse 15 that the disciples Rebuked those that brought them. Actually, it's verse 13 in Mark, it's 15 in Luke. The disciples rebuked those that brought them. Not everyone will understand what we're doing today. Even good and godly men. May not understand that which we do today. A few months ago, I was privileged to see one of my college professors that I have high, high regard for. And the subject of infant baptism came up, and he was horrified to learn that I baptized. Babies. And I explained to him that there is no meritorial salvation in what we do, that it is the parents and not the child that are active. And that what we do is a covenant before God. And he still didn't understand. And further, I was reading one of my absolute favorite commentators. And studying these verses, and he compared the bringing of infants for baptism to sacrificing children to Moloch And I I laughed when I read it. Because he doesn't understand. The disciples didn't understand what was taking place. And we have dear brethren in other churches that we will spend all eternity with, and they are good and godly men. They don't understand what we're doing. We don't condemn them. But we follow our conscience. We follow that which God has instructed us to do. And so we bring these children To baptize them. Now, these children that were brought to Jesus were not brought for baptism. Baptism in the form we do today was a carryover from the Old Testament, but was not known specifically in the form in which we practice it today. Though it is the same, that's a whole nother uh whole nother message at some time. And yet it is very similar because we come to do for the children what they cannot do for themselves, acknowledging that we can't do it. It must be a And so Christ's response was: suffer the children, little children to come unto me and forbid them not, for of such is the kingdom of heaven. This is the makeup of the kingdom of heaven. This is what the kingdom of heaven is made of. It is made up of children. And little children, and even infant children. Remember that verse? As newborn babes desire the sincere milk of the word? That is one of the other uses of that word infant that Luke uses five times. Instead of used three times outside of Luke, that's one of them. That's one of the three. As newborn infants desire the sincere milk of the word. And so it follows that Christ says, Verily I say unto you, Whosoever shall not receive the kingdom of God as a little child shall not enter therein. Now you may say, but I'm an adult. How can I be as a little child? I am grown. How can I receive the kingdom of God if I am already past childhood? And that's a good question because it's a biblical question. You see, there was a man of the Pharisees who came to Jesus by night and asked the exact same question. How can a man be born again when he is old? Turn over to John 3. John chapter 3 and verse 1. There was a man of the Pharisees named Nicodemus, a ruler of the Jews. The same came to Jesus by night and said unto him, Rabbi, we know that thou art a teacher come from God, for no man can do these miracles that thou doest except God be with him. Jesus answered and said unto him, verse 3 of John 3: Verily, verily I say unto thee, except a man be born again, he cannot see the kingdom of God. Nicodemus saith unto him, How can a man be born when he is old? Can he enter a second time into his mother's womb and be born? You see, if you're asking that question this morning, it's a biblical question. It's a good question. And here is a Pharisee, a well-trained religious man. Here is an important man, a ruler of the Jews, and that was his question. How can a man be born again? How can it be possible that one can be born into the kingdom of God? is essentially the question, if only children can enter therein. Jesus saith unto him, or sorry, in verse 6, That which is born of flesh is flesh, and that which is born of spirit is spirit. Marvel not that I say unto you, ye must be born again. The wind bloweth where it listeth, and thou hearest the sound thereof, and canst not tell whence it cometh or whither it goeth. So is every one that is born of the Spirit. You see, Jesus says, suffer the little children to come unto me and forbid them not, for of such is the kingdom of heaven. And except ye become as a little child, ye cannot enter the kingdom of heaven. Ah, no, we go not back into our mother's womb to be born again of the flesh, but ye must be. Born again. Because that which is born of flesh is flesh. But that which is born of Spirit is spirit. Ah, my friend. When I was born on May 11, 1963, now you know how old I'm getting. I was born a stillbirth. I was born dead. The doctors didn't do chest compressions and so on. Because I was breathing. And my heart was beating. And I was screaming my head off, I'm sure. Don't remember it, but I'm sure it was. Oh, I was alive in every human sense possible. But I was dead spiritually. Because God's word tells us that we all died in Adam. As in Adam all died. Even so in Christ shall all be made alive. And so, my friend, today, if you are here and you only have one birthday, you're dead. Jesus said, except the man be born again. He cannot enter the kingdom of heaven. He must be born again. He must be born a second time. He must be spiritually born. By the Spirit of God, whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. And so we find that he took them up in his arms. And put his hands upon them and blessed them. And in Matthew's account, in Matthew 19, verse 30, it adds one element that I believe is important. Matthew says, and they brought unto him little children that he should put his hands on them and pray for them. And that is That's what we do today. We put our hands on a little child, calling upon the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit, praying God's grace and God's mercy on this child. For Christ said to Peter, Simon, Simon, behold, Satan hath desired to have thee that he may sift thee as wheat. But I have prayed for thee, and when thou art converted, Feed my brethren. Let us pray. Father, today we thank you for your word. Lord, I pray for any here today who have only been born once. Lord, any here today who are born and alive physically, but have no spiritual life within them. Father, even this day, may they be born again. Father, we thank you for the privilege we have now of dedicating a dear little child to thee. And baptizing that child into the community of the saints, calling upon you to save this child in time. To do for this child what we cannot do for her. Lord, we pray these blessings in Jesus' name. Amen.