I like it. Okay. twenty seven. I don't generally have an outline, but there's a a bit of an outline that you can look for uh in the message this morning. The first part of the outline you might look for are the four reasons why David should not have gone and began living among the Philistines. There's four reasons why he should not have left Judah. And then there are also four uh results from living among the Philistines. So those are the four things, four reasons he shouldn't have left Judah and the four results of living among uh the Philistines. So let's just look at chapter twenty-seven. We'll read through that whole chapter. It's not that long. And then we'll commence with the message. And David said in his heart, I shall now perish one day by the hand of Saul. There's nothing better for me than that I should speedily escape into the land of the Philistines. And Saul shall despair of me, to seek me any more, in any coast of Israel. And so shall I escape out of his hand. I think that can be turned down a little bit, maybe. Does that sound a little loud to say They can turn the volume down on that a little bit. And David arose, and he passed over with 600 men that were with him unto Akesh, the son of Maach, king of Gath. And David dwelt with Akish at Gath, he and his men, every man with his household, even David with his two wives, Ahinahim the Jezreelitist, and Abigail the Carmelitist Nabal's wife. And it was told Saul that David was fled to Gath, and he sought no more again for him And David said unto Akish, if I have now found grace in thy eyes, let them give me a place in some town in the country, that I may dwell there. For why should thy servant dwell in the royal city with thee So David did he David knew it was like living around a king before the king gets jealous and things happen and so he's telling the the king here of Gath, you know, I'm not gonna live in a royal city with you, let me go out in the country somewhere. Uh he he's trying to avoid some real conflicts there Verse 6, then Akash gave him Ziglag that day. Wherefore Ziglag pertaineth now unto the kings of Judah unto this day. So David was assigned the city of Ziglag. And the time that David dwelt in the country of the Philistines was a full year and four months. So that's not a long time. And David and his men went up and they invaded the Gejorites and the Gezrites and the Amalekites For those nations were of old, inhabitants of the land, as thou goest to Shur, that's another city, unto the land of Egypt. And David smote the land, and left neither man nor woman alive, and he took away the sheep, and the oxen and the asses and the camels and the apparel, and returned and came to Akish. And Akish that is the king. He said, Whither have you made a road today? Or whither have you made a raid today? Where have you been? He must have seen David with the oxen and the cattle and the goats. He knew he'd been on a raid somewhere. And David said, against the south of Judah. Now he's parsing his words carefully here. He's not saying against southern Judah, all right? He's saying against the south of Judah. But he's saying in such a manner that the king thinks this Philistine king thinks that David is now attacking southern Judah. He's being very clever the way this is worded here David said against the south of Judah and against the south of the Jezreelites, and this is true, these uh families, tribes he was attacking, they were on the southern border of Judah But he's just being very uh deceptive here. And against the south of the Kenites. And David saved neither man nor woman alive to bring tidings to Gath. Saying, lest they should tell of honor, saying, So did David, and so will be his manner all the while he dwelleth in the country of the Philistines. That's why David killed everybody. He didn't want the king to know what was really happening And Akis believed David, saying, He made his people Israel utterly to abhor him. Therefore he shall be my servant forever. So it gives you a little idea of some of the deceptiveness of David and what was going on there. But looking this morning at David leaving Judah And going to live among the Philistines. We look at verse 1, where David said in his heart, I shall perish one day by the hand of Saul. There's nothing better for me than I should escape. in the land of the Philistines. Actually there were four reasons why he should not have fled Judah And gone to the land of the Philistines. And we could find more. And I would say the same to you this morning. We don't live in the land of the Philistines, but we sometimes we find ourselves tempted to live among the worldly And the Bible is full of ample reasons why we shouldn't be associated with those who aren't Christians, with those who are in the world. There's ample reasons why we don't belong among those people. We don't belong uh spending our time, our free time with them. We may have to work with them. We may have relatives that we have to visit, but we don't have to become so comfortable that we can sit down, lie down, and and uh just spend a lot of our free time with them. It's living among the Philistines. Many reasons. We'll give four here why David should not have gone. The first reason was that David had gone gone through some miraculous escapes. There have been times and Saul tried to throw a javelin at him and the javelin he dodged it. The time when Saul tried to pin him to the wall with a javelin and David j He dodged that as well. It was a time when he was searching for David up in the caves and he had to walk into the very cave that David was in and he didn't see him because the cave was too dark. And you know these stories, we've been going through these now for the last couple of months But time and time and time again, miraculously the in the province of God, that the sovereign God that David worshipped, the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob He had been miraculously saved time after time after time. There was just no reason for David to believe that God wouldn't still provide that he didn't have to go and live among the world. He didn't have to go and live among the Philistines. And the second reason was that God had sent the prophet Samuel to David And Samuel had gone to David and he s he he said that God was through with King Saul and he was anointing David to be the new king and that he would be the king of Israel someday. But here David is saying, I gotta run, I gotta I'll perish, I'll never be the king, I'm gonna die before I'm ever the king, I've gotta get out of here. But Samuel came to him and said, No, you will live to be the king. You will replace Saul. And so here he has not only the providence of miracles to protect him, but he also has the prophet Samuel Encouraging him, instructing him, anointing him, confirming that no, he would live to be the king someday, and still for the second reason it is ignored and he flees him The third thing of reason that David didn't have to flee into the land and live among the Philistines was, if you recall, Abathar the priest After King Saul had killed all the priests and one fled, that one priest was Abathar, and he came to David's camp, and he brought with him the Ephod. And whenever you needed to know what was going on or what you should do or what you shouldn't do, he could turn to, and he often did, to Abathar the priest, and he would say, Have you the ephah, bring the ephah, let me see what I should be doing And so here he's got Abathar the priest. We read about him in 1 Samuel 23 and 9, and again in uh 1 Samuel 30 and 7. He's there to guide David, to tell David what he should do, as we have the Word of God It tells us what we should do. This is like opening up the ephod. You know, the ephod would tell David what he should do in every situation, every circumstance. And we today have that, Christians You know, we don't have to ask our next door neighbor, we don't have to ask get an opinion poll, what the majority says, we go to God's word and He will direct us I've been in the ministry over thirty years now, and I've never run across a minute, never run across a problem that someone had where we couldn't find a solution in the scriptures And so David has Abathar. He's the high priest. He has the ephod. David just has to turn to him and say, Should I flee Judah or shouldn't I? Should I go and live among the Philistines or shouldn't I? What saith the word? What saith the ephod? What does God ever say to me? And he replied said, Well, you know, Samuel already told you what you need to do. He's already told you you're going to be provided for, he's already told you you're going to be saved, he's already told you But he didn't do that either. And then the fourth reason that David should not have gone down And live among the Philistines was David also in 1 Samuel 22 5 and 2 Samuel 24. 11. We find that not only did he have the high priest with him, and the But he had a seer, another prophet, who was alive and with him. His name was Gad, G-A-D, and I gave you the verses where you can find that he came alongside and was in David's camp. And seer was another word for a prophet. So although Samuel was dead, he still had Gad the prophet. He had Abathar the high priest And Gad the seer had said to David, Get thee on the land of Judah. So he'd already been told, David, you're to be in the land of Judah. You're not supposed to be down the land of Philistines. So here he's got four reasons why he should not go. But why did he go? Verse one tells us David said in his heart He didn't look in the Word of God. He didn't look into the ephod. He didn't look into the instructions he's had before from Samuel. He looked in his heart. As often people do. And when you look in your heart, what do you do? Well, you tend to do what you feel, what you think, what you imagine, what you hope. David looked elsewhere for direction. Not the Word of God, not the counsel of godly people, the priest, the seer. He looked in his heart Samuel 17 9 tells us that's the worst place you can look. The heart is deceitful and wicked above all things. Who can know it? It was the last place he should have looked. And so often we say, well I feel in my heart this is who I'm supposed to marry. Well I feel in my heart this is where I'm supposed to go to school. Well I feel in my heart that this is who I sho The heart is deceitful. Even the heart of King David. Even the heart of a man who writes the Psalms. We cannot trust our heart alone. That heart needs to be guided by God's word. Even the Lord Jesus Christ in Luke 12, 16 through 20, he warns about looking within yourself to make your decisions. And there was a rich man, and he thought within himself. There we go again. Looking into ourselves, looking into our own hearts, looking into our own thoughts. He thought within himself, I'm going to eat, drink, and be merry. And God said unim, Thou fool, this day, this night, thy soul shall be required of thee. Luke 12, 16 through 20. Looking to ourselves, looking in ourselves People tend to think that they've got great instinct. This is better than your instinct Far, far better. Infallible. Your instincts are not. Your heart is not. Your conscience is not. In fact, if you tell people, well, just follow your conscience. May I say something this morning I'm as I'm getting older and this country's going further and further down the tubes, I'm finding fewer and fewer people have got a conscience. They don't have a conscience. So don't tell them, well just let your conscience be your guide. They don't have a conscience. And they don't have much of a heart. We don't want to look at our heart. We want to look inside God's word and see what is there for us. What happens? When we neglect God's word, what happens when we neglect God's promises to direct us? And that's what David was doing. He had promise after promise from Samuel, from Gad, from Abathar. He had all these promises And he did not look to God's promises. We're going to eventually be embarrassed by what we felt, what we thought. What our instincts imagined or hoped for or something that we held to. We're going to eventually be embarrassed because we didn't look to the Word of God to see the answers and where we should be directed I may have said something recently to some of you, or maybe once at least the congregation. I want to say it to you one more time. There are those out there that believe in theistic evolution. That God we all came here by evolution, but God was in control of it and so forth. And and they they all talk about the earth and the universe being billions and billions of years old And there was a point twenty billion years ago when uh by the way, when I was a young uh young biology student in school, back in high school, it's been about forty-something years ago, fifty actually We were taught that the Earth was two billion years old. Okay? Now it's up to 20 billion. And the reason I say that is because while the stars are 20 billion miles away, And they're so far away, and they're moving out further and further and further and further. And so in order for the star to get that far away, it'll take that star twenty billion years to get that far. And every year the stars are moving out further and further Evolutionary scientists in the last couple weeks have discovered something, and it has devastated the Big Bang Theory. The Big Bang Theory is dead. It is a dead theory among many, many of the evolutionists today. And I don't know what the theistic evolution could do with those those who claim to be Christians and a lot of them are preachers and pastors who believe in the bang bang theory and twenty billion years of but here's what they discovered just recently. That all those stars are out there twenty-some billion miles, you know, light years away, and they're moving further and further away. You know what they discovered? They aren't moving Moving at all. They haven't moved in a hundred years. They don't think they ever moved. They think that they've always been sitting out that far away from the very beginning. Meaning there was no big bang that made them boom go flying out. They've always been sitting out that far. They're not getting further away. And they never moved For a hundred and thousand years to get that far, or millions of years, they've always been right there If you looked in the Word of God, Isaiah 42, 5, God created the heavens and he stretched them out. And that was his first day after the first day they were just there and not the first day actually traded the heavens earth and the third day the the stars and so forth they were just there god just boom they were there And they didn't keep moving. There are Christians embarrassed At this this this information does not come from Institute for Creation Research, doesn't come from Anson Genesis. This comes from the evolution saying nothing is moving out there. It's been sitting there for for forever. We don't know how old it is because of the distance of the way. There was no bang theory. It's dead. You become embarrassed by the things you believe, feel, and think. If you're just looking to your instincts in your heart, in your imagination, in your daydreaming, you're going to be embarrassed. You're going to be lost. That's worse than being embarrassed, to be lost because you don't believe what's in here. Therefore, letting his heart direct him rather than the word of God. Verse 2 and 3, David arose. Letting his heart direct him. Not Abathar, not Gad, not the words of Samuel, not the word of God. Letting his heart direct him, David arose and he passed over and he dwelt in Gath with his two wives. To live, and we talked about that a couple weeks ago, shouldn't have had the two wives, that's big of me. To live among the Philistines were God's people We're not. I mean if you're going to live among the Philistines, if you're going to live among the worldly, guess what? The availability of help from godly people probably is going to be pretty scant Pretty rare, pretty sparse. He's going to go and live among the Philistines, and if he ever needs really help real help, spiritual help, financial help, physical help, whatever he really needs, the people who would really have a heart to give it to him. God's people, they're not there. And you may be a Christian, you say, Well, I'm kind of backsliding right now and I'm out there living among the world, but you'll God will take care of me. Who's you gonna send to you? You're living in the world. There's no one you're there's there's sparse availability of Christians who could really jump in there and help you. And that's where David. David's out among the Philistines. There's not being much help there But David flees there. He looks in his heart and he flees there because he's occupied with the sight of Saul. He's occupied with the presence of Saul. He's occupied with the sound of Saul's words And they the the promise he leaves the promised land because of his senses and what he sees and what he hears. He leaves the promised land behind Is somebody here doing that today? You're looking at the world and what you see and what you hear, and you're just going to leave your chances to go to the promised land to go to heaven behind Well David does this for a year and four months. And he flees To the land of the Philistines, to live among the Philistines. Had you asked David a week before, a month before, a year before, ten years before, David What do you think your chances are of ever moving uh in among the Philistines? And he said, what? Are you kidding? Never. That's something I would never, never do Oh pilgrim, pilgrim, pilgrim. How many of us have done things we thought we'd never do? Every hand could go up. We've all sinned. We've all done some things we thought we'd never, never do. And that just doesn't go for the young Christians. We got some pretty mature Christians here And we still sin sometimes. In fact, the older we are as Christians, the more mature we are as Christians, the more we think that's something I would never do. Or we think that's something pastors would never do, and now we hear about pastors doing horrible things too. We sin. We're still sinners But I think there was a time here if you talked to David, it says he's a man after God's own heart. David asked David, David, what are your chances of ever moving out and moving in and living among the Philistines? Oh that would never happen. That's the last thing I'd ever do. I'd never go there into the into the arms of the Philistines? You've got to be kidding me. I'd never do that. Never go and live among those worldly pagan individuals. When we give more attention to the situation than the inspiration of God's Word, we will do things we thought. We'd never do. It starts out with little things that aren't so bad. We start with the little things that everybody else is doing that nobody really looks down on And then we start doing some things that, well, maybe not everybody's doing it, and yeah, maybe not everybody looks down on it, but I'm gonna kinda keep that one quiet. And then we move into the things we've got to really keep quiet, and then pretty soon we're doing stuff that everyone knows about anyway, so who cares? I'm gonna keep on going, and we keep on sinning And we end up where we never thought we'd go. We give more attention to the latest news. And the good news of the gospel of Jesus Christ. We get more attention to the treasures on earth than the treasures in heaven. We get more attention, as I said, to the situation than the inspiration of God's word. And then we end up returning to some old sin that we'd heard about, or that we committed when we were younger, or younger Christians maybe, and we said That's an old sin, but since I've got saved, I don't commit that sin anymore. And I've gotten victory over that sin. I'm moving on. That's one sin I'd never return to. But David does You're going to see this in a moment. David returns to an old an old a choice he'd made before, doing the same things that he thought he would never, never do again, because it says he returns to the city of Gath But it didn't say he returned to the city of Gath. It said he went to the city of Gath where King Achis was there. But when you go back and read our Bibles, don't we find out about the city of Gath? 1 Samuel 21, read it again. David has been there before. Gath is a city of the family of Goliath. Do you remember the story back in chapter 21 where David is fleeing? At that time he's also fleeing from Saul. He comes beating on the gate. He's got Goliath's sword hanging on his side, and the people look over the gate and say, oh, that's David. How they recognize me. Oh, he's got Goliath's sword hanging on his side. And he realized that that he just thought they wouldn't know who he was. You know, there are pictures in the post office somewhere, they're not gonna know what David looks like. But they know it's King David. They know it's a David, they went and killed their their their hero, Goliath. And the people start coming on the wall, what are you gonna do to this guy? And David fakes, remember, he fakes that he's insane. He starts drooling down his beard, the spittle, he's hanging on the he's he's making all kind of crazy noises. And the king there of gas is let him go You know, let him just live like that. I uh this is great that we see his demise is is very close and he's paid the price for you know. Let him go. Don't let him inside the walls. He's he's insane, he's a nut. We don't need another nut inside the city of Gath Apparently there were already plenty of nuts inside the city. We don't need another insane person. That's what he says inside the city. Do you remember this? So that's when David went to Gath. That was in 1 Samuel 21, 13 and 14. You know, he never, never thought he'd ever, ever do that again. But he'd going back into an area he thought he'd never go again. He didn't just desert his post in Judah because he couldn't trust Saul. He deserted his post in Judah because he couldn't trust God as the Savior. God had saved them so many times. And that's the problem sometimes with people, why they're found out living among the Philistines or outliving among the world, is they really don't trust Christ as their Savior. They figure they're lost and there's nothing that can save them anyway. And that's a sad position. If that's the position you're in this morning If there's a sin you committed, you think, oh, I'm lost anyway. You have no idea what I've done. I'm lost. God can't save me. That's a lie from Satan. It doesn't matter what you think done before. Paul lists adultery, homosexuality, he lists murder, he lists he lists all kinds of Corinthians a long list of stuff that would probably take four churches to commit, you know, all the people. And he says You can be saved. You can be saved. People think that they're so lost that there's no hope for them. They don't trust God as their Savior. He can't save me. Oh dear friend, you have no idea who you got standing in this pulpit. If you knew everything about me before I was saved, you wouldn't want me in this pulpit. And after I got saved, that probably disappoints you too. We still sin. But God loves us. We repent of those sins and God forgives us and we move on. I think the biggest difference between being saved and not saved is when you're saved you don't sin as often. You never seem to enjoy it at all. And your life does clean up and get better and better, but it never gets perfect. Not until the other side of heaven. Will we be sinless or reach perfection? So David, it wasn't he didn't trust Saul, and he shouldn't have, but he didn't trust God as a Savior either. I want you to know here with David, as he's living among the land of the Philistines. That the best of men in a bad situation neglect to insert Christ as a calculation. In the worst of situations, some of the best of men Don't put Christ in the calculation of what they should be doing, what directions they should be taking. But there he is. He's in the land of the Philistines, living among the Philistines. Well, I talked about the four reasons why he shouldn't go there. What were the four reasons? What were the four results of going there? Well, the first thing we read in verse 4, it was told Saul that David had fled the land of the Philistines. David has fled, he's from the land of the Philistines. And Saul sought him no more. Hey, there's a good result, right? I got Saul off my back. I I mean I may have came down here into into the Philistines, the land among the Philistines, I may have thought I'm not sure how it's going to go, but I don't have any other choice. That's what I got to do. I'm not going to talk to Ableton. I'm not going to talk to Gad. I'm not going to reflect back on what Saul told me. I I I think this is in instinctively this is a good choice. I'm going to make it. And he said, whoa, what a great result I got I mean I must I it must have been the right decision. The result is good. Saul is no longer looking for me. That's the first good result. He gets it almost immediately The second good result we find in verses 5 and 7. David says to Akish, Give me a place in the country. Oh, and I didn't tell you about this king Akish, alright, who is the king of Gath. He was also the king of Gath when David was there the first time. So it's not just he's going back to Gath where Goliath's family lives, but the king was the one looking over the wall and said, Don't let him in. It's the same king. He's not gone back to the same city, he's gone back to the same king. And now he goes there, and David says to Acus in verses 5 through 7, Give me a place in the country, for why should thy servant dwell in the royal city? And Achis gave him Ziklag, and David dwelt. In the country of the Philistines a year and four months. How embarrassing that the word of a pagan king is more comforting than the words of the king of Israel. Is that embarrassing? Is it you ever found someone who said, you know, I can't, that guy's a born-again Christian, but I can't trust him. And then you got somebody at work that's not saved at all and said, Boy, this guy, he gave you a shirt off your back, he had never lied yet, he's always there for me. Is that embarrassing or what? When an ungodly Philistine king, the David, the words from that Philistine king are more comforting. Than the words of Saul, who says, I want you dead. Do you find the words of Christ, the King of Kings, a far greater comfort than the words of anybody else There are people out there reading books by Confucian, they're reading books by Buddha, they're reading books of the King, they're reading all kinds of books. Do you find that the words of Christ are more comforting? He's the King of Kings, more comforting than anybody else. I trust that's true, and and I also trust this that if you're going to try to comfort somebody else, and I hope you want to comfort somebody else, I want you to be a greater comfort than the king of Akhish. I want you to be a greater comfort than some Philistine king But if you're going to really be a great comfort to someone else, you need to use the words of God to comfort them Don't try to give them some flatitudes that you read in some book somewhere that sounds really nifty and cute, and may bring a chuckle and a laugh of someone. Give them the words of Christ if you want to comfort someone. Now we see the second good result. At least these are apparently good results. The second apparent good result is the fact that the king accepted David. Gave him a whole city of Livin. Whoa, this is great. Saul has stopped chasing me. Now I got my own city. I'm not really a king, but I'm charge over a city I mean, these are good results. Obviously, I made the right decision. I followed my heart. I followed my conscience. I followed my instincts. This is good But at what price did David get these results? Look at verse five again. And David said to Acchush, Give me a place in the country, for why should thy servant dwell in the royal city? David, at what price did he get these good results? He calls him a servant of the Philistine king. The man of God, the future king of Israel, the sweet psalmist of Israel, 2 Samuel 23, he places himself at the feet of a pagan, uncircumcised Philistine Responsible for the tens and thousands of deaths and slaughter of Israelites, and says, I'm your servant. And he bows to his feet. At what price? How low? How much lower can a believer go An uncircumcised Philistine. How much lower can a believer go than David who's going, yeah, he's gotten some good results, but at what price? At least there are apparently good results. I want you, pilgrim, I bobberry not to be so disappointed in the Christians out there. Professing Christians. I want you to be aware of the Christian musicians you worship. I can think of two right now that we used to just think were great and their ladies they're divorced left their husbands. We used to think they were great. Oh man, oh I won't mention the names, but if you want to Known later, I'll tell you. Then they'll probably say, ladies, to this day, but don't worship these Christian musicians out there. Don't worship these Christian politicians out there. Do you know how many Christians we've elected to government in this country since I've been around? There was born again Jimmy Carter. He was the first one. What a disappointment. And then there was born-again Barak Hussein Huf. Remember he was a Christian when he was running. He was against abortion, he was against gay rights. I mean he was able to Christian. How can he not vote for a black Christian for president? Are you prejudice? Well no, I know okay. Don't you put all your trust. Beware of Musicians who claim to be Christians, politicians who claim to be Christians, and preachers who claim to be Christians. You are going to be so disappo If you are worshiping the musician, the politician, or the preacher, worship the Lord Jesus Christ, who stooped down and was not, did not at all refrain from Picking up sinful dirt, dying for it, and loving us. That's who you want to worship. Well, you can't go wrong with But we can go wrong worshiping other professing Christians. And be so disappointed. I have known some they have left the faith because they were so disappointed in the ones they were worshiping And in verse 8 and 9, as we continue, David and his men invaded the Gersherites, the Gezrites, and the Amalites. and left neither man nor woman alive. Saul was supposed to destroy all the Amalekites, if you remember that, in 1 Samuel 15, and he didn't. That's pretty much the reason why he was going to lose his crown. And God had directed him to do so. But now David steps in and he starts killing off all the Amalekites and the Gesherites and the Gergesites and he's doing all this stuff. And he goes in all these battles and guess what? He wins. He wins. He wins. It's the more good results. More good results. It's obvious here, although he's calling himself a servant, you know he It's not so good, but at least the results are fantastic. It's good result after good result after good result. Apparently good results. This has been a good decision to live among the Philistines, hasn't it? It appears God is blessing David for infiltrating and living among the ungodly. We hear similar thoughts today about things that people think. If they give results, they gotta be good. If they give results, it's God's blessing I've heard more than one preacher say, We got this new nightclub atmosphere in our church. Boy, it draws the crowds Or they say we've we've got this polished production. It provokes more professions at the end of the service. It's great. We get results Or this new church service, uh uh we've been instituted these novelties, and it is it's increasing our numbers. We're getting results We're getting results. God is blessing. Or is he? The results always indicate God is blessing Blessing. Is that what you think? If you're getting results, God is blessing. Is that what you think? If there's results, it must be of God. If there's results, God must be blessing. Abraham knew the scriptures said that someday he'd bring forth a child, and his wife was up there 90 years old. So what does he do? He goes in under a concubine and he gets results. Ishmael How do you like the results so far? Huh. We're still living with the consequences, aren't we? But initially Hey, I've got results here. God God blessed. I mean God it must be God's blessing or she wouldn't have gotten pregnant. I wouldn't have had this this child named Ishmael. Wow Or how about this one? The people are thirsty. Water had come out of the rock before and they're thirsty again and they go to Moses and they're starting to complain about God and they want they want water again in Numbers 20, verses 8 through 12. God says, the people, what am I going to do with these people? Okay, Moses, go. And I love this Speak to the rock. And the Bible in the New Testament tells us that that rock was Jesus. Speak to the rock. Ever speak to the rock? Give her talk to God. Prayer we call it. Confession. I don't speak to the rock enough I let him speak to me hours and hours a week. I mean I I let God speak to me. I need to improve on speaking to the rock. Speaking to Christ It's a double blessing. You get a blessing when you speak to him and you get a blessing when you listen to what he has to say. Don't just have a half a blessing throughout your week. But Moses was told by God, okay these people want water. Speak to the rock. Before remember, he had to he hit the rock with his rod at one time. He says, speak to the rock. And so Moses comes over to people again. He says, what have I got to do with these people? He takes a rod and he hits the rock twice. Oh, he's supposed to speak to the rock. He hits the rock twice. And what happens if he hits the rock twice? It says the water came out of the rock abundantly. Whoa, what great results! I mean, it must be of God. Look at the great results Moses got. He disobeyed the word of God. He struck the rock. Like the Pharisees and the Sadducees and the Roman soldiers striking the rock, but he got good results. Water came out abundantly. But Moses. Was denied the blessing to enter the promised land. It isn't about results, friend. It's about our faithfulness to God's word. It's about our faithfulness to Christ's Word. That's what matters. Not are you getting results so God must be blessing, but are you following the Word of God? Are you faithful to the Word of God? Are you following the words of Christ? That's what matters, not the results. 10 through 12 occasions, it says that when he knows the day was coming back, all his goats and sheep, she said, Where'd you been? What road have you made? What raid have you been on? And David said, Oh, went against the south of Judah. Went against Yeah, so we didn't. And Achish believed him. Living among the Philistines, here's the final result when you live among the worldly. David had only been there a short time. He is the man of God after a man after God's heart, 1 Samuel 13, 14. Living among the Philistines, he's got all these results, but here's the real result. David in a short period of time is encouraging his enemies, the Philistines, the ones who are slaughtering Israelites. He is encouraging the enemies, like encouraging the Islamic terrorists to come into this country and blast us up. What is wrong with that? We only want to encourage her, but David is encouraging his enemies The enemies of Israel. He's calling himself a servant of an uncircumcised Philistine, a pagan, and he's perverting the truth. Oh, yeah, I went out against South of Judah. He's lying Living among the Philistines, living among the work worldly, it quickly blurs our discernment of right from wrong Living among the Philistines, living among the ungodly, it quickly, it so blurs our discernment that we don't know a result from a blessing. You want to be a blessing to people? You can't be a blessing if you don't know what a blessing really is. And it is following God's word. Regardless of the results. When you congress that, you're ready to bless others. Let's pray. Father, we thank you this day. We thank you, Lord, for those uh new members who've come into this fellowship. We thank you, Lord, for the lessons of David. Uh he uh had his embarrassing moments, but we're gonna also come to his victorious moments as well. We pray the same for those sitting here today that have problems unimaginable, uh things coming their way that they can't foresee at this time. Oh Lord, make your presence known to them. Keep them in your presence, Lord, and bless them when you decide Decide to bless them, and may we all hear about it. Some of us have already heard about it, some of us have already been blessed, and may we share it with others. And all God's people said in Christ's name, Amen