Turn to your Bibles with me, please, this morning to the Gospel of Matthew in the fourth chapter. And I'm going to read verses 1 through 11 of Matthew chapter 4. And we're going to be, again, this morning comparing scripture with scripture. And so we're also going to be considering along with this text Deuteronomy chapter 8. In this passage, we find Christ referring back to the book of Deuteronomy. And so we're going to take the two passages in parallel. But our scripture reading is in chapter 4 Verses 1 through 11 of the gospel as recorded for us by Matthew. Matthew chapter 4 and verse number 1. Then was Jesus led up of the Spirit into the wilderness to be tempted of the devil. And when he had fasted forty days and forty nights, he was afterward and hungered. And when the tempter came to him, he said, If thou be the Son of God, command these stones to be made bread. But he answered and said, It is written Man shall not live by bread alone, but by every word that proceedeth out of the mouth of God. Then the devil taketh him up into the holy city, and setteth him on a pinnacle of the temple And he said unto him, If thou be the Son of God, cast thyself down, for it is written He shall give his angels charge concerning thee, and in their hands they shall bear thee up, lest at any time thou dash thy foot against a stone. Jesus said unto him, It is written again, thou shalt not tempt the Lord thy God. Again, the devil taketh him up into an exceeding high mountain, and showeth him all the kingdoms of the world and the glory of them. And he said unto him, All these will I give thee if thou wilt fall down and worship me. Then saith Jesus unto him, Get thee behind me, Satan, for it is written, Thou shalt worship the Lord thy God, and him only shalt thou serve. Then the devil leaveth him, and behold, angels came and ministered unto him. Let us bow for prayer as we approach God's Word. Heavenly Father, each time after the scripture reading we pause for prayer. May this not simply become a habitual part of our worship. For Lord, our reason for pausing after the reading of thy word is an acknowledgement again that the natural man receiveth not the things of the Spirit of God. And Lord, I have been assigned this morning the task of preaching in this room. And yet we know from thy word that it is the Holy Spirit who is the expositor of Scripture. It is the Holy Spirit who has promised to come and be our comforter, but not our comforter alone. But your word teaches us that the Holy Spirit will guide us into all truth. And Christ said, He will testify of me, for he shall receive of mine and show it to you. And so, Father, today, as I endeavor to, with failing human lips, expound the Word of God. May your Holy Spirit come alongside and expound truth to the hearts of your people. Lord, we pray these things in Jesus' name. Amen. If you have a Bible ribbon, I would suggest you put it in Matthew chapter four. Because we're going to be going back and forth between Matthew chapter 4 and Deuteronomy chapter 8 this morning. So turn with me to Deuteronomy chapter 8. You will have heard in the reading of Matthew chapter 4 that three times Christ confronts Satan with the Word of God. This morning we're going to consider the first of those, which is found in Deuteronomy chapter 8, and verse 1 through 6 will be the reading there. In Deuteronomy chapter 8, beginning with the first verse. All this is Moses challenging the people of Israel. When Moses is preaching, there are three people that understand what he's talking about. Moses is still alive. Joshua's still alive. Caleb's still alive, but everybody else is dead. The rest of them that came out of Egypt. are dead, except for those 20 years and under. And so that's the context. And so Moses, under inspiration, says in Deuteronomy 8 and verse 1 All the commandments which I command thee this day, ye shall observe to do, that ye may live. And multiply. And go in and possess the land which the Lord swear unto your fathers And thou shalt remember all the way which the Lord thy God led thee these forty years in the wilderness to humble thee. And to prove thee, and to know what was in thine heart, whether thou wouldest keep his commandments or no. And he humbled thee, and suffered thee to hunger, and fed thee with manna which thou knewest not, neither did thy fathers know That he might make thee to know that man does not live by bread only. But by every word that proceedeth out of the mouth of the Lord doth man live. Thy raiment waxed not old upon thee, neither did thy foot swell these forty years. Thou shalt also consider in thine heart That as a man chasteneth his son, so the Lord, thy God, chasteneth thee. Therefore, thou shalt keep the commandments of the Lord thy God, to walk in his ways, and to fear him. Folks, this morning we're talking about the Word of God. I fear among many of God's people That subject has been preached on so much that we just kind of, oh, okay, I know this one. I got this one. But folks The subject of the Word of God is the very foundation of our faith. And the application of the Word of God to the life of a believer is absolutely essential. How many of you had breakfast this morning? Okay, I see a lot of hands. How many of you plan to eat lunch today? How many of you think you have supper this evening? How many are going to eat again tomorrow? Is anybody here planning to fast 40 days and 40 nights? No. Do you understand the significance of fasting 40 days and 40 nights? The human body, at the end of 40 days and 40 nights, is about done. In scripture we find multiple times that people fasted forty days and forty nights. In the context there of Matthew before where Christ was tempted, he had fasted 40 days and 40 nights. But 40 days and 40 nights is about as far as the human body can go before it totally starts to break down. That's the extremity. Now, many of us had breakfast. I did this morning. I believe all of us will eat something before we go to bed tonight unless you are set aside and fasting. And if you are, that's fine. You don't fit my illustration, but that's fine. But folks, we understand that the body has to eat to live. I will not ask you how many of you have already read your scriptures this morning, apart from reading them all with me. Nor will I ask you how many of you read your scriptures yesterday. I will not ask anyone here to raise your hand if you haven't touched your Bible since last Sunday. But folks If your Bible is dusty, your soul is dusty as well. If your Bible is left from week to week untouched, unread, you are in a state of spiritual starvation. And if you go much more than 40 days without the word of God, spiritually you're almost dead. You are at the point of collapse. And yet, folks, to my great shame, I lived many years of my spiritual life as a as a young teenager where God's word was not the heart of my day. I was eating more hamburgers and french fries than my body needed. But my soul was allowed to live on a near-starvation diet. Now, I've mentioned to you many times before, I'm not big on titles, but I like the title I chose for this week. Living by every word. For we find here that man shall not live by bread alone but by every word that proceedeth out of the mouth of God. Folks, before I was saved, I was dead. I was dead in trespasses and sins. What does a baby need most? To be changed or to be fed? To clean up the mess or to put food in the other end? It can live without one, but it cannot live without the other. As newborn babes Like a newborn baby, desire the sincere milk of the word that ye may grow thereby. And so we find, first of all, that your life depends on the word of God. Look at verse one of chapter eight of Deuteronomy. That ye may live. Look at verse three. Man shall not live, or man doth That ye might know that man doth not live by bread only, but by every word that proceedeth out of the mouth of the Lord doth man live. Matthew 4, verse 4, by every word that proceedeth out of the mouth of God. And so when Satan came to Christ, to tempt him after his body has been without food and water for 40 days, Satan says, look, your body is pushed to its extremity. Your body is at that 40-day period where the body begins to break down. Why don't you prove who you are by turning these stones in the bread? And Christ, who was absolutely and fully, totally, 1% human, as human as you or I And yet 100% God at the same time. We cannot fully comprehend it, but it is true. At the point where his physical body was pushed to its extremity That's when he declares, no, man doesn't live only by the bread of this world. But man lives by every word that proceeds out of the mouth of God. But that little phrase, it is written I think is one of the most important parts of the whole account. Because he's pointing back to the Old Testament. Old Testament and the New Testament are not two books, but they are one. And so look what it says there in the Old Testament. It says that, first of all, God made them hungry. God suffered them to hunger, verse 3. He humbled thee and suffered thee to hunger and fed thee with manna. Blessed are they which do hunger and thirst after righteousness, for they shall be filled. Remember when you're first saved? How hungry you were for the Word of God. How like a newborn baby screams and cries when it's hungry, you were the same way for the Word of God. But you remember before when God's word didn't make a bit of sense to you? When it had no value for it here We find in Deuteronomy connected directly to Christ's words that God suffered you to hunger. God humbled you with your hunger. And then he fed you with manna, which your fathers didn't know. And folks, this morning, if you have an ounce of spiritual hunger, hallelujah, praise the Lord. But you better feed it. Because man does not live by the bread of this world alone, but by every word that proceedeth out of the mouth of God. He humbled thee And then fed them with manna, which they knew not, neither did their fathers know. He fed them with a food that didn't seem like a practical meal. Mana was not extremely flavorful. It was not extremely tasteful until he began to eat it. And then when he began to eat it, it was like honey. It was sweet. But when they saw it, they said, What is this? That's why I got the name manna in the first place. And yet when they began to eat it, they found it was exactly what they needed, and they had to go every day and get more. And so it is with the Word of God. You begin to read, it's what is this? I've been reading through the Chronicles, name after name after name And yet my mother taught me years ago. One time I said to my mom, I said, I don't like reading this because it it doesn't mean anything And my mom said, look, look at every word and every name. Who is this guy? And how does he relate to another? She taught me at a young age to not just rush through those names. Folks, there's great blessings in the genealogies. When you begin to see how this one connects to this one, and it there'll be just one sentence about it, and he did this Well then you start to dig that and suddenly you find out that the passage that was just white wafers on the ground and you said what is this Suddenly it becomes precious to you. Folks, man does not live by bread alone, but by every word. And so the title of our message is Living by Every Word. Because folks, the word begat, the word begat is a marvelous word. Because we are the only begotten of the Father. Christ is the only begotten of Father. As Brother Benz pointed out in Sunday school, that it's the church of the first book. We are begotten of God. And so manna had to be collected every day. Manna had to be eaten every day, and the man who refused manna died. Folks, the word of God has to be eaten by the believer. Oh, not the paper and ink. But rather we read God's word every day. And we digest God's word every day. And if we neglect God's word, we will surely die. The manna was the life of the soul. The manna had to be applied to the soul. And the manna was each and every word. Now I'm not going to spend a lot of time on this because you you hear this a lot here at Mission Bible Church But if man shall not live by bread alone, but by every word that proceedeth out of the mouth of God. Then God has to preserve every word. There are those today that will tell you that, well, a lot of words have been lost. We're not quite sure what that word is. We don't know if this word really should be there or not. We're going to take this passage out. Because we don't think this time folks, if man needs to live by every word, then by definition God had to preserve every word or man cannot live. So like I said, I'm not gonna not gonna foot stomp that one forever, but you get the point here, folks. It's right there in front of us by every word You cannot be spiritually strong by snacking on the Word of God. But rather we must be consuming every word. And so folks, the health of your entire being, the health of your spiritual life is based in the Word of God. If you are reading it and studying it every day. You will become spiritually stronger and stronger. If you're ignoring it and neglecting it week after week, you will become weaker and weaker and weaker. My father used to say a week without the word makes one weak Seven day or no, I got it wrong. He used to say seven days without the word makes one week. W-E-A-K. We need God's word In Proverbs 3 we find this, My son, forget not my law, but keep thine heart but let thy heart keep my commandments. It shall be health to thy navel and marrow to thy bones. Again in Proverbs 4, verse 20, My son, attend to my words, incline thine ear unto my sayings. Let them not depart from thine eyes. Keep them in the midst of thine heart For they are life unto those that find them, and health to their flesh. And our brother mentioned already during our confessional reading, John 6, but let me read briefly from John 6. Verse 32, Jesus said unto them, Verily, verily I say unto you, Moses gave you not that bread from heaven, but my father giveth you the true bread from heaven. For the bread of God is he which cometh down from heaven and giveth his life for the world. They said unto him, Lord, evermore give us this bread. And Jesus said unto them, I am the bread of life. He that cometh to me shall never hunger, and he that believeth in me shall never thirst. Folks, where do we find Christ? Oh, you don't find him by walking in nature. Nature is beautiful. Nature is glorious. Don't mean to distract you, but a huge turkey just walked by the window outside. But you will not find Christ there. He is found in the Word. And so, first of all, your life Both your physical life and your spiritual life are based in the Word of God. Isaiah twenty-six and verse three, thou shalt keep him in perfect peace, whose mind is stayed on thee, because he trusteth in thee. Folks, is your life full of chaos? Well, start reading God's Word. Start reading God's Word But not only does your life depend on the Word of God, folks, your blessing depends on the Word of God. And here we're going to tie this closer in to what was taking place there in Matthew chapter 4, the temptation of Christ. Your blessing depends on the Word of God. You will not be blessed in this life without the Word of God being the rule of your life. Now you may accumulate accumulate a lot of stuff. And a lot of junk. But true blessing is based in the Word of God. Look at what we begin at Deuteronomy 8 and verse 1. All the commandments which I command thee this day shall ye observe to do, that ye may live and multiply. That you may live and you may multiply. Folks, that's talking about children, but it's more than children. It's talking about blessing. It's talking about God opening the windows of heaven and giving you a blessing. Look down back to Matthew chapter 4 in the Temptation of Christ and verse 8. Again, the devil taketh him up into an exceeding high mountain and showeth him all the kingdoms of the world and their glory. And saith unto him, All these will I give thee if thou wilt fall down and worship me. And Jesus said unto him, Get thee hence, Satan, for it is written, thou shalt worship the Lord thy God, and him only shalt thou serve. What was it that Satan was offering to Christ? Everything. Everything. He's offering them all the kingdoms of the world. Here you go. Everything you want. Folks, you can have the world or the word. One or the other. Satan offers you everything you want. God promises to give you everything you need. I'll give you all this. Look up your eyes, Jesus. All these kingdoms, if you just worship me And folks, this world can give you a lot of stuff if you worship it. This world can give you all of its temporary pleasures. And all of it sin for a season. But the steps of a good man are ordered by the Lord, and he delighteth in this way. Wherewithal shall a young man cleanse his way by taking heed according to thy word? What shall it profit a man if he gain the whole world and lose his own soul? Or what will a man give in exchange for his soul? Folks, if you want to be blessed, you need the Word of God. And the promise there in Deuteronomy 8 was this, you will live, you'll have life, and you'll multiply. I will bless you. I will meet your needs. And what do we find in the chapter? But God reminding them that for 40 years their feet did not swell and their clothes did not wax old. God provided for them. In Deuteronomy verses three and four, and he humbled thee and suffered thee to hunger and fed thee with manna which thou knewest not. Neither did thy fathers know, that they might make thee to know that man doth not live by bread only, but by every word that proceedeth out of the mouth of the Lord doth man live Thy raiment waxed not old upon thee, neither did thy foot swell these forty years. I have a couple ties that are more than forty years old. I just have a thing about ties. I probably have I have more ties than my wife has shoes by dozens and dozens and dozens and do I probably have a I probably have a hundred and fifty ties. I don't know why I'm giving them the ties. Except that the oldest piece of garment I have is ties. Folks, the children of Israel, for 40 years, they wore the same clothes and they didn't wear out. They walked in the same shoes and the fact that their feet did not swell is an indication that their feet their shoes still fit them properly. I I have to buy a new pair of gym shoes. uh uh about every eight months. Even though the gym shoes look to be perfect and fine and the soles are not excessively worn, the structure of the shoe is broken down and my feet are in a physical state that I begin to have foot problems because my the structure of the shoe has broken down. It has relaxed too much. It does not support the foot. But for forty years they walked and their feet didn't swell. They had miraculous supply. Now, if you seek first the kingdom of God and his righteousness, you do that through his word. And if you do that, I promise you that maybe your clothes won't last 40 years, but your car will last longer. I promise you that I've been young and now I'm old, yet have I never seen the righteous forsaken or is Seed begging bread. And I told you before, my father, after he died, we found beside that verse Tom, John, Joe. He had written his sons' names beside that verse And claim before God that my children will have what they need because of the promise of God. It's found in the Word. Folks, blessing is not in this world. Blessing is in this word. And you see, what Satan promised to Christ was he'll give you all the world. Because that's all he could promise is this world. But Christ is promising eternity. Satan was promising to Christ, if you worship me, I'll give you everything you see. But I have not seen, neither has entered into the heart of man the things that God has prepared. Everything that you see, I'll give you, Satan says. But God says, I've got so much more that you can't even imagine it. You see, folks, your life depends on the Word of God, both spiritually and even your physical life. And blessing. Your blessing depends on living by every word that proceedeth out of the mouth of God. Now, this is going to take a moment, but I want to do this. Go back to Deuteronomy 8. And consider the warning that God gives them back in Deuteronomy 8, starting in the seventh verse. We have not read this verse yet. For the Lord thy God bringeth thee into a good land, a land with brooks of water, of fountains and depths. that spring out of valleys and hills, a land of wheat and barley and vines and fig trees and pomegranates, a land of olive oil and honey. A land wherein thou shalt eat bread without scarceness, thou shalt not lack anything in it, a land whose stones are iron, and out of whose hills thou mayest Dig brass. That sounds like God's prospering somebody, doesn't it? When thou hast eaten and art full. Then thou shalt bless the Lord thy God for the good land which he giveth thee. Beware that thou forget not the Lord thy God. In not keeping his commandments and his judgments. Doesn't that sound like the Word of God? When God's blessed you with all these things, don't get so busy in your career that you forget the Word of God. When God begins to pour out these blessings on you, don't get so tied up in I've got this report to do and I've got this place to go and I have this assignment that must be met and I need to mow the yard, and I've got to do this, and I've got all these things that now that I'm being blessed, I've got to take care of That the Word of God becomes the little extra before you fall asleep at night, and the problem is you fall asleep while you're trying to read it and have left it behind. Beware that thou forget not the Lord thy God in not keeping his commandments. And his judgments, and his statutes, which I command thee this day, lest when thou hast eaten and art full, and hast built goodly houses and dwelt therein And when thy herds and thy flocks be multiplied, and thy silver and thy gold be multiplied, and all that thou hast be multiplied, then thine heart be lifted up And thou forget the Lord thy God, which brought thee forth out of the land of Egypt, out of the house of bondage, who led thee through the great and terrible wilderness, wherein were fiery serpents and scorpions and drought Where there was no water, who brought thee forth water out of the rock of Flint, who fed thee in the wilderness with banana which thy fathers knew not, that he might humble thee, that he might prove thee, that thee to do thee good in the latter end. And thou say in thy heart, My power and my might, and my power and the might of my hand hath gotten me wealth. But thou shalt remember the Lord thy God. Folks, if you feel we want to be blessed, it begins with the Word of God. And when you are blessed Don't forget the Word of God. Your life depends on the Word of God, and your blessing depends on the Word of God. Folks, I don't want to belabor this too much, but I'm going to give you a couple references. If you go to 2 Chronicles chapter 14, you'll find the account of King Asa And King Asa, we read, did that was good and right in the sight of the Lord. And we find that God told him and he commanded Judah to seek the Lord their father God of their fathers and to do the law and commandments. And then down to verse seven, therefore he said unto Judah, Let us build these cities, and make about them walls and towers, gates and bars, while the land is before us Because we have sought the Lord our God, we have sought him, and he has given us rest on every side, so they build and prosper. They began by obeying the word of God, and because they obeyed God's word, they built and prospered. And the same is true with Uzziah in 2 Chronicles 26. And he sought the Lord God of Zachariah. Sorry, it's verse 5, if you're writing it down. 2 Chronicles 26, verse 5, and he sought God in the days of Zechariah. who had understanding in the visions of God. And as long as he sought the Lord, God made him to prosper. As long as he sought the Lord, God made him the prophet. Folks, how do you seek God? You seek him in his word. Satan offers the world, but that's the only thing that he can deliver. Real and eternal blessings come not through the world, but through the word. And so, your life depends on the Word of God. Your blessing depends upon the Word of God. These two passages tie right together. Satan showed Christ all the kings of the world, so I'll give this to you. Worship me. Folks choose you this day who you'll serve, where the gods that your fathers served. But that's for me and I house we will serve the Lord. But then finally, not only does your life depend on the Word of God, and your blessing depend on the Word of God, eternity Eternity depends on the Word of God. Looking again at the text there in Deuteronomy 8 and verse 1, all these commandments which I have commanded thee this day shall ye observe to do, that ye may live. and multiply and go in and possess the land which the Lord swear unto your fathers. Folks, what's that land talking about? It's not the United States. It's not that beach lot that you'd like to buy someday. It's not the cabin up in the woods that you'd like to purchase that piece of land. No, it's talking about heaven. It's talking about the eternal land. Folks, by the word of God you go in and possess the land. Faith cometh by hearing, and hearing by the word of God, but without faith it is impossible to please him For he that cometh to God must believe that he is, and that he is the rewarder of them that diligently seek them. I'm going to conclude just by reading some scriptures. In Matthew 8, or Mark 8, verse 34 and following And when he called the people unto him with his disciples also, he said unto them, Whosoever will come after me, let him deny himself, take up his cross, and follow me. For whosoever shall save his life shall lose it. But whosoever shall lose his life for my sake, and the gospel is the same, shall save it. For what is it profit a man if he gained the whole world and lose his own soul, or what shall a man give in exchange for his soul? Whosoever therefore shall be ashamed of me and of my words in this adulterous and sinful generation, of him also shall the Son of Man be ashamed. when he shall come in the glory of his father with the holy angels. Psalm 119, verse 9 Wherewithal shall a young man cleanse his way by taking heed thereto according to thy word Proverbs 1. 8, my son, hear the instruction of thy father, and forsake not the law of thy mother. Proverbs 1, verse 10, My son, if sinners entice thee, consent thou not. Proverbs two verse one, my son, if thou wilt receive my words and hide my commandments with thee. Proverbs three verse one, my son, forget not my law, but let thine heart keep my commandments Proverbs 4, verse 2, my son, attend unto my words and incline thine ear unto my sayings. Proverbs 6, verse 20, my son Keep thy father's commandment and forsake not the law of thy mother. Proverbs 23, verse 26 My son, give me thine heart, and let thine eyes observe my ways 1 John chapter 3, beloved, now are we the sons of God. And it doth not yet appear what we shall be. But we know that when he shall appear, we shall be like him, for we shall see him as he is. Every man that hath this hope in himself purifieth himself Let us stand for prayer. Father, this word is our life. We do not live by anything that this world has to offer. We live by the Word of God. Bless thy word to our hearts. Make us students of it. Make us faithful in our reading of it May it not be the last thing of our day, but O Lord, may it be the first thing and the most important thing. May it not be that which we fit in when we have time, but rather may thy word consume all of our time We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.