Open in your Bibles with me this morning, please, to the Gospel of Matthew and the fifth chapter, Matthew chapter 5. And I'll be reading the first 16 verses, and then we'll drop down to verse 43 and read there verses 43 through 48. Matthew chapter five, and beginning with the first verse. And seeing the multitudes, he went up into a mountain. And when he was set, his disciples came unto him And he opened his mouth and taught them, saying, Blessed are the poor in spirit, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Blessed are they that mourn, for they shall be comforted. Blessed are the meek, for they shall inherit the earth. Blessed are they which do hunger and thirst after righteousness, for they shall be filled. Blessed are the merciful, for they shall obtain mercy. Blessed are the pure in heart, for they shall see God. Blessed are the peacemakers, for they shall be called the children of God. Blessed are they which are persecuted for righteousness' sake. For theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Blessed are ye when men shall revile you and persecute you, and shall say all manner of evil against you falsely for my sake. Rejoice and be exceeding glad, for great is your reward in heaven, for so persecuted they the prophets which were before you Ye are the salt of the earth. But if salt hath lost his savour, wherewith shall it be salted? It is thenceforth good for nothing but to be cast out and to be trodden underfoot of men. Ye are the light of the world. A city that is set on a hill cannot be hid. Neither do men light a candle and put it under a bushel, but on a candlestick, and it giveth light to all that are in the house. Let your light so shine before men that they may see your good works, and glorify your Father which is in heaven. Now go down to verse 43. Ye have heard that it hath been said that thou shalt love thy neighbor and hate thine enemies. But I say unto you, love your enemies. Bless them that curse you, do good to them that hate you, and pray for them which despitefully use you and persecute you. That ye may be the children of your Father which is in heaven. For he maketh the sun to rise on the evil and the good, and sendeth rain on the just and the unjust. For if ye love them which love you, what reward have ye? Do not even the publicans the same? And if ye salute your brethren only, what do ye more than others? Do not even the publicans so be therefore perfect, even as your Father, which is in heaven, is Perfect. Let us bow for prayer. Great Father, great God of heaven, we thank you that the book before us this morning is the very inspired, infallible Word of God. May your Spirit illumine our hearts by it this morning, for the entrance of thy word giveth light. May our steps this morning be ordered by your word, for the steps of a good manner. Ordered by the Lord. Father, may you teach us and instruct us to stay. And we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. This chapter 5 of the Gospel of Matthew is the beginning of what we refer to as the Sermon on the Mount. We find there in the first verse that Christ went up into the mountain, and when he was set, his disciples came onto you to him. And it's interesting to note that Matthew does make the distinction there, that it was not really to the multitude. that Christ was preaching and teaching as it much as it was to his own disciples. It was his disciples that came unto him. And we find here what we refer to as the beatitudes. And we used to teach the children to use a little play-on words there. These are beatitudes. These are what your attitude should be, the way we should conduct ourselves. But we find here nine examples of blessedness. And that word blessedness, of course, means happy. Blessed is the man that walketh not in the council of the ungodly. It doesn't mean that he's going to have massive wealth. That's what the world thinks blessedness. It doesn't mean that he's going to have the treasures of this earth, but it does mean that at his very core he's going to have happiness. At his very core, in spite of all the chaos of the world, he's going to have joy in spite of suffering. And yes, he does have great riches, but not of this earth. Lay not up for your child's treasure on earth, where moth and rust doth corrupt, and where thieves do break through his And steal, but lay up for yourselves treasures in heaven, where neither moth nor rust doth corrupt, and where thieves do not break through and steal, for where your treasure is. Will your heart be also? You see, the heart, the core of true happiness, of true blessedness, is found in God. And so we have these nine examples here in verses three through 10 of what it really means to be blessed. And yet as we look at these nine elements, we find that they are absolutely contrary to human nature. They are the exact opposite of what the world will tell you you need to do to be quote unquote blessed or to be happy or to be successful or to be well. Look very briefly with him at with me. With him at me. At him. Look very briefly at them with me. We'll get it right. Yes. Verse 3, Blessed are the poor in spirit, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Men are not by nature poor in spirit. Men are by nature very proud. Men are by nature trying to establish a reputation for themselves. Me first. The attitude of men. And yet Christ says, Blessed are the poor in spirit, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Blessed are they that mourn, for they shall be comforted, and the import of that Fourth verse is, Blessed are they that do mourn over their own unrighteousness, that mourn over their sin. But what does the world do? The world boasts in its iniquity. That's why we have gay pride marches. Because men love to boast in their iniquity. Men love to boast in the sin. that they are partakers of. But here we find, blessed are they that mourn, for they shall be comforted. Oh Lord God, who shall deliver me from the body of this death, O wretched man that I am. And for the child of God, when we sin, it is a great grief and a great mourning to our soul. Lord, that's not what I wanted to do. That's not what I wanted to say. That's not the kind of man I want to be. Ah, it is a very blessed thing when God teaches a heart to mourn over sin. And yet that is the exact opposite of what the world would view as a man that is happy or a man that is blessed. Blessed are they, or blessed are the meek, for they shall inherit the earth. Try that in business class college students. Blessed are the meek, for they shall inherit the earth. No. They'll teach you in business. Blessed are those that lie, cheat, steal, do anything to climb the ladder. You've got to show the boss that you're better than everybody else. And that doesn't mean that the Christians should not apply themselves most diligently to the task And that the Christian should work harder than anybody else in the office as a matter of testimony. But God said, Blessed are the meek. Blessed are those Those that are humble. Blessed are the meek, for they shall inherit the earth. Blessed are they which do hunger and thirst after righteousness, for they shall be filled And we've considered this passage some time ago that hungering and thirsting for righteousness is at its very core, hungering and thirsting for Christ. For he is our righteousness. What is the world hungry for? There's a lot of sad people in Baltimore today Oh, what a sad day this is, because the league championship isn't here. It's somewhere else. And oh, there's tears in Mudville. Because old Henry struck out or big slugger, whoever the guy was in the foe, we struck out. Hunger and thirst after righteousness. Man commits suicide because he's just not satisfied. But blessed are they which do hunger and thirst after righteousness. So they might be filled. No! They shall be filled. But that is totally antithetical to human nature. And then moving quickly, we need to get through these. But um verse 7, blessed are the merciful, for they shall obtain mercy. That's against human nature. Blessed are the pure in heart, for they shall see God. How do men try to be pure in heart? Well I'm going to Count my little rosary beads here. I'm going to give a lot of money to the church. I'm going to be catechized. I'm going to be uh gonna be baptized, I'm gonna do all these things that I might be pure. in heart. But how is a man made pure in heart? By the heart of Christ. I will give you a new heart God declares, there is purity of heart. Blessed are the peacemakers, for they shall be called the children of God. Blessed are ye when men shall persecute when ye are persecuted for righteousness' sake. For theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Men do not by nature accept persecution as a blessing. And yet, persecution is a great blessing to the child of God. Woe unto you when all men speak well of you, for so spake they of the prophet, false prophets which were before you. And my father used to say that if you're not doing anything for God, Satan will leave you alone. But if you're busy in the service of God, Satan's gonna be very active. That's right. Now Jesus tells his disciples there in verse 11 and 12, Blessed are ye when men shall revile you and persecute you and shall say all manner of evil against you falsely for my sake. Rejoice and be exceeding glad, for great is your reward in heavens, for so persecuted they the false prophets, the prophets which were before you. And Paul continues in the next verses to describe this contrast between the idea of the world and the idea of godliness. But here expands it Okay? And I know this is another one of my long introductions that I hope funnels down to verse 43, where we're going to study. But consider for me verse 17 There Christ says, think not that I am come to destroy the law of the prophets. I'm not come to destroy them to fulfill them. Verse 18: For verily I say unto you, till heaven and earth shall pass away One jot or one fiddle shall in no wise pass from the law till all be fulfilled. Whosoever therefore shall break one of these least commandments and shall teach men to do so He shall be called the least in the kingdom of heaven, but whosoever shall teach men this but whosoever shall do and teach men the same shall be called great in the kingdom of heaven For I say unto you that except your righteousness exceed the righteousness of the scribes and Pharisees, ye shall in no case enter into the kingdom of heaven. It's a pretty hard b hard high ball high bar that Christ sets, is that accept your righteousness exceed The righteousness of the scribes and Pharisees. You see, the scribes and Pharisees base their righteousness on what? Well, works. On their performance of the law, on the things that they should do. What is our righteousness based on? The righteousness of God by faith is the righteousness which we seek. We're not made righteous because we keep a list of rules. Rather, we are made righteous by Christ, who is the lawgiver and who is our law keeper. And that does not mean that we have liberty to go break the law of God. God's law is still right, it is still moral, it is still true, but we don't gain rally points by keeping the law of God. either. And so Christ is going to show here in these next verses the contrast between what the Jews interpreted the law as saying and truth. And that will lay the foundation for us when we get down to Verse 43. Very briefly, look at verse 21. Ye have heard it has been said of them of old time, thou shalt kill. And whosoever shall uh sorry, ye have heard that it hath been said by them of old time, thou shalt not kill. And whosoever shall kill shall be in danger of the judgment But I say unto you that whosoever is angry with this brilliant without cause shall be in danger of judgment And so the Jews would say, Oh, well, I haven't killed anybody, therefore I kept the law. And yet Christ says, I'm going to show you a righteousness that is even greater than the Pharisees. The Pharisees may never have shoved a knife in somebody. But the heart is more important than the action. The faith is more important than the works. If you've been angry with them, well you're guilty of Murder in your heart. That's right. And then the same again in verse 27. Ye have heard it hath been said of them of old time, thou shalt not commit adultery. But I say unto you, Whosoever looketh on a woman to lust after her hath committed adultery already with her in his heart. And so the Pharisees will say, well I've never committed the act of adultery. And Christ says that I've never I'm showing you something that's even beyond that. As a man thinketh in his heart, so is he. If he's an adulterer in his heart, then is an adulterer And then again in verse 33, again you've heard it hath been said of them of old time, thou shalt not forswear thyself, but shall perform thine oath into the Perform unto the Lord thine oaths. But I say to you, swear not at all, neither by heaven, for it is God's throne, nor by the earth, for it is his footstool So the Jews would say, Oh, I swear this by the temple, or I swear this by the columns of the temple, or they would use some others, and Christ says no I show you something even better than that. Let your yay be yay and your nay nay. You don't need to swear by anything. Just tell the truth. That's right. And so that plays this framework where Christ, throughout the context of this chapter, is showing that this is what men would say, but this is something greater. Now that brings us down to our actual text this morning, which is found in verses 43 through the end of the chapter In verse 43, we read, Ye have heard it hath been said, thou shalt love thy neighbor and hate thine enemies. But I say unto you, love your enemies, bless them that curse you, do good to them that hate you, and pray for them that they despitely use you and persecute you. Supporting we're considering the matter of loving our enemies. Does that come natural? No. To love our enemies is as far from human nature as possible And the scribes and the Pharisees and the publicans would say, well, I've got to love my neighbor, but I don't have to love my enemies. But here Christ is showing them, well, to not to love your neighbor is simply a work. But I'm showing you a heart change by faith. Which is even greater. Exactly. And so to understand this, we first have to begin to do some definitions instead of defining. Who are enemies? Well, to the Jewish mindset, anyone who was not a Jew was his enemy. And any Jew who had apostasized, well that was his enemy, but his neighbor, he could love his neighbor, but he could hate everyone else. We don't find in Scripture that command, do we? Rather, in Leviticus 19, verse 18, we read, Thou shalt not avenge nor bear any grudge against the children of thy people. But thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself. And so the Jews will say, Well, just thee, just the children of our people. That's all it's talking about. But remember what Christ taught in the parable of the Good Samaritan The Jewish leaders depicted in that parable, they didn't care for the man that was among thieves, even though he was a Jew. But the Samaritan that despised Loved him. And so Christ showed them. I show you a better way. The Jews would say, and this is from Adam Clark, from the commentator, the Jews felt themselves authorized to kill any Jew who apostatized And though they could not do injury to the Gentile in whose country they sojourned, yet they were bound to suffer them to perish. If they saw them in danger, unto death. In their own words, hear their own words. A Jew sees a Gentile fall into the sea Let him by no means left him out, for it's written, thou shalt not rise up against the blood of thy neighbor, but this is not thy neighbor And so Christ was teaching these Jewish disciples, these 12 disciples, I'm going to show you something better. Who is your neighbor? Who is it that we're to love? You see, you can't truly love your enemies until you love your neighbor in the first place, hence the parable of the Good Samaritan. But here we find very clearly that those that are defined as our enemies in this passage are not ones that we have made to be enemies. Our enemies. But rather, it's enemies without cause. It is those that are our enemies that we have not done anything to them, but they have made themselves to be our enemies. Look at the context. Bless them. That curse you. Now, if we're giving them reason to curse us, then it's our fault. But here we're to bless them that curse you. were to do good to them that hate you and to pray for them that despise, despitefully use you and persecute you. It does not seem from the context That those that are the enemies define here are ones that we poked in the eye, and therefore we have made some enemies. But rather, these are those that are our enemies because of our stand for Christ. Christ. Let your lights shine before men that they may see your good works and glorify your Father which is in heaven. Bless them that curse you. Blessed are they which are persecuted for righteousness' sake? is the context of the passage. And so it does not seem that these are our enemies because we have made them our enemies ourselves, but rather we are to love those that are our enemies. Because of the cause of Christ. In Psalm 69, verse 4, David said, They that hate me without cause are more than the hairs of my head. And in Psalm 109 And verses three and four, they compassed me about also with words of hatred and fought against me without cause. For my love, they are mine adversary. And so we see, first of all, a clarification in the context of who these enemies are, but then what does it mean to love them? How do we put this teaching into practical application? Well, again, the context gives us the answer to that question. But first of all, we have to talk about the You see, there is a love that approves of the actions of others There is also a love that disapproves of the actions but loves in spite. And we've both been both the recipients and the giver of that. kind of love, haven't we? We can love a person without approving of their actions. Maybe a man. That is very blasphemous. And we do not approve of his tongue, and he may use that tongue to hurl curses upon us. Bless them that curse you. We do not approve of his words, but we can still love the individual. And so uh we to love does not mean we approve of what we're doing, but rather we we love them in spite of what we're doing. Paul. But consider the three examples that the context gives us of how we're to love our enemies. First of all, in verse 44. But I say unto you, love your enemies, bless them that curse you. When someone puts a curse on us or hurls a curse at us, what's our response? Yeah. Uh boy, we want to pray judgment on that guy. And uh I've noticed some people that have very openly prayed judgment on those that That opposed them. But when Christ was before those that cursed him, what was his response? As a lamb before his shears is dumb, so he opened not his mouth. That's not easy, folks. And why is that not easy? Because it's so oppose the human nature. And yet that is the teaching that Christ is giving us here, that we are to bless them that curse And we read Romans chapter twelve, verse uh most of the chapter there for our responsive reading today. But verse 14, bless them that persecute you, bless and curse not. And again in 1 Corinthians 4 and verse 12, the part of the verse, Paul said, Being reviled, we bless. Being persecuted. We suffer it. And in the book of James, James said, out of the same mouth proceedeth blessings and cursings. Brethren, these things ought not In other words, if we're going to bring forth blessing to God with our mouth, how can we bring forth cursing to our neighbor. And so the first example that's given to us of how we're to love our enemies is we bless them that curse. Us. I'm sure every one of us have had a situation where someone has wronged us and deep down we wanted to say, God sick em. And uh I do not say that it's wrong to say, Lord, the judge of all things, make this right. Lord the Judge of all things, vindicate your servant. Lord the Judge of all things, you're keeping the accounts. You bring it right. And yet if I am to have the mind of Christ, if I am to have the testimony of Christ, if my spirit is to be right with him, it's not mine. to start telling God how to take care of him and calling down judgment on him. But then the second example that we find here in a the context of how we love those that hate us Is that we uh when they hate us, we do them good. But I say unto you, love your enemies, bless and accurse you, do good to them that hate you. What did Christ do for us? Oh, He gave his life for us. Greater love at moment than this, that man lay down his life for his friends. And yet when Christ laid down his life for his friends, were we his friends? Peradventure for a good man's Some would die, but in that while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. You see, Christ died for us when we were yet the enemies of Christ. And so do good to them that hate you. And here we go to the Old Testament. Remember I said that the Jews said that the Gentile was drowning in the sea, that they didn't have to help him because he wasn't their neighbor. And yet in Exodus 23 and verse 4 and 5 If thou meet thy enemy's ox or his ass going astray, thou shalt surely bring it back to him again. If thou see the ass of him that hateth thee lying under his burden, and wouldest forbear to help him, thou shalt surely help him. And so they had that commandment already. In Romans chapter 12, verses 20 through 21, which actually is quoted from Proverbs 23. Therefore, if thy enemy hunger, feed him. If he thirsts, give him drink, for in so doing thou shalt heap coals of fire on his head. Be not overcome of evil, but overcome And so the uh example that we have here is that if our enemy hates us, then we do them good. Well, that's opposed to human nature, isn't it? That's opposed to, boy, if you're driving down the road and you see your worst enemy with a flat tire and it's pouring rain and he doesn't have a jack. Boy, I would love to rejoice, isn't it? Uh but rather the mind of Christ, the Christ life The righteousness which shows itself not in acts but in attitude is the righteousness of compassion. is the righteousness that will do him good. David testified in Psalm thirty five, verses eleven to fourteen. And these these verses have been very Very precious to me. For false witnesses did rise up. Then they laid to my charge things that I knew not. They rewarded me evil for good, to the spoiling of my soul. But as for me, when they were sick, my clothing was sackcloth. I humbled my soul with fasting, and my prayer returned into my own bosom. I have behaved myself as though they had been my friend or brother. I bowed down heavily as one that mourneth for his mother. Boy, those are those are smiting verses, aren't they? Those are verses that cut to the very heart of our soul That's not what our human nature, the way our human nature wants us to respond. And yet, my friends, if we are to behave in the likeness of Christ. That is the pathway that should be set for out forwards. That was Psalm thirty-five, verses eleven to fourteen, if you want to look at that closer later on. And then one more verse before we move to the next one. In 1 Thessalonians 5, verse 15. See that none render evil for evil unto any man But ever follow that which is good both among yourselves and to all men. But thirdly, how do we demonstrate this love that Christ speaks of? Well, when they despitefully use us and persecute us, We pray for them. I think most of us have probably been mildly amused at uh at Nancy Pelosi's profession of praying for our president. And um there are some suggestions that probably praying of precatory prayers against him. She has made quite readily known her opinion of our president, and I do not by any means defend the immorality that our president has engaged in. And yet we should pray for him. The heart of the king is in the hand of the Lord, and it's God that sets up princes, and by him kings reign. And so he would not be in that office if it were not in the providence of our God and therefore we as the children of God are bound to pray for him and to pray blessing on him. Pray for the man's salvation. Pray that he will be captured by grace. What a glorious blessing that would be to the people of God. But when it says we're to pray for them, it doesn't say we're to pray on them, P-R-A-Y or P-R-E-Y. We're to pray for them. We're to pray that God will bless them. What is the greatest prayer that you can pray for your enemies? God give them Repentance. God be merciful to them. God grant them that they may be returned from their way of error. That they may be returned To truth. We're to pray for those that they spitefully use us. And we can't help but think of Christ on the cross, Father, forgive them. For they know not what they do. Which of us have been persecuted for despitefully used as was our master. In Luke twenty-three, verse thirty-three and thirty-four Luke said, and when they were come to the place which is called Calvary, they crucified him, and the malefactors one on the right hand, and the other on the left. Then said he that then said Jesus, Father, forgive them, for they know not what they do. But you know what happened And they parted his garments from them. They continued in their wicked way. Another great example of this is Stephen. Stephen's great sermon there in action. Chapter 7. Stephen has done no wrong. Stephen isn't even among the apostles. He's simply a waiter on tables. He is a servant among servants in the house of God. And yet, when they stoned Stephen, calling upon God and saying, Lord Jesus, receive my spirit, and he kneeled down and cried with a loud voice, Lord, lay not this sin to their charge. And when he had said this he fell asleep. But what happened when Stephen was stoned? Well, a wicked man named Saul watched And I believe with all my heart that when we find Stahl a few chapters later on the road to Damascus And he says to Jesus, Lord, what wilt thou have me to do? And the Lord says, Saul, Saul, it is hard for thee to kick against the pricks And that phrase, kick up against the pricks, is a illustration of the ox that would kick back against the ox goat. He would kick back against the driver that was leading the ox ahead. It is hard for you to kick against the bricks. The Spirit of God has been convicting Saul. He has seen Stephen stoned and died instead of Stephen lashing out with curses. He's praising God. And this same Saul had drugged men and women off to prison. And they had gone to prison with a cheerful smile and with a praise to Jesus Christ. He could not break them away from their Savior. Saul saw that testimony. And isn't it beautiful that this same Saul, who we know better as Paul, is in the innermost part of a prison with his back bleeding from the lash and his feet and hands and stocks and he's not cursing the jailer but rather he too is singing hymns at midnight. Why? Because he has been changed. He has been been transformed. Therefore, if any man be in Christ, he is a new creature. Old things are passed away. All things are become new. And that brings us to the third Third thing we would consider this morning. What's the result? What is the result when we, as the children of God, live out this command to love Well look again with me there at verse forty four of Matthew chapter five But I say unto you, love your enemies, bless them that curse you, do good to them that hate you, and pray for them that they spitefully use you and persecute you. That ye may be the children of your Father which is in heaven. For he maketh the Son to rise on the evil and on the good, and sendeth rain on the just and the unjust. That ye may be the children of your father which is in heaven. Now obviously this doesn't mean that you become the children of your father which is in heaven by loving your enemies But rather by loving your enemies you demonstrate who your Father really is. Remember what Christ said to the scribes and Pharisees, the year of your father Well, all those opposites we saw back there in verses nine through twelve. Were not they the opposites? One the behavior of the child of the devil, and the other the behavior of the child of the devil And look back early in the chapter at verse 16, which we read earlier this morning. Verse 16, let your light so shine before men, that they may see your good works and glorify your Father, which is in heaven. You see how all the context fits together, how it all funnels down. The result of us loving our enemies. is we demonstrate the likeness of our Father. We demonstrate whose child we are. Did you ever meet a child? Maybe so a child that you haven't seen since they were infant and now they're five or six years old and you immediately know who their dad is, or you immediately know their mother. Well, because you you can see it all over their face. I I love getting on Facebook and um uh a lot of our young people that were Children and teenagers when we were in Jamaica are now adults and have children of their own. And I'll show Penny a picture on Facebook and say, who's Mother, who's the mother of this child? Because we can see the child that we knew now in their child's face. You can tell the resemblance, and even though we've never met the child because the child was born since we left Jamaica, we knew the child because we knew the child's mother so well. You see, the likeness of the parents is reflected in the children, and that's exactly what the passage is talking about. How can my righteousness exceed the righteousness of the scribes and Pharisees? Because it's the righteousness of my Father in heaven. Because it's the righteousness of his Son Jesus Christ by whom I am brought in. To that very family. What happens when the child of God truly loves his enemies? The likeness of God is reflected in the face of the child. We show forth that testimony of God Matthew 9, or 5, verse 9. Blessed are the peacemakers, for they shall be called what? the children of God. Ephesians five, verses one and two. Be ye therefore followers of God as dear children. Walk in love as Christ also hath loved us and given himself for us for an offering and a sacrifice to God for a Sweet smelling savor. This is a sweet smelling savor. This is pleasant to our God. In a psalmist, in Psalm 17, verse 15, as for me, I will behold thy face in righteousness. I will be satisfied Satisfied when I awake with thy likeness. When the likeness of God is seen in me And so when we love our enemies, we reflect the love of God. And then when we love our enemies, we truly have the reflection. Of that righteousness which exceeds the righteousness of the scribes and the Pharisees. Remember what we said about the scribes and the Pharisees? They said, Oh, yeah, love your neighbor, but hate your enemies. Christ says, No, I show you a better way. I say unto you, except your righteousness see the righteousness of scribes and Pharisees. enter the kingdom of heaven. Look at verses 46 and 47 of our chapter. For if you love them which love you What reward have ye? Do not even the publicans the same? And if ye salutes your brethren only, what do ye more than others? Do not even the publicans So probably conclude this morning by turning our attention to two other New Testament passages. First of all, Ephesians 4, verses 29 through 32. four, verse twenty nine through thirty two Paul speaking there in Ephesians 4 says, Let no corrupt communication proceed out of your mouth, but such as is good to the use of edifying, that it may minister grace unto the hears And grieve not the Holy Spirit of God, whereby you are sealed unto the day of redemption. Let all bitterness and wrath and anger and clamor and evil speaking be put away from you with all malice And be ye kind one to another, tender-hearted, forgiving one another, and here's the qualifier, even as God, for Christ's sake, hath forgiven you. And then finally, 1 Peter chapter 2, verses 20 through 25. 1 Peter chapter 2, verse 20 through 25. Verse 21 of chapter 2 of 1 Peter, for even hereunto were ye called, because Christ also has suffered for us, leaving us an example. That ye should follow in his steps, who did no sin, neither was guile found in his mouth, who when he reviled, reviled not again. When he suffered, he threatened not But committed himself unto him that judgeth righteously. Who his own self bear our sins in his own body on the tree, that we being dead to sin should live under righteousness By whose stripes we are healed. For we were as sheep going astray, but now are returned unto the shepherd and bishop of your souls. Ah, how we would love to hate like the world. But may God teach us to love like Christ. Let us stand for prayer