Turn in your Bibles with me again to Proverbs chapter eight. We did read indeed the same responsive reading two weeks in a row The reason being, last week's message started out to be the introduction to this week's message, and I realized that the introduction I'd planned for last week was a message in itself. So having read Psalm 8, I hope it is in your mind. You'll remember from last week that we saw irrefutably that the wisdom spoken of in chapter 8 in this psalm is Proverbs is indeed referring to Jesus Christ. Just as we find David crying out in the Psalms, My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me? Under inspiration, and then we find that actually David was foretelling the very words of Christ. So here we find the son of David, Solomon. Likewise inspired by God. And using this beautiful poem of wisdom, but the wisdom being spoken of is indeed Jesus Christ alone. And so this morning we're going to pick up there with verse number 32 and consider verse 32 through 36, which is the original passage Which I had endeavored to approach last week, but needed to look at the whole chapter. I'm going to read those five verses for you again to plant them in your memory. And then we're going to look at them in more detail. Starting in verse 32, now therefore hearken unto me, O ye children. For blessed are they that keep my ways. Hear instruction and be wise. Refuse it not. Blessed is the man that heareth me, watching daily at my gates, waiting at the post of my doors. For whosoever findeth me findeth light, and shall obtain favor with the Lord. But he that sinneth against me wrongeth his own soul. All they that hate me love death. Let us bow for prayer Father, now as we approach this glorious passage of thy word, this inspired message, the voice of Jesus Christ, the Son of God, the second person of the Trinity. The eternal God, the creator of the universe, the voice of Christ, speaking from the Old Testament and calling to the sons of men May we indeed hear that voice and read that message this morning. And Father, we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. As we read through Psalm 8 there in our responsive reading, I hope you picked up on the fact that Christ declares that I was always his delight. That the Father delighted in the Son. But God gave his only begotten Son To pay the price for my sin. And it's often been said, and I believe it to be true, that if I were the only sinner God would have loved me enough to send his son just for me. But God sent his son that whosoever believeth in him Should not perish, but have everlasting life. And so we find there in verse 34: Blessed is the man that heareth me. Watching daily at my gates. In that verse there, number 32, therefore hearken unto me. Therefore, hearken unto me. We don't use that word hearken so much today. It's an old English word. It means the ear. Therefore, hear me. Blessed is the man that heareth me. Folks, think about it How often have you gotten yourself in trouble simply because you didn't listen? We have some young parents here And I guarantee you that a lot of discipline discipline takes place in the home simply because little guys don't always listen. They might hear. Oh yeah, they know mommy said something. But they did not listen. Ah, folks, hearken unto this. Therefore, because Jesus Christ is the wisdom of God, listen up Pay attention! Hearken! I saw a comical little meme a few weeks ago. It said, I am proud to tell you that I have never heard my wife say, you're not listening to me. Well think that one through and you'll get it. I've never heard her say it. Doesn't mean she didn't say it. But I've never heard her say you're not Well, folks God has spoken. The Lord gave the word. Many were they that proclaimed it. Here we find, blessed is the man that heareth me. And yet we find throughout Scripture, again and again Men and nations getting themselves in unspeakable trouble simply because they didn't listen. Let me read to you from 2 Kings 17 and verse 13 and following. Yet the Lord testified against Israel and against Judah by all the prophets. And by all the seers saying, Turn ye from your evil ways and keep my commandments and my statutes, according to all the law which I commanded your fathers, which I sent unto you by my servants, the prophets. Notwithstanding, they would not hear. But hardened their necks, like the necks of their fathers, they did not believe in the Lord their God. Faith cometh by hearing, and hearing by the Word of God. What must I do to be saved? Believe. Not count rosary beads. Not give money, not be a good person, not stop doing this and stop doing that. Believe believe believe but men don't listen. I don't listen. And how often we get ourselves in trouble just because we don't listen. Hear instruction and be wise. Verse 34. Blessed is the man that heareth me. It's as simple as that. Again in Isaiah 28, verse 12, this is the rest wherein ye may cause the weary to rest. And this is the refreshing, yet they would not hear. God says to Israel, this is where you're going to find rest. This is where you're going to find refreshment. This is where you'll find peace. Is your life a roaring storm? Are you finding yourself in all kinds of chaos and finding everything is wrong? Where are you going to find refreshment? Where are you going to find peace? Great peace have they that love my law And nothing shall offend them. And yet on the other side the wicked are like the troubled sea when it cannot rest, crashing up mire and dirt. Simply because they would not hear. Hear instruction and be wise Hear instruction and be wise. You see, even a fool when he listens is wise. Think about that. Here's an utter fool! This guy's a complete idiot! But you know if he just follows a couple simple instructions It comes off pretty smart. It comes off pretty wise. The old say you gotta be tough when you're dumb. You know. You know, I I used to tell my boys, hey, that's gonna hurt. You know, stop. But you know, that self-will of a young guy, he'll rush on and do it anyway, won't him? And you know, you you you say to a young person, you are heading to your own destruction. Look unto Jesus. And yet they'll go straight in to that which is destructive to their body, destructive to their future, and destructive to their very soul. Simply because they will not take the warning. Simply because they will not hear. But even a fool, when he hears, is wise And the seventeenth of the Proverbs 17 and verse 28, even a fool, when he holdeth his peace, is counted wise And he that shutth his lips is esteemed as a man of understanding. And then in Psalm 34, verse eleven, Come ye children, hearken unto me. And I will teach you the fear of the Lord. Hear and be wise. But you know what? Listening requires a hearing ear. Listening requires a hearing-ear. There is the sad case of many in this world who are deaf. I can't imagine that. I love music. I love to hear the sounds of the birds. I love the sound of an old antique car rumbling. There are things we love to hear. And yet we find in Scripture that the unbelieving man doesn't really hear these things. The natural man receiveth not the things of the Spirit of God, neither can he know them because they are spiritually discerned. But here we find, blessed is the man that heareth And you know what? In order to hear the truth of God, God's got to give you ears. Because man is born spiritually deaf. And you know, uh many people read the Bible and it means nothing to them. It's confusing to them. It's it it it's just a a jumble to them. What what can it mean? But we stole there uh in the verse And I don't have it in my note here to find it quickly, but one of the verses we read there says that they that hear understand. Oh there it is, verse 9. They are all plain. This is in in your text, chapter 8, verse 9. They are all plain to him that understandeth. And write to them that find out knowledge. You see, if you read the Word of God and these things you you can't understand them, they they're confusing to them. Don't give up. Pray about it. For God promises he's the rewarder of them that diligently seek him. Knock, and it shall be opened. Ask you shall receive, knock and it shall be open unto you. Blessed is the man that hears these things. You see, the man that heareth these things will be blessed by Christ. But the man that heareth them is already blessed by Christ that he can hear. Because folks, there are millions in this world who will live and die. And they may hear the sound of the Bible being read, but they never hear the voice of Christ. And they die without him. Hear instruction and be wise. Hear be wise. But look at the last four words of verse 33. It says, hear instruction to be wise and refuse it not. Oh, what judgment there is. On those who hear the Word of God and they say, I don't want that. They hear the Word of God and they say, No I love my sin. I love my life. I don't want to hear that. I don't want to see that. Take that away from me. Refuse it not. In James one, verse twenty-five, but whoso looketh into the perfect law of liberty and continueth therein, not being a forgetful hearer, but a doer of the work, that man shall be blessed in his deed. Incline your ear unto me and come, hear, and your soul shall live, and I will make an everlasting covenant with you, even the sure mercies. of David. You're there in chapter 8 of Proverbs, but turn over to the second chapter. There will only be two or three pages backwards in your Bible. Chapter 2 of Proverbs And the verses I want to focus on there are verses 9 and 10, but the verses leading to verses 9 and 10 are relevant. Verse 1: My son, if thou wilt receive my words and hide my commandment with thee. Verse 2, incline thy heart. Verse 3, yea, if thou criest after knowledge, verse 4, if thou seekest for her is silver. Verse 5, if thou shalt understand the fear of the Lord But coming down to verse number nine, thou shalt understand righteousness and judgment and equity. Yea, every good path, when wisdom entereth into thine heart And knowledge is pleasant to thy soul. Then shalt thou understand righteousness and judgment and equity. You'll know what it's all about. You'll know what's going on when wisdom entereth into thine heart, and knowledge is pleasant to thy soul. Remember what wisdom is speaking of in the book of Proverbs When Christ is entered into thy heart, when the knowledge of Christ is pleasant to thy soul, oh, how I love Jesus! Oh, how I love Jesus. Oh, how I love Jesus. He's done so much for me. You see, when Jesus Christ comes into the heart, not this beating ticker in the chest, but when he comes into the very soul of man, when he takes possession of your very being. Then you understand And wisdom, the wisdom of Christ, becomes very precious to your soul. And so, first of all, we find that blessed is the man that heareth me But then in verses 33 and verse 34, blessed is the man that heareth me, watching daily at my gates, waiting at the post of my doors. Blessed is the man. Who is ever attentive to the truth of God? He is watching daily at the gates of the Lord. Just watching daily at the gates. is a reference to someone who sits at the door of the gate of the palace of the king, just as poor Lazarus was sitting at the gate of the rich man, and it was desiring even the very crumbs that would fall from the master's table. So the picture is of one here who is so in love with truth that he will sit and wait for any little crumb. Any little bit he can get, oh, I want more of this. I want to hear this. I want to know this. I'm blessed who have never been starving. In fact, I have hardly been hungry. And I doubt that any of us here have actually ever been starving. But folks, I have seen starving children. I've seen them in Africa. I've seen them in Kenya. I've seen them in Jamaica. I have seen people who were truly starving. Their bodies were in such great need of nutrition that if they did not get nutrition, they would perish. And let me tell you, a person who is starving will do anything for a crumb. They will fight against man for it. They will fight off a dog for it. They will even begin to eat bark. And Dirt. Anything to get the slightest amount of nutrition into their body. Why? Because they know if they do not get it, they will die And folks, the starving man doesn't think about his clothes. The starving man does not think about shelter. The starving man has one thought in his heart and his mind, and that is something to eat. That is the man that's spoken of here in this second verse. Blessed is the man that is watching daily at my gates. Oh, I need to know about God. I need to know Jesus Christ. I will stay right here. I will not go anywhere else because this is where I'm going to find. He's waiting at the gates. And folks, there are a multitude of stories. One was alluded to, I believe, in Sunday school last week, or maybe the week before. of people that have walked across mountains, who have crossed deserts, not for food, but for the Word of God. Because they had to know of Christ. There's a story called Beyond the Next Mountain about a young boy who walked through the jungle, who was in danger of tigers and all kinds of hindrances. I believe it was was over two weeks that this young child walked through a jungle just to find a missionary because he had to know the truth of God. And later, after the Lord educated him and put him through various trials, he went back and became a great Bible translator. translating the Word of God for his own people, that they could have that which he had walked through the jungle to get for them My friend, would you know the truth? Seek it. Watching daily at his gate. Nothing is more important than the state of your soul before God. Doesn't matter what car you drive. Doesn't matter what address your mail comes to. Doesn't matter what title is put behind or in front of your name. What is the state of your soul before a holy God? For what shall it profit a man if he gain the whole world And lose his own soul. Or what will a man give in exchange for his soul? So you see, Paul had all those titles. And Paul probably was a very fairly wealthy man as a as a Pharisee. And Paul had the accolades of men, and people would greet him with him, oh, Mr. Saul, Mr. Saul. But Saul, who God saved and transformed into Paul, said, What things were gained to me, those I counted lost to Christ. Yea, I count all things but lost, I do count them but dumb. That I may know Christ in the power of his resurrection and the fellowship of his suffering being made conformable unto his death But not only is the illustration here, blessed is the man that is waiting at my gates, but also it says, Blessed is the man that is waiting at the post of my doors. Waiting at the post of the doors of the Lord. And folks, we've seen again and again that this is the references to Christ who declared, I am the door of the sheep. By me, if any man enter in, he shall go in and out and find pasture. Christ is the door. You want to get to heaven? You go through the door. Jesus Christ is the door. Blessed is the man waiting at the post of my doors. And in Psalm 84, verse 10, a glorious verse. You probably remember I preached on this verse a couple times in the five years of our congregation. A day in thy courts is better than a thousand. I had rather be a doorkeeper in the house of my God than the dwell in the tents of righteousness. I would rather be sitting at the door. Waiting constantly than to live out there in the tents of righteousness. Remember just Lot Just Lot pitched his tent towards Sodom and he vexed his righteous soul. His interest was in the wrong tents. But oh, how wise is the man, and how rich is the man who waits constantly upon the Lord. How blessed is that man that waits at the post of his doors. One thing have I desired of the Lord, Psalm twenty seven four. That will I seek after, that I may dwell in the house of the Lord all the days of my life, to behold the beauty of the Lord, and to inquire at His temple. For in the time of trouble he shall hide me in his pavilion, in the secret of his tabernacle shall he hide me, and he shall set me upon a rock. And here's a glorious verse for our families of young children, Psalm ninety-two verse thirteen. Those that be planted in the house of the Lord shall flourish in the courts of their God. Ah, what a blessing it is for children to be brought up in the house of the Lord, to be planted there, and there's a great promise that they shall flourish in the house of the Lord. We find in verse thirty-five, for whosoever findeth me Notice it doesn't say whosoever findeth wisdom, it's it's a personal pronoun. Whosoever findeth Jesus Christ, whosoever findeth me, findeth life, and shall obtain favor with the Lord. And you notice how the Lord is there in your text? It's capital L, capital O, capital R, capital D. It's an indication that it is Jehovah being spoken of here. Jesus Christ says, Whosoever findeth me finds favor with my Father. Finds favor with Jehovah. You see, in every culture on earth, men try to find favor with God. That's right. You realize there's not a culture that doesn't have a God. The gods take many forms. The gods of the world have many different names. Some of them are gods of gold and silver, some are gods of a mountain, some of them are gods of an animal. Some of them are gods with seven or eight arms and and ugly faces and all these different things that man have created And why do men have all these gods? Well, because they want a god, they want to worship something, and men will do all kinds of things to appease their gods. I mentioned to you before that in Jamaica, in a lot of the shops, there would be a little shrine behind the behind the cashier and they would have their little little gods there and sometimes there would be little incense sticks burning and and so on People will do all kinds of things to try to appease their gods. Men will make all kinds of sacrifices for their gods. Men have even sacrificed their enemies for their gods. The Aztecs would sacrifice their enemies for their gods. Men have even sacrificed their own children to appease their gods. But friends, I would tell you this, prove me wrong. There is only one faith Where God sacrificed his son for his people. All the pagan gods are simply imitations They're simply poor counterfeits because all the religions of the world want you to do something to appease your God But the faith of Jesus Christ alone is a faith wherein God made the appeasement himself. God does not call for me to sacrifice my son. Rather, God sacrificed his son for me. Folks, that is truth. That is a God with capital G, and not a little God made by And Micah talks about this in the sixth chapter of Micah 6 in the beginning with verse 6. Wherewith shall I come before the Lord and bow myself before the high God? Shall I come before him with burnt offerings and calves of a year old? Will the Lord be pleased with a thousand rams, or with ten thousand rivers of oil? Or shall I give my firstborn for my transgression? The fruit of my body for the sin of my soul. He has showed the O man what is good And what doth the Lord require of thee, but to do justly, to love mercy, to walk humbly with their God? The voice of the Lord crieth unto the city, and the man of wisdom shall see thy name. Hear ye the rod, and who hath appointed it? Hear the rod. And who hath appointed it? And what is the rod? Well, the rod of the stem of Jesse. It is a reference to Jesus Christ. Hear him. Here in Proverbs, he's called wisdom. There in Isaiah he's called the rod. But he is one and the same. For whoso findeth me findeth life, and shall obtain favor with Jehovah. Folks, Jehovah's not angry with me. God is not angry with me. I am a sinner I am vile. I have no right to heaven. But God is not angry with me, because Jesus is righteous, and Jesus has given me his right to heaven. For all my sin were laid on Jesus Christ. They were paid for on the cross. He shed his blood for me, and all the righteousness of the Son of God was placed on me. And though I have done much to break the heart of my God, yet when God looks at me He does not see Joe McKnight, the vile sinner. Instead, he sees Joe McKnight, the redeemed child of God. Because I am clothed not in the filthiness of my sin, but in the righteousness of my Savior. And therefore, I can come, as we saw in Sunday school this morning, I can come boldly to the throne of grace to find help in time of need. Because my sins are paid for by the wisdom of God that we read of here. If you look back up in the Proverbs at verses 17 and following this, chapter 8 and verse 17. God says, Christ says, I love them that love me, and those that seek me early shall find me. That's the same chapter we're in chapter 8 and verse 17. I love them that love me And those that seek me early shall find me. In chapter three, if you want to turn there, you can, the third chapter, back again, three or four pages from where you are in chapter eight In Proverbs chapter 3, verse 13, happy is the man that findeth wisdom. Happy is the man that finds Christ. Happy is the man that findeth wisdom, and the man that giveth understanding. For the merchandise of it, that is of wisdom, the merchandise of Christ is better than the merchandise of silver, and the gain thereof than of fine gold. She, that is Christ, remember we talked about that that um uh feminine noun wisdom she is more precious than rubies jesus christ is more precious than rubies And all the things that thou canst desire are not to be compared with hit with her, with Christ. Length of days are in her right hand And in her left hand are riches and honor, her ways are the ways of pleasantness, and all her paths are peace. She, that is Christ, is a tree of life to them that lay hold upon her Happy is everyone that retaineth her. I am the way, the truth, and the life. No man cometh to the Father but by me. And so we've seen so far this morning a very positive and a very pleasant message. Christ, who has been defined as wisdom throughout the chapter, says there in verse 35, listen unto me. Blessed are those that listen unto me, hear me, seek me, wait for me at the doors, wait for me at the post. But now this conclusion of the chapter takes a very dark turn. It has been sunlight and joy and the path of heaven But now the darkness of hell comes forth, and we find there in verse thirty-six. He that sinneth against me, he that sinneth against Jesus Christ, wrongeth his own soul. All they that hate me Folks, if you watch recent media You will find it filled with those that hate Christ and love death. I recently saw a clip from a street preacher. Don't know who he was and couldn't hear his message. But he was standing on the street corner with his Bible, preaching to all that passed by, exhorting any would hear to turn to Christ. And there was a girl there with with rainbow hair and tattoos and a man's haircut on an obvious female. And she wasn't saying anything. She was just screaming at the top of her lungs. And her whole intent was to prevent anyone from hearing what being said. Imagine for me. Imagine for me if there was a child in the road. And someone was standing there waving their arms trying to stop traffic. There's a baby in the road. There's a baby in the road. And someone was standing right beside him saying, come on, come on, come on, the way's clear. That's about what was happening there. There was someone proclaiming Christ, pointing men to Jesus, and there was also someone there screaming so no one could hear. And I tell you, that poor soul hates Christ and loves death. But folks, that's a pretty dramatic example. You see, everyone who turns away from the message of Jesus Christ hates him. They hate it. You see if someone walked up to you on the street corner and handed you five hundred dollars and you smacked them in the face. Say what it w what's wrong with that person? What why would they be so rude? Why would they be so cruel? Why would they hate someone who is trying to be generous to them? Jesus Christ gave his life, a lot more than $500. He left the glories of heaven and came to this earth to die for my sin. And yet the vast majority of mankind, spit in his face, turn from him. They hate him. And by hating Christ they demonstrate that they love death. Those he that sinneth against me wrongeth his own soul. All they that hate me love death. There is a way that seemeth right unto a man, but the ends thereof are the ways of death Search the scriptures, for in them that you think that you have eternal life, and they that be which testify of me, and ye will not come to me that ye might have life. He came unto his own, and his own received him not, but as many as received him, to them gave he power to become the sons of God, even to them that believe on his name. For God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life. For God sent not his son into the world to condemn the world, but that the world through him might be saved He that believeth on him is not condemned, but he that believeth not is condemned already, because he hath not believed in the name of the only begotten Son of God. And this is the condemnation that light is come into the world And men love darkness rather than light because their deeds were evil. That's right You either love Christ or you hate him. And if you hate him You're a lover of death. And folks, just as there are two births, there are also two deaths You see, I was born once when my mother gave my physical body birth. And I was born again. When Jesus Christ took control of my heart, redeemed my soul for all eternity, and made me his child. Except you be born again, you cannot see the kingdom of God. But there are also two deaths. One day this body will die and will rot away. But scripture speaks of the judgment. When the lost are cast into an eternal hell, and that judgment is called the second death. You see, the death of this body is tragic. But oh for my soul to continue in eternal death forever in the torments of hell. Oh, how tragic that is. But as they used to say in Jamaica, while there's life, there's hope. And Jesus says, Come unto me, all ye that labor and are heavy laden And I will give you rest. Stand and pray with you, please. Father, we thank you for this marvelous, sharp, pointed passage of thy word. We find in your word that it says that the word of God is quick and powerful, sharper than any two-edged sword, piercing even to dividing asunder of soul and spirit, and of joints and marrow. And truly, this is a passage of Scripture that cuts us to the soul. We either love Christ or we love death. Bless your word to our hearts this day. Use it for the salvation of the souls of thy people. In Jesus' name. Amen.