Folks, turn with me this morning to the book of Second Kings and the second chapter. I kind of threw a monkey wrench into the bulletin this week because I I use the 2 Timothy passage for our responsive reading, and that is also one of the passages we will refer to, and we took a title from there, make full proof of the ministry. But this morning The heart of the message is from 2 Kings chapter 2, which is the last chapter of the life of Elijah. And the coming into the ministry of the life of Elisha. And I believe by God's grace there's much for us to learn and to be edified. by in watching that transition and seeing the working of God in the lives of his servants. If you have your place now in 2 Kings chapter 2, I'm going to read verses 1 through 15 of the chapter. And it came to pass when the Lord would take up Elijah into heaven by a whirlwind. That Elijah went with Elisha to Gilgal. And Elijah said unto Elisha, Tarry here, I pray thee. For the Lord hath sent me to Bethel. And Elisha said unto him, As the Lord liveth, and as thy soul liveth, I will not leave leave thee. So they went down to Bethel. And the sons of the prophets that were at Bethel came forth to Elisha and said unto him, Knowest thou that the Lord will take away thy master from thy head today? And he said, Yea, I know it. Hold your peace And Elijah said unto him, Elisha, tarry here, I pray thee. For the Lord hath sent me to Jericho And he said, As the Lord liveth, and as thy soul liveth, I will not leave thee. So they came to Jericho. And the sons of the prophets that were at Jericho came to Elisha and said unto him, Knowest thou that the Lord will take away thy master from thy head today? And he answered, Yea, I know it. Hold your peace. And Elijah said unto him, Tarry, I pray thee, hear, for the Lord has sent me to Jordan. And he said, As the Lord liveth, and as thy soul liveth, I will not leave thee. And they too went on. And fifty men of the sons of the prophets went and stood the view afar off, and they too stood by Jordan. And Elijah took his mantle and wrapped it together and smote the waters, and they were divided hither and thither So that they too went over on dry ground. And it came to pass when they were going over that Elijah said unto Elisha, Ask what I shall do for thee before I be taken away from thee. And Elisha said, I pray thee. Let a double portion of thy spirit be upon me. And he said, Thou hast asked a hard thing. Nevertheless, if thou see me when I am taken up from thee, it shall be so unto thee. But if not, it shall not be so. And it came to pass as they still went on and talked, That behold there appeared a chariot of fire and horses of fire And parted them both asunder, and Elijah went up by a whirlwind into heaven, and Elisha saw it. And he cried, My father, my father, the chariot of Israel and the horsemen thereof. And he saw him no more. And he took hold of his own clothes and rent them in two pieces. And he took up also the mantle of Elijah, which fell from him, and went back and stood by the bank of Jordan. And he took the mantle of Elijah that fell from him and smote the waters and said, Where is the Lord God of Elijah? And when he also had smitten the waters, they parted hither and thither. And Elijah went over. And the sons of the prophets which were to view at Jericho saw him, and they said, The spirit of Elijah doth rest on Elisha. And they came to meet him and bowed themselves to the ground before him. Let's pray. Father, I thank you for your glorious, precious, inspired, and yea, Lord, preserved word. Father, I thank you again for the richness of this passage, for the nooks and crannies for the intricacy of thy word, for the multitude of that which thy spirit has stored in this treasure house. Father, today I pray that the diamonds of thy word will be brought forth to thy people. Father, you gave to your servants the charge feed my sheep. But, O Lord, we readily confess before Thee that we as men have nothing with which to feed thy sheep. Father, your sheep come as newborn babes, desiring the sincere milk of the Word. And so, Father, today, may your people, may your flock be fed from the Word of God. May your Son, Jesus Christ, the very God Himself, be honored and glorified in our midst. Send forth the word we pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Folks, this is one of the most, one of the easiest and one of the hardest chapters to preach. It's all right there on the surface. You know, you can you can go along and just pick up little bits and pieces all along. And yet Surface eating is just the appetizer. We need to dig into the meal. And so there's so much here. The first thing we need to notice right off the top is the sovereignty of God God is in control. Elijah's not in control. He's not ordering things. Elisha isn't giving the directions here. The fifty sons of the prophets in the various cities, they're all participants, but God is directing and orchestrating Every bit of it. God is sovereign in the lives of his servants, and every believer is a servant of God. So he's sovereign in your life as well. Notice in the first verse. And it came to pass when the Lord would take Elijah to heaven. Notice the third verse. Knowest thou not that the Lord will take away thy master from thy head? Notice the fifth verse. Notice thou knowest thou not knowest thou that the Lord will take away thy master from thy head. Look at verse number two. The Lord has sent me to Bethel. Look at verse number four Carry here, Elijah, I pray thee, for the Lord has sent me to Jericho. Look at verse number six. For the Lord has sent me to Jordan. Okay, so it came to pass this is when God's going to take Elijah away. Don't you know this is when God's going to take Elijah away? Hey, Elisha, do you understand that today God is going to take Elijah? Folks, no doctor's going to change that. Satan's not going to change it. It was all in God's plan. And we find very clearly in Scripture, in Job 7, verse 1. There is there not an appointed time to man upon the earth? And in Job 14, 5, seeing his days are determined, the number of his months are with thee, thou hast appointed his bounds that he cannot pass Folks, God's got this. God's in control. And yes, we we go to doctors, and yes, we try to eat right and take care of it. But folks, we're invincible. We are invincible in the sovereignty of God. Let me ask you a question. Did the Romans kill Paul? Or did God say it's time? Did they kill John the Baptist when they took off his head? Or did God say, no, you you finished your course, you it's time? Folks, we naturally in our human state worry and fret over things. But folks, we have a God who orders these things, who controls these things, and so it's no wonder that the peace of God that passeth understanding can keep our hearts and minds through Christ Jesus. It's no wonder that the martyrs went to the flames singing hymns. We want to live. We want to extend our days. But folks, God's got this. He's in charge. But not only that, we find here Elijah, first of all, saying, the Lord has sent me to Bethel. And then the Lord has sent me to Jericho. And then the Lord has sent me to Jordan. And folks, if you just read through these verses, all you have is a travel log. But folks, there is great and important significance in this. Because the whole theme here is that the time of Elijah is coming to an end. But God is going to place his blessing on Elisha. God's work is going to go forward. And just as we saw there with Paul, where he said, I fought a good fight. I've finished my course. I've kept the faith Okay, his his life has been ordered. This step, this step, this step. I'm now ready to be offered. The time of my departure is a hand. That's exactly what we're seeing here What is significant, first of all, about and di did God keep changing his mind? Oh, sorry, you went to Bethel? That wasn't right. Oh, no, I th I thought it was Jericho, but actually no. It's beautiful, folks. What is significant about God sending Elijah, and if I ever say Elisha, well I should say Elijah, forgive me ahead of time, God sending Elijah to Bethel. Turn back to Genesis twenty-eight. Genesis twenty-eight, verse sixteen. And Jacob awake out of his sleep and said, Surely the Lord was in this place, and I knew it not. And he was afraid and said, How dreadful is this place! This is none other than the house of God and the gate of heaven. What's about to happen? Well, Elijah's about ready to go through that gate, folks. And Jacob arose early in the morning and took a stone that he had had for his pillow, and set it up for a pillar, and poured oil on the top of it, and called the name of the place Bethel. Drop down to verse 20 And Jacob vowed a vow, saying, If God be with me and will keep me in his way that I in in this way that I go And will give me bread to eat and raiment to put on, so that I come again to my father's house in peace, then shall the Lord be my God. And the stone which I have set up for a pillar shall be called the house of God. And all that shall give and all that of all that he shall give me, I will surely give him a tenth. What is significant in Bethel? It's the place where Jacob met God. It's the place where Jacob first viewed the gate of heaven. And folks, it changed his entire life. He saw God. First of all, God sends Elijah to Bethel, to the place where man meets with God. To the place where man finds that assurance that God will take him to his father's house, to the place where Jacob saw the gate of heaven. And now we find Elijah going to that place. Elijah, don't be afraid. Elijah, you saw the angels of uh Jacob saw the angels of God ascending and descending on the ladder. I've got something like that for you. You don't know what it is yet. But don't be afraid. You see, Elijah knows this is the last day of his life. But he's not careful. This is the place. And you know what else God did? He sent Elijah, or Elisha, I did it. He sent Elisha to tag along to Bethel. Okay, you need to be learning this because pretty soon the mantle is going to be on you. You need to understand this. This is part of your training. But now Elisha and Elijah go on to Jericho. What is significant about Jericho? Well, Joshua 3, verse 7. And the Lord said unto Joshua, This day will I begin to magnify thee in the sight of all Israel. that they may know that as I was with Moses, so will I be with thee. Do you see the transition here? Jericho was where the leadership of Israel was transferred from Moses to Joshua. And that's exactly what's about to happen here. The leadership, the prophet office is about to be transferred from Elijah to Elisha. And we saw there in the verse 15 The 15th verse, that now the sons of the prophets are coming to Elisha and saying, yes, the Spirit of God, the leadership which has been on Elijah, is now transferred to Elisha. They solved. But there's something else about Jericho. What was Jericho? It was the first major victory of the children of Israel. And so, Eli uh Joshua is fearful. He's standing by the wall of Jericho. And he sees God for the first time. Right? We looked at that a few weeks ago. You see the pattern here. We've seen the place where Elijah Or was where Jacob saw God. And now we see the place where Joshua saw God. And we have this young servant Elisha who is following the prophet and yet he's fearful and he's being told you're gonna lose him he's gonna be taken away But don't be afraid. God is sovereign. God is in charge. But then they go on to Jordan. Turn with me to Joshua 3 and verse 15. What's the significance of them being sent to Jordan? Joshua 3. 15 And as they that bear the ark were come into unto Jordan And the feet of the priests that bear the ark were dipped in the brim of the water, for Jordan overflowed all his banks all the time of harvest. That the water which came down from above and rose up upon a heap very far from the city of Adam. And beside Zaratan and those that came down toward the sea of the plain, even the Salt Sea failed and were cut off, and the people passed over right against Jericho. You see what's happening here in the education of Elisha? And what happens when Elisha and Elijah come to that same Jordan? Well, Elijah wraps his manual and smites the water in the same opening that happened with Joshua. Happens again. And then following, Elisha comes back to the same spot, and the same opening happens yet again, twice in one day. Folks, it's glorious. It's beautiful to see the unity and the continuity of the Word of God. And so in Joshua 4 and verse 14, on that day the Lord magnified Joshua in the sight of all Israel, and they feared him, as they feared Moses all the days of his life. And and folks, Joshua, uh sorry, Elisha is not accepting worship in verse fifteen. But when we find that they came and they bowed down to him, there it is a reverent nodding of the head, yes We acknowledge that God has ordained you to carry on this work. And so, folks, this is not simply a travel log or mistaken directions. But in this day, the same day, we find them traveling from Jericho or Bethel to Jericho to Jordan. Folks, it's it's it's beautiful and it's glorious what God has done. And so God has appointed our times. In Psalm 34, verse 39 verse 4, Lord, make me to know mine. and the measure of my days, what it is, that I may know how frail I am. Psalm 90, verse 12, so teach us to number our days that we may apply our hearts To knowledge. The Apostle Paul, I am now ready to be offered in the time of my departure is at hand. I have fought a good fight I have finished my course. I have kept the faith. And what is happening there with Paul? He's turning over the ministry to Timothy. Folks, this is one book. This is one truth. It's glorious if we simply get out the spiritual shovel and start digging into what God has. And so what do we learn from Moses and Joshua and Elijah and Elisha and Paul and Timothy? What do we learn about the sovereignty of God? First of all, it's not about here, it's about there. Okay? It's not about this earth. It's about heaven. Secondly, it's not about now, it's about then. Yeah, now has all kinds of problems. But it's about men, it's about heaven. And thirdly, it's not about me, it's about him. It's not about my comfort in this world, it's about his glory. It's not about which city I happen to be in in this world. It's about where he wants me to be. It's not about what I want to do and where I want to go. Folks, Elisha did not want to lose Elijah. And when he's told and warned, he says, let's not talk about that. Hold your peace. I don't want to deal with that right now. And yet God was preparing the way. So first of all, we find the sovereignty of God in this chapter. The second major point, and I know my points are all jumbled, but follow with me. The second thing is the dedication of Elijah to God's servant and God's work. We find in verse 2 that he says, As the Lord liveth, and as thy soul liveth, I will not leave thee. So they went together to Bethel. Verse 4 is very interesting. I hear a very tender verse, a voice of Elijah speaking to Elisha in verse 4 of 2 Kings 2. And Elijah said unto him, Elisha, carry here, I pray thee. In the other passage, it says the Lord told him But in verse 4 he uses his name. Have you ever been dealing with your children and there's something very important and yet tender, and you call them by their name? Or or with your spouse, where you know sweetheart, or a a tender approach. I believe that's what's happening here. Here, Elijah is saying, Elisha You don't want to see this. You see, folks, Elijah did not know there was a chariot of fire waiting. All he knew was his time was coming. Think that through. Let me say it again. Elijah did not know anything about the chariot of fire. God had not told him that. All he knew was the time was coming. That's a fearful thing on this earth. I remember my father saying I don't remember my brother told me that my father said two or three days before he died, he said, I'm not afraid to die, but I'm afraid it's gonna hurt. Elijah does not know about the chariot of fire. He does not know how glorious it's going to be. And remember, Elijah had prayed back in the cave, Lord take my life because it's not better than my father's. And if God had to answer that prayer, there wouldn't have been a chariot of fire. But Elijah is saying to Elijah, I'm not sure you want to see this. Elisha, Tarry here I pray thee. But Elisha is dedicated to the work of the Lord, and he says, No. As God lives, and as your immortal, eternal soul lives, I will not abandon you. I will stick to the task, no matter how difficult it becomes. Remember the call of Elisha back in First Kings chapter nineteen? Back in 1 Kings 19, Elijah is still in the cave. Elijah is still discouraged, and Elijah says God, they've slain the prophets, and they seek my life to take it away. I'm no better than my father to take away my life. And in First Kings, we're in 2nd Kings for a text, but in 1 Kings 19 and verse 19 So he departed thence, that's Elijah. So he departed thence and found Elisha, the son of Shaphath, who was ploughing with twelve yoke of oxen before him, and he with the twelfth And Elijah passed by him and cast his mantle upon him, and he that's Elisha left the oxen and ran after Elijah and said, Let me I pray thee Kiss my father and my mother, and then I will follow thee. And he that's Elijah said unto him, Go back again, for what have I done to thee? He that putting his hand to the plow and looketh back is not fit for the kingdom of heaven. Let me go bury my mother and father. Christ once said to Christ, and he said Let the dead bury their dead, come and follow me. Elisha says, I want to go back and kiss my mother and father. And Elijah says, You know, what have I done to you? What what is this call that is upon you? And so in verse 21, and he, that's Elisha, returned back from him and took a yoke of oxen and slew them. and boiled their flesh with the instruments of the oxen, and gave unto the people, and they did eat, and he arose and went after Elijah and ministered unto him. Doesn't say anything about kissing his mother and father, does it? Instead he killed the oxen that had been pulling the plow. He chopped up the pl wood of the plough itself and used that to boil the oxen. We would say the day he burned his bridges. Okay. This is the man who says, no, as God lives and as your soul lives, I will not go back. And he rose and went after Elijah and ministered unto him. And after the death of Elijah in chapter 3 of 2 Kings. Our text is in chapter 2 of 2 Kings, chapter 3 of 2 Kings, and verse 11, we find this glorious description of the service that Elisha rendered to Elijah. 2 Kings 3. 11. But Jehoshaphat said, Is there not here a prophet of the Lord that we may inquire of the Lord by him? Elijah's gone! We don't have Elijah! But is there a prophet? And one of the kings and and one of the of the king of Israel's servants answered him and said Here is Elisha, the son of Shaphat, which poured water on the hands of Elijah. He poured water on his hands. That's a beautiful expression that he ministered unto him. Have you ever been someplace without a sink and you need to wash your hands and you tried to pour water out of one jugle in your hand and then pour water out of the jungle in your hand, and you you you can't quite do it But then someone comes along and they pour the water on your hands. And they minister to you. That is the picture that is given of Elisha. In his service to Elijah. This is what God has called me to do. I have killed my oxen. I have burned my plow. Sons of the prophets, yeah, I hear you. But I'm going to follow him. Elijah, yeah, I hear you. But this is what I'm supposed to do. And folks, the sons of the prophets. Did not discourage Elisha. Folks, there are times when even godly counsel will try to deter you from something that you know you're supposed to do. I remember a couple godly people warning me against the mission field. Are you sure you want to do that? Are you really sure? I see my wife's smiling, and family hates it when you give sermon illustrations. But we were in a church in Tennessee. And this one dear lady on the front pew just came, oh Lord blessed their hearts. Oh, you can tell she felt so sad for us because we're going to the mission field. And yet we were delighted because we knew beyond any doubt we were doing what God wanted us to do, and we were not going to let man deter us. And folks, that's the dedication that I want us to see here with Elisha. Even when the sons of the prophets are warning him, do you know he's going to be taken up from your head today? It doesn't matter. I hear you. I know it. Hold your peace. Hold your peace. I am doing what I must do to the Lord. And so we see the sovereignty of God, and we see the dedication of Elisha to God's servant and to God's work. We find the same thing multiple times in Scripture Remember Ruth, entreat me not to leave thee, nor to return from following after thee. You realize that Orfa, Ruth's sister-in-law, Naomi's other daughter-in-law, is never found in Scripture again. She disappears from history. We don't know if she ever found another husband. We don't know if she ever had children, but we sure know about Ruth. Ruth married Boaz and was the great-grandmother of King David and is in the line of Christ. Because she said, you know, entreat me not to leave thee. I am going to continue in the work that God has given me to do. But also under the dedication of Elisha to the work, we find that Elisha was not going to be far from the work. He was going to stay right there with Elijah. But look with me at verses 7 and 8 of 2 Kings chapter 2. 2 Kings in our text, chapter 2, and verse 7 and 8. And fifty men of the sons of the prophets went and stood to view afar off. And they too, that's Elijah and Elisha, and they too stood by Jordan. And Elijah took his mantle and wrapped it together and smote the waters, and they were divided hither and thither, so they too went over on dry ground. Folks, I'm not going to try to condemn the fifty sons of the prophets, but there was room in the river for 52. Right? These sons of the prophets stood afar off to see what was going to happen. Uh that's too dicey for us Don't know if we want to try that. Folks, they could have walked through the river on dry ground too. They missed an amazing blessing. Because they were far off. We find that Elisha was not going to be far off. Christ warned the disciples in John 16, Behold, the hour cometh the a, and now is That ye shall be scattered everyone, every man to his own, and ye shall leave me alone, yet I am not alone because my father is with me. And remember Peter going out and weeping bitterly Because instead of being right there with Christ in his trial, he was by the enemy's fire. And he denied. He denied. Looks Elisha wasn't going to let that happen. I'm going to be there. I'm going to be there. And of course, we know that his reward came through that, but that's getting ahead. The third thing to note is that Elisha, Elisha, almost said it wrong, Elisha's Life desires were toward the service of God. Look at verses 9 and 10 of 2 Kings 2. And it came to pass when they were going over that Elijah said unto Elisha, Ask what I shall do for thee before I be taken away from thee. And Elisha said, I pray thee, let a double portion of thy spirit be upon me. And he said, Thou hast asked a hard thing. Nevertheless, if thou see me when I am taken from thee, it shall be unto thee But if not, it shall not be so. What's significant about the double portion? What's going on here? Well, the double portion was the inheritance of the firstborn. Think about it. The recipient of blessing, remember Jacob and Esau? Jacob have I loved? Esau have I hated? What did Jacob receive? Well, he received the blessing, the birthright, the double portion. And so did Joseph receive the double portion. And it passed on, generation, the double portion, the greatest blessing, the true mark of sonship. You have all these 50 prophets, these sons of the prophets in Jericho, these sons of the prophets in Bethel, these sons of the prophets by Jordan. But Elisha says, that's not enough. I want the Red of Sonship. I want the double portion. I want to have twice the Spirit of God working in me that is working in you. And folks, I believe every one of us have had a spiritual father, a spiritual mentor, someone we looked up to. I can name a dozen godly men that have been a blessing to me. But oh Lord, may you use me twice as much as you used it. May greater things that have ever been seen before be done for the glory of Jesus Christ. Solomon, what do you want? He wanted wisdom to lead God's people. We talk about Solomon being the wisest man. It's not just that he knew biology and chemistry and astronomy and algebra and everything. The wisdom that he asked for was wisdom to rightly lead the people of God. Make me a better servant for God. Make me twice the servant of God that my father Elijah was. We find here that Elisha had godly desires and God fulfilled those godly desires because Elisha was faithful. Elisha, if you see me when I'm taking off, it'll be so But if you are away for a second, if you turn your back, if you blink in the battle, it won't happen. One thing of my desire to the Lord, that will I seek after, that I may dwell in the house of the Lord all the days of my life. to behold the beauty of the Lord and to inquire at his temple. Psalm 27, verse 4. And so we find that Elisha was rewarded for his faithfulness, verse 11 and 12. And it came to pass when they went on and talked that, behold, there appeared a chariot of fire, and horses of fire, and parted them asunder Elijah went up by a whirlwind into heaven, and Elisha saw it. Hallelujah. Hallelujah. Elisha saw it. And he cried, my father, my father, the chariots of Israel and the horsemen thereof. He's not crying, oh no, you're going. What a reward! My father, my father, the chariots of God, the chariots of Israel, the horsemen. Hallelujah! What a savior! And he saw him no more. And he took hold of his own clothes and rent them in two pieces. And folks, that's not just a oh yeah he tore his clothes. No He has already killed his oxen and burned his plow. But now he's never going to be the same again. The rending of garments in scripture is very significant. Remember when Samuel told Saul that God's going to take the kingdom from you? And Saul reached out and took a hold of Samuel's garment and rent it. And Samuel said, just like this garment has been torn, so your kingdom is going to be torn from you and given to another. You see, Elisha's got a new set of clothes, but it's a very old set of clothes. He rends his own garment. I cannot be what I was, I cannot wear what I wore. Now the mantle of Elijah is the clothing of Elisha. And so he tears the clothing. Elisha was greatly rewarded for his faithfulness. Elisha will never be the same. Elisha is at that moment something that he was not before. It's an ordination service, folks. The power of God now rests on Elisha in double push. And Elisha goes back to the same Jordan with the same mantle, and it's opened in the same way. And it's evident to the 50 prophets that have tried to discourage him, you don't want to do this. No. And so God has rewarded One final thing to note. It's not about Elisha. I know I've already said this earlier, but it's not about Elisha. It's not about Elijah. It's not about the fifty prophets. It's about God. It's the power of God. It's about the beauty of His Word, the unity of this book. From Genesis to Revelation, it is one book. The story repeats itself again and again to aid in our learning. We see the same working of God, and it confirms that he is the same yesterday and today and forever. And so it's no wonder that Paul says to Timothy, I charge you. 2 Timothy 4, verse 1, I charge thee before God. And the Lord Jesus Christ, who shall judge the quick and the dead and his appearing and his kingdom. Timothy, it's my time. Joshua, Moses says, it's my time. Elisha, Elijah says, it's my time. But it's also your time. I'm leaving, you're staying. I charge thee before Christ who shall judge the quick and the dead. Preach the word. Be instant, in season, out of season, reprove, rebuke, exhort with all long-suffering and doctrine. That word instant is an amazing word. The same word actually is used When the angel appeared to the shepherds in the field. You know, the angels appeared to the shepherds and be instant, be Johnny on the spot. Be on the job. Suddenly the angels appeared to the shepherds. They were there in the time of need. Be instant, Timothy. For the time will come when they will not endure hard doctrine or sound doctrine, but will he but after their own lust shall heap themselves teachers having itching ears, and they shall turn away their ears from the truth, and shall be turned to the fables. How many times do we find God sending a prophet, but God says they're not going to hear you? I send you to them, but they're not going to hear you. Say unto this people, ears have ye, but ye hear not, eyes have ye, but ye see not Paul is saying to Timothy, Timothy, they're not going to listen. But you still got to tell them. The times come when they won't endorse sound doctrine, they'll turn away the fables. But watch thou in all things. Endure affliction. Timothy, it's not going to be easy. You know what? Joshua didn't have an easy time after Moses. Elisha didn't have an easy time after Elijah. Timothy didn't have an easy time after Paul. And we don't have an easy time either. Endure afflictions. Do the work of an evangelist. Don't simply preach to the choir all the time. Be evangelistic. It's one of the one of the faults of of Reform theology that it tends to start looking in too much instead of looking out at the fields that are white or ready to harvest. Do the work of an evangelist. Make full proof of thy ministry. Don't leave anything undone that you were supposed to be doing. Elisha, I'm going to Jericho. I'm going to Bethel, you stay here. No. I'm going to Jericho, you stay here. No, uh. I'm going to Jordan. No, no. For I am now ready to be offered, and the time of my departure is at hand. I have fought a good fight. I have finished my course. And that word course again is another important word. It basically means a racetrack. We talk about a race course. And this is not hard and fast. This comes not from scripture but from the secular interpretations. But the Greek understanding of that course was it was often a pathway that led to a temple or to a tomb. In the Greek usage of the day. Like I say, it's not reflected in scripture, but you know, there is the idea of the course leads to the tomb, which is interesting because we're running the race until the tomb, until our days here are done. Henceforth, there is laid up for me a crown of righteousness which the Lord, the righteous judge, shall give unto me at that day. And not to me only. But also unto all them that love him at his appearing. That love him at his appearing. Elisha, if you see me when I go up, If you're faithful to the point of time, it'll be so. Folks, our salvation won't be taken away from us. But there is scriptural evidence that there will be some elect believers who will not receive reward because they gave up in the battle. If you see what I'm thinking up, it'll be. But if not, it will not be. Folks. What more can I say? It's glorious. It's perfect. May God take his word and plant it in our hearts. That we might love him and serve him unto death. Let's stand to pray. Father, I thank you for this book. I thank you for your son. I thank you, Lord, for uh The Spirit that guides us and teaches us from thy word. I thank you, Lord, for the overwhelming privilege of preaching it. Bless your word to our hearts we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen.