Father, we come before you this morning freely acknowledging that it is all of thy mercy and all of thy grace that we gather. For Lord, we were shaped in iniquity and born in sin. And our old natural man will never seek after thee. Father, we thank you by the regeneration of Jesus Christ, we have been made new creatures in Him. And we thank you, Lord, that that new creature, that new man, that new nature that you've placed within us Indeed, hungers and thirst after righteousness. And you have told us in your word, blessed are they which do hunger and thirst after righteousness, for they shall be filled. And so, Father, we pray that you would fill our hearts this morning with your love, that you would fill our minds with your scripture. And that you would fill our very beings with the fear of the Lord. Bless these ends we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. I'm reading our call to worship from Second Chronicles chapter uh twenty this morning, and a a verse that's kind of obscure and that I had never noticed before. Hear me, O Judah, and ye inhabitants of Jerusalem, believe in the Lord your God, so shall ye be established Believe in his prophets, so shall you prosper Good morning everyone. Good to see your smiling faces today. Turn to our opening Psalm 119. Oh Lord, how shall I meet the 119 in our blue song book this morning. If you're able to rise Feel free to do so. If not, feel free to remain seated. We sing all four stanzas, one hundred and nineteen. Oh Lord, how shall I need? How welcome thee I I came along to reason I hope my heart delight O Kindred Lord was holy. I laugh within my last to do inspiring all that make me see better. Love was thy incarnation. Love brought me down to me. I thirst for myself. Procure my liberty So not be until He said he said in the best morning or joys deposit and trembling. What your new sister not is near you they standing at the door who has Hell ventil and with you we know since that people Your souls distress, for guilt the Lord will call us and cover mine. The peace has been forgiven for all God's monsic. Amen. Please be seated. as our brother comes to give us our confession instruction from the Belgian confession Good morning. You have your bulletin with you. Go ahead and turn to the back. We'll be reading from the 24th article of the Belgic Confession this morning. This is the fourth or portion D of this 24th article regarding man's sanctification and good works. Christian, in what do you believe? In the meantime, we do not deny that God rewards our good works, but it is through his grace that he crowns his gifts. Moreover, though we do good works, we do not found our salvation upon them For we can do no work, but what is polluted by our flesh and also punishable. And although we could perform such works Still, the remembrance of one's sin is sufficient to make God reject them. Thus then we would always be in doubt. Toss to and fro without any certainty, and our poor consciences would be continually vexed If they relied not on the merits of the suffering and death of our Savior. Many passages in the scriptures speak about the Lord's reward that he gives to his people, to his laborers. And indeed we read in the scriptures that Those that diligently seek the Lord. He's a rewarder of them. There's much in the scripture about this business of rewarding that the Lord does. But we have to understand that all of God's rewards are of grace. None of them are something that we merited or something that we've earned. We've done so well that now He owes us. And that's really the sense of Romans four verse four which says, Now to him that worketh is the reward not reckoned of grace, but of debt. If you've labored and you think that, well, I've done such a good job, that means God is indebted to you But that's not the case. Any reward that we receive from the Lord, it's all of grace. It's something that He gives that we still do not deserve, yet He is pleased to grant to His people, to those that labor in his kingdom. That's why we're called, we're supposed to proclaim ourselves to be unprofitable servants after we've done all. And you know, the works that we do, they never merit our salvation. He is a rewarder of those that diligently seek them, yet it's not because we've worked so well that now he has to save us Instead, the faithful are marked by their good works and salvation comes to them. And you know there is a a heresy that gets uh pushed around every now and then called sinless perfectionism. that um some people claim that once you're saved that means there's no more sin at all. You won't sin uh at all. There just won't be that uh present in your life. You've already achieved it and it just won't happen anymore. And of course, that's a scary thing because the moment that individual uh does sin or acknowledges it, then they found out, oh well, I guess I lost my salvation. And I guess I have to work all over again to become this uh sinless perfectionist. But that's not the case at all. If uh w what those individuals do is they either have to lie and say, well no, I don't sin and you know they know they've sinned, but they just covering it up, or the other option is they would have to um They would have to uh lower God's standards to claim, oh well those things aren't really that sinful and thereby proclaiming themselves to be righteous. But no, truly our salvation is only in Christ. And I want to point out specifically the the business of the reward that the Lord gives. You know, there's kind of two manners that we can see in the scripture when when the scripture specifically talks about a singular reward that the Lord gives. It's uh that reward is actually the salvation package. Everything that comes with them. In the parable of the vineyard that we read of in Matthew 20, the laborers are called at different points of time to come and work in his kingdom. And inevitably they would have produced a different amount of work based on how long they've been laboring there. Yet they all received one penny. They have one same reward. And so it is for the laborers in God's kingdom. They all receive the same salvation in Christ, they all receive eternal life. It's that same reward, though there's uh different fruits that have been put forth. Some uh tenfold, some twentyfold and and whatnot. Uh and Romans two points this out very well where where it says that God will render to every man according to his deeds, to them who by patient continuance and well-doing seek for glory and honor and immortality, eternal life That's the one reward on the one side, and on the other side it says, But unto them that are contentious and do not obey the truth, but obey unrighteousness, indignation, and wrath. And so if somebody is a a is a true laborer in God's kingdom, they've been uh redeemed, they've been turned, the reward that they have is eternal life. There's another sense of the rewards that we'll see even in heaven, and that is the reward of seeing those that you've ministered to in the gospel labor. Psalm 126 says, He that goeth forth and weepeth, bearing precious seed, shall doubtless come again with rejoicing, bringing his sheaves with him. Those that labor diligently will get to see the labors of their hands. They'll they will get to see what the Lord has done through those labors. And you know, often we don't see it here in this life. You don't know what you might have shared with somebody how that might have impacted them, how that how the Lord could have used that to draw them to Himself, either to save them to begin with or strengthen them as a believer But in the kingdom of heaven I do believe we will see that. 1 Thessalonians 2. 19 says, For what is our hope or joy or crown of rejoicing? Are not even ye in the presence of our Lord Jesus Christ at his coming? So yeah, that'll be a great joy to see once the Lord returns, to see those people that you've labored, that you've poured into. specifically for the gospel's sake to see how they're now able to stand before the Lord. They're able to stand with you in that glorious kingdom. It's a great thing to see God accomplishing the increase in the souls that we've both planted God's word in and watered in. Thank you. Thank you, Anton, as always, for that excellent exposition on the confession. Uh before we go to prayer, let me ask a question. Did anybody pick up on the typo in the bulletin this morning? Yeah, I did. Where? On the birthday I did not see a ty I I should not have opened my mouth because I had not seen any typos. And I was going to compliment our administrator for his faithfulness in week after week faithfully producing the bulletin without typos. And I still don't see a typo there. But um there are many things that happen between behind the scenes that don't really get noticed and acknowledged. And they should from time to time be acknowledged. And uh, you know, we we come on Sunday and we kind of take the bulletin for granted. But it takes a lot of work to get the confession ready to go in. and the hymns ready to go in and then to bring it all together and to wait and wait and wait on the pastor who's always late getting the information to him that he can do it in a timely fashion. So we really do appreciate it. I still don't see any typos. So You know, my father used to say he'd only been wrong once in his life, and that's actually when he thought he was wrong, and it turned out he wasn't wrong in the first place, but that's he was wrong to think he was. Let's go to prayer together. Great Father, our Father which art in heaven, we approach before your throne through the merits of Jesus Christ. Through the shed blood, entering in within the veil to the very throne room of God, approaching the mercy seat Where we bring our joys, our sorrows, and our requests before the great God of heaven. And Lord, we thank you that we have this great privilege through Christ. And Father, we thank you that our Messiah, Jesus, ever lives to make intercession for us. And Lord, we thank you that we have a Redeemer who is touched with the feeling of our infirmities. And Lord, you know our frame. You remember that we are dust. Father, we thank you for Mission Bible Church this morning. We thank you for this sweet and precious fellowship. Indeed, this oasis from the trials of the world. Or this place where we come to meet with the shelter in the time of storm. We enjoy the fellowship we have one with another. And yet, Father, that fellowship is sweet because it is around Christ. He is the center. He is our purpose Lord, we thank you for establishing us. We thank you for sustaining us. We thank you for bringing us together. Father, we thank you that you know what things we have need of before we ask. And so when we come before you in prayer, we are not informing you of our needs, but rather we are laying our needs before you. And calling upon the God of heaven in faith believing, Lord, that you are able to heal, that you are able to save, that you are able to meet our financial needs. That you are able to calm our spirits. That you are able to do exceeding abundantly above all that we can ask or think. Father, we do have represented in this congregation a long list of those who are suffering with great infirmities of the flesh Some that are made public to all of us and mentioned specifically on our prayer list. Others, Lord, that are so close to our hearts that they are mentioned in unspoken requests. And yet, Father, we thank you that you do know what we have need of, and that you do know our need. And Father, when we come before you and pray for the physical needs, we must never be negligent to thank you for the answers of prayer that we've seen. And Lord, we do rejoice in Several in our congregation that at times we have thought they may be days from eternity. And yet, Lord, you have restored them to health. And we thank you for that. And yet, Father, we acknowledge that that is not always thy will, that the days of our lives are numbered and are in your care. And so, Father, we pray that you would comfort the hearts of those that are sorrowing. Lord, this life is cruel to our human nature. In this life, we live under the curse. And the first element of the curse that was mentioned was in the day that ye eat thereof, ye shall surely die. And so, Lord, we acknowledge that we are living in dying bodies, and that we will not escape the death of the body except for the rapture. And so, Father, we do pray that you would comfort those that are sorrowing and heal those that are sick. And Lord, we thank you that you own the cattle on a thousand hills. We thank you that you promised to supply all of our need according to your riches and glory. And Father, we can testify even in the times of greatest distress over the future, we can find evidence that even then you are working. And we can look back across the courses of our lives. And Lord, as we saw from Psalm 23, 6 on the Wednesday prayer meeting Lord, that you have pursued us, that you have followed us with goodness and mercy all the days of our lives. And so, Father, we lay very serious financial needs before you. But Lord, we do so in confidence that you will provide. Maybe not in the time we desire or in the way that we desire, or even Lord, in the amount that we desire. And yet, Father, you promise that the righteous are never forsaken, and the seed of the righteous do not take bread. And so meet our needs, we pray. Father, we have a long list, week after week, in prayer meeting of unsaved loved ones Unsaved friends, unsaved co-workers, unsaved taxi drivers, and casual acquaintances And Father, we thank you for the opportunities that you give for us to witness and testify of Christ. And we thank you that Jesus Christ is indeed come to seek and to save that which was lost. We thank you, Lord, for the everlasting covenant of grace, and Lord, we claim that covenant, though unseen upon our families. O Father, that having loved us and called us by thy grace, that you will fulfill the promise to the third and fourth generation. Lord, having loved us and saved us, we believe that you will love and save our children, our parents. Our aunts and uncles, our brothers and sisters are as well, O Father. Lord, we again thank you this morning for Mission Bible Church. Father, we thank you for that though we gather here in person, yet our congregation stretches far beyond these walls. And Lord, we pray for those that are scattered abroad, those that are so very much a part of us, and yet we see faces on the screens and prayer meetings But to truly embrace one another is a rare occasion. And Father, we we pray that you would bless those that are are sundered far by faith and yet meet around one common mercy seat. Lord, that they might know close fellowship with thee, that they might know the love of the brethren that you might strengthen them and encourage them in their areas and places of dispersement. And Father, we long for the days when they will be able with us to visit again. and to to share in-person fellowship. Lord, bless them. Lord, we have had many traveling this summer and we still have those that have traveling upcoming. And Lord, we pray that you would watch over them, that you would bless them. Lord, that you would keep them in health, Father, to be encapsulated in an airplane for hours on end can be a very unhealthy environment. Lord, just to Walk in areas where our bodies may not have been exposed to the same set of germs can be intimidating. But Father, we pray that you would bless and that you would keep your people in health. Father, we thank you for the children of our congregation. Lord, we know from thy word that children are an heritage of the Lord, and the fruit of the womb is his reward. Father, we do not accept the man-made construct of an age of accountability. We believe that all men are born accountable to God. And we find in thy word that the infant voices shall praise thee. And Lord, we even find John the Baptist leaping in the womb at the voice of Mary. And so, Father, we call upon the God of heaven to save these children. Oh Lord, we would give our own souls for their salvation if we could, just as Paul said that he could account himself a curse for his kinsmen of Israel. And yet, Father, only one could die for salvation, and that is Jesus Christ. And we thank you that Christ has come to seek and to save that which was lost. And so, O Lord, may you seek these dear children in our midst. And even today, as they hear the prayers of thy people, As they join in in the singing with thy people, and as they hear the preaching of thy word, may the preaching of thy word reach further than their ears. O Lord, may it reach to the dividing asunder of soul and spirit and joints and marrow. And may you save. And Lord, we pray these things in Jesus' name. Amen. Please turn to Psalm 83 for a responsive reading in your Bibles. Once you've found the 83rd Psalm in your Bible, please rise. We will responsibly read all eighteen verses, Psalm eighty three. A song or psalm of Asa. Keep not thou silence, O God. Hold not thy peace, and be not still, O God. For lo, thine enemies make atonement, and they that hate thee have lifted up the head. They have taken crafty counsel against thy peace, and consulted against thy hidden ones. They have said, Come and let us cut them off from being a nation, that the name of Israel may be no more in our membrance. They are confederate against thee. The tabernacles of Edom and the Israelites of Moab and the Hagares Gibal and Amon and Amalek, the Philistines with the inhabitants of Tyre. Asher also is joined with them. They have hope with the children of Lot. Do unto them as unto the Midianites, as to Sisera, as to Javan at the brook of Kisson. Which perish at Endor. They became a stone for the earth. Make their nobles like Orith and like Zeb. Yea, all their princes as Zeba and as Zalmuna. Who said, Let us take to ourselves the house of God in possession? O my God, make them like a wheel, as the stubble before the wind As the fire burns the wood, and as the flame setteth the mountains on fire, so persecute them with thy tempest. And make them afraid with thy storm. Fill their faces with shame, that they may seek thy name, O Lord. Let them be confounded and troubled forever. Yea, let them be put to shame and perish, and altogether that men may know that thou, whose name alone is Jehovah, art the Most High over all the earth. May the Lord add a rich blessing. For our sermon psalm today, again turn to our blue song book and near the back, number six hundred and seventy-eight. 678 near the back of our blue song book where we sing Christ Shall Have Dominion. 678 in our blue songbook There we read all four stances. Shall his empire be saved and what it has? Shall they worship? It shall render. Will you nation serve our king? Right, shall have the men over land and sea throw a stream of More shall discipline we need seek him, he will mercy show. Yet the weak and helpless shall with pity know He will surely save them from oppression. For their lives are precious in this holy sight. I shall have dominion. Over land and sea, those remote and treatments shall give my beverages forever. Never shall this name for as thus contain you it shall stand secure and Him forever, all men shall be blessed, and all nations will give King of Kings God bless. Christ shall have dominion overland as we want his presence shall listen by we I could all right, joyful sight, we are not destroyed. Doing one person ever for illness for his name is eternal goal. For me, though the earth broke, I shall have no man overland and sea mercy of The strange shall is my own. Turn in your Bibles with me this morning, please, to the Gospel as recorded for us by Matthew. And the seventh chapter of Matthew, and I'll be reading verses 12 through 23 of Matthew chapter 7. The seventh chapter of Matthew beginning with verse 12. Some of you know that of the three hymnals that we have Uh the Trinity is my favorite. I love the Trinity hymnal. However, Trinity's not easy to sing. It pitches a lot of the verses fairly high. And uh I like the fact that they are so scripturally scripturally based, but they're not easy to sing. So we don't sing songs necessarily because they're easy, but because of the theology. that stands behind them. If you have your place now in the seventh chapter of Matthew, I'll begin reading with verse 12. Therefore, all things whatsoever ye would that men should do to you, do ye even so to them. For this is the law and the prophets. Enter ye in at the straight gate, for wide is the gate, and broad is the way that leadeth to destruction, and many there be that go in thereat. Because straight is the gate, and narrow is the way which leadeth unto life, and few there be that find it. Beware of false prophets, which come to you in sheep's clothing, but inwardly they are raving wolves. Ye shall know them by their fruit. Do men gather grapes of thorns or figs of thistles Even so, every good tree bringeth forth good fruit, but a corrupt tree bringeth forth evil fruit. A good tree cannot bring forth evil fruit. Neither can a corrupt tree bring forth good fruit. Every tree that bringeth not forth good fruit is hewn down and cast into the fire. Wherefore by their fruits ye shall know them. Not every one that saith unto me, Lord, Lord, shall enter into the kingdom of heaven. But he that doeth the will of my Father, which is in heaven Many will say to me in that day, Lord, Lord, have not we prophesied in thy name And in thy name have cast out devils. And in thy name have done many wonderful works. And then will I profess unto them, I never knew you. Depart from me, ye workers of iniquity. Let us bow for prayer. Father, now we thank you for your holy and precious and inspired and preserved word. Father, we pray that you would grant that your word may go forth this morning in clarity. Lord, we thank you that faith cometh by hearing, and hearing by the word of God. But the hearing by which faith is brought about is not simply the hearing of the ears or the intellect But rather, it is the hearing of the Spirit, the soul, as the Holy Ghost, the Comforter, speaks truth to our hearts. And so, Father, may you illumine our darkened minds. May you awaken our dying spirits. May you refresh us by thy word and thy truth. Oh Father, convict us. O Lord, admonish us and teach us in thy word this day. And Father, we pray that in all things Jesus Christ may have the preeminence. And Lord, we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. The verses that I would like to focus on this morning are verses 22 and 23 and 22 in particular, but I'll read verse 21 and 22. Not everyone that saith unto me, Lord, Lord, shall enter into the kingdom of heaven. But he that doeth the will of my Father, which is in heaven, many will say unto me in that day, Lord, Lord, have not we prophesied in thy name And in thy name cast out devils, and in thy name done many wonderful works. And the first thing that I would point out to you from this passage Is it doesn't say a few. It says many. Many shall say to me in that day. And if you look back up further in the chapter in verse 13, we find there the end of the verse, and many there be that go in thereat, that go in. by the broad way. Enter ye in at the straight gate, for wide is the gate, and broad is the way that leadeth to destruction And many there be that go in thereat, because straight is the gate and narrow is the way that leadeth unto life. Few there be that find it. And in the Gospels recorded by Luke, we find the parallel passage. And in Luke they asked in verse chapter thirteen and verse twenty-three, then said one unto him, Lord, are there few that be saved? And he said unto them, strive to enter in at the straight gate, for many I say shall seek to enter. And in and shall not be able. And in the Luke passage, Christ says, strive Strive to enter in at the straight gate. That word strive is the same word as fight. It's also the same word as labor. In other words, there is a broad way that leads to destruction. And there's a whole multitude rushing towards that gate, and there's no bottleneck at the gate. There's no waiting at the toll booth. They rush in But unobserved and off to the side is a straight gate. Very few find their way to the straight gate, but it is the gate that leads to everlasting life. Many there be that go in to the wide gate to destruction, and few there be that find the way of salvation You know, God has always dwelt with the remnant and worked among the few Our brother this morning in Sunday school admonished us from the account of Gideon. Gideon started with a very large army that was narrowed down to 300 men. We find Noah with seven souls were all that were spared from the flood. We find in all the world that Abraham was the one. And by the time Joseph went down to Egypt, it was just 70 among all the multitudes of Egypt. God has always dwelt among the few. That word, that word Strive there in the passage is the Greek word agonizami. When I I've told you before, to learn Greek, I had to use all kinds of memory things, and so my memory cue for agonized them was agonize. And it's not actually the root of our English word agony, our English word agony actually comes from French and Latin, but the idea of agonizing to enter into the gate, striving Working. And uh most of us that grew up uh working in the farmers field knows what it is to agonize over a field of hay bales that need to get in or a a row of garden that's gotta be hoed and your dad's saying, Get out there and Clean the weeds. It's hard work to work out in the sun. It's difficult. But that is what is shown to us here, the straight gate. And also we have to look closely at the word because the straight there is S-T-A-I-T, not S-T-R-I-G-H-T. We think of something that is straight and we meet mean it doesn't have any bins in it. When you go to Home Depot to get a piece of board, you've got to really look at it close because very few of Home Depot's boards are truly straight You know they they're warped and bent and twisted. But that's not what this is talking about. This word straight doesn't mean something the road without bends, but rather this straight is a word that's the same word when we talk about the Straits of Magellan in in geography. When we talk about a narrow body of water where a ship must pass through, and there are hidden rocks under the surface on either side. It's a very straightway and it's a ship wonders out of the channel. It will very quickly catch its bottom on a rock and rip the bottom right out of the boat. Excel Exxon Valdez. Exactly what happened. Um the the Costa Codcordia, exactly what happened. These ships got out of the channel and they ripped out their bottom. What's the word straight that's used here? It's a pathway, and there are many dangers on the pathway. There are many obstacles that catch a hold of this one and rip out the bottom of his boat and catch a hold of this one and turn him back. And Christ said, any man having put his hand to the plow and looking back is not fit for the kingdom of heaven. And so we're told that we are to strive, we are to labor, we are to be diligent to enter in at the straight gate, because many go in at the wide gate. But very few, very few find the true path to heaven Paul exhorted the believers that through much tribulation they were to enter into the kingdom of God. It is a straight and narrow gate. Peter told us to give all diligence to make our calling and election sure. But folks, this is not designed to shake the faith of the true believer. This knowledge that the way is narrow and that many do not find it. And only a few. It's not to shake our faith, but rather it is to bolster our faith. Because you see, the world says, hey, come with us. It's easier over here. There's no obstacles here. The channel is wide. There are not hidden rocks that will rip out the bottom of your ship. If you come with us, the way is easy. But Christ said, Come unto me all ye that labor and are heavy laden. Those that are striving to enter in by the straight gate But what this should do is drive us to self-examination. Drive us. to diligence o' the over the soul. And when we talk about striving, laboring to enter into the straight gate It doesn't mean that we're giving all of our money to the church. It doesn't mean that we're counting rosary beads. It doesn't mean that we're confessing to some man. It doesn't mean that we're living a goody two shoes life and It's not talking about external striving, but rather the striving of the soul. It is talking about those that labor in confession of sin because of conviction. It's talking about those that have great fear of God, and those who discipline their lives not for the sake of discipline, but for the sake of pleasing Christ. Those that conform themselves to his word. We're told to examine ourselves in 2nd Chronicles, first 2 Corinthians 13 and verse 5. And Scripture gives us many references that instruct us that through much tribulation we enter the kingdom. But some would say, but Pastor, does the scripture say whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved? Does not scripture present a wide way of salvation? Come one, come all, it's easy over here. Pray this little prayer. Go forward in a service. Listen to some evangelist on TV and get the feeling good and you must be okay. Whosoever shall call, will I pray the little prayer. I actually was witnessing to a fellow once and he referred to it as the magic words. He said, Well I I I prayed the magic words. The dear soul had no concept of what salvation truly is Certainly Scripture does say whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. But we have to take that verse in its context and understand what it means. is from Joel chapter 2. And Joel chapter 2 talks about the day of the Lord. And that's what we find here in our passage. Christ says, Many shall say to me in that day. And in Joel 2 and verse 31 and 32, then shall the sun be turned to darkness and the moon shall be into blood before the great and terrible day of the Lord come. And it shall come to pass that whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be delivered in Mount Zion, and in Jerusalem shall be delivered, as the Lord has said, even the remnant. It takes us right back to that narrow way, even the remnant who the Lord shall call. Peter made it very clear on the day of Pentecost that that day of the Lord had come. And the whosoever does not mean all men without exception. But rather it means all men without distinction. And that's not original to me. A great preacher many years ago made that point that the whosoever is not all men without exception. Oh, anybody that calls but rather it's all men without distinction, red and yellow, black and white, Jew, Gentile, Romans, Greeks, Parthians, Medes, and that's exactly what happened on the day of Pentecost. For we read that there were people from Mesopotamia and all over the world, and whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. And so in that same context, and I know I've taken a little bit of sideline here, but I think it's necessary, that same context there in Job chapter 2. And verse 12, therefore also saith the Lord, turn ye unto me with all your heart, and with fasting, and with weeping, and with mourning. Rend your heart and not your garment. Turn unto the Lord your God. For he is gracious and merciful. Doesn't that sound like striving? To enter in at the straight gate. And that same context of Joel is the one that our dear brother loves so much, where God promises to restore that which is the caterpillar. has eaten it's in that same second chapter. God can take a man from the broad road to hell. And place him on the narrow road to heaven and guide him safely home. And so we find, first of all, that there are many Not a few, but many that are rushing towards their own destruction. But thank God, as the believer in Jesus Christ, we have been rescued from the Broadway. So we see first of all that there are many that are deceived self-deceived, Satan deceived. I don't I say deceived with caution because I don't think they're really deceived. I think they know that they're not God's children, but they try to make excuses for their sin by saying, Lord, we prophesied and we did this and the other But the second thing I'd point out to you is is very poignant. Jesus Christ knows the way of the ungodly. If you look there in verse 22, many will say to me in that day, Lord, Lord, have not we prophesied in thy name, and in thy name have cast out devils, and in thy name done many wonderful works. Jesus knows what they're going to say before they say it. Did you pick up on that? He He knows what they're going to say. You know, uh We we had a I don't mean to get political here, but we in a presidential debate some time ago we found out that one candidate had been given the questions ahead of time. Christ doesn't need to be given the questions ahead of time. He already knows He knows exactly what they're going to say. He knows the arguments they're going to bring up. Their ways are not hid from him. You see, we're warned here to beware of false prophets, which come to you in sheep's clothing, but inwardly are raving wolves. Christ knows his sheep. I'm the good shepherd, and I know my sheep. He knows who are dressed like sheep. And he knows who are really sheep. And he knows the bark of the wolf. He knows what the wolf will say. In Job 34, 21, the eyes of the Lord are upon the ways of men, and he seeth his goings. Proverbs 5. 21, the ways of man are before the eyes of the Lord, and he pondereth his goings. Proverbs fifteen three The eyes of the Lord are in every place, beholding the evil and the good. Hebrews four thirteen Neither is there any creature that does not manifest in his sight, but all things are naked and open unto the eyes of him with whom we have to do. Therefore, the ungodly shall not stand in the judgment, nor sinners in the congregation of the righteous, for the Lord knoweth the way of the righteous. But the way of the ungodly shall perish. God told David, man looketh on the outward appearance. But God looketh on the heart. And so folks, Lord, Lord, if not we cast out devils in thy name. Lord, Lord, have not we prophesied in thy name. We've done many wonderful works. But God knows the truth. Do you really think you can deceive the God who spoke and all things came into existence? Do you really believe that you can hide your sin from the God who sees what men do not see? Do you really think that God doesn't hear the whispers of your heart? That God does not hear the growl of the wolf, regardless of the sheep's clothing he wears. There are many that go on the broad way, but Jesus Christ knows the truth. The third thing I have us to note here. Is that these in falsehood take up the in falsehood take up the very name of the Lord. They cried, Lord, Lord. Well, you know, we we have seen many cults and many falsehoods come along and You know, the Harry Kirchner's chanting and the Sun Juan Moons and so on. These take up the very name of the Lord. They take his name, but they take it in vain. Their words sound good, but they are deceiving. I mentioned before that Luke parallels it in the sixth chapter of Luke. In uh verse 43 and verse 46, verse 43, again a good tree cannot bring forth corrupt fruit, neither can a corrupt tree bring forth good fruit. That shows us the same context. Luke 6 verse 46, and why call ye me Lord, Lord, and do not the things which I say? You call me Lord, Lord, but you don't follow me. You don't do the things which I say. If ye love me, keep my commandments. Ye are my friends, if ye do whatsoever I have commanded you. And consider this. We have several examples. First of all, the example of the foolish virgins The foolish virgins who did not have oil in their laps, and the bridegroom comes, and the the wise virgins they go in. And what do the foolish virgins say? Well, Matthew 25, 11, Lord, Lord, open unto us. But he answered and said, Verily I say unto you, I know you not. And then in the Luke thirteen passage, and starting in verse twenty-three, then said one unto him, Uh, Are there few to be saved? And he said unto them, Strive to enter at the straight gate, for many I say unto you Will seek to enter in and will not be able. When once the master of the house has risen up and has shut the door, and he began to stand without and knock at the door, saying, Lord, Lord Open unto us. And he shall answer and say unto you, I know not whence ye are. Lord, Lord. And then again we find the uh even the demons, even Satan's minions They know the truth. I love this passage in Acts 19, verse 13 and following, the story of the sons of Siva. I'm going to read it to you very quickly. It's just four verses This is Acts 19, 13. Then a certain of the Vagabond Jews, extrasists, took upon them to call over them which had evil spirits the name of the Lord Jesus. saying, We adjure thee by Jesus, whom Paul preached. And there were seven sons of Siva, a Jew, and a chief of the priest, which did so And the evil spirit answered and said, Jesus I know. And Paul I know. But who are ye? And the man with the evil spirit, and the man in whom the evil spirit was, leaped upon them and overcame them. and prevailed against him, so that they fled out of the house naked and wounded. So here were these sons of Siva, these false prophets, these wolves in sheep's clothing, and they decided to use the name of Jesus to do what? To cast out demons. Have not we cast out demons in thy name? And evil, even the evil spirits said, I know who Jesus is. And I know who Paul is, because Paul is a true sheep, but who are you? Many will cry, Lord, Lord. The Lord knows the way of the many. In vain falsehood, they take up the name of the Lord. But the fourth thing I'd happens to notice from this passage, which I believe is very instructive, the false professors have been both active And apparently successful in religion. They have been active and apparently successful in religion. Folks, The false churches buy stadiums and fill them They have millions and millions and billions of dollars. I watched a documentary on on Jimmy Swaggard recently. Good old Jimmy Swaggard And the vileness of the man. But boy, the money flows And you know, y um they they preach a prosperity gospel. If you want to be rich rich like me, give me all your money. Pyramid schemes, basically. And they do miracles, apparently, from time to time. Trickery. But folks Just because someone says, I've preached in your name, and that's what that word prophesy is. It can be the foretelling of future. And some of these people try to foretell future. In fact, this came up in prayer meeting uh Wednesday night Um that you know, some people try to do to foretell people. Folks, anybody can guess and be right occasionally. You know, uh you know, the these guys, you know, they they might hit three percent Uh that's not prophesying. That's guessing. But beware of false prophets. They come in sheep's clothing, but inwardly they're w raving wolves. They said, Look, we've prophesied. Jeremiah 23, I'm going to read a selection of verses here. Jeremiah 23, verse 1, woe unto the pastors that destroy and scatter the sheep. of my pasture, saith the Lord. Verse fifteen. I have seen also the prophets of Jerusalem and heart seen in the prophets of Jerusalem in horrible things. They commit adultery and walk in lies. They strengthen the hands of evildoers. That None doth return from his wickedness. They are all of them as Sodom and as the habit of Gomorrah. Therefore thus saith the Lord of hosts, concerning the prophets, Behold, I will feed them with wormwood I will make them drink the water of Gaul, for from the prophets of Jerusalem is uh for from the prophets of Jerusalem Jerusalem is profaneness going forth in the land Thus saith the Lord of hosts, hearken not unto the words of the prophets that prophesy unto you, that make you vain, that speak visions in their own heart and not out of the mouth of the Lord. They say unto them that despise me. Hear that? They say unto them that despise me, Thus saith the Lord, ye shall have peace And they say unto everyone that walketh after the imagination of his own heart, no evil shall come upon you. They say to those that despise Jehovah, ye shall have peace. And they say to those uh that walk after their own imaginations, no harm is going to come upon you. Folks, how many churches today are marrying homosexuals? Those that hate him? Those that deny that from the beginning God made male and female And yet they say, oh then nothing's gonna happen to you. You're all right. Come to our church, we'll marry you, we'll even ordain you But folks, the whole crowd of United Methodists, of Presbyterians, of a whole Lutherans And others. I saw a thing where the Church of Nazarene is falling into the same trap. I just saw that this week. I need to study it some more. But church after church after church is going the same direction. And what they are doing is they are saying to those that hate Jehovah, it's all right. to do what you want to do. But many are going to say in the judgment, Lord, Lord, haven't we preached? Haven't we prophesied? I was the pastor of this church, or I was the pastor of that church. And they will also say we have cast out devils. We saw that with the sons of Siva. They use the name of Jesus. And we know that these healing services are a bunch of charlatans. They're a bunch of Charlton's. And um, if they truly could heal, why do you have to go to their meeting and pay money to be healed Why don't they just walk down the halls of the hospitals? Why don't they put the hospitals out of business if these people can really heal? In thy name have done many wonderful works. That word wonderful works is is uh dynamis, which comes from dunami, from the w the the word to have power. Um It's related to dynamite, but I don't make a make a lot of that. But we've done many powerful works. We've built big cathedrals. We've got to beat big crowds. We have done many wonderful works. Folks, even the magicians of Pharaoh turned their rods into serpents. But the final thing it happens to see is that in spite of all their claims, the words of Jesus there in verse 23 are this Then will I profess unto them, I never knew you. Depart from me, ye that work iniquity. The Lord knoweth them that are his, and let everyone that nameth the name of Christ depart from iniquity. I am the good shepherd, and I know my sheep, and am known of mine But Christ says to these people, I never knew you. Let's break that down. He created them. He knows what they're going to say before they say it. He knows all about them. And so when he says to them, I never knew you, it is certainly not that he didn't know they existed. It is certainly not that they did not that he did not know what they were saying or what they were doing, because that's all demonstrated here in the text. But when Christ says, I never knew you. Remember Jeremiah, before I formed thee in the belly, I knew you We are chosen in Christ before the foundation of the world. Folks, why is it that though the world is on the broad road that leads to destruction And we are on the narrow way that leads to life. Because Jesus Christ came to seek and to save that which was lost. Because he knew me in saving faith before the foundation of the world And so he will say, Enter into the kingdom prepared for you. But to these, depart from me, ye that work iniquity, I never knew you. Folks, there are many that are deceived, but they do not deceive Christ, for he knows what they're going to say before they say it. There are many that will make all kinds of false claims, even in the name of Christ, but they are not known in saving faith. What a view Are you striving to enter in at the straight gate? Or are you blindly following the crowd to destruction? My father used to say any dead fish can float down the river, but only a living fish can swim against the current That's what we are as children of God. We are swimming against the current of this world. Let us stand for prayer. Father, we thank you for the simplicity, the simple clarity of thy word. Lord, may you apply it to our hearts this day. In Jesus' name. Continuing with the sermon on Part B. One of my favorite passages of scripture. I'd like to really keep running with it, but time now is distinct. To sing to our God. 542. Jesus, the very thought of the a tune that's over I don't know, 14 centuries old, 1400 years? Pretty impressive. It was true back then, still true now. Number 542 in your blue songbook. Jesus, the very thought of the all five stances. He's just not very For thy place to see, and in thy presence press, more voice can say. Nor more can pray, nor can a memory was wheel and I can say your trial. To those who see a water goals who dyes or done. Jesus sorrowed me thou as thou wise will be Jesus and Amen. Amen. Please be seated