Boy, part of Hebrews that I stubbed my toe on because I came up against a wall. The text reads as follows. We're in Hebrews 11, 32, and we're actually going to make it all the way to verse 34 today If I can bust out of this one verse that we've been hanging on, the passage, as you know, says this, and what shall I more say for the time would fail me to tell of? And then it lists the four people that we've looked at Just recently, Gideon, Barak, Samson, and Jephtha. Of David also and Samuel and the prophets. That's who we're going to cover today. Who through faith subdued kingdoms, wrought righteousness, obtained promises, stopped the mouths of lions, quenched the violence of fire, escaped the edge of the sword out of weakness were made strong, waxed valiant in fight, turned to flight the armies of aliens. You know this this whole journey through this has been for me, as I look back, with start of a little trickle at the headwaters. You know, for years they didn't know the source of the Nile River until they traced it back in Africa to its very beginnings. And I some or the Mississippi River, the same true. They they found some tiny rivulet up in the northern part of America which begins and over time as it collects becomes a mighty, mighty river that opens into a very broad delta. Well we've been covering the rivulets along the way and the stream. Now we're in the broad delta So we're not going to do events-clued detailed study because that would be literally trying to boil the ocean. Not going to happen. But this is where we're at because it says we're talking about David and Samuel and the prophets Wow, David? This is a fellow that takes up half the Psalms. You read about him through 1 and 2 Samuel. You read about his reign of his sons. He's just All over scriptures. Samuel, the mighty prophet, the prophets, plural. Well now you've just grabbed the whole back end of the Old Testament. How do you do that in a Bible study and do it justice? Well, I go back to that first verse. What shall I more say? Time would fail me to tell. And so that's what I'm up against And I'm hoping this is the most you'll hear from me today. Kind of want to dial it back and just hear some feedback from you because as we are at this end, the head, the end of the river of faith I have a question for you, and I did send out the homework assignment. Considering all the prophets, we're going to just start with where it says here, Samuel, David, and so on. David is a prophet. He was a prophet as well as a king, but we're going to focus on the aspect of him being a prophet. So of all of those, which one do you personally admire the most? And I'm going to pick on This young fellow with the headphones on over here first, because he was refusing to tell me who his favorite was. He picked Ido the Seer before, only because it was named a Seer. He was named a Seer. Who is your favorite prophet and why? What's inspiring to you about this individual? Before this I didn't really have a favorite prophet, so I had to say And I decided to pick one that I didn't think anyone else would pick, so it had to be obscure. So I went with um uh Juduthan, mentioned in uh 1 Chronicles 25 Uh not much is recorded about him, but it says um more were David and the captains of the hosts separated to the service of the sons of Asa and of Heman and of Judahan who should prophesy with harps. with solitaries and with symbols and the number of the workmen according to their service. So it appears that Judithan and Heeman had a musical prophecy Um it says elsewhere that um under the hands of their father Jedhan, who prophesied with a heart. And later on Judithan is specifically called out as the king's hear. And I there's a very strong connection between prophets and seers. I think they are synonymous. Yes. Um but it's it's not often it's not often you think about a prophet as someone who came with with a musical message. Um who prophesied with with hearts. It it's a little unclear as to whether he had like a a inspired um message that God gave to him directly or if he was taking the prophecy of other people and putting those to music Um that's not entirely clear, but um he is referred to as uh as a prophet past year. That's a really interesting character, Judahan, because that reminds me of the New Testament passage speaking to yourselves, teaching one another in psalms and hymns and spiritual psalms. And also a good passage that shows the role of the prophets. as um, at least for us today, in a forth telling as opposed to a foretelling. Uh there's he's kind of a maybe abridge character to that concept I like that. Alright, Joey, your next tag here at who's your favorite prophet and why? Jeremiah's one of the first ones that comes to mind. Because the people he taught were not necessarily receptive to his message all the time. He was speaking to the choir, I guess we need to go preaching to the choir, I guess we need to go Way to put it, yet he still continued faithfully to preach and to deliver the message that God had for him, even when the people didn't want to hear it. Yeah, he was preaching to the choir of the adversary's church. They weren't too keen on it Yeah, Jeremiah. Boy, and you know, he he started off young, didn't he? He was very young, you know, and um You know, how hard is it for you to go up against mom and dad, right? This is not an easy push, right? And this was a whole bunch of moms and dads senior to him who had been around religiosity, Judaism for a while Yeah, that takes some hotsph. Speaking of Hutzpa, the lady in front, who's your favorite prophet and why? Well, I've gone to my uh son Perry. So I've got my cheat sheet here. It's Daniel because he knew every I can just see. He had the information about End times he interpreted and knew the dreams. He knew four major empires. He was thrown into the line lion. And he also he knew he prayed for three weeks and an angel arrived late because the angel got stuck by some other angel and then he knew what would happen four hundred and eighty three years in the future, which was Jesus Yes, uh and uh to uh uh ride on top of that uh you you asked who? Did you ask Denwood or Perry? Perry. Perry. So I would agree with Perry. Daniel is one of my favorite projects. is is I think my hands-down favorite, really is, for many of the reasons he cited. He was basically a government bureaucrat, but in a foreign land You know what it's like to come from another country into your own. But many things about it you don't like. Now imagine serving in the political bureaucracy of that foreign land that's going to change violently? These were not peaceful democratic elections. I think Daniel would have taken a stolen election. This was a bloodbath takeover What's astounding to me about Daniel is that after every administrative takeover, he got a promotion. How does this happen? Usually the started out in jail. Yeah, he did. He was in jail, but it was a type of prison that was designed to erase the old memory, which it didn't work And to train him up in all the language of the Babylonians. He was faithful from his earliest days, insisting he wouldn't eat certain things And in many kids' books, how do they depict Daniel in the lion's den? Kind of a middle-aged guy. Oh no. He was 80 plus years of age, because if he was captured at age 17 And he went over there at a fairly useful. He was young. We know Joseph was seventeen. Daniel was was presumably young as well, certainly below 25. And they're in captivity for 70 years. Now, he hadn't been free from captivity at that point, but this is a fellow that I'm figuring is in his 80s. Can you imagine Mrs. Ross being lowered into the lion's den? And he's being threatened with this. You think he's going to give up prayer at that point? Oh no. I think he's going to double down on prayer. He's going to lean on God even more And God didn't deliver him from the lions, he delivered him in the lion's den. Everything about Daniel to me is just truly astounding uh never married, never had children, uh was unable to. He was made a eunuch. Very polite language you read in scriptures is uh unfortunate that. So he was truly a remarkable figure. And uh left such a deep indelible impression upon the Babylonian Empire that years later the magi, the court magi, now they we render it wise men But the Greek is Magi. That the Greek wise man, the you could call it the deep state. These are the advisors to the king. They were the ones that said, oh, we see a star. We know who that is. Some guy named Daniel told us about that. Go look for it. How do you leave such a long and deep impression? That lasts for so many years. Really, really very impressive. Um Miss Penny, who is your favorite prophet and why? But I've got a second, one second third, I kinda put Elijah and Moisha together because the initiatives are so close to the ceiling. I couldn't tell you a lot about the message they shared, but the ministry that they had to God's people and the miracles that God allowed them to do on behalf of God's people, raising a dead boy, providing for this woman and her son when they So that everybody didn't die so we then were a starvation. Just One even after whether or God said You know, sometimes we don't tend to think of the prophets as heroes of faith Wouldn't you like to be a prophet? I think some of us would like to be prophets when it comes to the stock market to know when to cash out and when to cash in, but that's not what God's men's God's prophets were designed to be. Yeah, we were her yeah, you know, Amos the herdsman of Tokoa, I was just a herdsman. But you know, to know things in advance, but unfortunately many of them or fortunately for us, many of them New things in advance that were to the demise of the audience to whom they would bring it. Prophets came in as a light in a time of great darkness There was no office of the prophet. Moses never articulated such an office. There was no such thing. a scene where God simply broke in and interrupted and disturbed the darkness of the pit of men at that time and came forth with the prophet. You know, I want to comment a little bit, Miss Penny, thank you. Yeah, that the the at least we got a couple of votes for Daniel here, but also the Elijah and Elisha were notable. Think about the humility of Elijah And I'm particularly thinking about the fact that he was sent to a widow of a Zidonian city. Not a Jewish city, the Zidonian city, during a famine. You know, if you're looking for a way to keep people alive during a famine, and you're a Jew and you're a prophet And you're seeing people die of starvation, wouldn't you want to help one of your own people survive the famine, be of some assistance to the cause? But now God sends him to a widow of Sidon, and there he stays with her for a good while to feed her and to care for her. This is the great prophet Elijah. We're not talking about Ido the seer, I mean Ido's great, he's you know, but he wasn't recorded as having a great many notable deeds. Elijah is mentioned even the book of Malachi, you know, the great and notable coming day of the coming of the Lord. I'll send Elijah first and When they're looking for Elijah. Elijah was somebody that resurrected people. You know, this is a notable prophet. Just I mean, who can forget the his battle on Mount Carmel? He's beginning to pray to God. And the fire descends. A fire that eats rocks You know, kids like to play with fire, that's a lot of fun. Go out, build a pile of sticks, light it up. A little sparky thing. Do something I've never seen a fire so intense it burns rocks and licked up the water. I mean this is this is that prophet Elijah who is content Never hear a word of grumbling or complaining goes and ministers to somebody with whom you and I would say there's no future there. That there was a future. He was faithful to carry it out. He believed what he couldn't see, that God had a purpose in it. Really, really remarkable. Marissa, we don't hear much from you. Who is your favorite prophet? Oh, okay. Well I'm sorry, I stole all your thunder. I know. Well, what did you like about Elijah? I like the fact that I could identify him with his weakness. Um She just took mine. Oh But um especially when he was saying that I and only I am left. And sometimes that's what it feels like there's no other Well other um professing Christians out there because we're the one we have but can't we're delivered the those around us. Yeah, that's a good one. That's a good point. Yeah, absolutely. No no not to be. You have to pick a different one now. Well I have a second one Yes, I know. We we love a great many of them. Ms. Saba, who is your favorite prophet and why? Elisha. Okay. Yeah, because he was persistent. uh to get the blessing of Elijah. He just wanted to make sure that he did uh double portion of it You're thinking Elisha, who wanted the uh Elisha. Oh, she did say Sha I heard Elisha, I'm sorry. Elisha of her yes, he was persistent. He really wanted that. He admired that in him. Yeah. And he had kind of a rough start. Uh Elijah called him and he said, Well let me go do you know this first is no what you know he was almost I don't remember the details of it, but he was almost rejected and says, Nope, okay, I'm coming. Um yeah very good. I'd asked one of your young boys, but uh I suspect they uh didn't do the homework assignment. You they didn't get the email. Sorry fellas. I think they'd say Hezekiah. Yeah, well he was a good king. Uh don't even prophesy. Yeah, I didn't exactly prophesy. All right, Anton, who's your favorite prophet and why? Uh I like Jonah There goes Moscow. Oh, sorry. Yeah, he uh I liked his You know, even though he was hard to do what the Lord told him to do, the Lord still, you know, made sure that the the message would get out. And uh he uh shook up his life to make him do what he wanted to do anyway, to go to declare. It was hesitant. He didn't, but hesitantly to Yeah. Jonah is an interesting figure Yeah, he's very interesting. You know, I've for years I've looked at him as oh he's just an example of rebellious prophet. You know, and I guess if you're a shallow preacher, you know, you might go down that path. But um Considering to whom he was told to go to, that's you I can certainly understand why he'd be reluctant. Assyria was the growing up-and-coming force structure in the Middle East at the time. They were the dominant ones, and they would be the ones eventually who would come down and absolutely sack and carry away the northern ten tribes. And their program for uh rev uh revising a nation, a conquered nation, was to kill the men, to take the women, and intermarry. So it was very catastrophic to the family. These people were not friendly by any stretch of the imagination. It's no wonder why the Assyrians had the big bold lions at the front, because that's what they were like. They were just like a lioness ravaging force that came through and ripped and tore and devoured. And God says, go to Nineveh. Nineveh's the capital city. of Assyria and preach to them. He's like, no, I ain't doing this. Nope. And to Tarshus, it's interesting because there's also some archaeological evidence of uh Hebrew dealings with the various mines that would have come out of Tarshish. One of the reasons why ships were commissioned to go there. And of course we know the story of the great fish. And then uh yep, he still he still went back. And you can still kind of sense his curmudgery against them. Yet 40 days and God will destroy you. Zip, that's it. He had a Joey message. Real short, to the point, full of judgment. Forty days and you're toast, moving on Don't care to talk to you. Forty days and you're gone. I mean it was just really a blunt straight in your face to the point. I'm not trying to besmear to you, but I'm think if we were to cast Jonah in the f in the in the play I think I'd have you going in the Wow. Yeah, he's a good one. All right, we can turn to our resident theologian for whose favorite prophet No um the the one phrase in that verse really sums it up when all the prophets out of weakness were made strong. You know, and I like I like Elijah Elijah because of his weakness. Because he goes from Mount Carmel to the cave, you know, where he's begging to die. The same with Jonah, where he goes out of the city and asks for himself that it may die. And um Peter is not a prophet, but New Testament, Peter, Moses, something if you really call Moses the prophet, there were some foretellings there, but um Moses, you find him in great discouragement. Mm at times. And um you know, anybody that's been used by God has been a weak man. God has chosen the foolish things, the Valley wise, the weak things come out of the money. You know, and we look at these guys and say, Hey, there's hope for me. If God can use somebody as weak as him, maybe God can use somebody as weak as him. And you know, we've talked about this some of the past as well, and I'm I'm I'm sure uh anybody who's ministered for a season has encountered this. Just the discouragement. And the depression it sets out. You know, this is where help meets come in, you know, kinda help shore up the husband because it's uh this morning thanking the Lord for a doctor like Yeah, we we need the encouragement. Yeah. I don't think we give the apostle due credence for those two letters in one of his words in the epistle where he speaks about the woman as the weaker vessel, E. R. Uh if you remove ER, we're both weak vessels. Uh we're weak in a different way. And when a man collapses his complete, the women go down screaming and crying and get a lot of help on the way down. I don't mean to overgeneralize, please. You're getting all kinds of troubles for it. I am. That's my job, right? I've got the spirit of Mrs. Ross. Just get into trouble. If you're not getting into trouble, you're not being bold. I had to take this approach this morning and thank you all for your contributions uh and uh for for thinking through the the homework and if somebody sent me something online I didn't catch it as of this morning so my apologies. But um you know this really is the broad river, the delta that empties out into this ocean And that's I think the point. It really this whole point began back in Hebrews 1. God, whom in time past, in many ways in times past, has spoken unto the fathers by the prophets, at these last days spoken unto us by his son. This is all kind of the point that Hebrews continues to have, and the more I study Hebrews, the more I'm impressed with its eloquence, with its approach, with its design. truly is a a a great, great example of Greek um uh uh not prose but uh uh uh argument, uh a a document intended to uh convince you of a particular point position. And You know, it's w all these powerful figures we've got, I'm not going to tell you anything you don't know about them, right? You're here in Sunday school, you probably have a little bit of knowledge of the Bible. You're interested in studying more about it All these figures. And you know, we could pick any one of them, I think, and still be blessed by it. And I know we could because God recorded it in Holy Writ. You know, it's not the writings of the kings we have in the second half of the Old Testament. It's the writing of the prophets. You know, they wrote to us, and the whole point of Hebrews is that faith is central and primary, and it's faith in The promised Messiah, Jesus Christ. Faith, promises, Messiah, those are three words that kind of sum up Hebrews. So what do we do? What do we do from here? You know, we've in this broad river delta, I'm just in the ocean. And he gives the the penman gives us kind of the summary of of things. But let me just kind of go down Some of the other prophets and I have a handout there for you and those of you online I did email it to some if you're watching this later feel free to to uh pull it down from holdingfast. net. But you know, when we look at the prophets, think about Samuel to begin with. Here's a mother, what a godly mother. You know, she wants a child. What God-fearing woman doesn't want a child to hold a child, and she's not getting one. And uh And she prays the Lord and she makes a vow that I will give him to serve you all the days of his life. She wouldn't be around. She would just wean him and she was given that child. Can you imagine Marissa, you know, next year handing Elias to the Cluth House, here go work for Brother Vince for a while. That would be tough. That'd be a mighty tough call. Not that I'm an Eli or anything, but boy, to be apart from the child for the service of the Lord, what a marvelous powerful young man he was. He though he was raised in Eli's house, yet he did not um He did not walk as Eli's sons. He was far superior as kind of an adoptive son that did better than the firstborn. Maybe there's a shadow or a figure there. You know, he's one was God was used to anoint kings. You see that a lot of the prophets too. They would go and anoint kings. Both of Israel, but he would also, some prophets would be used to anoint kings of other nations. anoint Haziel, king of I forget the other nation that he would have him. I think Elijah had him go off and anoint. Don't quote me on that, but Haziel is one king anointed by a prophet. Might have been Isaiah, I I just memory fails me. He anointed David as well. So Samuel, even in his old age when He anointed Saul. Remember? Saul didn't conquer uh the Agagites as he was supposed to. And he says, what is the noise of this bleeding in my ears? What a great question. Well, I reserve the best of the flock, Florida. What you've done is a sin of witchcraft to obey is better than sacrifice. And Samuel, as old as he was, takes out his sword and he hews Agag to pieces. Wow. Oh, what a what a bold old fellow. My star's alive. What a tough character. Maybe we'll have Joey be uh Samuel. I don't know. Okay. You'd like that part. That'd be fun. Um, David, you know, we know all the conquests of David. He's slaying the champion of Gath, Goliath. Every child likes that story. You ever wonder why he picked out five stones from the river? Anyone? Why did he pull out five stones from the river? Lions have four big brothers. Oh, interesting. I hadn't thought about that. The lions have four big brothers. Interesting. I'll go with that. I've heard Mahan's uh argument for is this case the first one missed? Four more. We're gonna take them out Right. See five smooth stones. First one sunk right in the old boy's head. Oh my stars alive. That must have been a shock. A lot in that battle. That was Tremendous. He twice spared Saul's life despise despite having opportunities to kill him. Saul is pursuing David, David the one who rescued him, but out of sheer jealousy, Saul wants to kill him. Have you ever known somebody who's so jealous and so envious they they they want to turn against you? That's quite the quite the depth of human depravity there, especially for a king. He made Jerusalem the capital. He went and conquered it. It was the people who dwelled in Jerusalem were known as the Jebusites. If you were a Jebusite, you lived in Jerusalem. It was known as Jebus, then became known as Jerusalem. And he brought the Ark of the Covenant there, great joy and rejoicing. The prophet Solomon, we think of him more as a king, but you know, his simple inquiry of God for wisdom and God granting it to him, his judging of the two harlots, and again demonstrating his wisdom. his uh building of the temple in Jerusalem, another mighty act. Isaiah, ugh what a prophet there. During uh several different administrations, he was there for a long season Um, I think one of his most significant ones, besides the visions that he had, was his urging of King Hezekiah to trust in the Lord when the Assyrians had circled. and camped around the city of Jerusalem. One hundred and eighty five thousand men against one city. If they if they camp there, y food ain't coming in or going out. I mean at some point You know, animals gotta go out and graze in the fields. But if they can't go out and get to the grass, they're not gonna get fat and grow and they're gonna die. And Hezekiah urged him, trust God. This man's defiling the name of the true and living God. He's not going to get away with it. Jeremiah, what can God do with a child? God's solution for a dark nation is to call a child. He says, I cannot speak, I'm but a child. Uh at least he knew that much. And yet he had some of the clearest declarations of the new covenant you'll ever read. The Old Testament, the Old Testament has it, but the New Testament quotes back from it quite a lot. I shall be their God. They shall be my people Uh not according to the covenant I made with their fathers in the day that I took them out of the wilderness, but I'll make a new covenant with them. And just all that language you find. He one of his interesting acts of faith You know, when Judah was sacked by the Babylonians, they actually made three trips down there to haul people away. They just had a relocation program. They didn't really want to kill people per se. They did if you're holding a sword or a knife against you, that they would whack, they would take you out of the field of battle. But for the most part they would just cart everybody off to a different land Give them their own little plot of ground, just stay here. They had a different approach than the Assyrians. And they actually came through in three waves. I think the first wave had already occurred. The strength of Jerusalem and Judah is just hanging in the balance. They're just on their last legs. And a vision comes, a command of the Lord saying, you're gonna have. In fact, I think he's in prison. Jeremiah's in prison. He's in prison for treacher for uh treason Because he's discouraging the heart of the people by saying, Go willingly into the hand of the kings of Babylon and you'll do well. You're speaking a message contrary to what your government and your king has. You're you're you're not helping the people with shutting you up or putting you in prison in prison. God comes to him with an interesting message. We talked earlier about being a prophet for the stock market. Well, I guess Jeremiah kind of got that because he said you're Uncle Hanamel has a has a y your uncle Shalom has a son named Hanamiel, that would be Jeremiah's cousin He wants to sell a piece of land. He's given up hope. This ain't worth anything. I gotta get some money for him. Carry it off. He says It's a fire sale, Jeremiah, buy it. Seal it. Store the records. That's an act of faith Buying land in a time when your country is being ransacked? What does that mean, Joey, when you buy land in a country that's being ransacked? What what is not going to be your land for long. Not going to be your land for long, but why would you buy it You have to have some kind of hope or faith, don't you? Hope or faith that you're coming back. It will be worth something Someday. So he went long on his cousin Hannah Meal's piece of property. That's an act of faith. That's a huge act of faith. I'm frankly not even sure he saw it. Maybe some of his progeny did. You got Ezekiel. You know, we have some foreign missions, missionaries in our midst. Um think about this fellow. How would you like to get this kind of commission from the Lord? You're gonna be my prophet. You're gonna bear my message. I'm gonna make your forehead as hard as flint, as an adamant stone. You're gonna be tough. I've encountered some government people like that. They're just tough cookies. You can't, it's their way or the highway for sure. They're just hard-nosed, and you're not getting around them. They're just tough, tough, tough cookies. And I mean that in a good sense. He says, and I'm going to send you to a people that's not going to listen to you. That would be a home missions journey. I am sending you on a course to failure. They're not going to listen to you. They're not going to heed your words. They're going to push back, and they're going to push back, and they're going to push back in more ways than you can possibly imagine. Oh, by the way, if I had sent you to a foreign nation, I don't know why God adds this fact on. It's like, let's just add to the discouragement from the calling. If I sent you to a foreign nation, Ezekiel, they would listen to you. They would absolutely listen They would fall down and worship God. They would praise Jesus' name before his name was even known. I'm making that stuff up, but I'm just trying to Give you the sense of this commissioning of Ezekiel. He says, I'm not sending you to a nation of a hard speech or a hard language which you cannot know. If I'd sent you to them, surely And I'm not talking about you. They would listen to you. But I'm not sending you there. Wow. I mean you talk about daily discouragement. The Lord has set him on a path where God is telling him, in advance, you're not going to get any converts. Why did God send Ezekiel? He says, because I want a witness against them. I want them to have a testimony in their ears that the Lord hath a controversy with you. You've done me wrong, and here's the reasons, and I'm pushing it. What a tremendous act of faith. He got a prophecy of a vision of the valley of dry bones. Certainly he would have understood the dry bones, because that's who he was talking to, a people full of Deadness in them, there wasn't any moisture whatsoever. Valley of dry bones. And he sees this tremendous vision, a wonderful vision of the resurrection. is language of the heartwork in the Old Testament of regeneration, some of the clearest language, I will take away the heart of stone, give you a heart of flesh. That's Ezekiel. Daniel, speaking truth to power, interpreting King Nebuchadnezzar's dream of the great image. He interpreted the handwriting on the wall against the drunken King Belshazzar. Well let me explain it to you, King. Uh if you can sober up and stand up for a minute. Basically you've blown it, your weight and the palances and wanting, and God's gonna take the kingdom and give it to another. That happened that very night They stopped up the river. The men went under the the the bridge that had barricaded entry and they slew the king that very night. And of all things, Daniel gets yet another promotion. You would have thought that he would have been killed, but no, he wasn't. And of course, his deliverance from the lion's den and many other things we've already talked about. Hosea, what a commission. I want you to go marry a harlot. Seriously? Seriously? Uh weren't there some Old Testament rules against this? You're not to take a harlot, and Levites were not to serve. And he names his children to symbolize God's judgment on Israel. Namur Low Rubah, I will no longer have mercy on you. Oh, yes, you're living with that name, your children with a shameful name. God used the prophets to just illustrate his case against them And they were faithful to carry it out. His marriage was used as a parable relationship between God and unfaithful Israel The prophets had a tough row to hoe, folks. That was, you know, we see that they endured, but they were men like you and I. How What a tough, tough, tough thing they had to face. And then we've already talked some about Jonah. You know, there's the summary of their accomplishments of faith, which is kind of given in Hebrews eleven. This was just an executive summary. Of course I I left out Isaiah and Elijah, uh excuse me, Elijah and Elisha, uh, and you know, what about Nathan, the prophet that went to David? You know, you didn't go to the king and say thou art the man without a little bit of trepidation. This is the king who just murdered somebody. And so it's not beyond him to have you murdered as well. It was a very real risk. Separation of powers was not a concept known in the form of government like we have today. But what did they do? There were Seven things identified. They subdued kingdoms. Who comes to mind, which of these prophets that we reviewed would be one that subdued kingdoms? Certainly David did. Going further back, you might include somebody like Joshua, all the Canaanite nations being subdued. Daniel in some ways did. He did some deal militarily, but um he conquered kingdoms. He certainly conquered the mindset in there. He changed a lot of thinking. Again, to leave such an indelible impression that many, many hundreds of years later The magi were looking for the coming of the Messiah. Wow, that's all because of Daniel. That's all because of Daniel. They wrought righteousness. Now, this is more than personal piety. It's about acting justly and honorably, both individually and within society. It's uh Matthew Henry has a comment about that and says, this is a greater honor than performing miracles because it shows faith actively shaping your character. Who were some uh prophets that wrought righteousness that you could think of? They did righteous acts and deeds Certainly many of them did. Even those that had a commission of failure. Solomon, right, in his um uh judging the case of the harlots. You know, he didn't the accusation was not brought before him that they were practicing harlotry, but rather the accusation that he was trying to deal with was who killed the baby And his wisdom demonstrated it. One line in a mighty fortress is our God, to serve this present present age, my duty to fulfill. And I think that kind of sums up in some ways the right the bringing about righteousness. They serve the place that God put them. Absolutely. Obtaining promises. You know, faith is the key to unlocking God's promises. It's it's a big point that's being made here. Uh it could be specific, it'd be general. It's an assurance of what God's promised He'll deliver. So who who obtained promises? Past tense Who actually obtained the promise given Elisha once we asked for the double full spear and he did it? That's right. Elisha asked for a double portion of the spirit, and even though Elijah said what you ask is a hard thing, but yeah, he did obtain that. Abraham never saw his seed multiplied as the sand of the seashore. Abraham didn't see it. I think Eliot didn't even understand what they were talking about. They were seeing wheels and wheels in Ezekiel and what on earth is this? But not even the message that they gave it to Um, I think about Abraham on Mount Moriah. And that God promised that his, that in Isaac shall thy seed be called. And he saw that in fact Isaac was not killed on Mount Moriah. And God did provide a lamb. He actually did receive a token of that promise. That certainly came to mind Stop the mouths of lions. So here's a trick question. When you hear stop the mouths of lions, who do you automatically think of? Daniel, of course. Who else? One other figure stopped the mouths of a lion. Shepson. Very good. That's right. A young lion came upon him and he slew him, and then out of that lion's carcass was a was uh honey. David, uh, in telling Goliath, uh excuse me, in his before his battle with Goliath told uh his king saw that thy servant slew a lion and a bear. So yes, even David slew. And that's not a trivial thing. I like these little silly shorts where they have these zoos where there's this big rope and this rope goes into the lion's den and the other rope through the wall is where you can grab on. And so they got these big buff weight builders, you know, their massive tennis shoes or whatever. And there's a little lion on the backside, a little female lion, maybe one or two years old, and that puddy tattoo on the other side of the string. And you know, they're trying to pull and that lion just yanks him right to the glass. There's so much strength in a lion. It's crazy. Uh Pastor Bird reports that even monkeys have incredible strength in their in their arms and just the power of it'll rip a person's head off. It's it's amazing how much. To stop the mouth of a lion. Um I I see that spiritually as well. Our adversaries, uh Roaring Lion, and um all these prophets. Silenced Satan. Indeed they did, certainly Elijah on Mount Carmel, where the Four hundred and fifty prophets of Baal and the four hundred prophets of the groves. People forget about those. There's eight hundred and fifty prophets that Elijah was up against. Yeah. Quench the violence of fire We know who that sounds like. Certainly Daniel's three friends. Escaped the edge of the sword. Gabe, can you get Mrs. Raw saying that please Escape the edge of the sword. That speaks to God's intervention. To uh To preserve his people from violent threats. We certainly see that in David's escape from Saul. Who else escaped the edge of the sword? Well, I think about Isaiah helping King Hezekiah uh get out of his violent situation. That was a that was a tough one. Out of weakness were made strong. This is a point many of you drew out, and certainly we think about uh Barak and Gideon, waxed valiant in fight, turned to flight the armies of the aliens. We think of David, we think of Gideon. And you know, the faith lesson in all of these things as we summarize all of these particular individuals, and I'm trying to draw a conclusion to these These characters, they're all notable and there's many aspects to it. But, you know, the first thing we see is all these men and women listed were not superhuman. There was a sermon clip I heard some years ago that, why didn't God make super sheep? We're not super sheep you know, with a cape and can fly and can leap tall buildings and stop speeding bullets. We're not. God calls us sheep. You know, it's Uh we've got flaws, we've got mistakes, we've got plenty of weakness. Their faith wasn't perfect, but it was active. Uh like uh Evelyn Ricker, who's a deceased missionary who served for years in uh uh Uh is it Guatemala? Is that where she was at? Salvador? The Rickers in Guatemala, I believe, yes. That we're not responsible to move the rock, but we are responsible to push it. And if it moves, praise God. He moved it, but I pushed on it by faith. Well, let me ask you a question. How does an active faith differ from a passive or an intellectual faith How does an active faith differ from a passive or an intellectual faith? What do you think? You would tell people about it. Okay, you would tell people about it. So active would be there'd be something external coming out, as opposed to I know it Want to talk about it. I live it but I don't say it. Yeah. All right. Living it before people, right? Uh a lot of them certainly uh make a a deep impression. Uh Li Ying notes that, you know, about you in particular, that uh there was a great generosity there that she had not seen among her own people. Active versus passive passive. By fa faith he forsook. He forsook. Yeah, Moses, expand on that a little bit. What's the uh the active part of it versus intellectual? Not not just saying this is what God has said, but rather this is what God has said and acting upon what God has said Mm-hmm. Um I think we would all say that David, Samuel, and the prophets had an active faith, not an intellectual faith. You know, it's a it's a living, breathing trust in God who is able and willing to act on behalf of his people. And the lesson for us, I think, is that faith is not a passive belief system. It's an active force empowering us to do great things for God's glory. What is that one phrase that you've got, Gabe, about uh uh doing great things. It's a notable one. I remember I can't quote it, but it's worth repeating if you remember know what I'm talking about. Yeah, yeah, that's That probably does as well as uh uh attempts great things for God and expects great things from God. Attempt great things for God and expect great things from God That is a great motto for those who want to walk by faith. It's a trust in God's character, and it really is a big emphasis on trust in God's promises. You know, I have a closing question you don't have to answer me. This is just something for you to mull over in the week to come. You know, what area of your life needs to be transformed by an act of faith? What practical steps can you take this week to begin that transformation? We've read stories about the most unlikely of individuals to do something. Oh, I'm not very good at such and such Well, a whole bunch of the characters we just read about were not good at a whole bunch of something. When you're giving thanks to God, say it Yeah, that's a good one. Yeah, yeah, thank you. Do it. It's an active thing. What area of your life needs to be transformed to an active faith? That's a really good question to think about, right? It's one thing to gather here and talk about it. These are friendly Indians. What area does it? Yeah, make a shorter list. Amen. Well let's close there. Uh Joey, can I ask you to close us in prayer? Sure. Thank you. Thank you for the message of your word and these great prophets and heroes of the faith, Lord. Please bless their lives and rest the days of our heart in my son's holy name. Amen. Amen. Amen. Thank you.