Turn with me in your Bibles, please, to the book of Jeremiah and chapter eighteen I'm going to read the first six verses of the chapter, verses one through six. It's good to open the Word of God together. Jeremiah chapter one, or chapter eighteen, excuse me, and verse one. The word which came to Jeremiah from the Lord saying Arise and go down to the potter's house, and there I will cause thee to hear my words. Then I went down to the potter's house, and behold, he wrought a work on the wheels. And the vessel that he made of clay was marred in the hand of the potter. So he made it again another vessel as seemed good to the potter to make it. Then the word of the Lord came to me, saying O house of Israel, cannot I do with you as this potter, saith the Lord Behold, as the clay is in the potter's hand, so are ye in mine hand, O house of Israel. Let us bow briefly for prayer. Gracious Father, now as we open thy word together, may you illuminate to our hearts May we rightly divide it and consider it. And Father, we thank you that all Scripture is indeed but given by inspiration and is profitable. And so, Lord, may your word be profitable to our hearts this day, in Jesus' name. Amen. The word of the Lord came to Jeremiah. Isn't God gracious to give us his word? God was gracious to send his word to Jeremiah. And this word sent to Jeremiah was a word for Israel, but Israel was not following the Lord If you look back to the first part of the 17th chapter, they were rebelling against the Lord. They were worshiping in groves. They did not want to hear the word of the Lord, and God would have been fully justified to have said, okay, go on. I think most of us with our children at some time or another have reached a point where we've warned them and warned them and warned them. And finally, they're heading towards something that it's gonna hurt. And you just say, go ahead. You're gonna learn, you'll find out I was right. Well God would have been justified not to have said his word, because the children of Israel were in rebellion. But it is a great mercy that God has spoken to his people through the prophets. And it is a great mercy that we have the Word of God today because God would be fully justified just to let us go on in our sin. But God has given his word. The prophecy came not in the old time by the will of man. But holy men of God spake as they were moved by the Holy Ghost. This isn't just somebody's opinions. There's all kinds of opinions out there. There today. And 99% of them are pretty far off, quite frankly. But this book is the inspired word of God. There's something here for us, folks. There's a message in every chapter and in every verse for us to receive. And as I was commenting with some of you earlier, I think it was last week, that even in the begots Sometimes we can just find a diamond in there. That's such a blessing and seeing the connection between different people and how it all relates to the Word of God. Turn over with me, if you would, please. So the book of Hosea, you're in Jeremiah, Jeremiah, Ezekiel, Daniel, Hosea, Joel, Amos. And so you're just a few books away. Jeremiah uh Hosea chapter twelve and verse ten. It's just one verse that I want us to read there together, but I want to put it in front of your eyes because we're going to spend a little bit of time on it. As we consider that God has given us His Word. In Hosea chapter 12 and verse 10, we find this. Hosea twelve, ten I have also spoken by the prophets, and have multiplied visions. And used similitudes by the ministry of the prophets. God says he's spoken by the prophets, but then he says, I've multiplied visions. It wasn't a one and done. It wasn't just God said this and okay, folks, but rather God gave visions And God gave more visions. And he said, I've spoken to you in similitudes. And that word similitudes, though a different word in the Hebrew than the word we find in the Greek, it's very similar to the idea of parables. Where Christ would speak to the people in parables. And we know from the nature of parables that the parables weren't for everybody because the Jews, a lot of times the Pharisees would hear the parables and say, what's he saying? But we read the common people heard him gladly. Here, God is speaking to the prophet through a similitude. Through a parable. Go down to the potter's house, and there I will cause you to hear the word of the Lord. The potter in this case, the physic human potter, he's not going to say a word. He's just going to work his clay. But God says, I'm going to cause you to hear my word. He's spoken through similitudes. That word similitude literally means a likeness It is the same word that we find in Isaiah 1 verse 9, where we read, Except the Lord of hosts and Left us a small remnant, we should have been like Sodom, and we should have been like Gomorrah. And it's that same word similitude. Think about what happened to Sodom. Think about what happened to Gomorrah Fire and brimstone fell from heaven and destroyed them. If God had not sent the prophets, if God had not multiplied visions to us If God had not left us a small remnant, we would have been like them. And we get the picture very clearly. And yet that same word is used in Isaiah 46 when God says, To whom will you liken? What similitude will you find for God? Don't make an image because you'll worship the image instead of me. God says you can liken many things to many things But there is none like me. All creation shouts The message of God. The heavens declare the glory of God, and the firmament showeth his handiwork from the greatest mountain you can see down to the very speck of dust, which is filled with molecules. It declares God's glory. And yet, men ignore the truth of God. But in the verse, the second verse God says to Jeremiah, Arise and go to the potter's house, and there I will cause thee to hear my word. And so not only is there a great blessing that God has spoken by the prophets, God's cause us to hear. How many people read this book and it means nothing to them? How many people hear the preaching of the Word of God and faithfulness by hearing and hearing by the Word of God? God has chosen the foolishness of preaching to save them to believe, but how many people they hear the word with their ears? As Christ said, this people, indeed, they have ears but they hear not, and eyes but they see not. But God says to the prophet, I'm going to cause you to understand. And my friend, if you are a believer in Jesus Christ this morning, it is only because God has caused you to understand. Because God has a great mercy That we find here to a people that were in rebellion against God, I'm going to cause you to hear. And yet God, who at sundry times and in diverse manners spake in times fast unto the fathers by the prophets hath in these days spoken unto us by the Son, whom he hath appointed heir of all things, by whom also he made the worlds. And isn't that interesting? by whom also he made the worlds. All things were made by him who is the him. It is Jesus Christ. And so who is the potter? In Jeremiah 18, it is indeed Jesus Christ. He's the maker of all things. He's the one who makes the potter. And so Jeremiah does not hesitate to obey the word that is sent to him. And so we come into the passage itself, and in verse 3 we read these words, Then I went to the potter's house, and behold, he wrought a work upon the wheels. It is the Potter's house. Who owns the house? It's the Potter's house It's pretty basic, pretty simple. And yet think about it. This the potter's not renting a stall. The potter is not in a borrowed space. The potter is not out under a tree. Jeremiah, go to the potter's house. And it doesn't say go to the place where the potter's plural work. Jeremiah, go to the potter's house. And Jeremiah doesn't say which potter? No, Jeremiah, go to the potter's house, and Jeremiah instantly understood what God was saying. You see, God has been gracious to give us the message through the prophets. God has been gracious to cause us to hear his word, and because we are the children of God, when God speaks, we understand what he's saying. We read that if it were possible they would deceive the very elect. But it's not possible for the false prophets to deceive the elect. Why? Because we understand. God says, Jeremiah, Jeremiah, go to the potter's house. Jeremiah knew which house, and he knew the potter. Isn't that glorious? Do you know the potter? Do you know where to find him? When the Spirit of God tells you to go to the potter's house, do you know what is being spoken to your heart. There is one potter. And also it says there that he wrought a work on the wheels on the wheels. We understand the potter's wheels. It's not that he had potter's wheels all over the place, but it is a double wheel. There is one part that is seen where the clay is being molded And that part is spinning, but the reason that part is spinning is there is a lower wheel on the bottom that the potter is pushing with his foot. It's a double wheel. This is before there's electricity. In other words, you see the spinning of the pot, but you don't necessarily see the lower wheel, but the potter is constantly upholding all things. by the word of his power. It's all spinning, it's all working, because the unseen lower wheel is kept moving constantly by the potter's foot as he keeps it in its Spin. Oh, what a glorious picture of the work of our God. Go to the potter's house, and there I will show you. I will Declare to you my word. I'll make it plain to you. But there's more here as well. Because in our King James translation, which all we have is translations. We don't have their We have it in front of us the tr the translation. We do have the copies of the ancient manuscripts, but none of us have a copy of the ancient manuscript here this morning. But it's interesting that it says on the wheels, the Coverdale Bible, translated in 1539, and the Bishop's Bible, translated in 1568. are both Texas Receptus Bibles. They're from the exact same text that our King James was translated. But interestingly, both of those texts make it a personal. And both those texts say he wrought a work upon his wheels instead of the wheels. And that does not in any way detract from our King James translation, but I believe he gives a better insight here that he owns the house. He is the potter and he owns the wheel and he owns the clay. And why does he own the wheat the wheat the clay? He made it. Why does he own the wheel? He made it. Why does he own the house? He made it. He's the potter. He owns all things. Thou art worthy, O Lord, to receive glory and honor and power, for thou hast created all things, and for thy pleasure they were and are created. But also we find the potter's busy. He's busy. Jeremiah doesn't go to the potter's house and say, hey, I'm supposed to hear something here. Can you get busy? No. When he gets there, the potter's already busy. And I already mentioned that lower wheel where the potter's foot, unseen, is keeping everything. moving. There are false doctrines that refer to God as the clockmaker. The clockmaker makes a very intricate clock and he winds it up. And then he sets on the shelf and it just continues to run. And there are some that say, well, yeah, God, yeah, he created, he started everything, but then it's it's a hands-off situation. But that is not the case at all. All things consist by him. He is before all things, and by him all things consist. You spin any object, and what happens? Everything moves to the edge. Our universe is a spinning mass. Why doesn't it just fly apart? Because by him all things consist. Medical science cannot explain the body. They can study it, but they can't understand it. They can't explain it. It's too complex Every cell of the body is itself filled with bits and pieces that almost work together. And I'm not a biologist, but those who have studied the intricacies of DNA, it's just it's amazing. Why does it continue? Why does it all work? Because the potter's not idle. Because he's busy. He keeps our soul in life. In 1 Samuel 2 and verse 8, for the pillars of the earth are the Lord's. And he has set the world upon them. Psalm 75, verse 3, I bear up the pillars of the earth. Verse 4. And the vessel that was made of clay was marred in the hand of the potter. So he made it again another vessel, as seemed good to the potter to make it. How many of you have ever seen a potter working on a pot? I think most of us, maybe if you haven't seen it in person, you may have seen a a video or a picture of it. And most of us probably at some time has seen where the potter's hand moves a little bit wrong and the pot just starts flopping around and pieces go everywhere. Uh when I was in college I worked in a hardware store and they warned us that when you put paint in the paint shaker to make sure the lid is all the way down. Because someone in a brand new ace store didn't have the lid on the paint type and they didn't have the lid all the thing all the way down and it painted a stripe all the way around a brand new store and it painted a stripe across two employees that were rushing in to try to shut the thing down. We've all seen it go wrong. There's no indication here of any fault on the part of the potter. When it says the clay was marred in the hand of the potter, it is not that the potter made some kind of an error. is not that the potter has done something wrong, but rather often in clay there'll be a bit of gravel. Often in clay, it may be a bit too wet or it may be a bit too dry. The potter has to make some adjustments in the clay. in order to make it into what the potter wants it to be. And so we are not in any way implying any error on the part of the potter. But the clay, the pot, was marred in the hand of the potter And of course, the very obvious application that God gives to Jeremiah here is found in verse 6. O house of Israel, cannot I do with you as this potter, saith the Lord. Behold, as the clay is in the potter's hand, So are ye in my hand, O house of Israel. You see, Israel thought they were their own God. Israel thought they could make their own destiny and determine for themselves and God says no No, Israel, in your rebellion, you're just like this clay. I can make you into a beautiful vase. I can make you into a chamber pot. You are indeed the clay in my hands And regardless of your rebellion, at the end of the day, you're going to be what I ordain for you to be, because I own the house, I am the potter, I own the wheel, I'm active, and you are. But it's beautiful also as we look there at verse 4, where it says, and the vessel that was made of clay. What are you made out of? Clay. Clay. Clay. Clay. The vessel that was made of clay. Who made up Israel? Individuals, people. The vessel that was made up of all these bits of clay was marred in the hand of the potter And so he made it again another vessel that seemeth good to the potter that makes it. Folks, you see the church coming out at the end of the potter's wheel. You have Israel made up of individuals, and the church made up of the elect of individuals. And Israel, who first had the oracles of God, he came into his own, and his own received it not. But as many as received him, to them gave he power to become the sons of God. And so oftenly God is telling Jeremiah here, Israel has rejected me Israel is clay in my hand. My people throughout the ages are clay in my hand. And I will make it into the vessel that seemeth good to me. And so we see the church coming out at the end. And so, most certainly it is Israel that is spoken of here in the first hand. And Matthew Henry had a beautiful statement here. He said, God has the incontestable authority and irresistible ability to form and fashion kingdoms and nations as he pleases. Now beautiful, let me read it to you again. God has the incontestable authority and irresistible ability to form and fashion kingdoms and nations as he pleases. It is his authority, and you can't argue with it. And it's his ability, dare you not, try to resist it to form. And so God declares not all the nations as a drop in the bucket. And what does the drop of the bucket do? Well, remember when Christ took a little bit of dirt and he spit into it and he made a man a new pair of eyes Where did God make Adam? Well, he took the dust of the earth and breathed into it the breath of life. And so obviously, God is speaking here of Israel. But also God's speaking of the church. And the church is made up of individuals. And so We can look at chapter 15, 16, 17 of Jeremiah, and we can say, oh, Israel, you're bad guys. You were doing wrong, and so God had to remold you. But what is it that we as believers today As the elect of God today, men of clay, can learn from this prophecy. Well, simply put, God's still molding clay God has not finished with the molding of the clay. God formed us from the dust of the ground And God says in verse 6, can I do with you as this potter, saith the Lord? Behold, as the clay in the potter's hand, so are ye in my hand. You know what? God's the potter He owns the house. He owns the wheel. He owns the clay, and his foot's keeping it all molding, all moving. And we are clay in the potter's hand. Nay, but O man, who art thou that replyest against God shall the thing form say unto him that formed it, Why hast thou made me thus? That's not the potter, power over the clay to make of the same lump one vessel to honor and another to dishonor. Isaiah twenty-nine sixteen, surely your turning of things upside down shall be esteemed as the potter's clay. For shall the work say unto him that made it, He made me not You hear a lot of that today, don't you? Or shall the thing framed say unto him, uh, he hath no understanding? God, what are you doing? God is the potter. We are the clay. But have you ever said, God, what are you doing I think every one of us have. And I must confess that I have as well. We run into a situation of what is God doing? We are being constantly remoded and remolded by our Heavenly Father. And really, we don't have any right to say anything about it because he is the potter and we are the clay. But one word here Is somewhat of a concern to me. Look down in verse 4. And the vessel that he made of clay was marred in the hand of the potter. So he made it another vessel as seemeth good to the potter to make it. As seemeth good to the potter to make it. That sounds pretty haphazard, doesn't it? That word seemeth seems kind of arbitrary. Oh, I'll make a count of, nah, no, I'll make a pot. And the way we use that word seemeth, you know, that seems pretty good to me. But folks, there's so much more in that word. If you heard our our preaching here much, you know I love word counts. I love to see how a word is used in other places. This word seemeth is the word see. 495 times it's used C to see something. 216, it is sight. And nineteen it is seemeth. Noah found grace I said C, it's not C, it's eyes. Um 419 it's eyes, excuse me. Four hundred nineteen it's eyes, and two hundred and sixteen it's Sight. Noah found grace in the eyes of the Lord. It's the same word seema. Sorry there, I I confused you. It's the word eyes. He made it another vessel as the eyes of the potter saw. Do you ever see a blind artist, a blind painter? No, a blind man didn't paint this. The artist has to see what he's doing. And a good artist has a very critical eye. And if you ever watch one of those uh shows or short videos where they show an artist, it stops, it starts off, but it doesn't look like anything. But when it gets done, it's like, wow. You see, the artist sees the finished product before he makes the first stroke. And the potter, it's not that it's just arbitrary, does what seems good, but his eyes look, his eyes behold, and he sees that which is making. And yet, how often we say, does God see my problems? Where is God in my problems? Is God aware? And yet, he owns the house, he owns the clay, he is the potter, and he's spinning the wheel. And he is in the process of doing a marvelous work that we can't see, but his eyes he seeth what he is doing. And so I could certainly not be exhaustive in considering the ways in which God Remolds his marred people. So I'm going to give just a few, and you fill in the blank with your own. Because I'm sure every one of us can think of a way beyond what I'm going to present here, in which, boy, my life is marred. But then God has made it that which seemeth good, good to the potter. The children of God are often marred in the hand of the potter by the loss of a career, by the loss of a job. Yeah, you went to college, you studied, came out with a degree, started out, and then God just turned your life 180. It just sounded like your whole world collapsed. Everything that you know uh an interesting thing at um Hartford Christian School The kindergarten teacher is the wife, or the head of the kindergarten is the wife, the principal. And so the wife has the kids when they first come into Harper Christian School, and the husband has the kids as they leave Harper Christian School 13 years later. And the kindergarten department started years ago asking the kids, what do you want to be when you grow up? So the principal had the amazingly brilliant idea of pulling that out as the kids graduate 13 years later. And he will read as As this guy comes across the stage, when he was in kindergarten, he wanted to be a fireman. Or he went and now he's going off to college to be an engineer. Or you know, he tells what you know their college plans and what their plans are after graduation. And it's very rare that the five year old's opinion is the same as the eighteen year old's opinion and view. Those God mars us sometimes. You would know well I got marred a few years ago That which I thought was going to be the ministry of the rest of my life, God slammed that door. And it hurt. And I didn't like it. And I wasn't pleased. But I couldn't see what was going on. But God's eyes saw perfectly what he had in plan. I'm sure there's people here that have been fired. I'm sure there's people here that have have applied for a job that they thought was perfect and not gotten it. And you felt marred But it was that which seemeth good to the eyes of the potter. And then sometimes God's people are marred by financial reversals. We we see our life savings just begin to dwindle and investments go bad and inheritances that we were depending on don't materialize and we Lord I'm marred in your hands it's not what I expected and now I'm panicking because I don't know what to do and I can't see beyond tomorrow. But he owns the house, he owns the wheel, he owns the clay, and he's keep it going with his foot, and he's making a vessel that seemeth good in his eyes. Then sometimes the child of God is marred by the death of a loved one. It changes their life. My father was not just my father. He was my pastor. He was my advisor. He was my counsel. And fifteen years after my father died, something would happen in the ministry, and the first thought in my head was, I've got to ask Dad. Because he he was in the ministry his whole life. He wouldn't dad to tell me what to do. Folks, I was personally marred by the death of my father. Some people were marred by the death of a husband or of a wife. Or marred by the death of a child, marred by the death of a parent, and it hurts because it changes our whole life. But God owns the house. God owns the clay. God spins the wheels. And he maketh it that which seemeth good in his eyes. God knows what he's doing. And sometimes the child of God is marred by sickness. I believe that the Apostle Paul was marred by sickness. He had an infirmity of the flesh, and three times he prayed that God would take it away, and God said, My grace is sufficient for you. I have a purpose in this. I am in the process of molding the clay. And you cannot say, as Isaiah 29, you have no knowledge. But rather, God is in the process of molding us and making us into what He would have us to be. And so sometimes God ordains to heal our sicknesses. In Exodus 15, 26, He is the Lord that healeth thee. And Psalm 41, this is a verse I've read many times and never really contemplated, but Psalm 41, verses 1 to 3. Let me read this to you. Blessed is he that considereth the poor. The Lord will deliver him in time of trouble. The Lord will preserve him and keep him alive, and he shall be blessed upon the earth And thou wilt not deliver him into the will of his enemies. The Lord will strengthen him upon his bed of languishing Thou wilt make all his bed uh uh Thou wilt make all his bed Sorry Thou wilt make all his bed in his sickness I've really mangled that verse, sorry. The Lord will strengthen him upon his bed of languishing. Thou wilt make all his bed in his sickness. In other words, God says, I'm going to make your bed in your sickness. Do you ever crawl into a bed that boy the blankets were all twisted up and the pillow was in the wrong place and the sheet was was wrong, your feet were sticking. It's just not comfortable. Have you ever gotten out of that bed and made it? And then got back into it. Oh, that's better. That's better. God says, I'll make your bed and sickness. That glorious. In other words, I own the house. I own the bed if you want. I own the wheel. You're the clay. I keep the wheel spinning. God sees that I am not what I want to be, but he's molding. But he's making. And so sometimes the child of God is marred by sickness. Sometimes the child of God is marred by national upheaval. And uh you know, a lot of us have talked, there's there's a lot of us that are worried, you know, what what kind of world, what kind of country are our grandchildren going to live in? Where is this country headed? And that was the case with Israel when this prophecy came. Israel was being destroyed from within and from without their enemies were coming in and their their own corruption, their own idolatry was destroying them from within. And Israel was about to disappear as a nation. And yet God always has his remnant. God always has his people. And the children of God, the remnant of God of this nation, some name May be marred by the destruction of the nation in which we dwell, but God's still molding his people. God is still working on behalf. You see, Daniel, Hananiah, Meshael, and Azariah had their country destroyed. destroyed. And they were put through a lion's den and a fiery furnace. But God was with Daniel in the lion's den, and God was with Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego in the fiery furnace. They even lost their names. Anani, Azurai, Meshal became Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego. They were princes. They were descendants of the king in the royal house. They were rulers, and they became eunuchs and servants in the house of their enemy Folks, they were marred in the hand of the potter. But Daniel would not have seen Christ in a lion's den. in Israel. Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego would not have seen Christ in the furnace of fire in Israel. And then finally, the child of God may be marred by the failure of all our hopes and dreams. Only talk about midlife crisis. And I think most men at some time or another, most men over fifty Have begun to realize, you know, the clock's ticking. And I don't expect to live to a hundred. And I know that I'm not as strong as I was at thirty and thirty-five and forty I haven't accomplished what I expected. I haven't done as much for the Lord as I wanted to. I have not provided for my family the way I desired. I have not achieved the social status that I expected. And you begin to look back and you say, you know, it's just not what I thought it was going to be. It's not what I planned. And it's never going to be. And that phenomenon causes a lot of people to really go through A horrible patch in our life. Christians are not immune to that. And yet we have the answer. Because you see, he owns the house. And he owns the clay. And he owns the wheel. And he keeps it spinning. And the final product is that which seemeth good in his eyes. And so really it doesn't matter what you fill in the blank here with. And the way in which you may have been marred. If you know Jesus Christ, He is making you in And we know that all things work together for good, to them that love God, to them who are the called according to his purpose. And you knew we had to come to that verse somewhere along the line. God is doing a perfect work. And so when Job lost everything that he had, he rent his garment, he shaved his head, he fell on the earth, and I probably would have wallowed in sorrow. But it says he rent his mantle, he shaved his head, he fell on the earth, and he worshipped And he said, naked came out of I out of my mother's womb, and naked shall I return. The Lord giveth, the Lord gave, and the Lord taketh away. Blessed be the name. Father, we rejoice in spite of the failure of all of our hopes and dreams. We rejoice that we are on your wheel. And you are in the process of molding us into the image of Christ, for whom he did foreknow, he also did predestinate to be conformed to the image. of Christ. Lord, give us grace to joyfully endure your moulding. Give us grace to understand that what to us is a great mar is to you that which seemeth good. Bless your truth to our hearts in Jesus' name. Amen