So tonight as we look at this topic of uh marriage, I'm gonna have a brief introduction. I'm gonna try to have more interaction, more question and answer. I failed to do that last time because I was reading mostly off of uh Brother Fortner's notes on a very excellent overview of just what his doctrine. I thought that was so good. I really didn't want to deviate too much from it. Uh but this one's straight from yours truly and is one that it seems almost every place I've gone to has been a request for coverage. And it's been a request both not only from those who were single looking for a spouse, but also for those who are in it. And I've uh spent some time going through the scriptures. as you might imagine, as well as what others have written about the topic and have done a good job of organizing things into categories. And so I thought tonight to uh to bring that to your attention. If you'd like copies of the uh message notes, uh I can give those to you as well. Uh the handout is there to kind of help you uh as we walk through it. Well, there are two things that oddly enough are related in the scriptures. One of them relates to the search for a pastor or for a church If you're a believer, you're moving into a new area, you're looking for a church to attend, to find a place of worship. And the other relates to the search for a spouse. Can somebody tell me why I might connect those two together? Why would I assert that those are related? The search for a church in which to worship and the search for a spouse Christ and the church. Uh what was that? Jesus and the church. Yeah, Christ in the church, exactly. So let's turn to uh Ephesians chapter five. Where God speaking through the Apostle Paul under inspiration, the Apostle writes these words in Ephesians 5. 22 It says, Wives, submit yourselves unto your own husbands as unto the Lord, for the husband is the head of the wife, even as Christ is the head of the church. And he is the Savior of the body. So there's a comparison that's made. Verse 24, therefore as the church is subject unto Christ, so let the wives be to their own husbands in everything Husbands, love your wives, even as Christ also loved the church and gave himself for it, that he might sanctify and cleanse it with the washing of water by the word. So in this passage here, God makes no bones about it that there is a comparison that there is in marriage to the husband and wife as well as in a church and Christ relationship. This theme of God ourself being the husband of the body of believers is not a New Testament idea. Go to the book of Hosea It's featured in a couple of places in Isaiah, but I think Hosea really gives a very clear reference to this. The book of Hosea comes after Daniel, Hosea chapter 2. And in verse 19, Isaiah chapter 2, 19, and while you're locating that, I'm going to enjoy a sip of my fine Turkish coffee. Hosea chapter two and verse nineteen. And I will, the Lord's speaking through him here, and I will betrothe thee unto me forever. Yea, I will betrothe thee unto me in righteousness and in judgment. And in loving kindness and in mercies. Well, God's speaking that He is going to betroth His people to Himself. To betrothe means to make an engagement. Uh, so that they would be married to a certain famous couple. Who's the famous couple we know in the New Testament that were noted as being betrothed? Mary and Joseph. They were betrothed. They had not yet come together. They were committed to the engagement arrangement. They would eventually be uh married and dwell together, but for the time being they were uh betrothed, they were engaged to be married is the terminology we would use. So Hosea uses the language of the betrothal. In other words, Jesus, look at Matthew 22, Matthew 22 and verse 2, just so we don't think that this is simply perhaps a relationship that God had between himself and national Israel. In Matthew chapter 22 and in verse 2, we have this. Jesus is speaking by way of a parable, and he says in verse 2: The kingdom of heaven is like unto a certain king which made a marriage for his son. Isn't that interesting? So here we see that the kingdom of heaven, it's in its entirety. All that you would imagine that the kingdom of heaven involves is very much like a king that's making a marriage for his son. It's not hard for us to imagine who the king is. He would be the King of Kings, God the Father, and of course the Son would be the Lord Jesus Christ, and who would be the bride. The church would, right. We know that from Revelation 19, verse 7. The marriage of the Lamb has come, and his wife hath made herself ready. So there's that language out of Revelation that speaks to this as well. It's also directly related to those who are officers in the church. If you turn to 1 Timothy 3, 1 Timothy 3. And verses 1 through 7, and then we'll go and look at just scan the next set of verses. He speaks there about one who desires the office of a bishop, literally the overseership or the bishopric That's where we get the word episcope or episcopalian. That's the word for bishop. A bishop, then, an overseer, then must be blameless, the husband of one wife, vigilant, sober, of good behavior Verse 4 One that ruleth well his own house, having his children in subjection with all gravity, for if a man know not how to rule his own house, how shall he take care of the church of God? So in that passage he compares the mini pastorate that a man has within his own house, that he is to rule it well. And if he can rule his children well, so that all can evidently see, yes, the the fruit of this man's work over time indeed does produce a righteous outcome. And of course you know that he has to be relying heavily upon the grace of God for that to happen, because it ain't by works of righteousness which we do that saves anybody. It's only by the mercy of God. So somehow that old boy has figured out how to avail himself of the grace of God and use what the old timers called the means of grace to bring those to bear on the children so that spiritual seed would be raised. And so if they were able to do that, then it says, well that's his testing ground, because he's now going to step up to something called the house of God, and he's now not going to have, you know, prime pristine little human clay that's pretty moldable, about as moldable as that boy's ever gonna get. Uh and now you're stepping up to a church where you're getting newborn believers coming in with a lot of baggage That boy has baggage only from his parents, uh, and he don't know he has baggage. Uh when you get new believers coming in, they know they got baggage and sometimes they don't know all the baggage they have, but they've got issues. It's uh it's a whole step up. It's it's another game And you gotta master some of the easy stuff first. The qualification for uh deacon says as much as well. Verse 8, likewise must the deacons. And he goes on and speaks about verse twelve, let the deacons be the husbands of one wife, ruling their children in their own houses well. So If it's something that's anchored there into the ministry of the church leadership, it's evident that God finds that important, that there is a purpose for this, that He's interested in raising up godly seed, and we'll talk to that in a bit. We see from this brief introduction that a family, meaning husband, wife, and kids, is the church, Jesus Church, New Believers, in miniature. It's really a miniature version of that. One is after the flesh, and the other is after the spirit. One is the parable, the other is the reality. Which one do you think is the parable? You're waving your hand, Abina. Which one's the parable? The here and now. Mm-hmm. Yeah, the here and now. Let's go to Luke chapter 20, verses 34 to 36. This is an impressive passage to me. I love these little insights that the Lord Jesus gives from time to time, glimpses of what heaven is like. And in Luke 22, 40. Luke 20. Luke 20, verse 34. I'm way off of my reference here. I've got to get my glasses to focus on what I'm looking at. Luke chapter 20 and verse 34. Jesus answering said unto them, The children of this world. That word world there is not cosmos, it's Ion, it's age, era, or epic, the children of this age, the children of this time This this earthly period of time right now. And that would be the age from, you know, the creation of the world to now. This the the you could call it the the human flesh era, okay The children of this world marry and are given in marriage, but they which shall be accounted worthy to obtain That world, it's the same word I own, age, era, epic, those that are counted worthy to obtain that world and the resurrection from the dead, they neither marry nor are given in marriage. Neither can they die any more, for they are equal unto the angels, and are the children of God, being the children of the resurrection. Now, why do you suppose there is no marriage in heaven? It's a parable. And it's a parable here. Marion just thought. Yeah, there's only one marriage that's celebrated in heaven, and it's not mine to Angela. Right? It's the Lord Jesus Christ to his church, all of it. That's the only bride and bridegroom that get any kind of attention To offset that attention to somebody else would be like it would be rebellion. It would really be raising attention. It'd be, yeah, I know about this marriage between Christ, but I'm really more enamored with this, with my brother or sister over here So we know then from this passage that the Lord Jesus Christ is making it plain and clear that there is a purpose for it here and now. And it's a, as it were, like a living memorial, it's a living monument. It's a tremendous testimony of the relationship between Christ and His Church. We're going to explore avenues of that. So, the relationship with the spouse is very similar to the church's relationship to Jesus Christ. Now that's easier said than understood, and in some places that are plain to speak about it, it's almost much harder to put into practice. So the Bible, in fact, does speak to married people with struggles in their marriage. It also speaks to single people looking for a spouse. And I find from the scriptures that as it is typical for the Word of God, it gives us two views, what it is not and what it is. It describes things saying, this is not what it is about, and here is in fact what it is about. So by reviewing that first and understanding what the whole package deal is, that puts a lot of things into perspective. A lot of questions kind of disappear at that point Some struggles, not all, but some begin to to to dissipate. And more importantly, expectations are more properly set. So let's look at what marriage is not. Now I'm trying to take this from the worst to the most common plain Jane garden variety scenario. I'm going to go from the worst first, right? So we're going to start off with the absolute far left end of the universe as to what some people think marriage is. And I'm sure you can imagine where I'm going to start Marriage is only between one man and one woman. It's not between two men, it's not between two women. Hold on to your hat, sports Fan, the day is coming where it'll be between a man and a and a pet or a woman and a donkey or something stupid like that. That's coming. You laugh, but that's coming Because there's nothing new under the sun. I've already read newspaper articles where a woman in California married her cat. I don't know how that process works. I don't know what the city is going to take in for paperwork. Please have the paw print here and swam a bag of kitty litter. I mean, you know, what what is the what kind of stupidity is this? Uh but uh uh so people do that. Uh Genesis 1 is very clear that so God created man. Male and female created them. He he made them too. There is a distinct difference. Evolutionists have problems with trying to They they they won't admit they have a problem, but they have a problem. How did uh the different genders uh evolve in parallel in perfect sync and timing? You would expect us all to be asexual like certain worms. You can go out to the garden and cut a worm in half and you put him in a certain amount of dirt and after a while later he regrew the head and the other part regrew the tail. Why didn't we come about like that? Why is it that not only among people you find male and female, but also among animals? Pretty much all the animals, in fact. Uh how would that have independently come about? How would that branch have come out and worked that way? That screams design and man is just stopping his ears and shoving the truth and suppressing it as hard as he can in righteousness because he's been given up. The second bizarre perspective is that a marriage doesn't happen after living together first This is unfortunately becoming common even in Christian circles. About recent statistics I saw was 37% of so-called professing Christians Believe it's perfectly fine to live together with the potential uh uh spouse first, uh to try them out before, you know, you you you get into marriage. A doctor at a church I was at one time made a quote. He says, Why buy the cow if you're getting free milk? The man's really not interested in making a commitment to the woman if he's living he's already got what he wants And in fact, that woman's chances of marriage reduced by fifty percent in those kind of arrangements. So already she's cutting herself short. Uh and if she's thinking that um Well, I've got to try this out. I've got to sample it. She doesn't understand marriage. Marriage is a permanent relationship. It's a commitment to a lifelong process, to a lifelong relationship. It's two people who are going to grow, and you know what I can't, nor anybody else can give you a short or a long list of questions. Now you better sure check all these things off first, because boy, in my marriage, I wish I'd asked those questions. You can't do that because Who knows what things I'm going to encounter and how I might respond to it later in life. Who knows? It's a commitment. It's a long-term commitment no matter what. If you marry for feelings of love, well, when that feeling is gone Then what? You know, that's why some of these Hollywood starlets, you know, have multiple uh husbands or multiple wives. Because when the thrill is gone and you're not paying attention to me and I'm not paying attention to you and you know and then the real nitty-gritty work of of of building the relationship sets in ADOS, they they they they depart. Well thankfully that our Lord doesn't do that to us. Aren't you glad our Lord doesn't do that to us? You know, I mean He doesn't make me sign a prenuptial agreement saying, well, Cluth, you know, here's the deal. Um, I expect you here to do this and that and the other thing and and so forth. Uh boy, I would have failed every one of those things and he'd have had every right to throw me out the door and, you know, pack the bags and put me down the street any time. But he doesn't, does he? In fact, the scripture says the goodness of God leads thee to repentance. So, yeah, when you look at it that way, that puts a lot of things in perspective. Third point is a wife is not an object of unbridled lust. She is a helper fit just for one man. One of the statements in Genesis 2, when God speaks of his uh of the creation of the woman, he says, The Lord God said, I will make him Adam and help meet for him. You've heard the phrase help meet, I'm sure. That's a phrase that still pervades even into our current English vernacular, a help meet. What is a help meet? What does that mean? Right, the word meet is the word fit, a helper fit for him. So, those of you who are married, have you ever thought about your wife being a God-ordained helper fit just for you? She's a perfect match for what you need help with. woman as you ever thought. Oh, by the way, my purpose in life is to help him. Gee, I thought he was here to advance my agenda. Well we actually have Problem with who's in front of the bicycle here. Every bicycle has two tires, but one of them's got to be up front and steering the direction. I need two tires to ride a bike, but one of them's got to be up front steering. And God puts it that way. What if it were the other way around? Meaning what if the woman is the one calling the shots? If the man was the help meet for her? What would that say? Parable is gone. So the parent why is the parable gone? Because then the the church is the head of Christ Ouch. Yeah, that says the church is the head of Christ. The church has said, I've got my agenda. This is where I want to go. Come on, Jesus. You're you're supposed to be enabling me. You're supposed to be helping me. It's my program. It's my I'm telling you the direction we need to go So God has given the woman the marvelous opportunity to reflect the glorious, beautiful church of Jesus Christ, and he has given the men the ominous opportunity to reflect Jesus Christ himself. So husband, you know you have a failing proposition from the get-go, but God doesn't seem to put it out there as an excuse to give up on it So the uh uh that's what she's a uh that's what her role is. She's a helper. She's a help meet for you. Fourth point Wife is not a harlot. She's a vessel to be dwelt with in honor and understanding. 1 Peter chapter 3 and verse 7. 1 Peter chapter 3 and verse 7. 1 Peter chapter 3 and verse 7. We'll read the first six verses in the next passage, but don't so don't leave that too quickly. 1 Peter 3:7 says this. Likewise, ye husbands, dwell with them according to knowledge, giving honor unto the wife as unto the weaker vessel. and as being heirs together of the grace of life, that your prayers be not hindered. I have a book that I've kept by my bedstand. I've read it on and off through the years. Uh and the title of it simply is put, uh, dwell with them according to knowledge. Uh, there's a lot in this verse. Number one, likewise, likewise, likewise what? Well, likewise from the first six verses, which we'll read shortly, and there's instructions to the women. And uh God says, well, yeah, this also applies to you, husband. And on top of that, he then goes to say that you're to dwell with them. So that answers a problem, that answers something right there uh there are marriages where the uh the husband and wife actually live apart from each other for very long periods of time. Now I'm not talking about the husband's got to make a uh you know some one or two week business trip, some you know, he really hates it, but the job comes and he's gotta go do this. No, I'm talking about six months at a time. Or maybe a whole year. You know, like the Clintons. I guarantee you Bill and Hillary don't live together. They just don't. Uh and and there's uh there's this i uh separation I I know of others who said, yeah, my mom and dad are are separated. Oh I'm sorry to hear that. Well they're still married. They just don't live together. And you know, one's down in Florida, one's up in New York, and that's just the norm. Yep, they're still well they're not married I mean they are, but they're not dwelling. So the step one is you dwell with them. Second is according to knowledge. So this is very instructive. That means the man's going to have to study. He's going to have to figure out his wife. Now that's a tough challenge because women's brains are very differently wired than men's brains. Women come at things very from a different angle. Thank God for that, because God did not give us a help meet that is a yes woman who's going to say, Yes, dear, everything you say is fantastic. Yes, dear, that's a great idea. Boy, my tree would have run off the road many a time. I wouldn't have been in this house, I probably wouldn't have had my job. There's many things I can think of where I was dead set against No, we're not going to do that. The angel said, Yeah, I really think you ought to look at this. I really think it's a good idea. Push, push, push, push, push. And then I get into it. Wow, that was really good. That worked out pretty good. Glad I thought of that. Dwell with them according to knowledge. You have to spend some time getting to know and to understand them, what they think, how they're going to react. There's application. Giving honor unto the wife. Honor. There's some honor that's due. And then he goes on to say, as unto the weaker vessel. Now the imagery I have is I keep looking up here because we used to have a little small nice China teacup up there and it's not there. And so my whole house economy is just messing up my ability to teach. Good point here. You take a nice fine oh here's a good example. Nice fine cup, right? Nice little cup here, very nicely fashioned, and it's made out of very nice clay and and you treat it with honor. This is I'm not gonna take this in the garage and and and use it to prop up. you know, one of my repair jobs out there where I'm gluing it or put you know, banging metal again, it's gonna dent it, it's gonna ding it, crack it. I I it's a weaker vessel. Notice that God said, weaker, not weakest. You two men, we two men are weak, and we certainly understand that. And he also points out that you're heirs together of the grace of life. You're both going to inherit what God intends to give to his body of believers. There's an inheritance in view. She's a co-inheritor. So there's a lot in there. And, oh, by the way, if you ignore that, God seems to take that seriously enough to say that your prayers be not hindered. Wouch! So that ought to get your attention. You know, if there are times when you find that there's uh disconnect between you and the and the little woman And things aren't getting resolved, don't be surprised if your prayers are bouncing off uh like heaven's brass, if it's not going anywhere. Uh so so so woman, you you have a uh uh a a uh opportunity to r remind the husband that uh pray for him at that point because obviously his aren't getting through so you need to help him at that point Full points so far, I've got a few more, and I'll try to get through them quickly. Not a civic union. It doesn't happen after living together first. Wife's not an object of unbridled lust, she's not a harlot. Next thing is it's not a democracy Marriage is not a democracy. It's a benevolent dictatorship. I know we don't like that word. Let's look at 1 Peter 3 beginning in verse 1. Likewise, ye wives. be in subjection to your own husbands. Now there's the point there, to your own husband. For the woman that works outside of the home, there's a little bit of a tension that can show up. Because now she is subjecting or submitting herself if she's employed with another under another man and most employers have men in them. But if the boss says, uh, hey, I I need you to work over the weekend, can you come? Uh her response is going to be, well I have to check with my husband because she has to submit herself to her own husband. Now uh uh that may be something that you have to bring up at the uh at the table when you're interviewing for this job. You're saying, oh by the way, I'm a Christian woman, if you care to say that, and I believe that I'm to be a subject of my own husband. I'm here to help, help out the house, but my first responsibilities at home So if you ask me to do something that is contrary to my husband, I'm I may just have to run things past him first. Is that okay? I mean you just be upfront about it. That's all right I find that they'll respect you the more for it. They will respect you the more for it. And I have seen women who have put their foot down, their family comes first, and they don't let anything get in the way, and it it works out great. But they are to be subject to their own husbands. And then it continues in verse 1, that if any obey not the word, meaning if any husband obey not the word, some women have unbelieving husbands They also may without the word be won by the conversation of the wives. Now in the context, I think it's not without the word of God I believe it refers to the word of reviling. That's what the previous chapter is talking about. Remember it starts with likewise. So if you look at chapter 2, verse 15 Talking about silencing the ignorance of foolish men, and then verse 19, uh about a man for conscience toward God endures grief. And then 22 to 23 is the punchline speaking of Jesus who when he was reviled, reviled not again. So I think it's the word of reviling. I don't think it means we don't give them the word of God at all, because that's the power to save. But certainly the conversation, the conduct of the wife is going to have an impact Verse 2, while they, this is this unbelieving husband, while they behold your chaste conversation, your conduct with fear. Whose adorning let it not be that outward plating of the hair, wearing of gold, putting on apparel, let it be the hidden man of the heart, that which is not corruptible, the ornament of a meek and quiet spirit which in the sight of God is of great price And then he gives an example of Sarah, verse 6. Even as Sarah obeyed Abraham, calling him, here's a politically improper word, calling him Lord. That's what Sarah called Abraham. Whose daughters are ye as long as ye do well and are not afraid with any amazement? So there is this relationship that's there where the husband is very benevolent for her, he's looking out for her, he gives her honor He knows she's a weaker vessel. He's applying his mind. He's trying to understand what she's about, what her concerns are, and she is to be willingly submissive to him. I heard some marriage counseling advice over the air, and it stuck with me over the years, and I thought, wow, that is really simple, but it's actually pretty good. And it's this. When conflict arises Men are going to react a certain way for a reason, and women are going to react a certain way for a reason. And so the question that should come out of the mouth when there's a conflict from the man is, I'm sorry, am I not being loving to you? And for the woman to say, I'm sorry, am I not reverencing you or submitting to you? That is a trigger, it turns out, for many of the things that that that can flare up in a in a in a marriage. I don't know how many, I'm not gonna put a percentage. I'm just saying that uh I thought it was a good observation So that uh when the man feels like the woman's in charge, she's riding over him, ignoring him, uh that starts to you're you're grating his nerve. You're you're you're you're rubbing the the cat the wrong way It's not going to work, not going to go well. And likewise, if the man's very rough and crude and not very loving, that's not going to resonate with her at all. Sharp, harsh words are things that men will have to eat a lot Alright, not a democracy, but a benevolent dictatorship. Alright, now to the more garden variety things that are common temptations. It's not between a believer and an unbeliever. Why do you think that is? If you're single, marriage is not to be between a believer and an unbeliever. Why is that? Be not unequally yoked. Yeah, Paul says be not unequally yoked. Mm-hmm. Why would that be a problem? Yeah, if you've got two different animals that are yoked up and they're not really the type you know, if you yoke up a um an ox with a donkey. Uh the donkey may dig his heels in and the ox may, you know, drag the donkey along and it's going to be a headache where the donkey will start kicking and the ox is getting beat up on the side. It's just you're you're not going to get Very productive plowing out of that whole episode. What are some other reasons for it? Uh unequally burdened, okay, that's kind of the same concept of unequally yoked, uh, but keep flushing that out a little bit. Go back to this business of the fact that this is The marriage that we have here and now is a parable. If you're unequally yoked, what's it saying? Rebellious church. Yeah, it's like saying Jesus has actually shed his blood for an unregenerate group of people. That he really loves those things that he actually hates, those things that are not redeemed. It's setting up a wrong picture. Is that going to end well? Except God have extreme mercy, likely not. The husband will try to operate over time as God matures in him, or the wife will try to operate over time as God matures for her. She will begin to operate according to Christian principles. The other spouse has no such feeling or obligation. They have no sense to want to do that. It doesn't resonate with them. And so they're off on a different page. You've got two different rule books. There will be a tremendous source of uh of uh of uh of tension God in his mercy does allow those who, if he chooses to save one in a marriage and not the other. And I've seen this that God will grant uh the unsaved spouse uh to be uh uh uh content to dwell with them. 1 Corinthians talks about that. If she's content to dwell with them, let him not put her away My mentor, Brother Bernie, had that. God saved him. He never saved Jan. Never saved her. Even to her dying day, she would confess, I'm not saved. She knew it. She knew it plainly and clearly from Bernie. It's not that she had lack of information And uh and yet she was can she was pleased to live with him, to care for him, to do what he needed, but uh that was the mercy of God. Last point I want to make about what marriage is not. Marriage is not heaven on earth. Marriage is not an everlasting honeymoon. There are those who fall into the trap of idolizing marriage as if though it's the be-all, end-all, do all, that it's gonna it's gonna give me uh greater joy and happiness than even salvation in Christ. It won't. It's not designed to do that That's not its purpose. It really, uh among many things, is a uh a testing program. It's difficult uh for both parties because it's two centers coming together under one roof In fact, look at what God exhorts. Go to 1 Corinthians 7, because there are no fewer than 14 references to the benefit of remaining single. In fact, this business of marriage is so difficult that I've never heard anybody actually preach on this before, but there are no fewer than 14 references to single being better. First Corinthians seven verse one, concerning the things whereof you wrote unto me, it is good for a man not to touch a woman. Now the NIV and other translations take that word touch, which is the word touch, and they'll say marry. Well, then that runs afoul of the passage in Timothy, which speaks about those in the latter days who forbid some to marry. So you don't want to do that. He's not forbidding it. He's just saying it's not good for man not to Touch a woman. Well, that covers a lot of things. That covers dating, that covers all sorts of things. You don't uh the the touch, the the skin of a woman is different than the skin of a man She has an extra layer of fat under her skin, so it's very soft and it's very appealing to the man. We don't need all this touching business. That needs to be off limits. Verse 7, for I would that all men were even as I myself. But so here he's saying, I wish that all men were like me. And at the time it does not appear that uh the apostle uh uh has a wife. He's probably a widower at this point. But every man has his proper gift of God, one after this manner and another after that. I say therefore to the unmarried and to the widows, it is good for them if they abide even as I. So there's two verses there. He's exhorting them to be in this state with uh without a wife. And I believe Paul was a widower. Because he says unmarried and widows. He doesn't use the same term for the virgins. He's talking about unmarried, those who have uh who had a had a spouse and is no longer married. Look at verse 11 But and if she depart, let her remain unmarried or l or be reconciled to her husband. So the first option off the bat is, hey, look, if uh if she departs, she's to remain unmarried. He's exhorting that. Verse 20. Let every man abide in the same calling wherein he was called. Verse 24. Brethren, let every man wherein he is called therein abide with God. Verse 26. I suppose that this is good for the present distress. I say that it's good for a man so to be. Verse 27. Art thou bound unto a wife? Seek not to be loosed. Art thou loosed from a wife? Seek not a wife. Look at verse 28. But if you marry, you've not sinned. If a virgin marry, she's not sinned. Nevertheless, such shall have trouble in the flesh, but I spare you. He spells it out. Trouble in the flesh. I don't think he's he's kidding. 29. This I say, brethren, the time is short. It remains that both they that have wives be as though they had none. Look at verse 32. I would have you without carefulness. That word carefulness is the word that relates to care. I don't want you full of care. uh like the cares and the affairs of this life spoken of in the parable of the sower they grow they grew up and choked that plant. He says, I would have you without that kind of care, without that kind of anxiety, without that kind of concern He that's unmarried cares for the things that belong to the Lord, how he may please the Lord. But he that is married cares for the things that are of the world, how he may please his wife. Verse uh thirty uh seven. Nevertheless, nevertheless, he that standeth steadfast in his heart having no necessity, but has power over his own will, as so decreed in his heart that he will keep his virgin, doeth well. So then he that giveth her in marriage doeth well, but he that giveth her not in marriage doeth better. I mean there's a certain drumbeat that's all throughout 1 Corinthians 7 that keeps hitting better, better, better, better, better. And verse 40. But she is happier if she so abide after my judgment, and I think also that I have the Spirit of God. He spoke earlier that uh It's uh for a a woman who's a widow, if her husband's dead dead, she's at liberty to be married only in the Lord, but she's happier if she abides after my judgment, meaning You're a widow woman, you know what that's all about. Why do you want to go do that again? He's kind of putting that out there. Fourteen references to single being better in this whole chapter I find that impressive that he would point this business out. So those are the things that marriage is not. It's not better than salvation in Christ. Marriage isn't designed to raise your social status, though that may come, or provide a convenient legal arrangement to qualify for a tax break or to become an American citizen. I know people who said, yeah, I married, but I'm not with my husband anymore. Well well what do you mean? Why? Oh well we just got married so we could come to America. Well I'm sorry, but you've actually sacrificed a very, very foolish thing, and now he is your husband. Oh no he's not oh yes he is. He's your husband. You you're you're committed to that arrangement. All right. So much my point about all this. How much time do I have? Well, forty minutes on what it's not. Ouch. Well the wrong ideas about marriage are going to be a very, very, very, very big surprise about 24 to 48 hours after the honeymoon is over. A very big shock So what marriage is is a lifelong union. Let's look at what marriage is. A lifelong union between two souls on the same spiritual page. A lifelong union between two souls on the same spiritual page. 1 Corinthians 7. 39, while you're there. Life. is bound by the law as long as her husband liveth. But if her husband be dead, she is at liberty to be married to whom she will only in the Lord. Romans 7 says the same thing, the woman which hath an husband is bound by the law to her husband. And he's using the example of marriage and that covenant, that marriage-covenant relationship as an example To say that, don't you know, brethren, how the law has dominion over man as long as he lives? Can we ever divorce ourselves from the law? You can't. You cannot divorce yourself from the eternal law of God which bears upon all men Likewise, you can't willy-nilly divorce yourself from the spouse. It's a lifelong obligation. And think about it, think about it. Isn't that a blessed, glorious picture of God's commitment to you? As a believer, that he has committed himself to do whatever it takes to walk with you, to cleanse you, to sanctify you, and to produce spiritual children, praise God, even through your ministry. He's committed himself to that. He'll do whatever it takes. He'll do whatever it takes to bring you home. And that's a marvelous, marvelous comfort to us in times of tremendous rebellion. We can have rebellion at heart that nobody else knows about, and that's a tremendous comfort. Jesus himself said, What God hath joined together, let not man put asunder. He says, Have you not read from the beginning that the two became one flesh? They're one flesh. It's one flesh. That would be like for me to cut off my arm and say, well, I'm tired of the arm. I can't do that. That's not going to work well. It's a lifelong union. Second, it's a gift of God It's a gift of God. This is the big thing to get our melon around. It's a gift. Really is I'm going to read Proverbs 1822. Whoso findeth a wife findeth a good thing and obtaineth favor of the Lord. obtains favor of the Lord. Look at Ecclesiastes 3. This is a good passage that speaks to this. Ecclesiastes chapter 3. Excuse me. Ecclesiastes chapter 9. I don't know why I'm referenced tongue tied tonight. Ecclesiastes nine and verse nine Live joyfully with the wife whom thou lovest all the days of the life of thy vanity I love that. You got vain life, son. You better just enjoy what you got. I love that statement. Which he hath given thee. Under the sun, all the days of thy vanity, for that is thy portion in this life and in thy labor which thou takest under the sun. It's a gift. And so God, as it were, is saying, This is as good of a gift as you're going to get inside of heaven. And all men marry up and they know it. Alright, it's a gift of God. You know, you think God brought Eve to Adam. Adam didn't go out and find her. In fact, God ran all the animals past Adam. There was not a help meet found for him. Out of all the animals, nope, they're not going to work What marriage is? It's mutual sacrifice and submission. Again, from Ephesians 5. Husbands love your wives, even as Christ loved the church and gave himself for it. Yeah, I I look at that and I just go, huh, thanks Lord. That's just an impossible situation. Appreciate that. But this is what God calls us to. It talks about sacrifice. That's the concept. It's a mutual sacrifice. There is another sense too in which the Lord, as as I think about how He redeemed us, He took upon us the guilt and the shame of all of our sins. Invariably there will come some kind of debate and it's a question of who was right or wrong. And at the end of the day uh if the husband is to act like Christ, how did that play out in the annals of heaven? How did that work out in the atonement? Well, Jesus Christ raised his hand and says, Yep, I'm guilty. Crucify me. He took upon himself all the sins of his people. He took them upon him and he put them away. So I look at that and I go, hmm. That makes it hard to point the finger, doesn't it? Christ never once turns to the church, well, you know, you got this to pay for. He doesn't she doesn't atone for anything. He atones for everything. He atones for everything Now likewise, let's look at Ephesians 5. 33. It's not a one-way or unilateral deal. Ephesians 5. 33. This is another politically incorrect Bible verse. Boy, we're just going to run afoul of the news tonight. Thankfully I don't show up on anybody's radar or they'd come pounding on my door. Verse 33, last verse of chapter 5 of Ephesians 5. Nevertheless, let every one of you in particular so love his wife even as himself. And the wife, see that she reverence her husband. I looked at that word reverence. I thought, hmm, what does that word mean? Well, that's the Greek word phobia. Phobia. You know what a phobia is? Some people are afraid, they have arachnophobia, I think that's what it's called. They're afraid of arachnids. Yeah, they're fear of spiders. You bring little spiders around. There's a gal who was a proposal manager who freaked out at the at the the little we have remember the one year with the infestation of the uh the stink bugs Oh my goodness gracious that lady went for new. I had fun with her. She had a phobia of this thing. She was just terrified of these There's other I have a fear of heights. I don't know how I got this thing, but um if I get up too high, you know, if I get on the top of the 16 foot ladder, I'm like I'm wanting to grab something, you know, and kind of hang on to it, and I'm really not too interested in looking. I used to not be like that. I used to swing like a monkey from the from trees as a kid, but somewhere along the way I got afraid of heights. I don't know what happened. See that the wife, see that she phobia her husband That's interesting. Now that doesn't mean when he walks in she cowers in the corner because he's a beater or something like that. That's not the idea. But there is a such a deep respect, she must, as it said in Peter, calling speaking of Abraham and Sarah, that Sarah called him Lord. She recognizes that as the head of the house, this is God's ordained rule in her house. that she is taking a great risk on on herself if the husband says, you know what, hun, I think we want to go to um Go do such and such. And she thinks that's a really really really bad idea. And she lets him know I think that's a really really bad idea. But he insists. She has to have a phobia that says, okay, I have to submit, I'll go Now, if she puts her heels in and digs it and kicks, she's going to do two things. One, she's really going to tick him off. And number two, she's going to upset the Lord because she's not following under him. Okay? God has placed him as your head, and God holds him accountable for the house. He holds him responsible for it. So if the husband makes a totally brain-dead move and does something totally contrary to the word of God, if she submits, the one it comes down hard on is him, not her. He's the one that's going to take the beating for it. But if you step aside and make it worse, uh-uh, that's not the right response. That is the wrong response. That's rebelling to that that that line of that chain of authority and of command see that she reverence her husband. So it's actually a great relief to the wife because now she can give them advice, but hey, at the end of the day Okay, this is where you're going. I'm I'm fine. Now she's not to be grumpy and grousey about it the whole time and say, I told you so, I told you so. Right? She's supposed to try to, you know, help this thing along and do the best she can, but she has to understand, she has to pray for him. Because if he's in the wrong way and she knows it, well she's got to pray for this guy that he's not going to go do something totally pig-headed. She has to it's a mutual sacrifice and submission. It's a mutual sacrifice Marriage is, 1 Corinthians 7, marriage is God's mechanism to prevent fornication. 1 Corinthians 7. 2, the apostle plainly said, to avoid fornication, let every man have his own wife. This is not a cure for pornography. It is to avoid fornication. This is God's mechanism for that. God says every man has his own Uh some are eunuchs for the kingdom of heaven's sake, some are made that way, uh but it's not given to every man Fifth point. Marriage is a very daily dose of very basic common issues and is a testing program. We read that in 1 Corinthians 7. Yes, Dan, comment. Probably going to have to have you ever read that for Last point. A uh God's mechanism to prevent fornication. Yes. Couple instances now where that uh a desire for intimacy led to not the best decision making uh for spousal choice and that had uh disastrous catastrophic consequences. Correct. Good hedge. Yeah, that's not the only this is not the only reason for marriage. That's why I'm putting this whole package deal together. Some commentators have identified some 30 different aspects of marriage that the scripture talks about. I'm giving you like the top ten. The Bible has a lot to say about this subject. Yes, there are those who view that and they're so led by emotions in the flesh that they are driven they have this mindset that it is um It gets back to some of these earlier things where I said what marriage is not, right? The wife is not an object of unbridled lust. There's other terms I could use. I thought I'd have younger children here. uh but you know what I'm getting at. She's not a harlot. That's not the point. And those who are driven by that are going to be in for a very sad surprise and you're correct. They're going to make dreadfully incorrect decisions. It's a whole package you have to enter into It's a lifelong deal. Thanks for that that uh that caveat. Daily dose of very basic common issues and is a testing program from God. One of the chief elements of marriage is sanctification. God uses that to It it's I consider it God's sandpaper. Uh mutual sandpaper on each other, you know. Um I I like the uh even the world gets this I remember hearing somebody, I it was some some worldling uh that was talking about a woman she had married for seven years and she was contemplating a divorce and getting remarried and somebody said, well why would you want to do that? Everything you've already argued you've already argued about everything that you could argue about, why start over again? Well that's an interesting pre perspective. 1 Corinthians 7, let's quote that, not Hollywood, he that is married cares for the things that are of the world. So there is a daily concern. And you know what that forces you to do? It forces the husband in particular to look to the Word of God and figure out, well, now how does the Scripture speak to this issue in our house? How does the scripture speak to that issue that comes up? Everything from what you're gonna the clothing the children wear or uh uh what foods they're going to eat, to I mean all basic kind of things, what books we're going to read to them at bedtime, what uh what is our house routine? Uh are we going to get everybody up bright and early in the morning and read scriptures? That's two thumbs up for me. If the wife can do that, are we going to be reading it? What is the rhythm for bringing the Word of God to bear in the home? Every home does it different And that's okay. God designed it that way. All Israel, every man goes to his own tent. That's great. You know, you don't want to have two women in one kitchen. That's a disaster. But it's an ex it it's a great opportunity for the man to grow, to learn how to apply the word of God, and lead his house in these things It's all too easy often for the man to just outsource that job to the woman, let her do it. He's got to jump in and kind of roll up his sleeves, get involved, ask questions. How's it going? You know, stick your beak into things. You can get in the middle of this start asking questions. It's your right to ask questions. Find out what's going on. How are things going? Ask. Take her out on the date night. So how are things going? What can we do better in? It's designed to raise up godly seed. Sixth point. Marriage is also designed to raise up godly seed. You know, this is a uh uh a point that unfortunately is um truly lost in her land. The scriptures say that children are blessing of the Lord. So is my paycheck I don't ever hear people running around going, you know Lord, I've got enough on the paycheck. I don't need enough. I'll just sit with that, you know, this for the rest of my life. Children are blessing the Lord. The Lord seems to like children. He seems to be pleased to save children that come forward in a saving home. The Muslims have no problem with this. In Europe, the average repopulation rate of there, you need about 2. 3 or 2. 4 kids on average across the population to just sustain the status quo of that population through attrition, meaning death and so forth, uh you're growing if you're beyond that, you're shrinking as a population if you're below that. Russia And France are shrinking because of their stance on abortion and fewer children. France is at a ghastly 1. 7 rate. But guess what the Muslims are at? Their rate of reproduction is somewhere around seven. I mean, they are cranking them out big time. And uh so it was in the early days in the Wesley, the Wesley children. I think uh Charles Westley was do you remember hun? He was like the youngest, he was the the he was like number twenty-five or something like that? I mean he was he was he had a lot it was crazy number of kids. Now of course twelve of them had died at childbirth or something like that. uh so that Joanna you know had thirteen or fourteen at a time, but uh there was a lot of children that were come forth, they were seen as a blessing. In our day not so. Look at Malachi chapter 2 in verse 15. Go to the book of Matthew, you can back up a couple of pages and you'll be there. Malachi chapter 2 and verse 15 So-called scholars claim that this is some of the most difficult Hebrew. The words are short, but I think the meaning comes through fairly clearly. And I think the King James did a fine job of it. God here says he's a witness between thee and the wife of thy youth, against whom you've dealt treacherously. She's thy companion, the wife of thy covenant. Verse 15, and did not he make one, meaning husband and wife, they're one flesh. Yet had he the residue of the Spirit. And why? And wherefore one? In other words, why did God make you one? Why were they one? That he might seek a godly seed. Therefore, take heed to your spirit, and let none of you deal treacherously against the wife of his youth. So there speaks very plainly why God wants a good union Comfortable union, a working functioning house because he's seeking godly seed. Where else would you expect to find children that are going to be raised and have a good understanding and a good knowledge of the Word of God? If you're expecting that this church you sent them to in Sunday school, maybe they'll pick something up, that doesn't work. I was really struck When we hosted Bible Bee this summer at this local Baptist church down the road, uh we uh I'm expecting, you know, all these kids are gonna come. And and what are we going to do with the parents? So I had a little thing set up for the men. I was going to take the men to the back and we were going to talk about one thing. And and the women, you know, Angela would go with the women. They'd do a Bible study over here. And then uh the uh Gloria, Victoria and Gabriel, they're gonna do something with the kids. We're all ready. You know what happened? Parents drove up, kicked their kid out of the car, and drove on down the road. We had practically no parents. There was maybe one or two parents out of an audience of 35 kids that actually cared to stay there with their children. They just kick the church will take care of it. They tried to outsource the job. It doesn't work that way. It really, really doesn't work that way. Those kids will figure it out real fast where where the parents' values really are. And it's not it doesn't have anything to do with church. All they'll learn is just put the church robes on at the right time and do good and smile. And if they ask you a question in Sunday school, the answer is Jesus. And everything's fine. Sorry, that's not going to work. Also, marriage, and this will be my uh last point, and then I've got a couple of uh commonly asked questions and a little bit of application Marriage is also with parental and mutual consent. Marriage is with parental and mutual consent. So when it's time to uh uh to to to have uh uh uh the young ones in the house, they're coming up to the point of marriage, it's very important that they seek their parents' judgment. Let me ask the question. Why do you think that is? Any ideas why you think it's important for the parents to weigh in on this business of a potential spouse for your child? None of that. Yeah, they have a little bit of experience in things, yeah. Youth is vanity. Youth is vanity. Meaning Well I Well, I don't know how to articulate it seems like uh How is that gonna cause a problem? Decision making is all about yourself for the wrong reasons and Yep. They may not have thought this thing through too terribly well. It's the one I call him. I've been j I've been telling this joke to my girls ever since they were young. The uh the the the big studly guy that can throw rocks around the castle fifty feet, you know. His name is Brock Lee And uh and but but he's but he's he's he's an airhead. He's kinda empty. Yeah, we don't want to marry a Brock Lee, so no, we don't want to go for him. Besides he's kinda green, we don't want him. Let's look at some passages of Scripture that speak about this. Exodus 22, I think, is most helpful. Exodus 22. There's various assorted laws in the old covenant that speak about when certain things may happen, and in verses 16 and 17 It says this, if a man entice a maid that is not betrothed and lie with her, he shall surely endow her to be his wife. And if her father utterly refuse to give her unto him He shall pay money according to the dowry of virgins. So here we see that there is a role of a father. The father's permission is required. In fact, it speaks in a place in Genesis 28 about Esau that when he saw Jacob uh was uh uh had received a wife and it his wife pleased uh uh uh uh his parents um Isaac and Rebecca, that uh when Esau saw this and that Jacob got the blessing, well then he went and he took the daughters of Canaan And uh when he saw the daughters of Canaan, pleased not Isaac his father, then went Esau unto Ishmael and took unto the wives which he had. He went off and married Canaanite women just to spite his parents. I don't care what you think and they were a grief of mine to Isaac and Rebecca until the day of their death. That's another big reason. Because uh one of the things that stunned me in marriage uh as a young single person, I'd been out of the house at seventeen, I went to college, I came out of there uh when I was twenty-two. Went off to California on a job line. I'd been out of the house since I was seventeen. My vision of a of getting a wife was, you know, she's just gonna come into my little bungalow out here in uh San Diego. We're just gonna enjoy life and you know, it's just us Oh no. It's family. There's the whole lot that comes with the deal. There there is no just unless her family's dead and my family's dead, dead. I guarantee you family's involved Uh what happens if the the man loses his job? Well we can move in with dear old Yeah, so then you get them back in the house again, and so they're not going too terribly far Yeah, I think the parents need to have some stake in the game here, and so they need to get the blessing. But at the end of the day, here's the decision. The decision is the girls. Genesis 24, 58 gives an example. 1 Corinthians 7 talked about as well, she shall be married to whom she will, only in the Lord. Genesis 24 and verse 58 says, this, this is when Rebecca is asked, will she go with this man? Genesis 24, 58. And they called Rebecca and said unto her, Wilt thou go with this man? And she said, I will go. Why do you think it's uh that decision is uh that the woman has part of that decision making process? Back to the parable. Hmm? Back to the parable. Yeah, there's some of the parable in there. I'm looking at a practical reason. Oh. But there is the part of the parable. So she won't blame her parents? Right. If her parents forced it, right, yeah. Yeah, that's right. She can only blame herself. Well you picked him, I didn't. Well, that's what Grandma was saying. So that when she moves through the sky, she feels a sense of ownership. It's not that that he was imposed on her or something or something like that. She's going to become she is going to be submitting herself to a man. And so She is in a great position before that. She's, you know, carefree, single, not a care in her life, doesn't have to worry about little ankle biters, and doesn't have to worry about her body getting out of shape, and doesn't have to worry about she can have fun with her girlfriends and go do her job. Life is just swimmingly grant. And then all that's going to change when she gets married. Now she's got to figure out what his orientation is, what his direction is, what I'm doing to help him. I mean if she's going to do it biblically, it's a big change for her It's a tremendous amount of joy. Children are tremendous blessing. They're fantastic. So there's a um there really is uh a lot of wisdom in the scriptural perspective So um I'll wrap it up here. I'm going to skip over some stuff here. So my my closing point is this marriage is in fact a picture of the relationship between Christ and his bride, the church. We've got to keep that first and foremost in center. Because it's a living model of that union between Jesus Christ and his blood-bought yet still-sitting church. That's just the reality. That purpose on earth of Jesus and his church is to sow gospel seeds and to raise new children of God up into the kingdom of heaven You know, a lot of evangelism takes place almost like the way harlots, uh people interacting and dealing with or hiring a harlot takes place, a hit and run episode. But who's raising the kids? It's not just handing them a track and fleeing. You need to labor with them, to raise them up, to bring them up into the gospel, to help expand their knowledge and mature them and growth. You know, if you get this woman pregnant and leave, w what are we going to do with this child? I mean how uh you know, somebody's gotta be there to help raise the child This work is only done by those born from above who are new creatures in Christ. And when that work is done and Jesus Christ comes again, his church lives with him in eternity as one body, one family, together. And to the extent that we honor and follow that, we'll be blessed, and godly men and women are prepared for service in the Church of God. Question. I'm single. How do I go about finding a spouse? Well, that's a common question. Well, let me give you Brother Vince's big tip that I have found in observing this over the years. Get busy in doing your Lord's work and He'll provide what you need. If she is a help meet, a helper for you, and look at this from God's perspective. He saved you. Jesus says, pray that the Lord of harvests send forth laborers into his harvest. The field is right into harvest. He needs laborers, right? I've really found that to be the case. I've really found that the Church of God really isn't short on money. They're not short on real estate. Too many churches have become real estate holding companies. They got a lot of property. You know, they're property rich and people poor. Jesus isn't kidding. He needs laborers in the vineyard. Right? Send forth laborers in the harvest. So if you get busy doing the Lord's work and God sees, you know, he's pretty productive, I think he needs some help. Well give him some help. You got a guy who's not laboring, he's kinda playing his video games and day, well he's not busy, he obviously doesn't need any help. He don't need any help, but why should I give him a help meet? So I'll give you an example. There's a brother I know in San Diego. Short, rotund, kind individual, nearly blind. faithfully go out every weekend uh on saturdays early in the morning put two or three tables five or six boxes of tracks put it on a motor portable cart, hauled it out to uh uh the uh park, Balboa Park in uh San Diego. Big international crowd flows through it, tracks in twenty different languages And he would set it up, big old banners of wrath, who has warned you to flee from the wraths to come, and you know, just this great big banner. And for years he did this. And one day A short little Filipino woman walks up there, says, Oh, this is great, grabs one of his tracks and goes, runs back to her pastor and says, is this good stuff? Oh yeah, it's good. And she goes back and she starts talking. Make a long story short, they got married So here he is in the midst of the evangelism field. He's not looking for a wife. He's looking for somebody to hand a track out to him. God says, good work, here's a wife for you. Classic story. Isn't that beautiful? Oh, he's beautiful. They're a great couple. I saw them when I went back there. Wonderful story. So, uh but those who are just pining away and just wondering and you know, gee, I gotta I gotta find a cure for this pornography problem I've got, you got the wrong you you gonna have to you have gotta cut that off first and get busy with doing what the Lord wants you to do That's just what I've observed. It seems to be consistent with what I find in the scriptures, so I'll offer that up. Alright. We'll close out there and hope that was give you some things to chew on. If you want a copy of the notes, happy to give them. Let's uh close and pray a day, would you mind close this and prayer? Thank you