Passages with me this morning. First of all to 1 John chapter 3, where we've been studying, but also to Genesis chapter 4. 1 John chapter 3 and Genesis chapter 4. We're going to consider both a Old Testament and a New Testament passage. So I'll let you have time to find one and then put your finger in the other so that you'll have both passages for our scripture reading. But we'll begin first of all with 1 John chapter 3. And from in 1 John chapter 3, we'll read verses 11 through 13, and then we'll go to Genesis chapter 4. Genesis 4 is the easier one to find, isn't it? It's always easy to find those chapters right in the beginning of our Bibles. 1 John chapter 3, and I'll read verse 11, 12, and 13. For this is the message that ye have heard from the beginning. That we should love one another, not as Cain, who was of that wicked one, and slew his brother. And wherefore slew he him? Because his own works were evil, and his brothers righteous. Marvel not, my brethren, if the world hates you. Then let's flip over to Genesis chapter 4. And there I'll read the first ten verses of the fourth chapter of Genesis. Genesis chapter 4. And Adam knew Eve, his wife, and she conceived and bare Cain, and said, I have gotten a man from the Lord. And she again bare his brother Abel. And Abel was a keeper of sheep, but Cain was a tiller of the ground. And in the process of time it came to pass that Cain brought of the fruit of the ground an offering unto the Lord. And Abel he also brought of the firstlings of his flock and of the fat thereof And the Lord had respect unto Abel and to his offering, but unto Cain and his offering he had not respect. And Cain was very wroth, and his countenance fell. And the Lord said unto Cain, Why art thou wroth, and why is thy countenance fallen? If thou doest well, shalt thou not be accepted. And if thou doest not well, sin lieth at the door. And unto thee shall be his desire, and thou shalt rule over him. And Cain talked with Abel, his brother. And it came to pass when they were in the field that Cain rose up against Abel, his brother, and slew him. And the Lord said unto Cain, Where is Abel, thy brother? And he said, I know not. Am I my brother's keeper? And he said, What hast thou done? The voice of thy brother's blood crieth unto me from the ground. Let's bow for prayer as we begin this morning. Our gracious, kind, and loving Heavenly Father, we thank you that you are the God of all things. You are the God of all mankind. You are the God who made the wicked who rebel against you. You are the God who made these bodies in which we dwell. You are the God who breathed into Adam the breath of life, and he became a living soul. Lord, we are in this world, but we are not of this world. And Father, we find this morning this text that I plead that you would implant upon our hearts. Marvel not if the world hates you. Bless your word to our hearts today, we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. We've been going through this book of 1 John, and I hope the study has been a blessing to your heart. I can tell you without a doubt it's been a blessing to mine. I am thoroughly enjoying this study. Last week we went through verse 10. of the chapter. And I deliberately kind of left the last phrase of the verse off. We didn't really cover it because I wanted to look at that this week. But if you have your place back in 1 John again, and you may want to keep your finger in both or stick a Bible marker in Genesis, because we'll be referring back to Genesis throughout the message. But if you look at verse 10 of chapter 3 of 1 John, it says, In this, the children of God are manifest, and the children of the devil, whosoever doeth not righteousness, is not of God. neither he that loveth not his brother. In verse 10, we have a very clear definition of a man who is not a believer. Of a man who is not a child of God. The man who does not do righteously is not of God. And the man who does not love his brother is not of God. Now I have um four or five books of sermon illustrations And uh I don't say this to brag or anything like that, but I don't think I've opened them in a dozen years or more Because the best sermon illustrations are the sermon illustrations that the Bible gives us. You know, and certainly I bring in things from outside different times, but the Bible explains itself. And we have been looking in 1 John of all these verses about loving the brethren and how we're to love the brethren and why we're to love the brethren, and the man who doesn't love the brethren isn't one of the brethren. But then we have the story of Cain thrown right in here. And we've been focusing on love, and all of a sudden it's talking about hate, isn't it? Now, many times the best way to understand a positive is to take a look at the negative. To take a look at the other side. And so here we have in verse 11, this is the message that we've had from the beginning, that we should love one another, not as Cain. Not in the example that Cain gave us. Cain did not give us a good example. This is the message that ye heard from the beginning. What is this message? Well, Leviticus 19, verse 18: Thou shalt not avenge nor bear any grudge against the children of thy people. But thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself. I am the Lord. And the Lord in that verse is capital L, capital O, capital R, capital G. In other words, God says, thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself. I am Yahweh. I am Josh. Jehovah. I am the word which was in the beginning. I am the creator God. I am your ruler. I am your maker. I am your owner. I am your boss. Listen to what I say. We looked a few weeks ago at Matthew 22, where Christ is questioned Which is the first and greatest commandment. And he says the first and greatest commandment is thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, with all thy soul, with all thy mind, and with all thy strength. And then he says, And the second is like unto it Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself. And there in Matthew, Christ gives us a very brief and succinct Summary of all of the law of God. Love the Lord thy God with all thy heart. Love thy neighbor as thyself. Now, our text this morning, there in verse 11, says that this is the message that we heard from the beginning. What is the history here? Well, God created Adam and Eve. God created Adam first, and then he took a rib from Adam, and from that rib he created Eve. God gave Adam and Eve two sons, Cain and Abel, and Cain murdered Abel. That's the beginning. That is the foundation of all things. Before creation, there was nothing If you're going to be with us this afternoon at the at the assisted living, we're going to consider the book of John in chapter one. In the beginning was the Lagos. In the beginning was the Word. The Word was with God, and the Word was God. The same was in the beginning with God, and all things were even made by Him. And without Him was not anything made that was made. And we talked in Sunday school this morning. That great text in the beginning, God. And you know what? That's all of God's word that we had. It says it all, doesn't it? In the beginning. God. If you don't believe that one fact, you're not a child of God. But we read there in Genesis chapter 4 and verse 8. That Cain talked with his brother, and it came to pass that when they were in the field, that Cain rose up against Abel, his brother. And slew him. And coming back to 1 John 3, and we're looking at verse 12, were not to love as Cain. who was of that wicked one and slew his brother. You see, my friend, there is a dividing line through all of humanity. There is a division among all mankind. It's not a dividing line of gender or age. It's not a dividing line of race or culture, not a dividing line of mighty or weak. Not a dividing line of wealth or poverty. It's a dividing line between the sheep and the goats. It's a dividing line between the wheat and the tares. It's a dividing line between the children of God and the reprobates And here we find these two firstmore men born, which ironically They may have actually been twins. We don't know for sure. But you'll notice it said there in Genesis 4 that Adam knew his wife and He bare tain. And then it says, And she bare again, and bare Abel But then when you go down later in the chapter, when Seth is born, it says again that Adam knew his wife and she bore Seth. And though we cannot absolutely prove it, There does not seem to be another conception in between Cain and Abel. They may well have even been twins, born the same day, sharing the same birthday And scientific and biological studies have shown the connection between twins who have shared the same womb for nine months. And we know identical twins, and we've all heard accounts of twins who just think alike And they may later in life be separated by miles apart, and yet their thinking is the same. They like the same kind of clothes. They like the same kind of food. There is that connection between twins I say that twins are inseparable. But here, Cain rose up against Abel and slew him. killed him. The followers of, or should we say, the children of Satan hate the children of God. But why do the followers of Satan hate the children of God? Is it because they don't like the cars we drive? Because they don't like our sports team. Because we have a bigger house. What is it that makes this dichotomy between the children of God? We find that Abel kill or that Cain killed Abel because he was of the wicked one. We're going to look at that a little bit later on. What is it about the Christian? Verse 14, Marvanataka or 13, Marvanak the world hates you. What is it about the Christian? That the world and Satan hates. Well, again, the Bible is its best explanation. Why did Cain hate Abel? Because Abel brought an acceptable sacrifice to his God. And Cain refused to bring that sacrifice. And so he hated them. Why did Esau hate Jacob? Esau hated Jacob because Esau had no care or respect for the things of God. Esau was the oldest. The birthright belonged to the oldest. But Esau cared nothing for his birthright. He sold his birthright for some pottage, for a bowl of meat soup. He didn't care about the birthright. But why did the birthright go to the firstborn son? Because God declared that all the firstborn are mine. That declaration would come after the account of Jacob and Esau. And yet it was a principle throughout the Word of God: the firstborn belonged to me. That birthright was the sign of God's blessing. It was given to Joseph, not To Judah. But Esau, he cared nothing about God. He cared nothing for God's blessing. He didn't want the things of God. And he hated his brother. Why? Because his brother did. Because his brother cherished the birthright. It's all about God, folks. And in Hebrews we find out that the ultimate failing of Esau was a failing of grace. I'll read it to you. Hebrews chapter 12. Verses fifteen and sixteen in in part, not reading the whole verses. But verse fifteen, looking diligently lest any man fail of the grace of God, lest there be any fornicator or profane person as Esau, who for a morsel of meat Sold his birthright. And the context of those verses is a man that fails of grace, and then his examples of how men fail of grace. They're fornicators, they're adulterers. And they don't love the things of God. They sell their birthright for a pot of a meat of pot uh pot of meat, I'll say it right. And young people, this isn't the message for this morning, but just somebody make a comment while we're talking about selling your birthright. You have a birthright from God. There is a purpose that God has for your life, and you can sell it very easily. You can destroy that blessing that God has for you by your own sin, by your own rebellion. by your own failure to submit yourselves to the grace, mercy, and ownership of God. Be careful, young people. Be careful what you do today, because what you do today could destroy the blessing that God has. for tomorrow. How easy it is to sell a birthright for some little bowl of soup right now because you're hungry without looking to the future Why did Joseph's brothers hate him? Because God gave Joseph a dream that Joseph would be the one blessed, and his brothers hated him for it. Why was Elijah hated? Well, because Elijah opposed the prophets of Baal. He opposed Satan's prophets. Why was Daniel hated? Because Daniel would not bow and pray to the king. Why were Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego hated? Because they would not bow down to the king's image. You see, why does the world hate us? Because of our God. Not because of what we do. Not because of who we are, but because we love. And so Cain rose up against Abel, his brother, and slew him. He killed him. He murdered him. He snuffed out the light that God had given. And the root word of that word that we had slew here in 1 John. The root of that word means to slaughter. It means to put to death with violence And that same word, slew, is a word that is used for the slaughtering of animals. They would bring the sheep in and they would slit the throat. And that's the idea behind this. And amazingly, fascinatingly, gloriously, in the book of Revelation, this same word that we find slew here in 1 John is used three times. For Jesus Christ. He was the Lamb slain before the foundation of the world. The same, same word. He was slain for us. Worthy is a lamb that was slain to receive honor and power. He was put to death with violence. He was slain with malice and hatred. It's the same word. We also find this same word for slew used in Revelation chapter 6 and verse 9. And they opened the fifth seal, and I saw under the altar the souls of them that were slain for the word of God and for the testimony which they held. The same word that was used of Abel, the same word that was used of Christ is used of the martyrs. You see, Abel was the first martyr. He was the first one to die because of his faith in God. He was the first one to die, a martyr. We read there in Revelation 6 and verse 9 that they were slain for the word of God. God gave his commandment as the sacrifice. God told Cain, Cain, if you do well, you'll be accepted. But Cain would not obey the word of God. The sacrifice that Abel brought What was it? Well, it was the firstling of his flock and the fat thereof. What was significant about the sacrifice that Abel brought to God? It was the last It looked forward to Jesus Christ. We read there in Genesis 4 and verse 1 that when uh or verse 2, excuse me, that when Eve bare Cain, she said, I've gotten a man from the Lord, and it appears that she may have thought when Cain was born that this was the promise, this was the Messiah, the seed which would brood the serpent's head. But the sacrifice was instituted, and the lambs were slain, the bullets and the goats were sacrificed for centuries, but all looking to Jesus. Notice also the responsibility that God requires of Cain for his brother Abel. In verse 9 of Genesis 4, And the Lord said unto Cain, Where is Abel thy brother? And he said, I know not. Am I my brother's keeper? Where's your brother? Where's Abel? I don't know. Liar. He knew exactly. He knew exactly where Abel was. Because Abel hadn't moved since he left him. The truth was, Cain was his brother's keeper. Cain did have responsible to Abel. Cain was responsible to take care of his brother. Cain was responsible to love his brother. And that brings us right back to our context and why this illustration from Genesis was given to us in John 3. You see, the man that doth not righteousness. is not of God, and the man who does not love his brother is not of God either. Not as Cain. Who slew his brother. The blood of thy brother cries to me from the dying Does God ever ask a question because he needs information? Does God ever ask a question because there's something he does not know? Because there's some piece of knowledge that he is seeking. No, the questions that God asks are not for God's information, they are for God's rebuke upon the wicked. Even upon his own children. What dost thou hear, Elijah? What are you doing? I didn't tell you to be here. Where is your brother, Cain? He that hides his sin shall not prosper. How the wicked like to hide their sin. We read in Proverbs that the wicked are like the adulterous woman that wipeth her mouth and saith, I've done no evil. Where's your brother, Cain? I don't know. Am I my brother's keeper? Absolutely you are. I know where he is, King. Because his blood speaks to me. His blood cries to me from the dust. Just as we find in Revelation 6, the martyrs below the altar, and their blood cries out, and they cry, how long, how long You are your brother's keeper. And it's amazing how closely this account of Cain, who was the son of Adam and yet was the son of Satan. It's closely how much he rememb resembles his father. Now I am frequently told that I look like my father. And I take that as a as a great compliment when I'm told that. But you can you can often tell the son by the father Or you see the sun and yeah, I know whose kid that is. I I see his dad all over his face In John chapter 8 and verse 44, the gospel of John, ye are of your father the devil, and the lust of your father ye will do. He was a murderer from the beginning, and abode not in the truth. Because there is no truth in him when he speaketh a lie, he speaketh of his own, for he is a liar and the father of it. You're the father, you're a father of the devil, and the less of your father you would do. He was a murderer from the beginning. You see, Satan was the first murderer. He murdered all mankind. In the Garden of Eden he gave the poison which killed all of mankind And Satan is a liar. And so Cain murdered his brother Abel and then lied about it. Why is it that Cain killed his brother Abel? Why did he kill his brother Abel? Well, we find that he was of the wicked one. He was of the devil. Satan was his father, 1 John 3 and verse 12. Because his own work be um because he wa sorry not as Cain, who was of that wicked one Cain killed his brother because his own works were evil. Think about that. Cain killed Abel because Cain's own works were evil. Let your light so shine before men, that they may see your good works and glorify your Father which is in heaven, but don't expect the world to love you for it. You see, this is the condemnation: that light is coming to the world, and men loved darkness rather than light. Man loves his darkness. He by nature will not love your light. We are to let our light so shine before men that they may see our good works, not that they're ours, it's his working in us. And that the glory may go to our Father which is in heaven, but the man who will not recite, will not submit himself to the glory of God and the rulership of God, he will see no glory in our works. Because he sees no glory in our Father. And therefore the world hates us. Cain hated Abel because Abel was righteous. Abel was murdered for doing what Cain should have done. What should Cain have done? He should have brought a lamb for sacrifice Rather than his own works, rather than his own pride, rather than his own methods, he should have submitted himself to the blood of the coming Messiah. But he refused. He would not. And therefore he hated the children of God. Marvel not, my brethren, if the world hates you. The world will not love you for taking a stand against evil. The world will not love you for taking a stand against sin. The world will not love you for opposing the corruption of this age. The world will not love you when you stand on the Word of God. The world will not love you when you proclaim the truth of God. It's my body. I can do with it what I want to. No, you can't. It's not a child, it's it's just a tumor growing inside of me. I can kill it if I want to, murderer No, you can't. The blood of that infant cries to me from the dust. Am I the baby's mother? Yes. Yes, you are. Huh. I can marry who I want to marry. You can't tell me that that my lifestyle is sin. You can't put that on your sign. You see, my friend, if we take a stand for truth, if we stand on what the Word of God says, the world will hate us. But we've got to stand. You see, it is not okay to sin That's what the world believes. The world knows that there is right and wrong. The world just doesn't care. The world knows that there is right or wrong. The world just says God doesn't mind. And you know what? A lot of Christians say the same thing. God doesn't really care about this. Or that. It's not okay to sin. We read in 1 Peter 3, verses 15 through 17. I'll read the verses for you But sanctify the Lord God in your hearts, and be ready always to give an answer to every man that asketh you a reason of the hope that is within you with meekness and fear, having a good conscience But whereas they speak evil of you as evildoers, they may be ashamed that falsely accuse your good conversation in Christ. For it is better, if the will of God so be, that ye suffer for well-doing than for evil. Ah, my friend, it is better for us as the children of God to be hated. It is better for us to suffer for well doing. than to go along with the things of the world. And so Cain killed his brother because he was of the evil one. Cain killed his brother because his own works were evil, and Cain killed his brother because Abel's works were righteous. Because Abel submitted himself to the will of God. Psalm 37, verse 12, the wicked plotteth against the just and gnasheth upon him with his teeth. The same Psalm in verse 32, the wicked watcheth the righteous and seeketh to slay him. Marvel not, my brethren, if the world hate you. Does the world hate you? Think about that. Let that sink in for a moment. Does the world hate you? Now we're not going around poking people in the eyes, trying to make them hate us. But at the same time, we cannot tolerate sin. We cannot stand by silent. In the face of iniquity and sin, we're told to cry out against this wicked and perverse generation. We're told to let our light so shine. We're not trying to make people hate us. We're trying to make people love our God. But if they will not love our God, they will hate us. And if they don't hate us, maybe we're not trying. Maybe our light's not shining. Maybe we're not doing our job. Maybe we're not loving our God. Because I looked very briefly at that list of people in the Bible, which was certainly not exhaustive, who were hated by the world because they loved their God. Marvel not that the world hates you. Turn over with me to the Gospel of John. You can lose your finger there in Genesis now. We won't be going back to that passage. But turn with me to the Gospel of John as we try to tie all this together and and then make some application. Matthew, Mark, Luke, John, the Gospel in chapter 15. And I'd like to look at just a few verses from that chapter. John chapter 15 and verse 12, the commandment that we've seen over and over again as we've been studying this Gospel of John. This is my commandment. That you love one another as I have loved you. Verse seventeen. These things I command you that you love one another. It's repeated again, isn't it? Maybe it's important. Verse eighteen if the world hate you, ye know that it hated me before it hated you. You see, if the world crucified our Savior, should we expect anything less? If the world hated our Savior, should we be surprised if the world hate us also? If the world rejected our Savior, He came unto His own, and His own received Him not, should we be surprised if the world is unaccepting of us? Verse 19, still in John 15, if ye were of the world, the world would love his own. Does the world love you? If you were of the world, the world would love his own, but because ye are not of the world, but I have chosen you out of the world, therefore the world hateth you. Remember the words that I said unto you, the servant is not greater than his Lord. If they have persecuted me, they will persecute you. If they have kept my sayings, they will keep yours also. But all these things will they do unto you for my name's sake. See the point there? All these things will do because of Christ. Because of His Testimony. Why do we oppose abortion? Because God's law says it's murder. Why do we oppose homosexuality? Because God's law says they ought to be stoned. You see, these aren't arbitrary things that we've come up with. These aren't some things that we say because we think we're better than somebody, or because we think we're more righteous than somebody, or more holy. No, it's the law of God, it's his word. And we must stand upon the word of God. 1 Peter 4 and verse 12, Beloved, think it not strange concerning the fiery trial which is to try you, as though some strange thing happened unto you. Oh, why do they hate me? What did I ever do to him? He loved Christ. But rejoice insomuch as ye are partakers of Christ's sufferings, that when his glory shall be revealed, this is still in 1 Peter four. That when his glory shall be revealed. Ye may be glad with exceeding joy. If ye be reproached for the name of Christ, happy are ye! For the Spirit of glory and of God resteth upon you. On their part he is evil spoken of, but on our part he is glorified. Let's make a few applications. First of all, it is not us that they hate, it is our God. We've already said this, but we need to emphasize it over. And over again. When the world hates us, it's not us they're hating, it is our God. Secondly, it is not our morals that they hate, it is the law of God that they hate. It's not our morals. Our morals are not our own. I'm an immoral man. I'm a sinner. By God's grace, I've been saved, I've been washed, I've been cleansed, I've been purified. And if there's anything good about my walk, it's that which the Spirit does within me. But the old man is still there. There's none righteous. No, not one. It's not us that they hate, it's our God. It's not our morals that they hate. It's the law of our God. Giving into the world, number three, will not make the world love you. Giving in on the morals. What if we just stop talking about abortion? Will the world suddenly love us? No, they still hate our God. What if we just give up on social issues and say, well, that's the way the world's going, there's nothing we can do about it. We're going to sit here in our little auditorium and have our wonderful services day by day and not say a word. Will the world suddenly love us and be beaten down our doors to get in? No, they hate our God. You see, the world hates our God, and that's the problem. Giving into the world never works. Samson tried it. The Philistines still poked out his eyes and made him grind in the mill. Balaam tried it. It didn't work out very well for him either. And you can go through numerous illustrations in the Word of God where people gave into the world and their condition didn't get any better. It only. got worse. Let us stand therefore. And having done all to stand But Pastor, they're heating that furnace up seven times than it's ever been heated before. They haven't fed the lions in weeks. Marvel not if the world hates you. You see, giving into the world is what Satan tried to do to Christ. Fall down and worship me, and I will give you all the kingdoms of the world. Thou shalt worship the Lord thy God. Number four. If the world is okay with us, then we are not okay with God. You see, if the world accepts us, if the world thinks he's a pretty good guy Then our light's not shining. Our testimony is not there. If our gospel be hid, it is hidden in them that are lost. If the world is okay with you, then you're not okay with God. And then finally, The world may hate us because of our Father, but our Father always loves us. The world will despise the child of God, but God the Father loves his children. So who cares if the world hates us? Ultimately, what difference does it make? Yes, we may live a pretty rough life here for 70 years, being hated by the world. But this world's not our home. In my father's house are many mansions. If it were not so, I would have told you, I go to prepare a place for the wicked No! I go to prepare a place for you, and if I go and prepare a place for you, I will come again and receive you unto myself, that where I am, there ye may be also, and you know what, there won't be one of the wicked there. All the haters of God will be in hell. And so marvel not if the world hates you. Take comfort in the fact that your Father loves you. Let us stand for prayer. Father, we thank you for your word today. We thank you for the great truths. Lord, give us grace, Father. God, we're afraid. Oh Lord, we confess before you that we are fearful. Father, for the furnace is heated seven times hotter, and the lions haven't been fed in weeks. And Lord, the roaring lion walketh about seeking whom he may devour. God, give us grace. For Lord, it would be so easy for us to give in. It would be so so much more comfortable for us now to sell our birthright for a bowl of soup. Rather than taking a stand for truth and righteousness. Father, bless us here at Pilgrim. Bless this little congregation. Father, the forces of evil are all around us. We see them in our county, we see them in our state and in our nation and in our world. God, give us grace to stand. Make us strong in thee. May we not be weary in well-doing. Lord, may we not care that the world hates us. But Lord, instead may we love you with all of our heart, soul, mind, and strength. May we love our neighbor as ourself, for we are your children. We are the brethren of Jesus Christ. He is our elder brother. Bless us, your people. that we may stand for truth and righteousness in this wicked day. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.