Expository and we're uh doing a topical this morning of have you turn to the book of John, John fifteen, and we're looking at just two verses. In John fifteen, verses twelve and thirteen. Follow with me as we read those verses. Verse 12, this is my commandment that you love one another as I have loved you. Greater love hath no man than this. That a man lay down his life for his friends. Army PFC, Bob, I hope you caught that, not Marine. Army PSC Ross McGuinness from Knox, Pennsylvania, was perched in his gunner's hatch on his Humvee in Iraq. When a grenade came sailing through the air, just missing him in the head, sailed past him and landed inside his Humvee, where his four buddies were huddled. Ross McGuinness had time to bail out of the Humbee. He was right there at the door hatch But his buddies were inside, and so Ross chose to fall on the grenade, and he saved all of them All four of their lives. This Friday, President Bush award the Congressional Medal of Honor to his family Who gave so much, laid down his life, as it mentions here in this verse, for his friends. On Memorial Day, we remember those who have given much and some who have given their all to God. and or country, General George Patton said, do not just mourn for the men who died on Memorial Day, but rather rejoice and thank God that such men ever lived. In the Old Testament we read of those that would mourn at the passing of great men. When Jacob yielded up the ghost, even the Egyptians mourned for him. Three score and ten days, seventy days they mourned at the death of Jacob in Genesis 49. Verse 33 through Genesis 50 and verse 4. We read again that when Moses died, that the children of Israel wept for Moses 30 days. Deuteronomy 34. Verses five through eight. And even the body of King Saul and the bodies of his sons, which included Jonathan of great man of God. When they buried them, they fasted seven days, 1 Samuel 31, verses 12 through 13. Seventy days, thirty days, seven days. Today we set aside only one day. As a memorial, to mourn and to rejoice that God gave us such men who would lay down their lives for their friends. The fact that we only worship, or rather, the fact that we only set aside one day's memorial perhaps speaks to the fact that we no longer appreciate that God is still blessing us with men. Willing to sacrifice for others. It is a wonder with what is going on in this country and its attitude towards prayer and Bible reading that God is still blessing us with men willing to lay down their lives. Scripture tells us that God's people were to remember others who had stood. Scripture tells us they had to remember and that they were to rejoice. And we find how they did rejoice over those that when granted the right To fight, and when successful in the fight, to preserve God's people, who worship the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, if the people were to remember that, and we read of that in the feast of Purim. Two days every year, we read in Esther 9, 27 and 28. Two days every year should you remember and kept throughout every generation, never to be forgotten. Those days of Purim should not fail, nor the memory of them perish from their seed. It was a great great day for them, a great day of rejoicing, when Esther, through the encouragement of Mordecai, got the permission of the king for them to arm themselves and defend themselves to the death if need And when they were given that permission, that liberty to fight to the death, to defend themselves, it says the people they rejoiced over that. And they were told never to forget that day and those days. When they did what they were granted to do, they fought and they preserved the people of God. America's Memorial Day reminds us of the men who were also willing to stand. and to fight and to defend the people of God in this nation. To preserve, as it were, this republic. That's right, I didn't say democracy. We are and we're not, we were never formed as a democracy. For those of you who went to public school, I'm one of them. I was taught that we lived in a democracy that our founding fathers created a democracy, but our founding fathers wanted the people to have as much liberty as possible And so they founded a constitutional republic. That's why you pledge allegiance to the republic for which it stands. You do not pledge allegiance to the democracy for which the flag stands. And in the Constitution, it says in Article 4 and Section 4 that given to the states are the rights to govern as a republic. The word democracy is never even mentioned. in the Constitution of the United States, but the word republic form of government is. Liberty was best granted to those people whose form of government was republic. You know the story of Benjamin Franklin? He came out of the conferences when they were forming our government and they said, What have we got? A monarchy? Will George Washington be our king? And it was recorded, No, George Washington. Why won't he be our king? Because George Washington was Ford just said, America already has a king in Jesus Christ. And so they jettisoned the idea of a monarchy And so when Benjamin Franklin came out and said, well, we haven't got a monarchy, have we got an aristocracy? What have we got? A democracy? What have we got? And Benjamin Franklin was was saying at said at that time, we have a republic. if you can keep it. And people said to him, what's the difference between a democracy and a republic? And he explained it this way. In a democracy, you have two wolves and a sheep, and they vote for what they're going to eat for dinner. That's a democracy. Two wolves and a sheep voting what we're going to have for dinner. In a republic, the sheep is well armed and can contest the vote of the wolves. That should be an easy way to remember the difference between democracy and a republic. A democracy did not give the liberty, the Bill of Rights, freedom of religion. Freedom to arm the public against an aggressive government. Patrick Henry also said It cannot be stressed too strongly, he said, or too often, that this great nation was founded not by religionists or deists, but by Christians. It was not founded on some religious pretext, but on the gospel of Jesus Christ, said Patrick Henry. You were taught that in the public school system, weren't you? In the New Testament, we read that devout men carried Stephen to his burial and made great lamentation over him in acts. Acts 8 and verse 2. Do you remember the story of Stephen? How he waxed eloquently about the Old Testament and all that God had done in the Old Testament? And now how it tied in with what Christ had done as he had come and what God was now doing among the Jews. And it was a wonderful story. And it was a beautiful truth And they stoned him for it, Paul holding her garments and encouraging the stoning of this man Stephen. But devout men, so Paul was not one of the devout men at that time. The devout men carried Stephen to his burial and made great lamentations over him. We have talked of the mourning of Jacob for 70 days, the mourning for Moses for 30 days, and now the great lamentations over Stephen. It stands out that these men like Moses and Jacob and Stephen were men that Israel believed they could not well afford to lose. America has lost some great men, have we not? We ought to be concerned where this country is headed today. And if we'll ever see another president in our lifetime like President Ronald Reagan. I'm older than probably most of you here, but not older than all of you here. It's the best present I've ever seen. If you knew nothing about Ronald Reagan but this one quote. You might understand why I feel that way. Ronald Reagan said, Within the covers of the Bible are all the answers for all the problems that men face. Would I love to have a present like that in November? Is it not worrisome to you this morning? That there was no great lamentation in this country, there was no mourning for seventy or thirty or seven days, there were no flags flown or half mass from our government buildings when D. James Kennedy died and Jerry Falkland will die, does that not worrisome to you? If God's hand is not poised for revival in this country, and I suspect In fact, it's not. I pray that it is poised for the rescue and the catching away of his church. Because we are in sad shape. On this memorial day, few seem aware of God's hand in the many historical battles for the soul of our country. For the souls of God's people as well. Even Benjamin Franklin, questionable whether he ever got saved or not, but even Benjamin Franklin saw God's hand in the struggles during the American Revolution. Benjamin Franklin said, the longer I live, the more convincing proofs I see of this truth: that God governs in the affairs of man. He saw the sovereignty of God, God in control. He says, God governs in the affairs of men. He was even a saved man, and he understood that God was in control. And if a sparrow cannot fall to the ground without his notice, Not even a sparrow. Is it probable that an empire can rise without his aid? Benjamin Franklin, again, questionable whether he was a saved man in his latter days, but he said this also. He who shall introduce into public affairs the principles of primitive Christianity He who will introduce into the public affairs the principles of primitive Christianity will change the face of the world. And it was a face that Franklin wanted changed. George Washington Another fine president, the father of our country, who we ought to remember on this memorial day, said he had so frequently witnessed God's intervention on the battlefield They wrote Thomas Nelson. Some of you probably have a Thomas Nelson Bible, a relative. He wrote them in 1778. The hand of Providence. Has been so conspicuous in all of this that he must be worse than an infidel that lacks faith in a God that exists. First Timothy four six tells us that we are to put our brethren in remembrance. of these things. And when you read Timothy it talks about all the things that took place in the Old Testament and things that were taking place in the days of Christ. First Timothy four six says we are to put our brethren in remembrance of Second Timothy says, put our brethren in remembrance of these things. Second Peter says, put our brethren in remembrance of these things. We are concentrated to remind our brethren of those who sacrificed in the past. For the souls of men. And in Jude chapter 1 and verse 5, again we're told to put our brethren in remembrance of these things. Put you in remembrance how the Lord having saved the people out of Egypt, Jude says in chapter 1 and verse 5. We had to remember how God saved the people. And it doesn't stop there. We go on to verse 15, and Jude says, and behold, there's another thing you need to remember. Remember That God is coming again to save his people. Behold, the Lord cometh with 10,000 of his saints to execute judgment And to convince all that are ungodly of their ungodly deeds and of all their speeches which ungodly sinners have spoken against him. God is coming to get a hold of the ungodly and to deal them. And so as we are to remember how we saved the Jews out of Egypt, we ought to also remember that someday God is coming to save His remnant, his elect, his sheep, out of an ungodly world. On this memorial day, I would encourage you to remember and rejoice. Not only will God save the Jews out of Egypt. And now how God is going to save this ungodly world someday, his remnant out of it. But on this memorial day I'd have you remember, to keep in remembrance, brethren, how the Lord also Saved you. On Memorial Day, that might be something to think about. To think about the day that the Lord saved you. And to think about the afflictions that followed you as you were faithful as a newborn saint in the Lord. To think about those things. Now you might think that's an odd thought on Memorial Day. But the scripture actually instructs us, as an encouragement, to do just that in the book of Hebrews. The writer of Hebrews chapter 10, 32 through 35, says says this. Call to remembrance the former days in which after you were illuminated In which you were enlightened, in which you were called out of darkness. The writer of Hebrews says called to remembrance the former days. It ought to be on a memorial day, something that you call to remembrance, the former days in which after you were illuminated. Ye endured reproaches and afflictions, knowing in yourself that you have in heaven a great reward. We're to think about that. We're to call to remembrance The day that we were saved, illuminated, and what God has in store for us Tomorrow is the actual day that we celebrate, Memorial Day. It's a day that some will visit Valley Forge up here in Pennsylvania. It's a day that some will remember the Alamo. Texas. Some will gather at Gettysburg. Some will gather at Pearl Harbor. Some will gather at the Twin Towers in New York. But may we not overlook the most important battle that was ever fought. It was fought at Golgotha. For our souls. On Memorial Day that ought not to escape. For Paul and Peter, uh they're right here. That we should keep the brethren in remembrance of of these things. And so on Memorial Day we ought to be thinking about Golgotha. I know only one died there But that one who died there, it hardly expresses the ferocity of the battle. It hardly expresses the cost of the conflict. Because in that firefight, and it was a firefight of all firefights, he who died was the king of kings, the Alpha and the Omega, the Creator, the Everlasting Father, the Redeemer of mankind. It was a costly battle in which only one died, but oh the one that died Our communion service this morning, it is in fact a memorial service. Remembering Greater love had no man than this that Christ Jesus laid down his life, not just for his friends, but for his friends. enemies for sinners. It's quite a memorial, our communion service. It commemorates Christ's death and his victory over death in a notable manner. The communion service is a part of our marching orders. Do you realize that? The communion service is actually a part. If we're Christian soldiers, are we saying onward Christian soldiers marching on to war? Our marching orders are to have a communion Service. Christ said, this do in remembrance of me on Memorial Day. How can we not remember what Christ has done? How can we not do what He's asked us to do? This do in remembrance of me, Luke 22. 1 Corinthians 11 and 24. How often it is observed varies from church to church and fellowship to fellowship. But that we are to observe it. It is our marching orders until he comes, is clear in the scriptures 1 Corinthians 11, 26. For as often as you eat this bread and drink this cup, you do show forth the Lord's death till He comes. Till he comes. We have been given the marching orders to have a memorial service, a communion service, in remembrance of him Him and on this memorial day, that's what we are gathering to do. I would ask if our elder and the men that I spoke to earlier before the service would come forward to distribute the elements, please. At this time, our elder, Dr. Bob, will read the charge to the congregation. First Corinthians chapter 11. Wherefore whosoever shall eat this bread and drink this cup of the Lord unworthinely shall be guilty of the body and the blood of the Lord. So let a man examine himself and let him eat of that bread and drink of that cup. For he that eateth and drinketh unworthily eateth and drinketh damnation to himself, not discerning the Lord Father. For this cause many are weak and sickly among you, and many sleep. For if we Would judge ourselves, we should not be just. But when we are just if we are chastened of the Lord