Gunnery Sergeant Dan Daly, that name is probably only familiar to Dale Price. He won the Congressional Medal Honor twice. He's most famous for his quote in Bellow Woods in nineteen eighteen We fought in Bellow Woods with a casualties of the Marines 80% casualties in Bellow Woods. It was the battle in 1918 at Bellow Woods in which the Marines took such heavy casualties that they'd be given they were given the name by the Germans. They called them devil dogs. They wouldn't stop coming. They were so tenacious And Gunnery Sergeant Dan Dane was there at Bellow Woods, and they saw through it that the Germans suffered their first defeat in World War I. He did not win the Congressional Medal of Honor for that. Eighty percent casuals. He won two congressional honors in previous battles in different wars. The war in China and the wars in Haiti But in Bellow Woods he became most famous not for his Congressional Medal of Honors but for these words as he told the men, eighty percent candidates in Bellow Woods, he looked around as men For a final charge, or maybe it was one of the initial charges, I'm not sure. But he told his mother, all the cows, he said, What do you want to do? Live forever? Let's go! And they followed him into a firestorm And today he's remembering that. What do you want to do? Live forever? I could ask you that the same today. Do you want to live forever? And trust in the words and and the Savior of the Lord Jesus Christ for your sins to be cleansed in his blood if you want to live forever. Another memorial is recorded Joshua, we read it this morning in Exodus, how he discomforted Amalek and his people with the edge of the sword, and the Lord said, Write this, Joshua, in a book, for a memorial in a book, and rehearse it in the ears. For I will utterly put out of remembrance Amalek from under the heavens, Exodus 17, 13, and 14. Now you may not know much about Amalek unless you read your Bible. In fact, if you don't read your Bible Bible, you'll probably know nothing about Amalek because God said, I will put them out of remembrance forever. There are archaeologists who snidly say the Bible's an error here because we We've never found anything archaeologically, we've never found any running that proves that Amalek and his people never even existed It says he would put them out of remembrance forever. They think because they found no relics or artifacts to prove they ever existed that the Bible is wrong, but the Bible said, I will wipe them out, their remembrance forever. The fact that they can't find any particular relics that totally and securely identifies Amalek and the people of Amalekites of existing Proves the Bible. This memorial was to be recorded and rehearsed. And so we record it and mention it today. Joshua was a spiritual warrior. Another spiritual warrior in the United States Army was General George Washington. And they said, write this on his And if you'd been down there to his home in the Washington DC area, if you'd been there at all, it's written on his tomb, go back there and visit. It's a Bible verse in John chapter 11 and verse 25, which says, and if you ever doubt our founding fathers are Christians, read this Bible verse. It says, I am the resurrection and the life. He that believeth in me, though he were dead, yet shall he live. On the first President of the United States, United States Commanding General of the Continental Army, President George Washington, has the verse about the resurrection of Christ and that we must might live also. Boy, that's a memorial. Engraved in stone, worth driving all the way down there to his home to see And there was Pontius Pilate he wanted something recorded. He didn't realize it would be recorded for all posterity and it would be a memorial, but Pontius Pilate said He said, write this over the cross. Jesus of Nazareth, King of the Jews. John 19 and 19. It's almost 2,000 years, and we're still reading. That title of Christ as a memorial that he's not only king of the Jews. We know as we read further, he's king of kings and lord of lords, savior, redeem. The lily of the valley, the rose of Sherod, the Lamb of God, the great shepherd, our Redeemer And then we continue to exodus we find uh other memorials. Uh we told the high priest to engrave the two stones that sat on the shoulders of the of the uh High priest, the names of the children of Israel, the twelve tribes, the twelve names, put the two stones upon the shoulders of the Ethi. Priest would wear for the stones of memorial. The stones had the names engraved of the twelve tribes of Israel, the children of Israel engraved, and he carried the burden of the children on his shoulders, as every high priest did. As every pastor does and as every good Christian does, you carry the burden. We are to bear one another's burdens. Colonel David Hackworth, United States Army, you know Rob should be here, he'd love all this. Army's getting their due, Air Force is getting their due today. Colonel David Hackford, United States Army, probably in our lifetime, uh outside of Audie uh Murphy. Or Audie Murray, that's Audie Murphy Audi Murphy. Most decorated most decorated man alive or was alive till a few years ago, I tend to funeral Colonel David Hackworth. He carried not so much on his shoulders but on his chest ninety one ribbons. He fought in three wars, Second World War Korea and V Vietnam, the most decorated man, nominated for the Medal of Honor three times. One is still pending, though he is now dead. Actually threw himself on a grenade at one point. The grenade went off and he survived. In Korea and went on to fight in Vietnam. The guy, Colonel Hackwood, unbelievable man, Medal of Honor, nominated three times, ten silver stars, eight bronze stars, distinguished service cross. Twice award, the Army's second highest award, eight purple hearts. Colonel Tackwood. How do you live through eight purple hearts and three wars? He's buried at Arlington. That was there where he was buried. The stones cry out, don't they? As a memorial to those who gave their lives. Sometimes in the scriptures And we pick up on what the scriptures do with memorials in stone and and we do it for our loved ones as well today You go through Arlington Cemetery or any cemetery and you you note one thing. It is a memorial that testifies to the fact that the wages of S Sin is death. And if you're at Arlington Cemetery with all these military men are dead, you realize the wages of sin, death, is waiting for the bravest and the most decorated. They will die too God has left us other store memorials. Petrified wood Stony fossils of animals that were buried in the Noag flood, fossilized and turned to stone. This this tells that when you look at the petrified wood and the catastrophicness of the explosion of earthquakes and volcanoes and the flood and and the tsunamis and the tidal west I mean that was a horrendous time in the days of Noah when the floods came and the fossils were created and The petrified wood it tells when we look at the stones, the stone fossils of animals that they discover all the time, of dinosaur, trienosaurus, rex, it talks about the death and destruction that sin brought upon this world In stone, fossilized, dead. Whereby the world that was then being overflowed with water perished, Peter says in 2 Peter 3. 6 We also note that when Joshua was crossing the Jordan River, he had him collect stones and place them in the middle of the middle of the Jordan River. He said, well they're not going to see it. When the water parts, you place the stones there and the water comes back and they get on the other side and they'll never see it. Jordan is often a dry season and you'll see the stones They piled up the stones there in the middle of the Jordan. And he says, when the children say, What mean by these stones? Joshua 4, verses 6 and 7, answer your children and say, This commemorates in memorial, in remembrance of the day the waters of Jordan. were cut off from before the Ark of the Covenant or the Ark of God. When it passed over the Jordan. That is when the Ark of the Covenant was carried over Jordan. You read the story, it says as soon as a priest's feet touched the water the Jordan the water party and they walked across carrying an ark and a covenant with the ten commandments inside the air and brought it with the buddy inside They carry that article across, sharing it on top of covering the back of the state, they carry it across, and then Joshua had them as he was directed place of stones In the middle of the river, to commemorate in memory, in memorial, what God had done in stone. We as a Christian nation pick up on that. So we have stone tombstones with Bible verses on them. He is risen, asleep with Jesus. You go through the tomb, you see Bible verses. They say if you collect on all the Bible Verses and all the tombstones of the world, you could pretty much put the whole Bible back together again. See, they can't just destroy our Bible, they're gonna have to knock down all the tombstones too You go through Washington, D. C. , it's Bible verses on the Department of Treasure, Bible verses on Union Station, down where the trains come in, Bible verses are in the Library of Congress in gold gilt, by the way Bible verses, they say the Department of Agriculture, I mean they're everywhere down there. No, the recent Congress and Senate did not put forth money for those Bible verses, but our founding fathers and our early leaders This country did pay for it with tax dollars. And so this idea of stone and place in memory and to commemorate Uh we picked up on it not only in the tombstones, but if you're in the United States Air Force Academy in Colorado when you enter into the mess hall or what they call the dining room Where you would eat every day while you're going to the office of school. There's a large stone outside. I've not seen it, but I know there are our brother here, Mr. Pine Pike has rather. He was there as an officer in training. And uh you're re you're supposed to salute the stone because it represents Lance Captain Lance Or first captain, shot down during the Vietnam War, tortured unbelievably, received the Congressional Medal of Honor. Numerous times he tried to escape, and there was a point at which he he couldn't even walk anymore. And he was he was malnutrition and he was weak and he'd already he'd he'd uh I don't know if they died or not, but one of his escape attempts he knew he was a black belt and karate and he had taken out a couple of guards And they beat him so severely when he was finally caught, they brought him back. And now they weren't feeding him. The way they fed him was was mixed in with the with buffalo dung from out in the rice fields, and he's he's suffering so horribly. Diarrhea, he's wasting away, and the men have to carry him out to the latrine that he can no longer walk to the outhouse that they had there for him. Last words to his men as they carried him out, which earned him in rest of honor. He was such an encouragement to the men in prison His last words they carried him out on the train because he couldn't walk anywhere. He was down under 100 pounds. His last words have meant to carry him was I thought You salute the stone in front of Salt, United States Air Force, the Colorado Springs, Colorado. Message on the rock which encouraged every Air Force officer There's always been a rock of some side or symbol of some side immemorial. Even when Lot came out of Sodom or the Sodomites and tried to assault the angels. God brought him and his wife, the daughters out, and the wife, she missed her home in Sodom. She missed her friends in Sodom. She was told not to turn back, not to look back, and she did, and she turned into a pillar of stone I don't believe that pillar of s or rather stone of salt is still there. I don't believe that pillar of salt is still there, but when you're over there in Israel, uh they'll point out to you this pillar that looks something like a woman maybe. It's stone, it's not salt. There's probably salt in it. It's a salty area. But there she almost like a pillar Turn the stone that we might remember not to look back at the sins of Sodom. And how can we ever neglect as we go through this on Sunday morning? The tomb of Christ, there was a stone rolled away from the tomb. Not that Christ could escape or get out or be revived. He was Resurrected. The stone wasn't rolled away, so Christ could get back out and take off somewhere, leave the disciples somewhere planned beforehand before he died. He redied, he was really resurrected. The stone was rolled away Aside that guards and all the world would see that Christ was no longer there. Not to have him escape. He could walk through walls As he does when he visits the disciples later on. He was out of the tomb before the stone was ever rolled away. But the rolled away stone in memory, in remembrance of the proof That the tomb was empty. Keep two days every year. These days of Purim should not fail. That was when the uh Mordecai, his his people, he goes on to Essa and said, uh Haman wants us all killed He's gotten permission that they can kill all the Jews and and we we've got to do something and and he asked Esther to go talk to the king which was her husband and she said I if I go without being invited, I can be put to death. He said, You are appointed for this time of God, you've got to go to talk to him. And she does. And the king The king allows the Jews to defend themselves and they defend themselves in a marvelous way and they celebrate two days every year called the days of Affirmed. It says, keep the two days every year. These days affirmed. Should not fail, nor the memorial of them perish. And to this day The Jews still keep in remembrance of what God did in the days of Esther and Mordecai. The providential preservation of God's people is spoken of in the story of Esther and we look around and say, and we still have the Jews and their people preserved in our midst today. And we we like to use stones, don't we, to commemorate. As I mentioned earlier. Oriol Ballpark on thirty third Street Had a memorial up there in stone. It read, Dedicated as memorial to all who so violently fought in the wars for this is our eternal our eternal gratitude to those who made the supreme sacrifice sacrifice to preserve equality and freedom throughout the world. Time will not dim the glory of their days. How many of you ever saw that on 33rd Street? It's not there anymore Within a couple of months of 9-11, 2001, Governor Glenn Denny and Mayor Martin O'Malley allowed it to be stripped off and torn down with the Russian the stadium. We were told they're going to carry out the stadium and leave the memorial there because after all the memorial has been dedicated to the men who valiantly fought for freedom and this was to be there. Preserved. Preserved. And that did not be dimmed the glory that these men gave in those deeds. And within three months of 9-11, our governor and mayor Some of you may remember how the old, old Willie Don, Mayor Donald Schaefer fought against the governor and the mayor. And Willie Don was a Democrat, and so were these governors. He fought against them and he lost. Reminds us of when the Roman Empire tore down the temple in Jerusalem block by block, stone by stone. As Christ said predicted, that not a stone will be left. And the temple was destroyed. Do you know what was kept in that temple? According to Zechariah 6 and 14, the crown shall be for a memorial in the temple of the Lord. The king's crown Maybe King David's crown was there and Hezekiah's. The crowns were kept in that temple as a memorial. And the memorial was destroyed by the Romans in about 70 A. D. Memorials all through Scripture, memorials around our land. Memorials are of a religious nature. And more to the point, the earliest ones pointed to the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. We note in Matthew 26 and 13, the woman that came and came to his feet, she washed his feet. And Christ said, Worseover the gospel is preached in the whole world, also this that this woman hath done. Be it told, Christ said, for a memorial of her So every once in a while when we preach the gospel, we've got to bring this up too. Because Christ told us to. Wherever we preach the gospel, we ought to talk about what she had done. And washing his feet. On this Memorial Day, I would ask you: have you done anything for the Lord that others will speak, ever talk about, or write about what you've done? As Christ talked about this woman who washed his feet What have you done for the Lord? What will people say at your memorial service you've done for the Lord? What will they remember you for? In remembrance of you. Rather than that, what do we in remembrance of Christ and his memory do for him? What would be said of you I kept his word. I kept his word. Hid it in my heart. I might not sin against thee. Let's pray. Father, we thank you this day That there are still things worthy of memorials, not nearly as worthy as the Lord Jesus Christ, but as an example of a memorial for Christ, and we have communion service, and we talk We do not want to forget those who are soldiers of the cross, soldiers of Christ, who some of them martyred their life as missionaries and laid down their lives for thee, Lord. May their these memories be strong in our hearts. We're approaching the 500th year anniversary of Martin Luther nailing the theses on the Wittenberg Wall. Oh Lord. There are plenty of good Christian-based memorials. We don't want to forget them. We want to remember them. But a nation of forgetting A nation that forgets Christ will soon forget their fallen missionaries They're fallen saints like Luther. And so, Lord, may we not forget this day. May we do this in remembrance. The Memorial Day today. May it not just be about soldiers. May it be about the Lord Jesus. Jesus Christ. And may we continue to do it in remembrance of Him from time to time, the Lord's Supper, the Memorial Service. It's in Christ's name we pray. Amen.