He committed almost up to the end of his life and others as well. And so this morning I want you to look at Hebrews 11. Just three verses. Hebrews 11 and uh verses 32 through 34 We're going to be concentrating on three individuals mentioned there that may not be as familiar to you, and we'll try to uh familiarize on this Memorial Day, these uh great uh soldiers of combat. Uh and a memorial today we want to remember them for having fought for their country, for Israel, as our men today are out there uh fighting for our And he's coming to a conclusion. And he says, And what shall I more say? For the time would not fail me to tell of Gideon and of Barak and of Samson and of Jephthah and of David also and Samuel and of the prophets Who through faith subdued kingdoms, wrought righteousness, obtained promises, stopped the mouths of lions Quench the violence of fire, escape the edge of the sword. Out of weakness, we're made strong. Waxed valiant in fight, turned to flight the armies of the aliens. And so as you're reading through this hall of faith, you're And you're getting a little bit of a story about Abel and how he offered onto God a more excellent sacrifice and how Abram uh received the promise and his wife too. And you get a little bit of an idea of their stories. When he comes to men like Datha Jephthah rather and Gideon and Barak, he's all time doesn't permit. I wish I had more time to tell you. And so this morning I want to take time. Where the writer of Hebrews and talk to you. And Jephthah. And time will fail me this morning as well, but I want to spend some time with them. And if you were to look back in Judges, where you find the stories of these three men, in Judges 11, we find that the Spirit of the Lord came on Jephthah. And if you're looking Judges 6, you find the Spirit of the Lord came upon Gideon. Judges 6 and 34. And so we know that these men were moved because it was the Spirit of God that was involved in the great combative experiences. But there's nothing like when we read about the Lord Jesus Christ who fought the ultimate battle Fought the automatic battle for far more outreaching effects. It didn't just take care of Israel for that day and for that age, but took care of all the believers for all the ages forever And we read there that the Spirit of the Lord didn't just come upon Christ, but we read in John chapter 1, 32 and 33, the Spirit descended from heaven like a dove, and it abode upon him, remaining on him. So different from Jephthah, so different from Gideon and Barak, where the Spirit of the Lord came upon them for a time and then was gone again, but was on them during the battle. But with Christ that says the Spirit descended upon Christ And it abode upon him, it rested upon him, it dwelt within him, it tabernacled with him, remaining on him. For he had a far greater battle to face, and a far more wicked foe. In those verses we read in Hebrews, it talks about these three men and how they waxed valiant in fight. In fact, we read in Judges 11, verses 1 and 29, that Jephthah, he was a mighty man of valor. And perhaps he could have been, for in speaking with the Lord as he did, he was confident in the coming conflict. He was confident of the victory. And so he was a mighty man of valor. Gideon, we read in Judges 6, not only did he wax valiant in fight, but says of Gideon That he was a mighty man of valor. And so Gideon could have been and should have been, for the Spirit of the Lord rested upon him, and he too, in talking with God, was confident In the coming conflict, God had said to him, I'm going to give you this victory, and you only need three hundred men against the thousands. And he said, How do I know that this is really going to happen? He said, Put a fleece on the floor, and in the morning there'll be dew only on the fleece. and the ground will be dry as a bone. And the next morning Gideon wakes up and he grabs a fleece and he wrings out a bucket of water. But the ground is dry. God, I'm still not sure. I'm still not confident. Can you send me another sign? He says, sure. Lay the fleece out again. Tomorrow morning, the ground will be wet with dew and the fleece will be dry As a bone. And it was. And so here's here's Gideon. He's a man that he's he's the spirit of the Lord is upon him, and he's gonna wax valiant and fight. But of course he's gonna wax, he is confident of the outcome. God has given him every sign you could ever ask for. He's confident in the conflict. And Barack was the same. Confident in the conflict. But the Lord Jesus Christ. You want to talk about being waxing valiant in fight? You want to talk about bravery and courage or courageousness? What did it say of Christ about the conflict? It says in Matthew 20 and 18, you shall go up to Jerusalem, son of man. You shall be betrayed, condemned. Put to death. Mocked. Scourged. And crucified. That's not something you're told that gives you confidence in the coming conflict, is it? And so knowing that he'd be mocked, scourged, betrayed, and crucified and killed That's not what Jeffeth was told. That's not what Barack was told or getting. But that's what Christ knew was gonna happen. And so now you want to see someone who's mighty in valor. It's someone who knows that in the conflict he's gonna be scourged. Crucified and killed. That's real valor. That's real uh waxing valor. That's a real man of of valor. And on this memorial day, when we think about the great men who died for our country here. And of uh uh Nathan Hale and others who gave their life for this country and and we go through all the different wars. We've got Christ here. And some of those men thought they would survive or they might not survive But they were doing what they wanted to do, as Bill Freeman said in his note this morning. I'm doing what I love to do, fighting for my country. And these men had done that, and they were confident of the victory, and they were confident of the coming conflict. But Christ knew that he would die And that makes him far more valiant. That makes him far more a man mighty in valor than anyone else ever in history. Christ is always preempt. They may have the Spirit of the Lord. It abodes on him. It remains on him. They may be mighty men of valor. He is the mighty man of valor. Hebrews continues and says, out of weakness they were made strong. If you read the story of Barak, God has spoken to Barak, he wants Barak to go down. and he wants him to fight the enemies of God. He wants them out there doing this and he's afraid to go. He's weak. Deborah finally calls him to her, and Deborah the prophetess uh who is judging Israel, she says, God has told you and you haven't gone, and why haven't you gone? And are you gonna go or aren't you gonna go? And Barak says, Well If you go with me, you know, he is weak, and yet in the battle Barak is strong, has a great victory, becomes a mighty man of valor. But it says here, out of weakness was made strong. And he was made strong. The Spirit of the Lord came upon him. Jeff the great man of battle. Read in Judges 11, verse 3. Great man. And yet in Judges 11, 3, we find in his story, and for those who are not familiar with it, there was a man who had a a wife and he also had a wife. a mistress or a harlot, a prostitute. And one day the harlot or prostitute she became with child and that child's name was Jephthah And he tried to raise Jephthah in a household with his wife and the other sons, and as he got older they said, This man Jephthah, he's he's a half-breed. He's only a uh he's a he's a he's a half-brother, and he came from a harlot, and we don't and the the older brothers drove him out that he would not have an inheritance. So Jephthah had this reputation of being afraid of his brothers and fleeing, and of course he was born of a harlot. And so he wasn't what you call a courageous individual. He was rather weak when he fled from his brothers. And yet when the Spirit of the Lord came upon Jephthah, he rose up and was a mighty man of valor. But like Barak, there was a time when he was weak. There was a time when he couldn't fight. Gideon, wow, remember Gideon? He takes on all these individuals. He takes on all the Midianites with only 300. What a mighty man of valor, what a courageous man. He surely he wasn't a man of weakness and became strong. God says you got too many. Drop that down from 10,000. I went down to 300 men. And remember the story how they lapped the water, or they they lapped the water, the river, and those that picked the water up for hands and drink were chosen 300 out of the thousands. He said you're going to go down there the many nights. Only 300. That's a mighty man of valor. When was there ever time when he showed weakness? Well He was afraid to go too. You read originally in Judges 6 and verse 11, where did God find Gideon? When God sent the angel of the Lord to Gideon, it said he was by the wine press. He was threshing the grain. And it says he was threshing the grain by the wine press because he was hiding. It said he hid there that the Midianites might not find him, threshing the grain. So he said He's down there by a wine press hiding it. He's he's a frady cat. He is he's a man of weakness. And when God comes and tells him the things he wants him to do, he uh first God says, I want you to destroy the the temple or the altar of Baal that your father has Has set up. It's not gonna make daddy happy. But I want you to destroy the Baal temple at the Baal altar. I want you to destroy the groves that are built around Baal, and I want you to set up an altar to me. And Gideon says, here's God talking to him. And Gideon says, okay. But I'm gonna do it at night when nobody's around. And that's what he does. It says, In weakness they became strong. We have to recognize that God takes weak people. And when the Spirit of the Lord comes upon them, He raises up and makes them might. Mighty men of valor. Was the Lord Jesus Christ week? When you consider he was deity, when you consider he was God, when you consider he was And the throne with all the angels bowing down and praying before him and with adulation and with worship. He was the most powerful thing ever. I mean, he created the heavens and the earth. How could you ever say Christ was weak But the triumphant God had had a plan, and in that plan they sent him down here in the fragile, frail flesh of a baby. That's pretty weak. In the flesh. Very weak. He came in the frail flesh as a carpenter. Now when you see Barak, Barak he's got ten thousand soldiers out there with him. He goes into battle. And when we see uh uh Jeff Jepha, when he goes into battle, he's got the whole army of the Gileadites with him. And when we see uh Gideon going into battle, he's got 300 men with him. But when Christ goes into battle, he's all by himself. The preeminence of Christ. The preeminence of Christ. Yes, Barak took on, you know, uh He he took on the Canaanites and and yes, Gideon, Gideon he took on the Midianites and Jephthah, yes, he he took on uh The uh Ammonites and you know they all took on these large nations, these large bodies. But the Lord Jesus Christ, He took on the principalities and the powers and the rulers of darkness Far more innumerable. In fact, we read in uh Psalm 40 and verse 12, the innumerable evils that encompass him about. We have no idea how many fallen angels are, how many demons are but Psalms tells us they are innumerable. That's a larger uh enemy than Gideon took on or Jephthah took on or Barak took on And Christ took on the largest enemy in the entire world. Larger, probably larger than the Chinese army or the Russian army. And he took it on not with 300, not with 10,000. He took it on Obayan. himself, the preeminence of Christ. On Memorial Day, to think what Christ did on his in his own, on his own. He took on and then who he took on, he didn't just take on an army from Russia, an army from China, or from the Ammonites, or the Gileadite, uh, or the Ephraimites, or he took on The principalities. He took on the powers and the rulers of darkness. He took on the spiritual wickedness in high places. He took on the king of terrors, we read in Job 18 and 14. He took on Lucifer himself and all his minions. He fought unaccompanied. Nobody had his back. Nobody had his six. And his battle required supernatural courage and strength beyond all precedence or imagination. nation. You can go back to the Old Testament, the New Testament. You will not find anyone who needed the supernatural strength like he needed. Yes, Samson needed supernatural strength when he had the jawbone. And he killed a thousand Philistines. But nobody, but they're fighting flesh. They're fighting flesh and blood. Christ was fighting Lucifer Himself and all his minions, myriads and myriads of fallen angels. And no one's got his back. No one's there to help him. No one's there to sustain him. The preeminence of Christ that out of weakness was made strong. Verses thirty-three and thirty-four of that Hebrew said that these men, Jephthah, Barak, and Gideon, subdued kingdoms, and so they did. Jephthah subdued the Ammonites. Gideon subdued the Midianites, Barak subdued the Canaanites. They did. They subdued kingdoms, and they turned to flight the armies of the aliens. And so they did. Judges 11. Uh in Judges 12 we read of Jephthah, turning the enemies of the Ammonites to flight. And the Gideon, he did the same thing. It says that his three hundred men killed a hundred and twelve thousand. Now how do three hundred men kill a hundred and twelve thousand? Well you have to read the story. But in Judges 6 it's pretty interesting that when Gideon came down to the hill that night with the with the with the torches and uh they broke the vessel the torches were hidden in, and all of a sudden these 120 some thousand of these men, the enemies were surrounded by Gideon, and all they heard was the sword of the Lord, the sword of Gideon. And they panicked. And instead they began running back and forth, and they began swinging the sword, they began fighting above the sword They didn't trust anybody. It was in the dark, and they thought everyone they saw was the enemy. And they actually ended up slaughtering themselves, 120,000 of them They did. They subdued kingdoms. They turned to flight the armies of the aliens. 300 of Gideon's men slaughtered 112,000. And Barak, he smote the Canaanites. And Barak had a sizable army. It wasn't as large as the Canaanites. But you ought to read Judges 5 and verse 8 to find out what he was up against. You see, when the Canaanites ruled in the days of Barak, there was weapon control. There was gun control, as it were. No one was allowed to have a spear. No one was allowed to have bows and arrows. No one was allowed to have knives. Nobody was allowed to have any kind of weapons. In fact, we read in Judges 5 and verse 8 that it says there wasn't a shield, not even a shield, or a spear. seen among 40,000 in Israel. He went down, and you read that story and you read the commentaries. He took on the Canaanites with hose and rapes. And plowshares. They didn't have weapons. They didn't have swords and spears. They just took them on, as valiant men can do when the Spirit of the Lord comes upon them. And so they subdued kingdoms. They turned to flight the armies of the aliens. But Christ, he didn't fight Canaanites. Ammonites. He fought the devil and his demons. We read in Matthew 17, 18 that Jesus Christ rebuked the devil and he departed. Get thee hence, Satan, we read in Matthew 4. 11, and the devil leaveth him. Even the devils are subject unto him through thy name, we read in Luke 10 and 17. There wasn't a larger, more powerful kingdom or army of aliens to subdue than Satan's spiritual kingdom. There wasn't a larger enemy. There wasn't a more powerful enemy. And Christ subdued Satan's spiritual kingdom. Turn to flight the armies of the aliens. There's nothing more alien than a demon. There's nothing more alien than Satan and his dominions. In verse 33, we read in Hebrews that, and they wrought righteousness. Was Jephthah a righteous man? Was Barak and Gideon? According to Scripture, they were. Jephthah had made a vow with God. He said, Lord, I'm going to go out There he was talking to the Lord, praying to God, righteous man who wrought righteousness. He's I'm gonna go out and fight and Lord when I come back. The person that meets me out of my house, I don't know if the other dog was come out and greet him Or the pet cat, or I don't know what he expected to come up. He said, Whatever comes out, I'm going to offer that up as a sacrifice to you. And he comes back. Not so man. He wants a sacrifice on the God. He's praying to God. He's talking to God. He wrought righteousness by coming out of the house after the Battle was his own daughter. And he wept that his daughter was whom he was going to sacrifice. Now, all the commentators say he did not sacrifice his daughter on a burnt offering Offering on the fire. If you read the rest of the story, uh he put her aside. That makes you a sanctified object. We are set aside, set apart from the world. We are sanctified. And he set her aside, she was never to marry. And it says how he she said, Father, whatever thou hast promised God, I will abide by it. It says that she went out for two months for their father's permission. Let me have two months to lament my virginity. I will never marry, and then you may sequester me or cloister me or set me aside as a sanctified object for God. Was Jephthah a righteous man? Did he He wrought righteousness, he wrought in the daughter's in his own daughter's heart, a love for God and the willing to set her life aside for whatever God wanted. In her life. She followed her father. You know, young children here? You think you're saved? See if you can follow your parents the way this daughter did. Father, whatever you promise God, that I will do That's a saved boy or girl. And he was a righteous man who wrought righteous in the heart of his own daughter. What a godly spirit. He wrought righteousness. There's no question about that. He raised a righteous daughter. Barak at the end of the battle and the war was over and he got no credit, you know. He was told if you go with Deborah, you're not going to get credit for the victory. You're not going to get credit for the battle. You should have gone out on your own Barak, but you're going to You're not. You got this woman that's going to be leading out with you and going with you. You're not going to get any credit at all for the victory. But you go ahead anyway. And Barak then, when he comes back, he did not get credit for the victory. Scripture says he did not. The victory went to another woman. It wasn't Deborah, but another woman, JL, who was her name, but you'd have to read the story to know all of happened there. But the man got no credit for the victory And yet was he a righteous man, a godly man. We read in Judges 5, that at the beginning of that chapter, that thus sang Barak. He got no credit for the victory, but thus sang Barak, saying, Praise ye the Lord for the avenging of Israel. I get no credit for the battle. I risk my life. Alma was killed numerous times today. And this girl gets all the credit. But praise ye the Lord. That's a righteous man. They wrought righteousness. But who is more righteous? Who gets supremess when it comes to righteousness? Christ is hanging on the cross. Down below, his mother Mary does not call him the most righteous thing that ever existed. John, the only disciple not to flee, does not call the most righteous thing that ever uh departed or ever that that ever lived. No. From the lips of the man who drove the nails into his hands The man who conducted the whole crucifixion, the centurion, says he glorified God, saying of Christ Certainly this was a righteous man. Now, when your enemy, when the man is putting you to death while you're still dying, calls you a righteous man, that far, far outweighs the righteousness of Jephthah Barad That centurion in Luke 23 and 47 said certainly this was a Righteous man. And John the beloved in 1 John 2 1 says Christ Jesus the righteous. He Jephthah was a righteous man. Barak was a righteous man. They wrought righteousness. Giddy was a righteous man, but Jesus Christ was righteousness incarnate. He had a righteousness that he could impute to others, and he does that when he saves us. There's none of us here who are really righteous. We sin We repeatedly sin. We do things that shame ourselves, shame our families sometimes. We repent, we ask God to forgive us, but we know from Scripture that we have no inert righteousness. We're not born with it innocentness. Or with an inert righteousness. The only righteousness we have that will get us into heaven is if Christ has imputed, put his righteousness in our souls, in our spirits. And God sees that on the day that we die. When we approach heaven, he doesn't weigh out the good and the bad things we've done. He looks to see if Christ is in our heart. He looks to see if the righteousness of Christ has been imputed to us, that all the good that Christ has done, that it is our, that we claim his goodness to cover our sins. And so he was not just a righteous man, and Christ was, but he was righteousness incarnate When you read the stories of these men, Japheth, Barak, and Gideon, and the Hebrew writer says time would fail me to tell, I'm trying to tell you some of these things. Read of Gideon in Judges 8 and 28, that after the battles it says, and the country was in quietness, quietness forty years. In the days of Gideon. After that battle, everything wouldn't you love to have America not be in a battle for forty years? We haven't seen that, have we? We've gone from World War One to World War Two to Korea to Vietnam to Granada to Panama to Iraq. Back to Afghanistan, back to Iraq. We haven't had forty years of peace anywhere, have we? We haven't had a man of valor. We haven't had a spirit of the Lord come upon someone and wreak such with such violence and such destruction against the enemy that nobody would touch this country for 40 years. Wow. But when Gideon finished the battle, it says, and Israel was in quietness forty years. It says of Barak that after the battle, though he got no credit for it, the woman did instead. Judges 5:31, and the land had rest for forty years. Wow Where are men like that today? Where are leaders like that today? Where are men of God like that today that know how to fight? David said, I praise God, you've taught my fingers how to make war. How to hold the rock in the sling, how to hold the string of the bow in my hands, how to direct the air. He said, I thank God you taught my fingers how to make war. You know, we got soldiers out there, they know how to make war, but the leaders won't allow them to fight The way they are so well trained to do that they could just polish off the enemy so quickly and so sharply that no one would touch this country for 40 years. But that's when the Spirit of the Lord moved on a nation and on a people and on those who governed. And so we have Jephthah 40 years, Barak 40 years, but the preeminence always goes to Christ. He's the soldier's soldier. He's the warrior's warrior. He's the victory. He's the man who gets all the victories. And we read of Christ. Come unto me, all ye that labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest, and you shall find rest unto your souls. That lasts more than 40 years. That's forever. That's forever. See the preeminence of Christ's immemorial. And the Israelites did through men like Jephthah and through Barak and Gideon. They were given the promised land. That's what Israel is called even today. It's called the promised land. And that was promised to Abraham first. The promised land, a land that would flow with milk and honey. Deuteronomy 6 and 3. But what Christ has for us, what God has promised us through Christ, again, preeminence of what we the promises through Christ, or so much more. God has promised a city whose buter and maker is God. We read that in Hebrews eleven. A city whose builder and maker is God. What would a city like that be? What would it be like to have a city whose builder and maker is God? I'll bet you there wouldn't be any traffic jams. I'll bet you all the red lights and green lights would be so synchronized that everybody would just be moving right along, wouldn't it? I bet there wouldn't be any broken water mains shutting down sections of the town once in a while, would there? I bet there wouldn't be any government corruption. I don't think there I know there wouldn't be any crime, there wouldn't be any sickness, there wouldn't be any death, there wouldn't be any cloudy days at all. He's promised as a city whose builder and maker is God He's also promised us a new heaven, a new earth, wherein dwelleth righteousness, second Peter three and thirteen. And where there is no night there, we read Revelation twenty-one and twenty-five. The promises of Christ are far greater than the promises that Abraham had. Or that Barak secured and Jephthah and Gideon secured. He has promised us also, I will not leave you comfortless. John 14 and 18. Well, some of us have been there where you felt you weren't very comfortable. You prayed and you wept and you cried and you prayed some more. And some of you can tell us, just when I thought, he would leave me comfortless He brought me up out of the depths and out of the valleys. He promises us he'll send the comforter, the Holy Spirit. He's promised that the dead shall be raised incorruptible. 1 Corinthians 15. fifty two. He's promised that even the Gentiles would become fellow heirs and partakers of the promises of Christ by the gospel, Ephesians three six. You go back and read the Old Testament and you're halfway through the New Testament you realize all these promises are for the Jews. All these promises are for the Israelites. Is there anything there for the Gentiles? And it really, although Christ uh gives us an idea of yes, I'm there for the Gentiles as well as other sheep have I or not of this fold, and yet it's not the Apostle Paul begins to preach and takes the minute. Through the Gentiles, and we realized that the promises in Scripture were for us Gentiles as well. Greater promises than were ever given to Abraham. Abraham, that the Gentiles should be fellow heirs of heaven, a promise of life which is in Christ Jesus, 2 Timothy 1 1. For he hath promised us eternal life, 1 John 2 and 25. Everything is better under Christ. More spirit upon him, mightier man of valor in Christ, puts the armies uh to and the aliens to shame and turns them to flight. Christ does it better Wrought righteousness, obtained promises. The story of Jephthah and the daughter. Like I say, the the commentators they all they all argue about whether she really was given up as a burnt offering or not. It seems that she was not, that the idea of a burnt offering being set aside before it is burnt She was set aside, sanctified, set aside for the Lord's work in such a way that she would never marry. She'd maintain her virginity all the life, the scripture says But it says something else, Judges 11, 39, and 40. It says, and it became the custom in Israel. That the daughters of Israel went yearly to lament the daughter of Jephthah the Gileadite four days in a year. Every year the daughters of Israel, the Jewish girls, whether they they were of the tribe of Dan or Judah or Benjamin or Ephraim, all the girls in all the twelve tribes of Israel, every year they set aside four days as a memorial to the daughter of Jephtha. Every year, four days in the year. It was their Memorial Day To commemorate what Jephthough had done and the daughter he had raised and the sacrifices she was willing to make, it was her Memorial Day But Christ is never to be outdone. For Christ that says, as often as ye eat this bread and drink this cup, ye do show forth the Lord's death until he comes. 1 Corinthians 11, 26. That's a memorial, isn't it? This do in remembrance of me, Luke 22, 19. It's the verse we have inscribed in the communion table. This do in remembrance of me, Luke 22 and 19. And Christ is never to be outdone, and so what we find about the memorial of Christ is that it's not just done yearly. It's not just done four days at a time, but it it's to be done at every meal. It it says here that as often as you eat this bread, every time you sit down in the morning and you break toast, you're having toast for breakfast, you're to you We want to break that bread without thinking about how Christ's body was broken for you. And when you are sitting there at lunchtime, you break out the peanut butter and jelly sandwich on bread. Again, you're breaking bread and you're rethinking about The Lord who crucified for your sins. And in your evening meal the same. It's done more than yearly, isn't it? Our memorial to Christ is done more than yearly. We are to remember his substitutionary sacrifice for us as well. Not just in the worship service like we do today, but every time we pick up a piece of bread. If you're breaking it and throwing it to the pigeons, you ought to be thinking about Christ's body broken for you. It says here that it became the custom. It was the custom in Israel. It's more than a custom with us, isn't it I trust it's more than just tradition with us. It's more than a custom. This is for the believers. This is the memorial service There's lots of memorial services held all over the country today for First World War II and Second World War and for Korean War. And far far be it from me to say we shouldn't have those memorial services. But this is the memorial service. It is the Lord's Supper. It is the precious time of communion with Him. And it should be our great delight to partake and to express that we are so grateful for Christ. Our Redeemer. Paul says Paul calls Christ our great God and our Savior. Titus 2. 13. That's something that I had to grasp when I became saved. I always thought of God the Father, God the Son, and God the Holy Spirit Holy Spirit and also God the Father, he was the top top boss, and then the Holy Spirit was you know he was he was in there pretty close and that the Lord Jesus Christ that that He was God's Son, but I never saw the equality of the Trinity till I got saved. That they're all co-equal. They're all God. And when Paul calls Jesus Christ my great God and Savior, I finally got it. Jesus Christ is not just uh a great man that God dwelt in. He was God who dwelt in the flesh. He was God. And we commemorate that. It's a memorial for us that our God. You talk to other people about their God, they say, oh, all of this and all of that. Buddha this and Buddha this. They say, what's your God done for you? Did Buddha ever do any miracles? Oh no. Did Allah ever do any miracles? Oh no. Did Mahalla ever do any miracles? Oh no. Oh well my God did miracles. Well, but but besides that, what else did your God do for you? My God died for me. Mean. No religion can say that except Christianity. And we commemorate it in a memorial service, not as a custom, but because we are so grateful and we are so thankful. Now if you are thankful and if you are grateful, we want you to try with us this morning. Don't be a member of this church. Your first time here. If you love the Lord, I'm not saying as Tim said this morning, have head knowledge of all the things he did. But if you truly love the Lord and are grateful and have asked him to cover your sins in his blood, we want you to you to partake this morning, not as a custom, but as a memorial for what our God has done for us. Not ask if the elders and those have been appointed to come up this morning. Morning, help us with the communion service this morning, please. Paul writes in Corinthians, Wherefore whosoever shall eat this bread and drink this cup of the Lord unworthily shall be guilty of the body and blood of the Lord. And I want to stress that. If you have not asked God to forgive you of sins, if you're not sure whether you're saved or not, He can he says here not to take it unworthily. Let every man examine himself and then eat and drink of the bread, for he that eateth and drinketh unworthily, eateth and drinketh damnation To himself, not discerning the Lord's body. And for this cause many are weak and sickly among you, and many sleep or are dead. Do not partake of it unworthily. But if you love the Lord and you love what He's done for you, we want you to partake of this. I'd ask if the men would distribute the bread. At this time to the congregation. And Pilate, when he had called together the chief priests and the rulers and the people, said unto them, You have brought this man unto me as one that perverted the people, and behold, I haven't examined him before you, and I have found No fault in this man touching those things whereof you accuse him. No, nor yet Herod, for I sent you to him, and lo, nothing worthy of death is done unto him. I will therefore chasten him and release him. For of necessity he must release one on them at the feast of Passover. But they cried out all at once, saying, Away with this man, and release unto us Barabbas, who for a certain sedition made in the city and for murder was cast into prison. And Pilate, therefore, willing to release Jesus, spake again to them. But they cried, saying, Crucify him, crucify him. And he said unto them, the third time, Why? What evil hath he done? I have found no cause of death in him. I will therefore chase him and let him go. And they were instant with loud voices, requiring that he might be crucified. And the voices of them and of the chief priests prevailed. And Pilate gave sentence that it should be as they required. And he released unto him that for sedition and murder was cast into prison, whom they desired. But he delivered Jesus to their will. We have a little girl in the back with someone with a broken arm. Not a bone of Christ's body that was broken. Not only on the cross. Do you realize for 33 years never How many men in here have ever broken a bone? Raise your hand. It's kind of hard to get through life as a young boy and not break a bone at some time or another. Not a bone in Christ's body was ever broken How many girls have had broken bones over the years? Moses break a bone at one time or another. But not a bone if his body was broken. That he it says was broken for us in other ways. We've had broken hearts, haven't we? We've had broken hearts bones we have broke his commandments and that we might go to heaven he paid the price for us by having his body broken for us because we broke his commandments. And if Christ's body was broken for you and the commandments you've broke over the lifetime and you've asked God you we ask you to Partake in the bread this morning with us. Now stand asks the blessing on the bread we've just eaten. Father, the wings our flesh is ever before our eyes. We understand that we are incapable of pleasing you. We're incapable of serving you We're capable of doing the things that you call us on to. And because of our weakness, we understand that we need help. There is another person that can help us. There's no one else that can help us that we can rely on. There's no help in our parents or in our children or our friends. The only help that we can have in order to serve you. And the only hope that we can have for salvation. is in you alone. We know that there is no other way, there's no other path, there's no other mediator, there's no other sacrifice that's sufficient to cleanse us from our sins. acknowledge the fact that when your body was broken and when you were hanging on the cross that it was being done for us and it was a plan that has been created For all of eternity. And you know your people. You know who you will save. You know who you will call. What a great thing it is to thank you for that. We acknowledge, Lord, that we are dependent upon you for this and we thank you for this opportunity, this memorial that we have that we might remember. For our minds are as weak as our bodies and we quickly forget, we quickly lose sight of things that are oftentimes very important. So we thank you, Lord, for this remembrance and we ask that we might keep you with us in our hearts and minds through this remembrance and that we might know that the salvation to broad is eternal and we'll be with you for eternity one day or another. We thank you Father for giving your son to be initiation. Body broke it for us, but we might call unto you and come unto you. Distribute the cup at this time. Kik, t And as they led him away, they laid hold upon one, Simon Isrenian, coming out of the country. And on him they sit, they laid the cross. That he might bear it after Jesus. There followed him a great company of people and of women, which also bewailed and lamented him And Jesus turning on them said, Daughters of Jerusalem, weep not for me, but weep for yourselves and for your children. For behold, the days are coming, in the which they shall say, Blessed are the barren, and the wombs that never bear, and the paps which never gave suck. Then shall they begin to say to the mountain, Fall on us, and to the hills, cover us. For if they do these things in a green tree, what shall be done in the dry? And there were two malefactors led with him to be put to death. And when they were come in the place which is called Calvary There they crucified him and the malefactors, one on the right and the other on the left. And then said Jesus, Father, Forgive them, for they know not what they do. And they parted as garments, and they cast lots, and the people stood beholding, and the rulers also with them Derided him, saying, he saved others. Let him save himself if he be Christ, the chosen of God. And the soldiers also mocked him, coming to him and offering him vinegar, and saying, If thou be the king of the Jews, save thyself. And a superscription also was written over him in letters of Greek and Latin and Hebrew. This is the King of the Jews. And one of the malefactors which were hanged railed on him saying, If thou be Christ, save thyself and us But the other answering rebuked him, saying, Dost not thou fear God, seeing that thou art in the same condemnation? We indeed justly died this way, for we've received the due reward of our deeds But this man hath done nothing amiss. And he said unto Jesus, Lord, remember me when thou comest into thy kingdom. And Jesus said unto him, Verily I say unto thee, today shalt thou be with me in paradise. They said today we're gonna go life of Barack, Jeff, Gideon. Christ always has preeminence. Look at the life of Jacob, wrestling with the angel Lord. We read that in acts where he's five was taken out of joint never to be quite right again to wrestle with the Lord. We're told to wrestle the Lord. We're told to pray to the Lord. We're told that you have not wrestled on the blood as yet. And you sometimes wonder what does that mean to wrestle the Lord on the blood? When Christ prayed in the garden that night, he wrestled and sweat as it were in great drops. of blood. He wrestled onto blood in prayer. Preempt in his prayer life as well, was he not? And he wrestled Great drops, as it were, blood falling to the ground. We hold our hands the cup in remembrance of the blood shed of Christ on the cross It can become a custom, a tradition, vain and repetitiously take it so much for granted. Some of you have knowing someone who is saved by a tiny blood transfusion. You know the life is in the blood. Some of you know someone's been saved by repeated blood transfusions. They used to use that, like maybe still do, chemotherapy. Not chemotherapy, leukemia. We know sometimes how they will take all your blood out and cleanse it and put it the back in your body. But we know that for all of medical science and modern science say that we haven't found the answer to all the diseases. We don't have all the cures yet. For what ails us as man sees it. But the blood of Christ cures you of everything that we need. This will give you a new body someday. A new life in heaven. This will give you eternity. This will give you a body that is not corruptible. It'll be an incorruptible body. of Christ cleanses you of all sins. It's more than just a timely transfusion. It's an eternal Eternal resurrection. We will be promised. We trust in the blood of Christ. This is the antidote. You think there's things that ail you today what really ails you is the results of sin. This is the antidote. And if you believe that, in faith we had you to drink from this cup this morning In memory, in symbol, symbol, Isaac, the blood that was shed for him. And he says, drink ye all of it. I'd ask our deacon Larry would ask for the blessing on the partaking of the cup this morning. Our Heavenly Father, it is indeed properly proper that we should remember the price that you paid, Father, on Calvary, and that today and every day that you get the preeminence with our Lord of all. And we remember, Lord, how you did sweat, as it were, great drops of blood at Gethsemane, and how you were buffeted Lord, all the way to the cross, Lord. And yet you set your face like a flint, seeing into the future, Lord, those that you would call out, even as to this day. And so we stand here, Lord, remembering and thanking you with a heart of humility, Father, that we are not worthy of you even one drop of the blood. But we just thank thee Lord for your mercy upon us and we lay prostrate before thy cross today. And Lord this flock is being sifted Lord in these days so many travails and so many woes and so many problems and sicknesses and diseases Lord and all the tr uh and all the woes that this world can keep upon us, and yet uh with the eyes of faith we reach out to thee. Uh we know that that you are That we can be more than conquerors in Jesus Christ. For you have given us eyes to see and ears to hear, and you have taken us out of the darkness wherein we once dwelled and brought us into thy marvelous kingdom of light. And so, Lord, we are like the man who dig down deep and laid foundation on a rock and when the winds blew hard the storm did not move the house and so Lord we pray and we have reached out into thee into fa to faith unto thee and we uh by thy grace will stand as the travails even Unto death. For as Job said, though he slay me, yet will I trust in him. And so, Father, we lay our cares upon the throne of grace. today and we thank thee Lord for thy mercies upon us and help us to have the joy of our salvation Lord that you planted us in us when we were first born again. And we ask and we praise thee in the name of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ today. Amen. Just hold on to your cups.