Open your Bibles with me, please, to the Gospel as recorded by John and the first chapter, and we'll begin our scripture reading with verse number six. I've mentioned many times before that I am not a big fan of titles per se for messages. We need to give them some kind of title, but a somewhat ironic title for this message this morning would be the true babe of Christmas. Christmas, uh because the true babe of Christmas, as we'll see, was not Jesus Christ, though he was the true babe, uh, but John the Baptist was the one born much closer to the day on which we celebrate. Uh Christmas, December. If you have your place now, the Gospel of John chapter 1 and verse 6. There was a man sent from God whose name was John. The same came for a witness, to bear witness of the light, that all men through him might believe. He, that is John, was not that light, but was sent to bear witness of that light. That was the true light, which lighteth every man that cometh into the world. He was in the world, and the world was made by him, and the world knew him not. He came unto his own, and his own received him not. But as many as received him, to them gave he power to become the sons of God, even to them that believe on his name, which were born. not of blood, nor of the will of flesh, nor of the will of man, but of God. And the word was made flesh and dwelt among us And we beheld his glory, the glory is of the only begotten of the Father, full of grace and truth. John bare witness of him, and cried, saying, This is he of whom I spake. He that cometh after me is preferred before me, for he was before me. And of his fullness have we received all received, and grace for grace. For the law was given by Moses, but grace and truth came by Jesus Christ No man hath seen God at any time. The only begotten Son, which is in the bosom of the Father, he hath declared him. And this is the record of John, when the Jews sent priests and Levites from Jerusalem to ask him, who art thou? And he confessed and denied not, but confessed, I am not the Christ. And they asked him, What then? Art thou Elias? And he saith, I am not. Art thou that prophet? And he answered, No. Then said they unto him, Who art thou, that we may give answer to them that sent us? Why what sayest thou of thyself? And he said, I am the voice of one crying in the wilderness, make straight the way of the Lord, as saith the prophet Isaiah. And they which were sent were of the Pharisees. And they asked him, and said unto him, Why baptizest thou then, if thou be not Christ, nor Elias, nor that prophet? John answered them, saying, I baptize with water, but there standeth one among you whom ye know not. He it is who coming after me is preferred before me, whose shoelatches I am not worthy to unloose. These things were done in Bethbara, beyond Jordan, where John was baptizing. The next day, John seeth Jesus coming unto him and saith, Behold the Lamb of God, which taketh away the sin of the world. This is he of whom I said after me cometh a man that is preferred before me, for he was before me. And I knew him not, but that he should be made manifest to Israel, therefore am I come baptizing with water. And John bare record saying, I saw the spirit descending from heaven like a dove, and it abode upon him And I knew him not, but he that sent me to baptize with water, the same saith unto me, Upon whom thou shalt see the Spirit descending and remaining on him, the same as he which baptizeth with the Holy Ghost. And I saw, and bear record, that this is the Son of God. Again, the next day after John stood, and two of his disciples, and looking upon Jesus as he walked, he saith, Behold the Lamb of God. And the two disciples heard him speak, and they followed Jesus. What a spow for prayer. Father, now as we open your word, we pray that indeed the Holy Spirit would direct and teach us in thy word. Father, may you bring profit to the hearts of your people through the exposition of thy truth Father, may we indeed, with the eye of faith, behold the Lamb of God. May we look upon that one who was crucified for us. May we look and live May we be encouraged to serve you. Lord, may we be strengthened in the battle. Bless thy word to the hearts of thy people this day. In Jesus' name. Amen. Over 2,000 years ago, there was indeed a baby born, not necessarily exactly in December, but fairly close to this season of the year. And we're not talking about Jesus Christ because Jesus Christ was not born in December, and certainly not on December 25. We know clearly from Scripture that Jesus would have been born sometime around April, because it was at that season, in that season alone, that the shepherds would abide in the field. We read in scripture often of the sheep being brought into the fold. And typically there would be a large fold where all the shepherds sheep all the shepherds plural sheep would be mixed in together. It would be one communal full. And when Christ said, My sheep know my voice, he was referring to that because in the morning Shepherd A would call and his sheep would go to one side, and Shepherd B would call and the sheep would instantly divide because they knew who their shepherd was. And what a great illustration that is to us in itself. We're not to hear the voice of a harlot of a different shepherd. We're not to hear the voice of the world, but we're to follow the voice of our shepherd. But there was a season of the year when the sheep were not in the foe at night. And the reason was that in the spring of the year, around the time of April, the ewes would be lambing. And the young lambs are helpless when they're born, and the ewe, the mother, is at her most vulnerable point when she's giving birth She can't run. She can't flee. And so at that season, the shepherds would be abiding in the field. And what were they doing? Keeping watch. over their sheep by night. They were there because the lambs were being born and they stood at night. They did not sleep in the field, but they were there, keeping watch for the protection of their sheep. And it was at that season when the angel appears to these shepherds. And not to get too far off of our message on John with the introduction this morning But when the angel appears to these shepherds that are abiding in the field, the shepherds are abiding in the field to watch the sheep. But what do they say? Let us now go even to Bethlehem and see this thing which has come to pass, which the Lord hath made known unto us. And I tell you what, they couldn't take the sheep with them. Because the ewes were lambing. But they this great vision appears to the shepherds, and they have to leave the lambing ewes behind. So the pictures you see of shepherds coming into the stable and carrying their lambs with No, it wasn't that way at all. But the point is this. There was a baby born somewhere shortly before the month our month of December. And his name was John. It was John the Baptist. And so John is the one that we're going to consider this morning. Who was John the Baptist? Well, we find there in verse 6 that he was a man sent from God. He was a man that God gave a very specific purpose and task. John was sent from God. The name John itself means Jehovah hath given. And we know the story of his father. Zacharias and his mother Elizabeth. Elizabeth was bare was barren, and Zacharias and Elizabeth both both were stricken with age. They were beyond the age of child bearing But as Zacharias is there performing his duty in the temple, the angel comes and tells Zacharias, you are going to have a child, and this child is going to be. greatly used, this child is going to be filled with the Holy Ghost from the womb. And so John the Baptist was a man sent from God. He was a man whose birth was foretold there in Luke chapter 1 and verses 13 through 17, where the angel meets with Zacharias. John the Baptist was the fulfillment of Old Testament prophecy. In Malachi chapter 3 and verse 1, God declares that I will send My messenger, and he shall prepare the way before me, and the Lord whom you seek shall suddenly come to his temple And we read there in Isaiah 40 in our call to worship this morning in the third verse, the voice of him that crieth in the wilderness, prepare the way of the Lord. John the Baptist was a man. He was not God. And we read also where the the the uh chief priest The scribes and the Pharisees they send to him and they ask him, Are you the Christ? And he denies he denies on the Christ. He said, No, I am not the Christ. I am not the one that you seek. But he's coming. He's coming. He's coming. John the Baptist we find very interestingly in the 15th verse of Luke. is um I'm sorry, Luke 1 and verse 15, that he will be filled from the Holy with the Holy Ghost from his mother's womb. For he shall be great in the sight of the Lord, and shall drink neither wine nor strong drink. And he shall be filled with the Holy Ghost, even from his mother's womb. We talk a lot about Jeremiah. And we find that Jeremiah, Jeremiah, God saying to Jeremiah, Before I formed thee in the belly, I knew thee. Before thou cameest forth, I ordained thee a prophet of the nations. The same is true here with John the Baptist. From the womb, he's still with the Holy Ghost. Think about that with me briefly. John the Baptist was filled with the Holy Ghost from the womb, but he was born from the womb a sinner in need of repentance. Do you ever connect those two? He's filled with the Holy Ghost from the womb, but he's a sinner, and he needs to repent. He's filled with the Holy Ghost from the womb, but faith comes by hearing, and hearing by the Word of God. And we have an infant with us this morning whose eyes are fastened very clearly on me. And he's hearing the Word of God, but This little dear boy doesn't comprehend the gospel yet. Faith comes by hearing, and hearing by the Word of God. Here is John the Baptist being born, and he's filled with the Holy Ghost. from the womb, and yet he has not reached an age where he can comprehend the gospel. The Word of God tells us, Whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. And we're not saying that John the Baptist was saved from the womb. He had to repent. He had to believe. He had to call And yet he was filled with the Holy Ghost from the womb. If there was ever a proof text for election, we just studied it. We just studied it. You see, this man, John, was set aside by God before the foundation of the world. And my friend, not to get to the conclusion of our message yet, but if you are a believer this morning, if you are a child of God this morning. morning. . . You were born in sin. You were born without comprehension of the gospel. You were born in need of regeneration. You were born in need of repentance. And yet the only reason you're a child of God is because you were chosen in Christ before the the foundation of the world. You see, I am not saved because I prayed a sinner's prayer. I'm saved because God, in His mercy and His grace, reached down into the wickedness of this world and put me as a brand from the burning. And here we find John, though a child, though an infant, and I can assure you that John sinned. After he was born in sin. He added his own sin. But God's hand was on him from the time he was born. God was working and moving in his life. And I'm not trying to imply that same measure of the Spirit upon every believer. But my friend this morning, if you're a child of God, you're going to look at your life and say, you know what? Even in my childhood, God was working. Even in my infancy God was working in my life to mold me into what he wanted to be, to fit me for his service, and ultimately to bring me in my life to a day of repentance. Ultimately, to bring me my life to a day when I would find myself to be a wicked sinner in spite of all the good things I do. To be a wicked sinner in spite of all the righteousness I might claim. To be a wicked sinner in spite of my family, in spite of everything else, I needed Jesus Christ. And John, in the passage we read, says, I didn't know him. Did you pick up on that? I didn't know him, but him that told me what sent me said when you see the spirit to send him like a dove and rest you on him, that's him. That's him Now John knew Jesus. They were cousins. But a day came when John knew Jesus Christ to be something beyond his cousin. The day came when John the Baptist said, Behold the Lamb of God. And my friend, that is exactly what happens in the life of every believer. Though the Holy Ghost works and moves within our hearts and our lives and circumstances in our profanity God is drawing us to Himself, not by our profanity. Don't misunderstand what I'm saying. But when we are living profanely, God is working to bring us to the day when we will say, Behold the Lamb of God. I see him for who he is. John the Baptist was a man Upon whom the Holy Spirit was from the time of his birth. A marvelous thing. And so because John the Baptist was w being worked upon by the Holy Spirit, John the Baptist came a great became a great spokesman. He was a voice. If you look back down to John 1 and verse 21, they ask him, What then? Art thou Elias? And he saith, I am not. Of course he was in the spirit and and power of Elias, but he was not Elias himself, risen from the dead. Art thou that prophet? Are you one of the other prophets? He said, No. And they said unto him, Who art thou? That we may give answer to them that sent us. What sayest thou of thyself? And look at the humility of John's answer. And he said, I'm the voice of one crying in the wilderness. I'm just a voice. Don't look at me. I'm just a voice. He doesn't say I'm a handsome man. It doesn't say I'm an impressive personality. He doesn't say that when I speak to a crowd, they all hush and listen. He just says simply, I I'm just a voice. Isn't that a description of every believer? Go you into all the world and preach the gospel to every creature. We've been talking a lot about passing out tracts and being witness. And I I hope that you have started picking up some of the tracks. Fortunately my wife does because I forget to. Yesterday she had them on hand. She was ready. We're just voices, folks. We're just voices crying in the wilderness. John was nothing more than a voice. A voice in the wilderness. You'll find also that John was a light. If you look over to chapter 5, a few chapters away, in verse 35, he was a burning and shining light. And ye were willing for a season to rejoice in that light. John was a burning light. It was a shining light. But what light did John have? Well, it's purely reflected light. He was a burning and shining light, but Jesus was the light of the world. John the Baptist was, we find in Scripture, indeed, the greatest of the prophets. Turn over with me to Matthew 11. We'll go ahead and flip to this one. Matthew 11 and verse 7 and following. We find the uh words of Jesus Christ concerning John Matthew 11, verse 7. As they departed, Jesus began to say unto the multitudes concerning John. This is John the Baptist, of course, not John the Apostle, who wrote the book of John. But this is John the Baptist concerning John. What went ye out into the wilderness to see? A reed shaken in the wind? But what went ye out to see? A man clothed in soft raiment? Behold, they that wear soft clothing are in king's houses But what went ye out to see? A prophet? Yea, I say unto you, and more than a prophet. For this is he of whom it is written, Behold, I send my messenger before thy face which shall prepare the way before thee. Verily I say unto you, among them that are born of women, there hath not risen By greater than John the Baptist, notwithstanding, he that is least in the kingdom of heaven is greater than he. John the Baptist was indeed the greatest of the prophets. John the Baptist was indeed in the spirit and power of Elias. He was the greatest of the prophets. But look at that last verse of what Christ says. Last phrase of what Christ says here in verse 11 of Matthew 7. Notwithstanding, he that is least in the kingdom of heaven is greater than John the Baptist. Doesn't that say a lot about our voice? About our light? About our ultimately salvation, that working of the Holy Spirit upon us, because how did we become the least in the kingdom of heaven? Did we buy our way in? Did we righteous our way in? No, it all goes back. It all goes back to that working of the Holy Spirit upon the child of God from the very beginning. Christ there mentions also John's rough garments, which were of course the garments of a prophet. So that's who John the Baptist is. That's the first thing we've considered this morning. But what did John testify about? Christ. What is it that John says about Christ? Well if you look back to John chapter one, the first thing we find is that John testifies to the eternality of Jesus Christ. Look at chapter 1 of John and verse 15. John bare witness of him and cried, saying, This was he of whom I spake, that he come that cometh after me is preferred before me. For he was before me. Well John, you're confused. Don't you know your family? John, your your birthday's first. He's he he you're the older one, he's the younger one John says, no, no. He's preferred before me because he was before me. You see, John now realizes who this is. This is not just his blood cousin. This is the one who would later say, before Abraham was, I am he. John testifies to the eternality of Jesus Christ. This is indeed the one who is from all eternity. And though John does not specifically say it here in the same chapter of our context, John the Apostle does say it. He was in the world and the world was made by him, and the world knew him not. It's easy there in John 1 to forget which John we're talking about, because one John is writing, and he's writing about the other John But it testifies to the eternal word of God. Christ himself would say in John 8, your father Abraham rejoiced to see my day. Just as John the Baptist rejoice to see this day, behold, the Lamb of God. And so John testifies of the eternality of Christ. And John testifies to the mighty power of Jesus Christ. And here I'm going to go over to the uh Matthew account of John in Matthew chapter 3 and verse 11, where John says, I indeed baptize you with water unto repentance. But he that cometh after me is mightier than I whose shoes I am not worthy to bear, he shall baptize you with the Holy Ghost and with fire. The mighty power of Christ. What does it mean? What is significant about Christ baptizing with the Holy Ghost and fire? Well, this is He that has power over death. This is he who has power over sin. This is he who has power over all flesh. John testifies, there's one coming after me, and he's mightier than me. Now why is that phrase significant? Well John the Baptist came in the spirit and the power of Elijah. Chariot of fire? Fire fall from fall from heaven. What are the things that we read about Elijah related to? Well, you find fire there so often, don't you? And John says, as mighty as Elias was There's one coming after who's mightier still. And he's mightier still because he will baptize you with the Holy Ghost. and with fire. So John testifies to the mighty power of Jesus Christ. John testifies to the deity of Christ. This is a very dangerous thing. If you look there at verse 36 of chapter one And looking upon Jesus as he walked, he saith, Behold the Lamb of God This is the sacrificial lamb. This is the one who will give his life. This is indeed the Son of God. In John 3 and verse 34, for he whom God has sent Speaketh the words of God, for God will not give the Spirit unto him by measure. The Holy Spirit in its full power will rest upon him For John to proclaim that Jesus was the Lamb of God, Jesus was the Son of God, was a death sentence. That was a death sentence. You see, the Jews would put to death anyone who made such a claim in Falsehood. And the Jews wanted to stone Christ because he said that he was the Son of God. And that was the accusation against Christ. He made himself to be the Son of God. of John God. John here gives a very bold statement. He proclaims that Jesus is the Son of God. He proclaims that Jesus is coming to take away the sin of the world. He proclaims that Jesus was confirmed by the Holy Ghost John testifies of this great ministry of Jesus Christ. John testifies of his increase. He must increase, and I must decrease. And so that's a pretty quick run through of what I believe is probably very familiar Things about John, things we know, things we've heard before. But what lessons can we learn? We've seen who John is if you're following out line. We see what John said But finally, what can we learn from John? What can we take as believers today and make it practical in our lives? What application? Well, first of all, life is not about comfort. Life is not about comfort. In Mark chapter 1 and verse 4, where John did baptize in the wilderness and preach the baptism of repentance and remission of sins. And that same chapter, Mark 1 and verse 6. John was clothed with camel's hair and with a girdle of skins about his loins, and he did eat locusts and wild honey. Folks, I love going out in the wilderness. And I have even been known, I see a few smiles, I've even been known when I'm out in the wilderness to feed myself on whatever I can find. on berries and different things I could find in the wood. And when I go out hiking, I wear rough clothing. I don't want to live that way, folks. About a half an hour in a tent is enough. The problem is you still got the rest of the night. Right? John's life was not about comfort. He's living in the wilderness. He's clothed in rough clothing, and his meat is locusts and wild honey. He didn't go to the grocery store. Locust and wild honey is what he could find. It's what he could find along the way. But consider this. John is the only child of a priest. Ever think about that? Who would inherit John's parents' home? Who would inherit John's parents' possessions? The priests were not paupers. They were cared for by the people. They didn't live in extravagance But they were taken care of. And there was no dividing of the inheritance where the oldest son got the lion's share and the younger son got something. John was the inheritor of everything his parents owned. He was the only child. And by this time, John would have already inherited because his parents were well advanced in age when he was born. But he's not living in a home he owns. He is not in the city where there's easy access to food John the Baptist was an Old Testament priest because his father was an Old Testament priest, but he's not clothed in the linen ephod. John is in the wilderness where God sent him. John is sleeping under the stars in the wilderness, and he's eating whatever comes into his hand. John teaches us first of all that this life is not about comfort. Because you see, we are the inheritors of our father's house, and in my father's house are many mansions. But we are strangers and pilgrims in the wilderness. And we're not here to accumulate for ourselves all the things we can get, but God who feeds the lilies or who clothes the lilies gives us clothing, and God who feeds the ravens gives us food, whatever comes into our hand. Folks, we're eaters of locusts and wild honey. God's going to provide us something. He's going to meet our needs, but we learn from John the Baptist that life is not about comforts. Having food and raiment, therewith be content. Now it doesn't mean that we, you know, sell our house and live in a cardboard box. But those are not the things that rule our lives. God told John, John, I've got a ministry for you in the wilderness. He left a home behind somewhere. Just as the Peter and John left their nets to follow Christ. So the first great lesson I believe we can learn from John is that indeed goddess with contentment is great gain. We brought nothing into this world and it's certain we can carry nothing out. And so we learn first of all that life for the believer is not about comforts. The second thing from John I think we can learn is life's not fair. Boy, my wife's heard that before. Life's not fair And to my shame I have to confess, sometimes I have to remind myself that as believers, we gotta we gotta remember life's not fair. It's not suspected to be fair. It's not supposed to be fair. Won't you and all men love you? Right? The world's gonna despise us. Don't expect the world to be fair to Christians. When they tell us we have to take down the Ten Commandments, that's not fair. We learn from John that life is not fair. Turn over with me to John or to Matthew chapter 14. Matthew 14 and verse 3. Life's not about comfort and life's not fair. Matthew fourteen, verse three For Herod had laid hold on John and bound him And put him in private prison for Herodias's sake, his brother Philip's wife For John said unto him, It is not lawful for thee to have her. Who was right? John or Harry? John. Who was bound and imprisoned? John or Herod? John. John. That's not fair! That's not fair! That's not right! The government's oppressing us. It's a conspiracy. We're right, they're wrong. Homosexuality is an abomination. We're right. They're wrong. John was talking about sexual immorality. That's right. And he was bound and put in prison for talking about sexual immorality. Folks, it's it's yeah, yeah. Exactly. It's divorce from marriage and adultery. Life's not fair, folks. We, as American believers, have lived with great freedoms that God has allowed us to live with. But as Christians, we've got to remember with John, life's not fair. Life's not fair. Look down at verse 10. And he, that's Herod, sent and beheaded John in prison. Herod sent and beheaded John in prison, and his head was brought in a charger. And given unto the damsel, and she brought it to her mother. John is beheaded at the words of a wicked woman. Men don't like women telling what to do. Men don't want to be ruled over by wicked women. Godly men don't want Jezebel to have dominion over them. But here Herodias said To her vile daughter, ask for the hand of John the Baptist. And so we learn, first of all, that life's not about comforts. And secondly, life's not fair But thirdly, from John, we can learn that life is our era of opportunity. Life is our era of opportunity. My father used to say over and over again, I heard it from the time I was a child. It's burned into my memory. Only one life will soon be past. Only what's done for Christ will last. You realize that Jesus outlived John? The death of John is at the beginning of the ministry of Jesus. Which means that John is at most thirty years and six months. Thirty and a half years. I think most of us here today are older than 30. Have we done a fraction of what John did? Have we shown a a loop single lumen of the light that John did? Have we been a witness as John was? Stephen died as a young man. Folks, this is our era of opportunity. If John was waiting until he got older to serve the Lord. Those days are gone. They're done. And so we learn from John that this is all we got. But the most important thing it had us to learn from John is this one lesson. It is all about Jesus. Christ. It's all about Christ. It's not about me. It's not about you. It's all about Jesus Christ. Look at chapter 3 of John in verse twenty five. John chapter three in verse twenty five. Then there arose a question between some of John's disciples and the Jews about purifying. John had enough influence that there were other godly men following him. And they came unto John and said unto him, Rabbi! John, at a very young age, he's he's a rabbi. He's a teacher. Rabbi, he that thou was with thee beyond Jordan To whom thou bearest witness, behold, the same baptizeth, and all men come to him. John, they're leaving you! John, they're following a different one. You better go get your sheep, John, because they found another shepherd. They're following someone else, John. Go get your sheep. Verse 27. John answered and said, A man can receive nothing except it be given him from heaven. Uh if people are following me, it has nothing to do with me. It has to do with the one I'm following. It has to do with the kingdom of heaven. Ye yourselves, verse 28, bear witness, ye yourselves bear me witness that I said, I am not Christ. But he that sent me, but he that I am but he but that I am sent before him. Let me read the verse correctly Ye yourselves bear witness that I said, I am not the Christ, but that I am sent before Him. How many times have we seen some religious leader get too impressed with themselves? And men begin to follow him rather than following Christ. John says, no, I'm not the Christ, but I'm sent before him. I'm his ambassador I'm his forerunner. I'm pointing men to him. Verse 29: He that hath the bride is the bridegroom. The church is the bride of Christ Christ is the bridegroom. But the friend of the bridegroom which standeth and heareth him rejoiceth greatly because of the bridegroom's voice. They hear the voice of the bridegroom, Christ. This my this my joy therefore is fulfilled. He must increase, but I must decrease. It's all about Jesus Christ. And so in John 1, our text of this morning in verse 8, we find these words. He was not that light, but was sent to bear witness of the light. Of that light. And if you notice in your Bible, both times light is found in John 1 and verse 8. It's capitalized. Folks, we're not the light, but we're sent to bear witness of the light. It's all And so this life is not about comfort. This life is not fair. This life is our only opportunity, and this life is all about Jesus Christ. Four lessons from John the Baptist. Let us stand for prayer. Father, we thank you today for your word. May you indeed apply it to our hearts. May your spirit cause your word to ring in our ears. Father, make us into what we ought to be Use us for the glory of the one who is greater than all. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen