Turn in your Bibles with me, please, to the book of Luke and to the seventh chapter of Luke, Luke chapter seven. And I'm going to read verses 19 through 23. Not a long reading this morning. Last week we had a very long, extensive reading. This week we have a shorter reading. Luke chapter 7 and verses 19 through 23. And this same account is given to us in the book of Matthew, chapter 11. We'll refer to the Matthew passage from time to time during the message, but take our actual text from Luke chapter 7, verses 19 through verse 23. Luke chapter seven, starting with the nineteenth verse And John, calling unto him two of his disciples, sent them to Jesus, saying, Art thou he that should come, or look we for another when the men were come unto him They said, John Baptist hath sent us unto thee, saying, Art thou he that should come? Or look we for another? And in that same hour he cured many of their infirmities and plagues and of evil spirits, and unto many that were blind he gave sight. Then Jesus answered and said unto them, Go your way and tell John what things ye have seen and heard. How's the blind see? The lame walk. The lepers are cleansed. The deaf hear. The dead are raised, and to the poor the gospel is preached. And blessed is he Whosoever shall not be offended in me. Let us bow for prayer as we approach the Word of God. Heavenly Father, this day we thank you for your word, which is indeed to us a lamp to our feet Father, we thank you that in our Christian life, in the Christian walk, there are no circumstances that we can ever face that your word does not speak to. All scripture is given by inspiration of God and is profitable. And Father, we thank you that regardless of what our doubts, regardless of what our fears Regardless of what our trial, regardless of what our joys and triumphs, thy word speaks to each situation that we face. Father, as we look at your word this morning and endeavor to compare Scripture with Scripture, may you reassure our fearful hearts. May you encourage us. May you rebuke our lack of faith and our doubts. But Lord, may you do apply to the wound which you may give to us, that balm of Gilead, that assurance from thy word. That our soul is well with thee, and it is well with my soul. Father, I pray that you would grant utterance to your spirit today. May the word of the Lord have free course and be glorified In Jesus' name. Amen. These verses lay out for us an astonishing Event. These verses have been pointed to by the skeptics as a supposed contradiction in Scripture If you turn with me or listen as I read, I'm going to go back to the gospel or go to the Gospel of John and the first chapter. And in John 1, and beginning in verse 19, we find that John bare record, this is the record of John, when the Jews sent priests and Levites from Jesus to ask him, Who art thou? Isn't it amazing how Scripture always agrees with Scripture For here we find in John 1. 19 that the Jews and the priests are sending word to John the Baptist: Who are you? And in verse 20 of John 1, and he confessed and denied not, but confessed, I am not the Christ. You see the pattern here. The Jewish nation was looking for a Messiah. And John the Baptist came and was fulfilling a few prophecies of the Old Testament. And so the Jews and the priests send to John: Who are you? And John immediately confesses and says, I'm not. I'm not the Christ. I'm not the Messiah. I'm not the one that is to come. Verse 21. And they asked him, What then thou art thou Elias? And he said, I am not. Art thou that prophet? And he answered, No. Then said they unto him, Who art thou? Tell us we need to know who you are. Tell us who you are, that we may give answer to them that have sent us. What sayest thou of thyself? And he said, I am the voice of one crying in the wilderness. Make straight the way of the Lord, as said the prophet Isaiah. And then we find further down the passage in verse 26: John answered them, saying, I baptize you with water. But there standeth one among you whom ye know not. He it is who coming after me is preferred before me, whose shoelatches I am not worthy to unloose. These things were done in Bassadia of uh Bethbarsa, uh beyond Jordan, where John was baptizing The next day John seeth Jesus coming unto him and saith, Behold the Lamb of God which taketh away the sin of the world. And so we have this marvelous account in the first chapter of John, where the question is put to John: Who are you? Are you Messiah? And John says, No, I'm not the Messiah. I'm simply one who is going to point you to the Messiah. I'm fulfilling the Old Testament prophecy. I'm a voice in the wilderness And then we find in John 1, verse 34, or in verse 29, the next day John seeth Jesus coming unto him and saith, Behold the Lamb of God. That taketh away the sin of the world. And so we have this marvelous background of John being asked, Are you the Messiah? And John saying, No, I'm not the Messiah. And then John testifying, Behold the Lamb of God that taketh away the sin of the world. This is the Messiah. And in this same first chapter of John, we find the baptism of Jesus, where John says, I saw the Spirit descending on him. So John, in the first part of the Gospel of John, John the Baptist, this book written by John the Apostle, not by John the Baptist. But John the Baptist is giving testimony, this is the Messiah. This is the one. But then we come back to our text in Luke chapter 7 and also recorded for us in Matthew chapter 11. And we find John the Baptist sending his disciples to Jesus, just as the chief priests and the Pharisees had sent their disciples to John. And the question is repeated twice. It's in verse 19, where John gives instruction to his disciples, art thou he that should come, or look for another? And then in verse 20, the disciples of John ask in John's name. John was a well-known prophet. John Baptist wants to know: art thou he that should come, or look me for another? But folks, this question is coming from the man who saw the Spirit of God descend and remain on Christ. This question has come from the man whose mother, I'm sure, told him, hey, your cousin Jesus is the Messiah. Because when Mary came to visit me and you were still in my womb, you leapt within my womb at the voice of Jesus. This is John the Baptist whose birth itself is miraculous because his mother, just like Sarah in the Old Testament, his mother was beyond childbearing, and yet she miraculously conceived at the Word of God. John the Baptist has had proof after proof after proof that this is the Messiah, this is Jesus. And yet, when John sends his disciples to see Jesus, things aren't going very well for John. The Matthew passage in Matthew eleven, verse two, reads this way. Now, when John had heard in the prison the works of Christ, he sent two of his disciples. John the Baptist is in prison. John the Baptist is beginning to say, has my whole life been a waste? My whole life has been preparing the way for the Messiah. Are you really the Christ? Or do we look for another? Have I made a terrible mistake? If you're really the Christ who in the Old Testament understanding was coming to set up an earthly kingdom Then why does Herod have me in his jail? Shouldn't be this way if you're the Christ. If you are really the Messiah, where is your kingdom? Where is the sign of your coming? You see, folks, even John the Baptist, who was miraculously born out of time, just as every one of us are born again out of time, right? Except the man be born, he can he cannot see the kingdom of heaven. John the Baptist, who was chosen by Christ before he was born, who in the womb left of the voice of Jesus. Or chosen Christ before the foundation of the world. Jeremiah before I formed thee in the belly, I knew thee John the Baptist, who has seen visible confirmation, who has heard the word of the Lord. He's even a preacher, folks. And yeah, John the Baptist has doubts. Folks, don't raise your hand if you've ever had a doubt. Or maybe if you don't raise your hand enough, you're lying. You see, folks, it is our human nature. It is our fallen condition to doubt. Are you the one? Or are we to look for another? And I love the way it's stated here in the Luke passage that Christ doesn't even edge the question right away. He just starts working. In that hour, he casts out some demons. He heals the sick. He gives sight to the blind. But then in verse 22 of Luke 7, then Jesus answering, he answered their fears. Anything gracious to answer our fears? You know, he he he he lets us think about it for a while, and then he answers our fears. Then Jesus answering verse 22 of Luke 7. Then Jesus answering said unto them, Go your way. Tell John what ye have seen and heard. Look at that pause there, folks. What is the proof of the pudding, as they say? Well, it's the things we've seen and heard. I'm not talking about going to some healing service and seeing some charlatan do some magic tricks. Folks, I've seen it. I've seen it right here. I've heard the message. It's right here. You see, when the fears and doubts arise, even in one who saw the Spirit of God descending as a dove. When the fears and doubts arose in the one who leaped in his mother's womb at the voice of Mary, you have to go back to the Word of God. We've seen it. We've heard it. Then Jesus answered them, Go your way, and tell John what things ye have seen and heard. How at the blind see, the lame walk, the lepers are cleansed, the deaf hear, the dead are raised. To the poor, the gospel is preached. Hallelujah And so I want to take this explanation in verse 22 that Christ sends back to John in prison. Folks, John wasn't getting out of that prison. John came out of that prison in two pieces. Okay? This world isn't about our comforts here. This world is about the preparation for the next. John's earthly circumstances were not going to improve. But his soul would be comforted. And that's what was important. And so the Matthew passage in Matthew 11, 4, Jesus answered and said to them, Go and show John again. Go show John again. Can you ever have to be told again? Do your doubts come up when you have to go back to the Word of God again and see and hear. Matthew 4, 11, 4, Jesus answered and said to them, Go. And show John again those things which you do hear and see. How often our religion doesn't turn out the way we expect it to. And so we find there in Luke seven and verse twenty-two. The eyes of the blind see. We read in our responsive reading from Isaiah thirty five, in verses five and six, we read, The eyes of the blind shall be opened, the ears of the deaf shall be unstopped. Then shall the lame man leap as a heart, and the tongue of the dumb shall sing, for the wilderness shall break out and streams in the desert. Jesus healed the blind eyes. If you turn over or listen with me to Matthew chapter 9 and verse 27. I'm going to read a lot of scripture this morning. If you can't find the pages, just listen well as I read them. But in Matthew 9, verse 27. And when Jesus departed hence Two blind men followed him, crying and saying, Thou son of David, have mercy on us. What is it that these two blind men are crying? Thou son of David They're acknowledging that he's exactly who John is trying to point out he is. Thou son of David The Son of David's Messiah. It's another name for Messiah. Thou, Messiah, have mercy on us. We're blind. We can't see. But the Old Testament declared that when the Son of David came, he would give sight to the blind. Thou son of David, have mercy on us. And when he was coming to the house, the blind man came to him, and Jesus uh Jesus saith unto them, Believe ye that I can am able to do this. Then said they unto him, Yea, Lord. And he touched their eyes, saying, according to your faith be it unto you, and their eyes were opened. We believe you're the Messiah. Open our eyes. And then again in John chapter nine. And if you're uh uh able to turn, you can turn, but I'll read it for you, John chapter nine, starting in verse one. And as Jesus passed by, he saw a man which was blind from his birth. That's very important, folks. There's a reason why we're told he was blind from his birth. And his disciples asked him, saying, Master, who did sin this man or his parents that he was born blind? You see why it's important? Is this man blind because he sinned? Had he sinned before he was blind? Or before he was born, huh? Excuse me. Well, he hadn't committed sin, but he was a sinner. You see, all men are born dead in trespasses and sin. The question the disciples put forward is, is this man blind because his parents sinned or because he sinned? He was born blind, it tells us right in the text So if the disciples were corrected in thinking that this man's blind because of his sin, there had to be sin before he's born. But folks, there was sin before he was born. Because he inherited the sin of Adam. His blindness kept him from seeing this world, but his blindness wasn't his real problem. His problem was a sin problem, folks. This problem was a sin problem. The blindness lasts for life. The sin problem lasts for all eternity unless it's dealt with. And so the disciples put this question, is he blind because he sinned, or is he blind because his parents sinned? John 9, verse 3, Jesus answered, Neither hath this man sinned, nor his parents, but that the works of God may be manifest in him. The reason he's born is because I can do the work that he needs to do, and folks, the work that he needs to do is not his stupid eyes. It's his sinful soul. I must work the work of him that sent me while it is day. The night cometh when no man can work. As long as I am in the world, I am the light of the world. He needs light Oh, seeing would be fine. But his soul was the blind part As long as I'm in the world, I'm the light of the world. And when he had spoken thus, he spat on the ground and made clay with spittle. Why didn't Jesus just touch his eyes and heal them? Why did Jesus go back to the clay? Because that's where man comes from. You see what's being taught in this passage. It's glorious. It all connects. He spits on the ground. What does it take to take dusty ground and make clay out of it? It takes moisture. What is moisture a picture of? The Holy Spirit And so Christ spits from the dust of the earth and makes clay. And he anointed the eyes of the blind with the clay. And said unto him, Go wash in the pool of Siloam. Why didn't he just heal him on the spot with the clay? Why did he send him to be washed? Because the problem wasn't his blind eyes, the problem was his blind heart. And so Christ sends him to the place of cleansing. The sin problem has to be dealt with. Go wash in the pool of Saloam, which by interpretation is sent. And he went his way therefore and washed and came seeing. John's having doubts. John's in prison. Life hasn't worked out as John expected to. John is wondering if his entire ministry has been a waste. John the Baptist could say, I could have done so many other things other than being a prophet of the Lord. Don't ask a pastor if he's ever thought that. Because they all have. You see, the problem of the blind is the blindness of the soul. The people which sat in darkness saw a great light. Under them which sat in the region of death, or the shadow of death, light has sprung up. And from that time Jesus began to preach, saying unto them, Repent, for the kingdom of heaven is at hand. Go tell John, yes, I'm healing the blind eyes, but there's more to the blindness than just the eyes. And John 8, verse 12, then spake Jesus again unto them, saying, I am the light of the world. He that followeth me shall not walk in darkness, but shall have the light of life. John twelve, thirty-five. Then Jesus said to them, Yet a little while the light is with you. Walk while ye have the light, lest the darkness overcome you For he that walketh in darkness knoweth not whither he goeth. While ye have the light, believe in the light, that ye may be children of light. These things spake Jesus and departed, and did hide himself from them. Verse forty six of John twelve, I come a light into the world, that whosoever believeth on me should not abide in darkness. Why do we find that Jesus put such emphasis on the blind seeing? Yes, he could heal the blind physical eyes, but far more than that, he opened the eyes of the soul. Behold the Lamb of God was John's cry that taketh away the sin of the world. The scribes and Pharisees that sent to John, they saw Jesus. With their physical eyes. But they never beheld the Lamb of God. There's not a one of us here today that has ever seen A man from Galilee, who was the Son of God, not with the eyes of the body. But that same Jesus opened my blind eyes. And I have seen him to be the Christ. And so John, the very one who said, Behold the Lamb of God, needed himself to again to behold the Lamb of God. And so the answer that Jesus gives to the disciples of John is, go tell John, tell him again. I can open blind eyes. But then the second thing we find there in Luke 7 and verse 22. Then Jesus answered and said, Go your way, tell John what things you have seen and heard, how at the blind see. The lame walk. Come unto me, all ye that labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. Doesn't say roll your wheelchairs. It doesn't say crawl, it says come. There's an indication there that there needs to be some motion taking place. In John 5, we have the account of the man at the pool of Bethesda. If you can turn, go ahead and turn to John 5. And so I'll start reading in verse five, John five and verse five. John five, chapter five, and verse five, and a certain man there which had an infirmity thirty and eight years. The indication is that he was probably thirty-eight years old, that he probably also was born lame. It doesn't tell us explicitly in the text, but that is the implication of the passage. For thirty-eight years he has been a lame man. When Jesus saw him lie and knew that he had been now a long time in that case, he saith unto him, Wilt thou be made whole? Verse 7 of John 5. The impotent man Why does it call him an impotent man? Why does it just say the man? It emphasizes the fact that he was helpless. He was Impotent. He was without potent. He was without power. He had no power to do anything about his situation. He was a lame man. The infant man answered him, Sir, I have no man. I'm helpless. I have no one. Isn't that the condition of the sinner without Christ? I have no man. When the water is troubled, to put me into the pool, but while I am coming, another steppeth down before me Jesus saith of them, Rise, take up thy bed, and walk. He's an impotent man, folks. He has no ability to rise. He has no strength to take up his bed, much less to walk. But Jesus says, Arise, take up thy bed and walk. And immediately the man was made whole and took up his bed and walked And the same day was the Sabbath. What is being taught here in the story? He's at a pool. What is a pool? A pool is a place of cleansing. It's all a picture of salvation, folks. He's at the place where people are cleansed. His problem is he needs to get into the pool to be cleansed, but he cannot because he's impotent and Jesus comes along and takes care of the problem. Hallelujah, folks. I was an impotent man sitting beside salvation, and I had no power whatsoever to take of that salvation. I could not choose Christ, I was impotent. But Jesus came to my lame soul and said, Arise, take up your bed and walk. And hallelujah, I was saved. Go tell John. I'm the one who makes the lame walk. Yeah, I can give strength to feet that have never walked this earth But hallelujah, I can make your feet walk the golden streets of heaven! Tell John I'm the one. Who makes the lame? To walk. John, forget your doubts. Don't look for another John I make the lame walk. Come unto me, walk unto me, all ye lame sinners. And I will give you rest. And then folks, I know we're going to go long today. But in Matthew chapter 9, we have another case. In Matthew 9, starting in verse 2, and behold, they brought to him a man sick of the palsy, lying on a bed. And Jesus, seeing their faith, said unto the man, sick of the palsy, son, be of good cheer, thy sins be forgiven thee. Jesus doesn't say, get up off your bed and walk here, does he? He takes care of the important problem. Son, your sins are forgiven. Just like the man at the pool of Saloon. Just like the blind man. Son, your sins are forgiven. Jesus then verse four of John of Matthew nine and Jesus knowing their thoughts said wherefore think ye evil your heart For whether it is easier to say, thy sins be forgiven thee, or to say, arise and walk. You see the connection back to our text. Is it easier for me to say I forgive your sins, or is it easier for me to say rise and walk? It's one and the same. But that ye may know that the Son of Man hath power on earth to forgive sins, then said he unto the sick of the Paul, say, Take up thy bed and go into thy house. And he arose and departed to his house. Go tell James, or John, I could feel the lame soul. The Messiah has power to forgive sin, for when we were yet without strength When we were yet without strength in due time, Christ died for the ungodly. Folks, I was a lame man sitting right beside salvation, and I could never get in the pool. But Jesus came and healed my lame soul. The blind see, the lame walk, and the leopards are cleansed. Folks, leprosy in Scripture is always a picture of sin and death. Remember when Moses and Arian, when Moses and oh sorry. Moses and Arian. When Aaron and Miriam When Aaron and Miriam rebelled against Moses and tried to take to them Apostolic, if you want to use the New Testament term, prophetic authority that was not given to them. Aaron was the priest of God, but he had given the leadership to Moses But uh Aaron and Miriam come and they say, We too hear from God. And in Numbers twelve, verse twelve Aaron talking about the leprosy with which Miriam was smitten. Aaron says to Moses, let her not be as one dead. of whom the flesh is half consumed when he cometh out of his mother's womb. You see the connection? Let me read the verse again Let her, that's Miriam, let her not be as one dead, of whom the flesh is half consumed when he cometh out of his mother's womb, born dead in trespasses and sins Born with leprosy of the soul. Born with a deathly sin condition. In the book of Leviticus, chapter 13, we find that when one was found to have leprosy was to go show himself to the priest. What's significant there? Well, Jesus Christ is our high priest. And I have a leprous soul. And the only hope for my leprous soul is to go to Jesus Christ to be a priest. And the man with leprosy was cast out. The man with leprosy we find in Leviticus 22 could not eat of the holy things. It's not talking about communion. It's long before communion. Communion is not talking about eating the physical body of Christ. It's a sign of partaking of Christ. Those who had leprosy could not partake of the holy things, taste the seed of the Lord's good. Those that had leprosy had to go cry unclean, unclean, unclean. They had to cover their upper lip. It was a sign of shame. They were dead in their sin. They were corrupt. You could not go into their house because you would be corrupted by going into their house. Everything about the leper was miserable. And deathly. And folks, there was no cure for leprosy. There is no cure for your sin, cure for your sin. There's no doctor of earth that can do anything about it. But when I was a kid, we used to sing the old song, Have you been to Jesus for the cleansing blood? Are you washed in the blood of the Lamb? Go tell John. That I can heal leprosy. In Mark 4, I won't read the whole passage, but in Mark 4, the first chapter, there are the ten lepers that come. And uh Jesus put forth his hand and touched him and immediately leapt. He departed from his body. And then again in Luke 17, we have the ten lepers that stood afar off and cried, unclean, unclean. But Jesus Christ heals the soul. 1 John 1, verse 8 and 9. If we say that we have no sin, we deceive ourselves, and the truth is not in us. The leper tried to say, I don't have leprosy. Your skin defies you. The stench is all about you You're like one half dead. If we say that we have no sin, we deceive ourselves and the truth is nothing of us. Folks, believers don't believe they're perfect. Believers believe they're far, far from perfect. Believers believe they're sinners. If we confess our sins, He's faithful and just to forgive us of our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. And that's what we find in the Old Testament. The leper was to go to the priest, and the priest would look upon the leper declared clean. And so, go tell John. I heal the lepers of this earth, but I cure the lepers of eternity. Hm. Do we look for another or have we found? The deaf hear We find that in Luke 19, 22 again, and I'll read the passage from Matthew 11, verse 5. The blind receive their sight, the lame walk, the lepers are cleansed. And the deaf hear. The dead are raised up, and the poor have the gospel preached unto them. We read there in Isaiah 35, verse 5: The eyes of the blind shall see, the ears of the deaf shall be unstopped. Jesus Christ healed the deaf ears. In Mark chapter 4, I'll read the passage quickly, Mark 4, 32 to 35. And they bring unto him one that was deaf. and had an impediment in his speech, and they beseech him to put his hand upon him. How would a deaf man hear about Jesus Christ? And have sign language then, folks. What sign are they going to show this man to tell him this is Messiah? He just liked the lame man that couldn't get in the pool, he just liked the blind man that couldn't see, he just liked the leper that couldn't heal himself, how is a deaf man going to hear? How is this one going to believe? And he took him aside from the multitude and put his ears in his fingers, or put his fingers into his ears. And spit and touched his tongue. And he looked up to heaven and sighed, and saith unto him, Epaphatha, that is, be opened. And straightway his ears were opened, and the string of his tongue was loosed. And he spake plain. Folks, how did this man speak He was deaf. He has never heard speech before. He's deaf. How does the the little child among us, how is he learning to speak English as well as learning French and Russian at the same time, Lithuania at the same time? How is he learning it? He's hearing it. He's hearing it. This deaf man heard the word of God, folks. And he spoke. Go tell John. John. John, you're in prison. John, you're about to lose your head. You feel like you're about to lose your head? We use that phrase. John was literally about to lose his head. Go tell John. Go tell John. But folks, it is very interesting in Scripture that Almost every time, there are exceptions, but almost every time we find someone who's deaf and dumb that is healed, there is a connection to evil spirits. Why is it that men are spiritually deaf? Because the God of this world is blind to the minds and they believe not. Because Satan has plugged up their ears. Because he had no ability to hear. In Luke chapter seven, our chapter, if you look down to verse twenty-one, in that same hour he cured many of their infirmities and plagues. And evil spirits and saith un and unto them unto many that were blind he gave sight. It's in the same chapter we're talking about In Mark chapter 9, verse 25. And when Jesus saw the people coming, running together, he rebuked the foul spirit, saying to them, Thou dumb and deaf spirit, I charge thee Come out of him and enter no more into him. How dumb and deaf spirit come out and enter no more into him. He took away the spirit of deafness, and he cried and rent him sore and came out of him, and he was as one dead, insomuch as they said, He is dead. But Jesus took him by the hand and lifted him up, and he arose. Folks, men are born deaf. People talk about, oh yeah, we just gotta you just gotta choose Christ. Well, you will never hear of Christ except the Spirit of God open your heart. Amen. years. Go tell doubting John, who's in the midst of a great trial, that he will not survive on this earth. Go tell John, who declared, Behold the Lamb of God that taketh away the sin of the world. I think most of us have said that to a friend or a neighbor at one time or another. And then we found ourselves in doubt again. Go tell John, I give hearing to the deaf. Faith cometh by hearing and hearing by the Word of God. Number five, the dead are raised. The dead are raised. And Luke chapter seven, the passage we're in, if you look down to verse twelve If you were still in the same passage, look down to verse 12. And when he came nigh into the gate of the city, I'm sorry, look ahead. Look before the passage you read. Earlier in the chapter, now when he came to the gate of the city, behold, there was a man dead carried out, the only son of his mother. She was a widow, and much people of the city was with her And when Jesus saw her, he had compassion on her and said unto her, Weep not. And he came and touched the bearer And they that bare him stood still, and he said, Young man, I say unto thee, arise Okay, let's break this down, folks. I do not frequently visit the graves of my parents. I go there occasionally. My parents are not there. My parents are in heaven. Probably the last time I visited those graves was the morning I realized there was going to be a vote at Pilgrim Presbyterian Bible Church I think it's the last time I visited his graves. My parents aren't there And if I were to go there and speak to my father, he would not hear me. My earthly father, my heavenly father would. But he would not hear me. Why? Because my parents are dead. But Jesus says to this man, and he said, Young man, I say unto thee, arise. Go tell John that I can talk to the dead. That I can say to the dead, arise. And when I say to the dead, Arise, they arise, did you ever find Jesus Christ saying to a dead man, Arise, and the dead man did not arise? But how can men be so bold to say, well, if you don't believe in Jesus, he's not going to save you? No, when Jesus says arise, you arise. Jesus said to this dead man, Arise. And he that was dead sat up and began to speak. But the redeemed of the Lord say so. If thou shalt confess with thy mouth the Lord Jesus and believe in thy heart that God has raised him from the dead, raised Christ from the dead, thou shalt be saved. Go tell John! John who's sitting in prison and worried and discouraged and doubting. Go tell John. I can raise the dead. And you hath he quickened, who were dead in trespasses and sins. But God, who is rich in mercy for his great love, wherein he loved us, even when we were dead in sin, hath quickened us together with Christ. By grace we are saved. And if it raised us up and made us to sit in heavenly places in Christ Jesus, Ephesians 2. As an Adam all died, even so in Christ. shall all be made alive. But one more thing, disciples of John. Go tell John that the poor have the gospel preached unto them. In Mark 12, verse 37, we find the common people heard him gladly. The scribes and the Pharisees they didn't hear him. Oh, they heard the sound. Yeah, many people hear the sound. They may go to church sometime and hear preaching, but their soul hears nothing. But the common people, the poor people, blessed are the poor in spirit. The poor have the gospel preached unto them. God has chosen the foolish things to confound the mighty, and the wise and the weak things to confound the mighty. You see, Christ came and preached the gospel not to the high and mighty of this world, not to Herod who had John in prison. Not to some great, mighty daughter of a king, but to Mary who is a nothing. The Lord hath regarded the low estate of thine handmade. Go tell John, I'm not come to call the mighty, but the weak. Tell John the poor, the common people. They have the gospel preached unto them. John chapter 7, verse 37, in the last day, the great day of the feast, Jesus stood and cried, saying, If any man thirst, let him come to me and drink. And he that believeth on me, as the scripture saith, out of his belly shall flow rivers of water. What do we read in our responsive reading? At those streams in the desert. Out of his belly shall flow rivers of water. Many of the people, therefore, when they heard this saying, said, Of a truth, this is the prophet, this is the one. Do we look for this one? Or do we believe in this one? Or do we look for another? They said, no. No, this is him. The question's answered. This is the Messiah. Verse 45, then came the officers of the chief priests and Pharisees and said unto them, Why have ye not brought Jesus? Why have ye not brought him? The officers answered, Never a man spake like this man Tell John the things you've seen and heard. Never a man spake like this man. Then answered the Pharisees, Are ye also deceived? Have any of the rulers of the Pharisees believed on him? Oh, yeah. No. The rulers of the Pharisees did not believe. But the poor, the common man, have the gospel preached unto them. Folks, John the Baptist had every proof you could ever ask for. All the way from before his birth, just like us, chosen in Christ before the foundation of the world. And yet John had doubts. John needed to be reassured. Folks, do you need to be reassured? It's all right here, folks. And then go tell John again. The Matthew passage. Tell John again the things that you've seen and heard. Hear the word of God. Let us stand for prayer. Father, we thank you for this marvelous book. I started to say I thank you for this marvelous passage. But Lord, it's the whole book. It all fits together. Written over uh a a period of two thousand years and more, uh f six thousand years uh from Genesis Lord. Written over vast periods, Lord, you use multiple men to record your scriptures. And yet, Lord, it all has one author, and it all fits together. Father, we are dead in trespasses and sins except for you to raise us from the dead. We are blind, we cannot see thy truth except you open our eyes. We are deaf, we cannot hear except you open our ears Indeed, O Lord, we are dead in trespasses and sins. But Jesus Christ came that we might have life and that we might have it more abundantly. Bless thy truth to our hearts today. May we continue in the things which we've seen and heard. And we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.