Luke chapter two, and our scripture reading this morning is the account of the shepherds. We'll begin our scripture reading there with verse number eight of Luke 2 and read through verse 20. And there were in the same country, shepherds, abiding in the field, keeping watch over their flock by night And lo, the angel of the Lord came upon them, and the glory of the Lord shone round about them, and they were sore afraid. And the angel said unto them, Fear not, for behold, I bring you good tidings of great joy, which shall be to all people. For unto you is born this day in the city of David a Savior, which is Christ the Lord. And this shall be a sign unto you. Ye shall find the babe wrapped in swaddling clothes, lying in a manger. And suddenly there was with the angel a multitude of the heavenly hosts praising God and saying, Glory to God in the highest and on earth, peace, goodwill toward men. And it came to pass as the angels were going away from them into heaven. The shepherds said one to another, Let us now go even unto Bethlehem and see this thing which has come to pass, which the Lord hath made known unto us. And they came with haste and found Mary and Joseph and the babe lying in a manger. And when they had seen it, they made known abroad the saying which was told them concerning this child And all they that heard it wondered at those things which are told them by the shepherds. But Mary kept all these things and pondered them in her heart. And the shepherds returned, glorifying and praising God for all that they had heard and seen as it was told unto them. Let us bow for prayer. Father, the passage before us, the account, is wondrous. It is amazing. It causes us amazement. And Lord, if we knew not Christ, we would not believe it happened. If we knew not the Messiah, this would be too wonderful for our minds to comprehend. Oh, we might give lip service to it. But Lord, we know this is true. We know it is true by your Spirit that bears witness with our Spirit that we are the sons of God. Father, we have read this passage so many times, and probably most of us gathered today could recite it. But Father, we pray today that you would open it to our hearts. May we see it afresh and anew. And may we rejoice in the truth it conveys to our souls. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. There were in the same sh country shepherds abiding in the field, keeping watch over their flock by night. Most of us recited that as children in a Sunday school program at some time, or we have memorized it, we have heard those words again and again. And yet it was the practice of the Jewish shepherds, along about the time of Passover, to move their flocks out of the towns, out of the place where they had their folds. We're all familiar with the account of the sheepfold where the sheep would be kept closed in and the fold had only one door and the shepherd would sleep in the doorway at night to protect the sheep. But at about the time of the Passover, the shepherds would move their sheep from that fold out into what was really desert area. There was scrub grass that they could they she could eat on, but it wasn't the lush, grassy hills that we sometimes see portrayed in paintings. And they would remain there with their sheep until the time that the rains returned, which would be sometime around September or early October. when the rains would return. So from the time of mid-April through May until October, September, the shepherds were in the fields. This was the lambing time. This was the time when the young lambs will be born in late April, early May. It was the time of the Passover. And remember the very first instructions for the Passover in the book of Exodus? The Passover lamb was to be a male of one year. And so from the time of Passover when the lambs were born until the next Passover would be one year. And so the lambs for the Passover were not born on Passover and sacrificed on Passover, but they were with a week before, a week after, two, three weeks within. That was the Passover lamb. The yews were more comfortable lambing where there was more space, they weren't packed in quite so tightly. And so it was at this season of the year in the spring, not in December 25th, that Mary and Joseph would have traveled to Bethlehem for the birth of Christ. The shepherds were abiding in the field, keeping watch over their flocks by night. In other words, they would go into the fields and they would stay there with the sheep. They were no longer in the security of the foe where the shepherd simply slept in the door and kept the sheep all safe. But there were marauders. There were those who wanted to steal away the sheep. And there were lions and bears. We know that. Because a young shepherd boy hundreds of years before had killed a lion and killed a bear in these same fields. His name was David. And while he watched his sheep by night, a lion came to steal away a sheep, and he killed the lion. And a bear came and he killed the bear. That's the setting. In the same country, these shepherds were abiding in the field. When a royal birth is announced, the King's Chamberlain comes to the gate of Buckingham Palace And he announces to the nobles, he announces to the lords that a monarch is born But these men are not nobles and lords. These men are not rulers of the land. And they're not at the gates of the palace. They're in the fields. To simple shepherds abiding in the field by night. And we find that the angel of the Lord came upon them. And the glory of the Lord shone round about them. This angel suddenly appears out of the darkness. It says, and lo, the angel of the Lord came upon them. This term lo is a term that means behold and see. We find it multiple times in Scripture, and we find it in the Old Testament, and the Septuagint translates it the same way. It is low. Give me your attention. Look at this, behold this, the angel says to these simple shepherds. And it's fascinating to me that though Luke is in Greek and Lamentations is in Hebrew and Aramaic, Yet this same phrase is used behold and see Is there any whose sorrow is like unto me? Behold, and see if there be any sorrow like unto my sorrow These angels that are crying, behold and see, are using the same terminology that Christ in the Old Testament uses for his sufferings. Behold and see. Has any suffered like unto me? The glory of the Lord shone round about them The true light, the true Shekinah lit up the night skies, and they were sore afraid. They feared When the light appeared unto them? I should think so. If we are abiding in the dark and we hear a sudden sound, we start I love being in the woods at night. I, when I was younger, used to love to deer hunt, and I would go into the woods at night, but I can't tell you that it never got spooked out. And I think every one of us at some time out in the night has been frightened. Something's happening. Oh, what's that? Imagine if you were out in the field by night, you're looking for bears and robbers, and it's angels instead. I think you would be sore afraid. These men were probably not particularly religious men. They were not attending the synagogue every Sunday, they were in the fields. They may well have thought that the angels had come to kill them. They maybe maybe thought that this was the lightning bolt, the proverbial lightning bolt. Their time has come. You see, in Scripture, when men are confronted with God, their response is fear. Depart from me! I'm an ungodly man. Woe is me, for I am a man of unclean lips, and my eyes have seen the king. Their response was fear. How different that is from the presentation of the gospel we find today. The gospel of Jesus Christ is presented as, oh, come and you're going to be happy and you're going to be wealthy and it's all going to be good. And that is good news to the sinner, but it's not saving good news. It's a lie. You see, a lot of times a lie sounds pretty good. When these simple shepherds Were encountered by angels, their response was fear. The soul that sinneth, it shall die. It is of the Lord's mercies that we are not consumed. If thou lordest shouldest mark iniquities, who shall stand? That word translated sore In our King James is a fascinating word. SOAR is the proper translation. Don't misunderstand what I'm saying. But SOR here is what we refer to as a minor translation. In other words, we have a lot of words in our Bible that are translated with multiple different ways, and the minor translation is the time that's used the least. Okay, so the least number of times that this word appears is translated this word sore. The major translation is loud and great. Loud! Boom! What happens when you hear a loud noise? Start. That's what this word is saying. Everyone's so afraid. Great! They were greatly afraid. A fear of the Lord's abiding of wisdom. How little we are sore afraid. Oh, how we need to be sore afraid at the righteousness of God, at the goodness of God. If God gave me what I deserved, I would be in hell right now. For I have earned it a hundred times over. Oh, how we should be so afraid. And yet, how little sore affrightedness there is among mankind. There is no fear of God before their eyes. Behold, I come quickly. The Son of Man comes as a thief in the night. Be ye also ready, for in such an hour if you think not The Son of Man cometh. They were sore, afraid. And suddenly these angels appeared unto them. But what do the angels say to them? Fear not! Behold, I'm not here to kill you. Behold, I'm not here to recompense your son, your sins upon you. But rather, fear not, for behold, I bring you good tidings of great joy which shall be to all people. I am not here, the angel says To punish you for your sins, but rather I'm here to tell you what has come who will be punished for your sins. I'm here to tell you. Messiah, the Messiah is born. I bring you good tidings. And I mentioned before that the gospel that is so popularly preached in our day is a gospel of flowers and roses. The gospel brings great joy. But the gospel of Jesus Christ brings joy when it replaces fear. You see, the man who fears is the man who repents. Saul on the road to Damascus was struck down by the light, I believe, possibly the same light that the angel angels brought with them. He was struck down by the light. And he says, Lord, what would you have me to do? You see, my friend, the gospel of Jesus Christ is a gospel of great joy and of good tidings, but the joy is preceded by fear. There is great joy to the repentant. There is great joy to the soul that is transformed from a child of hell into a child of God. There was great fear, but it was replaced by great joy. Fear not. For I bring you good tidings of great joy which shall be to all people. You see, this one who is coming, we're told in Isaiah, is the Prince of Peace I bring you good tidings of great joy. That word bring and the word tidings That you find there in our Bible this morning. Those two words are not two words at all. It's the same word. I bring you good tidings. It's the same word repeated And what it's saying there, that word uh good tidings, is the root word of our word evangelize or evangelism. It also means to preach, it means to proclaim. It is uh uh The gospel, the gospel is another way you put it. Good news, good news. I bring you good tidings of great joy. Why do we repeat things? Well, to emphasize them. You know, when when when when you're driving down the road And you see the car stop in front of you, you see the taillights, you know it's there, and you're applying the brakes and you're getting ready to stop What does your wife yell? Stop, stop! Twice. Why? Well, look out yellow. Not just once, but twice. And I'm not picking on Penny this morning. She's real good about that But we emphasize things, don't we? We double them. Gospel, gospel. Good news. Just a little bit. Good news, behold, I bring you good tidings of great joy Which shall be to all people, not just to the Jews, not just to you here in Bethlehem, but to All people, I bring you good news. The seed of the woman promised in the Garden of Eden. He's born The seed has come. The one who will bruise the serpent's head. Good news. Good news. He's here. The curse of sin is broken because cursed is everyone that hangeth. on a tree. Good news. Good news. The children in Jamaica used to sing a little chorus. Good news, good news, Christ died for you. It's repeated twice in this verse. But the shepherds say, Unto you is born this day in the city of David a Savior. Which is Christ the Lord. The angels don't say to us. You see, this good news that the angels were proclaiming was not for them. It was for mankind. This is good news for you. I bring you this good news. And further, remember that we said earlier that when the birth of a king, of a monarch, was announced, it was announced to the lords and the princes But he came to seek and save that which was lost. He came for sinners. He came not to call the righteous but sinners to repentance Not many wise, not many mighty, not many noble are called. Ah, my friend, we're the foolishness of the world. But this message is to us. This message is to simple sinners. I bring you good tidings. Of great joy. Verily we read in Hebrews 2, 16, for verily he took not on him the nature of angels But he took on him the seed of Abraham. And in Hebrews ten and verse five, And when he bringeth his only begotten into the world, he saith, Let all the angels of heaven worship him A body thou hast prepared me. I bring you good tidings of great joy when Jesus was preparing to return to his Father. And he was praying for the disciples. He prayed for them in John seventeen, verse thirteen. And now I come to thee, and these things I speak in the world, that they may have my joy fulfilled in themselves The joy of the Lord is our strength. The fear of death has been replaced. Precious in the sight of the Lord is the death of his saints. Why? Because of this message proclaimed to the shepherds. Have you ever thought you were going to die? I think most of us have had it sometime or another Isn't there peace for the child of God? Oh, we want to see our grandchildren. We want to care for our wife and our families. We have things left to do in this life. And yet for the child of God, there is that calm, okay, Lord. Remember, Paul? I have a desire to depart. But for you it's needful to remain. For me to live is Christ, but to die is gain. Why? Because of this message from the angels for these simple shepherds in the field. I bring you tidings of great joy Which shall be to all people. Remember the message that John the Baptist, the physical cousin of Christ in the flesh, the sufferer of Christ in the Spirit. Behold the Lamb of God, which taketh away the sin of the world. He came for the sins of all men. Flip over to John chapter 11. And this is a familiar passage, but but uh I think it's it's well to bring it in at this point. For here we find the chief priests and the Pharisees gathered together in counsel against Christ. These are the ones who thought the birth of Messiah should be declared to them. These are the rulers of the people. These are the ones who would have expected that the announcement of angels that Messiah is born, certainly I'm the chief priest I'm a Pharisee. I'm a righteous man. They should come to the gate of Jerusalem and proclaim this to us. John 11, verse 49. And one of them named Caiaphas, being high priest that same year, said unto them, Ye know nothing at all, nor consider that it is expedient for us that one man should die for the people, and that the whole nation perish not. And this he spake not of himself, but being high priest that year, he prophesied that Jesus should die for the nation, and not for that nation only. but that also he should gather together in one the children of God which were scattered abroad. Isn't that amazing? The words of this ungodly high priest echo the words of the shepherd, or the words of the angels to the shepherds, and he didn't even know what he was saying. He spoke these things not of himself. He didn't even know what he was saying. Indeed, this is good news which shall be to all people. And what is this news? For unto you is born this day in the city of David a Savior, which is Christ the Lord. A Savior, which is Christ the Lord, the city of David, the ancestral home of the king. Remember I said that it was in these same fields that David had killed a lion and a bear as a young man. This was the place where it was prophesied that Messiah would be born. It was the city of David. There is some Historical and traditional information that indicates that the inn of Bethlehem may well have been the home of Boaz and Ruth We can't really prove it, but it was frequent that a wealthy man would leave his estate. I think the term is a Duma, they call it. Uh maybe I'm totally wrong. Anyway, there's a term they use for this uh this inn that most towns would have, and often they were donated to the town by some wealthy individual And there's some commentators that believe that the inn of Bethlehem, where there was no room for Jesus, was actually the former home of Ruth and Boaz. I throw that in for free. I'm not giving credence to it, but that is what tradition tells us. This was the place where it's prophesied in Micah, but thou Bethlehem Ephrodus. Though thou be little among the thousands of Israel, yet out of thee shall come unto me a king, whose goings forth shall be from old, from everlasting. Unto you is born this day in the city of David a Savior. That word doesn't seem significant to us at first. A Savior. What does that word Savior mean? Well, it means to make safe. It's a word that means to deliver. It's a word that means to preserve or to make alive. There's a savior. And this word Savior is applied to kings. It's applied it's used generically both in the Old Testament and sometimes in the New Testament. It's just someone who delivers, someone who who uh Preserve someone else's life. But the angel doesn't stop there. This Savior is like no other before him. There will never be a Savior like him, a Savior, which is Christ the Lord. A Savior, which is Messiah, the Lord of all men. That's what that word Christ means. It is Messiah. This word Savior is translated by the Septuagint as to cause to escape. There is born one who will call us to escape. And this one who will call us to escape is different from all others because this one is Messiah. And that word Christ, Messiah, means the anointed one. This is the one who is anointed. And in Scripture, we find those who were anointed to the service of God We find, first of all, that the prophet was anointed that he might foretell or foretell the scriptures. We find the priest was anointed that he might make sacrifice for the people, and we find that the king was anointed, that he might give righteous judgments. But this one who is anointed, who is Christ the Lord, will be the first one in history. And the only one ever to exist, this anointed one, will bring the office of the prophet and the priest and the king into one. There's a Savior. There's a deliverer who has been born in Bethlehem. And this deliverer is Christ, anointed Messiah. Christ the Lord. Not just the prophet, but the one, this one is Christ the Lord. Not just a priest, this one is Christ the Lord. Not just a king. This one is Christ the Lord. And this shall be the sign unto you, you shall find the babe in a royal palace. lying in a gilded cradle, surrounded by servants and maids in waiting. There will be a band slowly playing violins in the background. You find the babe wrapped in swaddling clothes and lying in a manger. You see, it would have been an amazing miracle and announcement if Messiah, God with us, was born. in a palace. It would have been amazing if he was born to wealth and privilege. How much more amazing that you'll find the babe wrapped in swaddling clothes lying in a maze And they tell us that this term swaddling clothes is the same term used for the cloth with which a dead body was wrapped for burial. He was born to die. But think about this. Some things in Scripture just fascinate and almost tickle me. They've just been sore afraid by these angels. And yet they still need a sign. They have just been astounded when the night sky lit up and the glory of the Lord has shown all around them, and they still need a sign. How hard our hearts are. How slow we are to believe Oh, Father Abraham, Father Abraham, send Lazarus back. Send Lazarus back to warn my brothers because I have four brothers, and if Lazarus goes back and warns them, then they'll believe. No. They had Moses and the prophets. Let them hear them. For if one goes back from the dead, they won't believe it. They won't believe Moses and the prophets. This baby wrapped in burial cloth will come back from the dead. And men still will not believe. What sign will it take for you to believe? There is one. Christ. has risen from the dead. Believe or perish. Believe or perish This shall be a sign unto you. He shall find the babe wrapped in swaddling clothes and lying in a manger. How much more extraordinary that birth is than if he had been born in the palace. Remember when the children were crying out after Christ? And the word was put out by this crowd, tell them be quiet. Hush them up. And Christ's response was: if these keep silence, the rocks will cry out. And see, to this point, there has been one angel that has appeared under the shepherds. But the angels can't contain themselves. All nature cannot contain the message of Christ. Suddenly there is with the angel a multitude of the heavenly host praising God and saying, Glory to God in the highest, and on earth, peace, goodwill toward men. All nature rips with praise. And the night sky is filled with angels. A multitude. That's a lot A multitude of the heavenly hosts praising God and saying, Glory to God, glory to God, glory to God. In the highest, in the highest reaches of heaven, as far as praise can be proclaimed, glory to God in the highest. And on earth, peace, good will toward men. And our minds go to Isaiah when Isaiah saw his vision of the Lord, and our minds go to Revelation, where the beast with six wings Two they cover their face, two they cover their feet, and two they fly, and they cry day and night, holy, holy, holy, Lord God Almighty! And when these beasts cry, the four and twenty angels fall down before him that was slain, before him that sit on the throne. Oh, how many times we've read this passage without wonder! How common this story of Christ becomes to our hearts. We become so numb to it. But oh at the wonder of the birth of Christ How we should cry, glory to God in the highest on earth, peace, goodwill toward men. But it doesn't move us It reaches the ears without reaching the heart. These angels could not contain themselves. They felt of necessity that they must burst forth in praise. Glory to God in the highest. And on earth, peace, goodwill toward men. There is peace because God, through Christ, is reconciling the world to himself Through the sacrifice of the Atonement. There is peace because the creature and the creator Are now brought into right fellowship. They are reconciled. My God is reconciled. I can no longer fear. He owns me for his child. God and man are reconciled, and there is peace. There is peace among nations, because the gospel of Jesus Christ, when properly applied to the hearts of men, will bring about peace. Where the gospel of Jesus Christ is absent, there is no peace. On Christmas Day, 1863. William Henry Longfellow Henry Wadsworth Longfellow, if we'll get his name right, Longfellow wrote a poem on Christmas Day, 1963. To understand his poem, you have to know the setting. I said 1861, Longfellow's wife of 18 years was tragically killed in a fire. At the beginning of 1863, Longfellow's son, against his father's wishes, joined the Union Army. In March of 1863, his son was horribly wounded, and though his son would survive, he was was was maimed. through the incident. And so on Christmas Day of eighteen sixty three Wadsworth wrote, or Longfellow wrote, what is now a hymn. We don't sing it often, but the words are like this. I heard the bells on Christmas Day, their old familiar carols play, And wild and sweet the words repeat, Of peace on earth, goodwill to men. I thought how as the day had come, the belfries of all Christendom had rolled along the unbroken song. Of peace on earth, good will to men, till ringing, singing on its way, the world revolved from night to day, A voice, a chime, a chant sublime of peace on earth good will to men. And in despair I bowed my head. There is no peace on earth, I said. For hate is strong and mocks the song of peace on earth, good will toward men Then pealed the bells more loud and deep. God is not dead, nor doth he sleep. The wrong shall fail, the right prevail, with peace on earth, good will toward man. Where is there peace on earth today? Wars and rumors of wars There is peace on earth today, and I'll tell you where it is. It's in my heart. It's in my heart. Because these angels brought a message that was a message of peace on earth, goodwill toward men. And remember I said that the angels maybe thought the shepherds maybe thought the angels were coming to kill them Goodwill. He's come to seek and to save that which was lost. Ah, he's a terror to the evil. But not to his children. Peace on earth, good will toward men. And it came to pass as the angels were going away from them into heaven, the shepherds said one to another, Come on, let's get going. Why don't why are we here? Forget about the sheep. Let's go Let us go. The angel said unto one another, let us now go even unto the Bethlehem and see this thing which has come to pass, which the angels have made known unto us. No, the angels are just messengers. Which the Lord hath made known unto us. And they came with haste, pedals of the metal. They came running. They came with haste. Ah, how we should run to the message of Christ. How we should flee to Christ, flee from the wrath to come. They came with haste and found Mary and Joseph and the babe, Warrior the Manger. And when they had seen it, they made known abroad the saying which was told to them concerning this child. Do you have peace in your heart? Who have you told about it? They made known abroad. They had been given the most amazing, spectacular message that could ever be given. And they didn't really tell anybody about it No. Ah, how we should make known abroad this glorious truth That was told to the shepherds by the angels, made known unto them by the Lord, and made known to us. By the Lord as well. And they that heard it wondered at these things that were told them by the shepherds. But Mary kept all these things and pondered them in her heart. And the shepherds return glorifying God, glorifying and praising God for all the things that they have seen and heard. This is not a passage just to be read at Christmas. This is not something that we memorize as children and we recite it without thought. But what wonder and what glory is found in here! Peace on earth, goodwill to man. Ah, my friend, if you were to die today, do you have that peace? If you knew that this was your last hour, would you know fear or joy? Would you know terror or peace? This baby born in the manger, this baby wrapped in swaddling clothes, he's a savior. He's a deliverer. And he's like no other, for this is the anointing of the Father. He is Christ the Lord. If you don't know him, seek him with haste. If you know others, know him. Tell others the good news. Let us stand for prayer. Our Father, we thank you for this glorious message to the shepherds. Lord, may we take close heed to it. May it be the song of our hearts, the joy of our hearts. And may it ever be on our lips. Father, we thank you that Jesus Christ came into the world to save sinners. Father, we pray that you would bless us in this Christmas season. May we truly worship Christ and not the things of this world May we speak of him and him alone. Lord, we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.