Continuing through what it probably is one of my most favorite sections of the scripture, and it's very difficult for me not to want to rabbit trail too much, but I do want this to be a study in the book of Hebrews. Turn to Hebrews twelve And we're going to pick up the beginning of the sentence. Hebrews 12, we're going to start at 18, but our focus is going to be starting in 22. It's a marvelous passage and it says what it says and there's so many people I think that look at this and try to Make it say what it doesn't say or deny what it says openly. Hebrews 12, beginning in verte verse 18, says this, but year not come unto the mount that might be touched. Remember that last week We're talking about horrendous natural disasters. Imagine walking up to an active volcano. That was somewhat what this was like that that burned with fire, nor into blackness and darkness and tempest. It was just a horrific, horrific, horrifying sight. And then, as if that wasn't bad enough, as if that wasn't loud enough, we continue to read this, and the sound of a trumpet. And the voice of words. Now you've got all this noise going on on top of it. And I'm going to venture a guess that, well, we'll ask you later who you think was blowing the trumpets. And the voice of words, which voice they that heard, entreated, begged, besought, refused, that the word should not be spoken to them anymore. For they could not endure that which was commanded, and if so much as the beast touched the mountain, it should be stoned or thrust through with a dart, with a spear, with a javelin. That's one mountain. Of course that was a clear reference to Mount Sinai. And then there's a contrast now. That was the old covenant in one sentence. Now you have the new covenant in one sentence as well. It's actually half a sentence Begins in verse 22, but ye are come unto Mount Zion and unto the city of the living God The heavenly Jerusalem, to an innumerable company of angels, to the General Assembly and Church of the Firstborn, which are written in heaven, and to God the judge of all and to the spirits of just men made perfect, and to Jesus, the mediator of the new covenant, and to the blood of sprinkling, that speaketh better things than that of Abel. Well that's our text, and we'll dive into it, but I have my opener question. It might have seemed a little lame to you, but it's the best I could come up with. And that is, what's the best surprise gift, either a birthday or a charity gift, uh that you've heard s someone receive The best surprise birthday gift doesn't have to be birthday, it can be just a surprise gift of some sort that you've heard someone receive. My grandfather was born and raised on the same property that he died on at 93. And he had walked those fields forever and knew them. One year from my my mom for his birthday bought him a plane ride over top of the farm. So he had never he had never seen it from any other perspective, but he he got to see it from a totally different view and it was it just was astounding. That is a really interesting gift. I'd never imagined it actually looked like that. Yeah, that's a really interesting gift, yeah. To be able to survey it, yeah Any other gifts? And it can be something maybe you've heard or seen on uh the internet, uh different types of surprise gifts that come about. Yeah. Getting a new car. When you get a car, you get a car. Yeah. Even if it's a dog of a car, it's still a good deal, right? But if it's a new car, it's better still. Yeah. What about you, Marissa? You've heard of some people receiving some fascinating gifts before Oh, you'll go with a car. You ever seen those um like extreme makeovers, those television programs where some poor hapless soul has fallen down on their luck, so to speak? Life's just miserable for them and uh they they they send them away to a hotel for a little while, maybe a week. Contractor comes in with a very finely detailed plan. That's an example of excellence in project management pre-stages all the stuff. They tear the house down except for the foundation because that takes too long to dry, but all the other stuff can be put together. They work 18 hours a day and they totally remake the house and then they have the reveal and the person shows up and there's this brand spanking new house. They're in tears. They're in shock. They can't imagine that this is what they've gotten. I've seen homeless people in New York City. Somebody grabs them and uh says, you know, are you attached to the city? No. And they They go buy them a you know a tiny home in some place, a little community of tiny homes which has public transportation, and they just give them a you know little three four hundred square foot flat that they can live in. And they're just ecstatic. They're such a huge, huge leg of these these surprise gifts that you just don't expect. These really big things. And you know, folks, I've I also mentioned birthday gift. You know There's an interesting twist here that occurred to me this morning. We have, I suppose, due to our limitations of our human frame, that when little ones are born, it's a joyous event, and then we celebrate that on an ongoing basis. But do you know that you get a birthday gift spiritually as well, but you don't get it as it were the day you were born It's waiting for you at the very end. Here we give them early, but then Later, much later, and that gift is still there, sitting in heaven, waiting for you. And we're going to read about that some today as we're counting I'm trying to pepper a lot more questions into this today, and we're going to start in verse 22, because the comparison against Mount Sinai to Mount Zion couldn't be more stark and couldn't be any sharper. It's some of the sharpest point-for-point contrasts across the board. And I don't think we can really fully exhaust it today, but we're going to try to hit some of the big parts In verse 22, as we look at that again, what comes to your mind as you read that language? It says, you're come to Mount Zion, the city of the living God, the heavenly Jerusalem, an innumerable company of angels. What what comes to your mind when you hear that language? What do you think about when you read that? Place of rest. Hmm. A place of rest. Versus the tall Turmoil is a prior first. Yeah, you don't hear about thunderings, lightnings, things being killed if they touch it. Uh this is a place of rest. Place of rest kind of presumes that you can actually walk in and get your rest there. Yeah, peace, right? The nice thing about having a bedroom is there's no trumpets and fire and all kinds of tragedies trying to get to it. You have easy access to it. And there it is. There's your rest. What else comes to your mind? So much exceeding above what was previous. It's a con keep compare and contrast So much more exceeding above. Yeah. Um Mercer? You are at the final destination. where you were intended to be. There's no more. There's you're there. You've reached it. You're at your final destination. I always like the GPS when I pull into my driveway it says, You have arrived. Kind of feel good like, oh I finally made it in life. I don't think that's what it means, but But that's true here. You have arrived both uh uh physically and you know in your well-being. Turn to Galatians chapter four because uh there is some outstanding commentary on this passage, Galatians chapter 4, and we uh hear the Apostle Paul's commentary on this from a uh a different perspective. We're going to begin Galatians 4 in verse 24. He was looking at uh This business of the two sons of Isaac and Ishmael, one the son of Sarai, one the son of Hagar, the bondmaid, and he's finds in that some interesting aspects. He says, actually the sentence begins in 23, he who was born, he who was of the bondwoman was born after the flesh. that he of the free woman was by promise, which things are an allegory. That's very interesting. He sees in a very real historical account an allegorical interpretation. Well what is that He says these are the two covenants. He names those boys as emblems, representatives of two things. He says the one is from Mount Sinai, which genders to bondage, which is Agar, for this Agar is Mount Sinai in Arabia. So there it again is referencing Mount Sinai from Hebrews 12, 18, as Hagar. Hebrews is focusing on the horribleness of the historical event. And then he goes on to say, and answers to Jerusalem, which now is and is in bondage with her children. So He talks about a Jerusalem that now is. The implication is that it still exists. It's a physical city. You can go and look at it. But it's in bondage. It's in bondage with her children. Again, these are some tough words. Bondage is mentioned twice in verse 24 and 25. Nobody wants to be in bondage. And then he goes on in verse 26. But Jerusalem which is above is free, which is the mother of us all. For it's written, Rejoice thou baron that bearest not, break forth and cry, thou that travailest not, for the desolate has many more children than she which has an husband. We brethren, as Isaac was, are the children of promise. So here we have another illustration, a comparison between these two mountains. And it's clearly identified as two covenants, and I believe that's exactly what Hebrews is talking about. It's two different covenants. You know, it talks about the city of the living God. You know, Marissa, where do you think that city is? It's not a trick question. It's in heaven. You can't escape that. It talks it literally says the heavenly Jerusalem As opposed to the earthly one. You know, we read in Hebrews 11:10, the earlier chapter of Abraham, that he looked for a city which hath foundations, whose builder and maker is God. One whose builder and maker is God. Now that's interesting it uses that word foundations. That'll come up later in Hebrews 12 as we continue on. 1 Peter 2 and verse 6, we read this, Wherefore it's also contained in the scripture, Behold, I lay in Zion a chief cornerstone, a lect, precious, and he that believeth on him shall not be condemned. So cannot be confounded. Excuse me. In Zion, Christ is that cornerstone. I don't get the sense of a physical building. Do you? There's just no room for that here. It's a heavenly Jerusalem. Flesh and blood cannot inherit the kingdom of God. You know, Jesus spoke plainly about that. We'll we'll turn to some of this here in a moment in John 3. But this is language that it's very difficult to escape, and frankly, um Can you see any room in here for a rebuilt temple in Palestine or in Jerusalem? Do you see any room for that here? Is perhaps there's some way to wedge it in. Is there some wiggle room for it? Some have referred to the prophecies of the Old Testament and some of the mention of them in the New as looking over two mountains. They're looking at the mountaintop of one and then seeing Christ. But in d in between there's this little range, this little valley where they find room for a rebuilt temple. And they just couldn't quite see that. They saw ahead to Christ, but there was this little intermediary step. The church age would end. It would be the age of a reborn national Israel, and of course it would last anywhere from a thousand years, thousand and seven, nine hundred and ninety-three. It depends on what they do with the seven years of tribulation, make it three and a half, etc. I just don't find any room for it here. Even if you were to say, well, it's between these two mountaintops and I can't see, doesn't that defeat the argument? It defeats the argument. It says you're not come to Mount Sinai. Well, Jerusalem was all about the temple. That's what made it special. It was the place where God put his name. It was a temple constructed according to the instructions given to Moses, according to the pattern of the mount. It was run by Levites. Their job duties and descriptions and requirements were captured in what, the old covenant? And what were they supposed to do? Well, yes, they did play instruments, but their main job was to receive sacrifices and offerings. Are we going to go back to that system again? Where do you find room for that? Here in this verse. The whole point is the law had a shadow of good things to come and not the very image of those things. Why would we return to any kind of makeup or trappings to do that? What would the Levites possibly do? So I don't see any room for it here whatsoever, and I think this passage obliterates that concept. It's gone. It's tanked. Otherwise, if it's there, then it blunts the argument. Well, you've temporarily left Mount Sinai. You've temporarily left it. You've come to this other one. That's a spiritual reality. And you know what they do? They go to Hebrews 13, 14. Just look ahead a little bit Hebrews 13, 14, they say, ah, but it says, here we have no continuing city, but we seek one to come. They look for a A new Jerusalem to be built based on 14. But again, that blunts the argument. It's always from the physical to the spiritual, from the signs and shadows to the significant, the substance of Christ, from the allegory to the actual fulfillment. That's the whole thrust of it again and again and again. It's from the Levitical order to the order of the priesthood after Melchizedek, the power of an endless life. That's the transition that's being made. There's no, you can't put any wedge in between them. It just doesn't work So there's no place or benefit for a re-established Jerusalem over in Palestine, Israel, you might call it Samaria, right? These people are not pureblood uh Jews, to my knowledge. I don't know how they can prove that And then we get to 22b, this innumerable company of angels. How do we fit in among the angels? How do we fit in among the angels? Any thoughts? Based on what do you know about angels in the Bible? Well, um the angels are pictured as always worshiping around the front of God. And we will will join them in our adoration of Christ. They're depicted as always worshiping God. They're they're about his throne, yes. What how how else in what other ways might we be con considered to fit in with angels. Other thoughts? Joey, you look like you're meditating on something. Either that or you're just trying to wake up. I will be transformed with new bodies to be, I assume, similar, more similar to angels. Excellent. Yes. Yes. Very good. Look at Luke 20, turn there. That's that's a great segue to where we want to go Luke chapter twenty and verse thirty-five is our passage of interest. Jesus is refuting the Sadducees who said there is no angels and there's no resurrection. And setting apart their concern about marriage in heaven, he answers this in Luke 20, verse 35. But they, people, which shall be accounted worthy to obtain that world, heaven, the afterlife, and the resurrection from the dead. Neither marry nor are given in marriage, neither can they die anymore, and he gives an explanation Why don't they marry? Why aren't they given in marriage? How come it is they can't die? He says, for they are equal unto the angels Angels don't procreate. Don't read about baby angels. Michelangelo may draw little pictures of little cherubs with little wings looking like little babies. No, that's just fiction. That's an early hallucination long before AI came along. Michelangelo invented that way back when. It says, and are the children of God being the children of the resurrection? So yes There's a lot of identification we have with angels. Now angels are not made in the image of God. We are. But there is a very real sense in which we have finally entered into that which is very close to our company. You say man's best friend is a dog. Dogs are wonderful animals. They're very intelligent. They're very loyal. They're faithful. All kinds of amazing videos of dogs selflessly racing out to save a family member who's being attacked by a another wild dog or a some vicious creature because they're against the edge of a forest and they're just very loyal to the family. And uh yet we're going to find something that's very loyal to us as well. Angels are ministering spirits sent forth to minister to them who shall be heirs of everlasting life. You'll have an angel as your lapdog, Joey. Interesting thought. I do believe that there are such things as guardian angels. I uh think they um make rare appearances in extreme circumstances. Mission Field is one classic one. Um and uh I've read many different missionary stories where they cannot explain why their village was spared from these raiders that came through and then later uh they would ask, well, you know, why did you run away? And says, because all the white men standing around guarding your house. And they're like, oh it's just me. Oh no. They saw angels They were they were guarding the place. I do believe that does happen. It's rare, but I do believe it happens. That doesn't mean I can get drunk and go driving and expect somebody to grab the wheel of the car. I'm going to pay for that dearly, uh if I can survive the road trip. Revelation says, I beheld and I heard the voice of many angels round about the throne. The number of them was 10,000 times 10,000, thousands of thousands. Jesus says, What do you not think I could presently pray to my father and he would send forth twelve legions of angels? And a legion is a Roman term. That was a term used to describe a large battalion-sized group of individuals, about five to six thousand. So we know there's at least sixty thousand And you've heard me often say that it only took one angel to wipe out a hundred plus thousand, it was 135,000 or 153,000, I get the number mixed up. 185,000, that was better still. 185,000 Assyrian soldiers encamped against Jerusalem and wiped out with Wahid one, Ains Uno, one angel. Mighty powerful. Jesus says I can call down 72,000. Here in Revelation there's hundreds of thousands. There's plenty. God has ample resources on hand. He has a military might of strength that you cannot imagine Hint, angels have never lost a battle, neither has God. We're in that company, and we're considered fit to be among that. They're not our adversaries. You know, Jude says, Behold, the Lord cometh with ten thousand of his saints. There is a sense in which sometimes angels are used to refer to as messengers. We are messengers of the gospel. to the angel of the church of Laodicea, to the angel of the church of Pergamus, referring to a pastor as a messenger, but as it were, like God said of Moses, I'm going to make you as a god to Pharaoh. They were considered depicting someone of that sort of power, that sort of authority, that sort of spiritual strength that they could give And of course you know who it is that's blowing the trumpets. It's the angels. You read about that in Revelation, and the seventh angel sounded, and they blew their trumpets, and this angel sounded, and so on. So I'm betting there were angels at Mount Sinai blowing lots of trumpets, but it was a fearful thing. But here, we're in this innumerable company of angels, and we're not blown away with it. We don't see the destructive element that they normally bring. So saints fit in very comfortably with heaven's angels. No, we don't worship them. They're fellow servants. Peter made that mistake. John did too. John in particular is the one I had in mind when he shows up in heaven from a vision. Uh he's in the spirit in the Lord's day. And someone comes to him, looks very holy, he thinks it's Jesus. He bows down to worship. He says, Rise up and don't do that, I'm a fellow servant like you. They're so conformed to the image of Christ that frankly John was confused and thought it was the Christ. He says, no, I'm just an angel. Wow. We're like that. We shall be like him. We fit in well in that esteemed, reputable, spiritually strong company. You know, it also speaks about the general assembly in the church of the firstborn in verse 23. So looking at that in verse 23 in Hebrews 12 again In that verse, who is included? The General Assembly, who is included All the elect. All the elect. Who is excluded? Anyone not written in heaven. Isn't that interesting? God's got a book. Uh one of the big sources of um Brew ha ha in the news is the release of a certain uh evil individual and they would like to get his Rolodex, his little index card of the people who called upon him. I'm not going to mention his name. You've heard it more than enough. I don't want to pollute your head with it. But some individuals have, you know, they and this is common in the Special Ops Forces when we go kicking down the door quietly in some countries and we want to Take out a bad guy, we want to get their little black book. Who are all their associates? Well, God has a little black book. Maybe it's a little white book, I don't know, but it's a little book. Transparent. Who knows what it's like? Maybe it's written on pure gold or crystal. Has a list of names. It's called the Lamb's Book of Life. It's a glorious thing. In John chapter 3, turn to that again because I really want to slam this point home of this mountain that you're come to. This General Assembly, and the key phrase I think is this the church of the firstborn written in heaven. You know when you're born a record is made. Uh I forget the official title of the office. It's been a while since we've had to handle one of those certificates, but you know, the date of your birth is recorded. It's officially recorded. So it is in heaven. And Jesus talks to Nicodemus about this in John chapter 3, verse 3. Jesus answered and said unto him, That is Nicodemus, but he's saying to you and I as well, Verily, verily, truly, truly, I say unto thee. Except a man be born again, born from above, born of God's Spirit, he cannot see, he cannot know, he cannot perceive, he cannot understand the kingdom of God. Verse 6. Jump ahead to verse 6. That which is born of the flesh is flesh. That's what you and I have experienced now. You celebrate your first birthday, you're celebrating the birth of the flesh. You all notice And that which is born of the Spirit is Spirit. Marvel not that I said unto thee, you must be born again. This is the church of the firstborn. God only has sons. He doesn't have any grandchildren. Just because mommy and daddy are saved doesn't make you saved. Just because great-grandpa was saved doesn't make you saved. Each and every individual one has got to be born of God. Does that remove hope for somebody in a Christian home? Oh no. I will call you one of a city and two of a family, it says Jeremiah. That's a great blessing. You see that blessing given all throughout the old covenant that God in fact will bless those that are in Christian homes, because they have a higher concentration of hearing, thus saith the Lord. It's a benefit to them. It's a tremendous benefit. You know, some of you are familiar with this, others, if you're not, you might want to turn to Romans 2. 28, this church of the firstborn written in heaven. For he is not a Jew which is one outwardly. Neither is that circumcision which is outward in the flesh. This was the sign, this was the mark that was placed upon the flesh of individuals. But he is the Jew which is one inwardly, and circumcision is that of the heart in the spirit, not in the letter, whose praise is not of men, but of God. Several studies back we talked about doing heart surgery on yourself. Would you do that? Give yourself a new heart. You wouldn't do that. Would you hire a physician to circumcise your heart? Not even sure what that procedure looks like And I ain't hiring anybody to do it. This is something only the Spirit of God can do. Marvel not, Jesus says. That which is born of the Spirit. Flesh is not going to profit anything. What shall a man Give in exchange for his soul. What can the works of his hands do? It's not going to happen. The writer of the Hebrew says you're not brought to Sinai. Works of the flesh, circumcision, outward signs and symbols. You're not brought to that. Those shadows, those types, those figures are fulfilled. And I'm going to keep repeating these illustrations, I guess, until I die. Maybe somebody will pick up on it and carry it on. That's great. I still got my daughter's wedding invitation that we sent out. I'm not going to prepare for that event. I'm not going to buy gifts for that event. I'm not going to rent a venue for that gift. Vince, don't you love your daughter? Yes, because I've already given it to her. It's fulfilled What good would it do for me to go back to that and pretend like they're not married? That would be to declare that this whole time they're not And that's very much like what you have here. You have been espoused to one husband, Christ, even your Savior. That's a general assembly in Church of the Firstborn. Jesus said to the disciples when he sent out the 70. And they went out and did miracles and they came back and says, even the devils are subject unto us. They were astounded that God gave them that apostolic era gift. to be able to do these miracles, to confirm that the word they were giving was in fact, thus saith the Lord, was divine origin. You and I don't have those kinds of abilities now because we have the completed, authoritative, sufficient book now. But Jesus told them, don't rejoice in those things, but rather he said, rejoice because your names are written in heaven. That's the cause of rejoicing, because your name is written in heaven. And Philippians, the Apostle Paul, understood this. He said, I beseech thee, I entreat thee, help those whose names are in the book of life. And so he was exhorting an assistance to those who, yep, I'm pretty sure this is a saved individual. It's fascinating because in Revelation at the end, when it says the books are opened and the dead are judged out of those books by the things that they did. There's a lot of books that God has. Books plural. I believe that's a record. One book per person Everything they did. Now, I could be proven wrong, but this is kind of the idea I have in the sense of that. It's a list of all their works, a list of all their deeds. Could God put it in one big book? Sure But my point is it's books plural and they're being judged by their works, and that's all that's being recorded. And I'm here to tell you every entry in that book is is not good. It's the wrong kind of evidence you want to present in court. It's not it's not exculpatory information. that the Brady law would say, oh yes, you have to hand it to the prosecution because you can let him off because of no no. Every bit of it's a wrap sheet. It's a big long wrap sheet that is not pleasant and it's Runs from heaven to earth long. But the living, those on the right hand are judged out of one book. And there's only one thing in that book You're just looking for a name. Is his name in there? That's all. Because in the introductory front part of the cover, it says, these are those that are covered by the blood of the Lamb. These have been atoned for by the sacrifice. You know, brother here in the congregation has another physical brother who for many years worked as a steward at the White House. And uh you could get we could get tours to the White House through that those means. And I've been there a couple of times. It's an interesting procedure. You know, not just anybody walks into the White House, generally speaking Those who try to just walk in are quickly met with some, you know, assistance. Uh that helps them off the property And right into a mental home or who knows or maybe they get the get no treatment, I don't know. But it is nice when you do stand in line, they're asking for your name, they radio it in, and the guy's looking at one thing. Is your name on the list? It's kind of real simple. It's a real simple approach mechanism. And if your name's on the list, well then in you go. Yeah, they do further checks to make sure you're not carrying any pocket knives or any mace or something like that. But from God's perspective, that's all He's looking for for His people. Rejoice that your names are written in heaven. One last aside Um, Brother Mark Leakey in California used to have a great answer to people and they say, well, what church do you go to? He says, I go to the church of the firstborn written in heaven. Why do you want to know what physical group of people I meet are you in that church? Because if you're in the church of the firstborn written in heaven, we're of the same spirit. We have the same mind. And some utterly ignorant of the scriptures would say, oh yeah, where's that? Yeah. So it's kind of a good screening test as well. There is no place for anyone who hasn't been born of God. One must hold exclusively and personally to Jesus for any right to access heaven. That's the point here. That is it. There's only one way to this mount, and that one way is is your name on that list. That's why Peter exhorts you to make your calling and election sure. You don't go through life presumptuously. You want to make sure your name's on that list I would call my brother's friend. Hey, did did you get our info? Is it with the guard? Are you gonna be working that shift? I was calling to make sure because I didn't want to show up at the gate at the White House only to find out Vince who? Nah, we don't have anybody. Next, I mean it's real quick. Move aside. But you want to make sure. Even in earthly things we want to make sure. How much more matters where you can't go back to a phone and say, let's try again. And because you have now, in the second part of verse 23, to God the judge of all and the spirits of just men made perfect. You know, maybe I've already tipped off the answer here, but are believers afraid? When they appear before the God who is the judge of all, are believers afraid? I would be You would be I think guy is something that he's shown himself that it is you should have a certain level of hero Yeah. There's a fear, there's a respect, there's a reverence. You'd said the same thing? Well um Th there's two kinds of fear. Um, you know, what Rick's talking about is exactly right. There's that that reverence, uh, you know, Moses, take off your shoes, you're on holy ground. Um but at the same time you know, when when Baron Trump comes to his father, I'm pr sure he's not timid as anyone else would be, because it's his father. And so you have both both aspects where We're coming to the Holy God, and so there's that reverence of fear, and yet we're coming to the one that we can cry out the Father to. Mm-hmm. Yeah. I think there's a passage in John that says uh he that fears is not made perfect in love. The fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom. We understand who the God of this universe is. That's that same God that came down on Mount Sinai. We haven't changed gods here. It's that same Jesus that came to Joshua with a sword And Joshua asks, are you with us or against us? It's that same Jesus that is fashioning a whip and driving out the money changers. And if you'll turn now to 2 Thessalonians 1, you'll see this same Jesus in action when he returns. In 2 Thessalonians 1, we find this, and I haven't really yet answered the question, are believers afraid? I think Pastor did a nice summary for him. But let's look at some biblical content here to inform us and refresh our minds. In 2 Thessalonians 1, look at verse 7, it says it speaks about the Lord Jesus shall be revealed from heaven. So there's a revelation. He's real, he exists, he's there. Right now he's hidden. He's hidden from sight. But it says the Lord Jesus shall be revealed from heaven with his mighty angels. Well, that's a show of force if you ever had one In flaming fire, taking vengeance on them that know not God. Don't worry about these evildoers in this land. We don't have to really oh we may be concerned we wouldn't want to vote them out of office or make sure they're taken off our streets. Uh but don't worry, nobody's getting away with anything Because in flaming fire he'll take vengeance on them that know not God and that obey not the gospel of our Lord Jesus Christ. They haven't repented and haven't believed. God will take vengeance on them. Who shall be punished, speaking of them that know not God? They'll be punished with everlasting destruction. There's no discharge from that jail. There's no transfer to a prison of lighter duty. from the presence of the Lord and from the glory of his power, when he shall come to what? To be glorified in his saints. We're on the glorification end of the deal. Them that know not God are in the everlasting destruction end. And to be admired, not feared, admired in all them that believe in that day. When Jesus returns, your body is changed. There's a perfection that has now occurred of a new spiritual body. And we see him as he is. Listen to the language in Ephesians 5. What is our state? Ephesians 5 says Christ loved the church, gave himself for it, that he might sanctify and cleanse it. with the washing of water by the word, that he might present it to himself, a glorious church, not having spot or wrinkle or any such thing. That when Christ appears, you know, I messed up and I got a spot on my shirt this morning. Thankfully ties cover this, you see. But in heaven, spotless, you won't find a spot Anywhere. I won't have a rap sheet, Joey. Boy, praise me to God for that. I won't have a rap sheet. The former thing shall not be remembered nor come to mind You're pure, you're holy, you're righteous before God. That individual can enter. You're going to be like unto angels being children of the resurrection. You'll receive that glorified body. And to you he cast a loving smile. In his presence, the scripture says his fullness of joy. It'll be a wonderful day when he comes. Yes, now we we we're we're concerned. Rightfully so. We don't trifle with this God. We understand his power. And yet, as we're brought further along in grace We, in fact, rejoice to see that day. Hebrews 9 says, it's appointed unto men once to die, and after this the judgment. Even so, let me read that next verse, so Christ was once offered to bear the sins of many, and unto them that look for him the second time shall he appear without sin unto salvation. Whose? Yours The full completion of it, the full realization. Do you know in 1 Corinthians 6 and verse 3, the Apostle Paul says this He's chiding the church that they don't appear to have appointed anyone who can judge pretty basic matters. There's a man having fornication such as not is named among the Gentiles, you ought to put this one away. Don't you have a wise man among you that can judge? And then, just to kind of dig it in a little deeper, he says this, know you not that we shall judge angels? Don't you know he says believers are going to be judging angels? So it's not only them that obey not God who are in the flesh, but there's a whole angelic realm that has a lot of useful idiots called the far-left nutjob Democrats among others. That's just limited to U. S. But these idiots are scattered across the globe that are useful idiots, the communists, all this stuff That do his bidding, that hate him, hate his children, they especially hate you, because you're born of God. And they're going to persecute. And those evil angels are judged also by, you guessed it, believers. We shall also judge angels. We are somehow part of the judging process. I don't know what that looks like. Maybe we've got the task, you know, we have little Elias here. And his task after church is to run around and pick up the hymnals and stick them back on the shelves. He does a good job of that. Great job, son. Keep it up. Maybe our job is to run into the book. I'll go run day and look, see if his name's in there. Oh, his name's not in there, his name's not in there, and world dance around his name's not in there. Didn't find Hillary Clinton. Name's not in there. Cast him away. I don't know what that plays out and how that looks. But that is what we're called. It says, We which are alive and remain shall be caught up together with them in the clouds to meet the Lord in the air, and so shall we ever be with the Lord will be with him. There may be a tinge of fear in your heart to think that when you finally hear the that those trumpets and the sound of the sky cracking. I don't know it you ain't gonna miss it. There's nothing silent about his return. There's nothing quiet about it from what I read in scripture. It's a loud event. It's a sonic boom like you it's an earth-shattering sonic boom. You know, twelve on the Richter scale. Oh God, what is Red Mahap? Yes. Now it renders the heavens. But frankly, believers at that day have no reason to fear when Jesus returns, because they're ever with him. They're glorified. They're purified. They're washed, they're clean, there's no spot, there's no wrinkle. They judge angels. That's what you've come to. Not to fear, but to great peace, to great joy. And lastly, it says in 24, and Jesus, the mediator of the new covenant. And I I'm a bit out of time, so I'm not going to hit my last question. What did Abel's blood say? Well, the blood of Abel In the context here could refer to two things. It could refer to the animal sacrifice that he gave, which was done by faith. Cain brought of the fruit of the ground, that which his hands had wrought. He wasn't mimicking, he wasn't illustrating God's Blood atonement. Fruits for the ground doesn't have blood. Blood atones for sin. But then Abel was slain. Abel himself was personally killed. Just like our Lord Jesus. He testifying that his works were righteous. But Abel cannot atone for sin. Abel's sacrifice cannot atone for sin. He was not the mediator God had in mind. Because there's one God and there's one mediator between God and man, the man Christ Jesus. You've come to the mediator. You've come to the one who mediates. A mediator is one who brings an undesirable situation to a situation of peace and stability. Both sides are content. Are you content with him? Are you content with what he offers? Do you want to go back to Sinai? Would you go back to the Old Testament? Would you go back to that covenant? Rules. Holy days. Touch not, taste not, handle not, which all perish with the using Or would you rather come to Christ, who's provided it all for free? You just have to be humble, acknowledge Believe on him. What a glorious promise we have. That's the new covenant in one sentence. Let's finish in prayer. Father in heaven, Lord bless this. This words these words to us, Lord, ex expunge that which is an error from the minds of these people which I have spoken presumptuously, but O Lord, that which has been spoken true and faithful, even as you've said, if they've kept your word, they'll keep mine also. Could it be that they would cling on to that which is good? Prove all things, hold fast that which is good. We ask your blessing in Jesus' name. Amen.