Turn with me this morning to 1 Samuel chapter 25 as we continue our pilgrimage through this book chapter by chapter and verse by verse. Just to um re rehearse a little bit of where we then David and his men had spent a long season out in the field, and they had protected a man's flock by the name of Nabal. They had been around this 3,000 sheep And they'd protect them from the invading uh bands of Philistines, bears, lions, wolves Uh they had they'd done quite a job. It was a at the end of the year Nabel discovered that he had quite a flock. Three thousand. He'd lost not a one through all the seasons And David had sent his men there saying, Look, we've we've done you a good deed while we've been out there, and we just wonder if we might get some bread and water from you. And Nabal had uh Gotten very indignant with them and said, Who is this David? He's nothing but a he's run away from his master. And we're not I'm not giving you bread, I'm not giving you water, I'm not giving you nothing. We'd even give him water And so the ten men that David had sent to talk to Nabal about, you know, maybe giving them a little uh something for their trials and their troubles, they came back and told David And uh the story that follows, we find uh Nabal's wife was not the fool that Nabal was, and one of her servants was not so foolish as Nabal was And she's been forewarned that how David's men were treated, and that David's probably coming, and he's probably a bit irate. And we're going to find here that David, the sweet psalmist of Israel is not so sweet on this particular day. He is angry, he is full of rage, he has vengeance in his heart, and he's going to wipe out the entire household. And so that's where we are this morning as we begin to read 1 Samuel 25 and verse 18. Then Abigail made haste and took two hundred loaves and two bottles of wine and five sheep ready dressed. and five measures of parched corn, and a hundred clusters of raisins, and two hundred cakes of figs, and laid them on asses. And she said unto her servants, Go on before me. Behold, I come after you. But she told not her husband Nabal. He probably would have disapproved of that. And it was so as she rode on the ass, and she came down by the covert of the hill, and behold, David and his men came down against her And she met them. Now David had said, Surely in vain have I kept all that this fella hath in the wilderness, so that nothing was missed at all that pertaineth unto him And he has requited or given me evil for good. So more and also do God on the enemies of David, if I leave of all that pertain to him by the morning light, any that fisseth against the wall That word we don't use much today. It's become a kind of a rude saying. We would say urinate against the wall today. But uh and then in verse 23, and when Abigail saw David, she hastened, and she lighted off her ass, and fell before David on her face, and bowed herself to the ground. And fell at his feet and said, Upon me, my Lord, upon me let this iniquity be, and let thine handmaid, I pray thee Speak in thine audience, and hear the words of thine handmaid. Let not my Lord, I pray thee, regard this man of Belial, even Nabal. For as his name is, so is he. Nabel is his name, and Folly is with him. But I, thy handmaid. So are not the young men of my Lord, whom thou didst send. Now therefore, my Lord, as the Lord liveth, and as thy soul liveth Seeing the Lord hath withholding thee from coming to shed blood and from avenging thyself with thine own hand. Now let thine enemies and they that seek evil to my Lord be as Nable. And now this blessing which thy hammaid hath brought unto my Lord, and that was the bread and the wine and the five dress sheep and The figs and the raisins. She calls us a blessing. And now this blessing which I have made has brought unto my Lord, let it even be given unto the young men that followed my Lord. Give first to those ten men that asked of us I pray thee, forgive the trespass of thine handmaid, for the Lord will certainly make my Lord a sure house or a safe house. Because my Lord fighteth the battles of the Lord. She says to David, I believe that your house will someday be a safe house, because you fight the battles of the Lord. And evil hath not been found in thee all thy days. Yet a man is arisen to pursue thee, that was Saul, King Saul, and to seek thy soul. But the soul of my Lord shall be bound in the bundle of life. That is, God will surround you like a bundle of life. You'll be bound in a bundled life with the Lord thy God, and the enemies them shall be, he shall swing them out as out of the middle of a sling. And it shall come to pass, when the Lord shall have done to my Lord according to all the good that he has spoken concerning thee. And shall have appointed thee ruler over Israel. She already recognized him as the king. That this shall be no grief unto thee, that is, that you shed in some blood, nor offense of heart unto my Lord, either that thou hast shed blood causeless Or that my Lord has avenged himself. But when the Lord shall dealt well with my Lord, then remember thy handmaid. Title the message this morning, My Lord, and I think it will become obvious to you as we go through through this why the title of the message. But here Abigail takes 200 loaves of bread and two bottles of wine and five sheep. Corn, raisins, and figs. And this is, as Proverbs 21, 14 says, a gift to pacifieth anger. And this will also preserve her family, she's praying, from the rage of King David You know, had Nabal just given David's ten men what they asked for some bread and water, it wouldn't have cost them near as much. Sometimes if we just handle a situation right away, it it's It isn't this costly if we had to come back later on. And here it see he he wouldn't even give him water, wouldn't he even give him bread and water. Now it's costing label the fool, and his name means fool, wine and sheep and raisins and figs. It's quite a list here. And we do find in verse 19 something we often would say wasn't right. Abigail told not her husband. And I for one and most of it agree that there shouldn't be secrets between husbands and wives But in this particular case, she was married to a fool, and had she told Nabal what she was about to do, he would have undoubtedly said no And they've all died. David was coming to slaughter the entire household. And so Abel, or rather Abigail, to protect her entire household, including her foolish husband. I kept this from him. I remember some years ago my wife kept something from me. We had a a relative in the family that had tried to Assault another relative in the family, a little girl. Had I known at the time I'd probably be in jail still. ripped his head off. My wife knew that and she kept it from me. Thank you, dear. Good move. There are those rare occasions where uh we need to turn these things over to the Lord. And really pray about him. And so she had done that. She told not her husband. She agreed with her servant in verse twenty-five, that Nabel as his name is, so is he He is a fool. Her plan is to procure the peace of David, to protect the household as it were. And this is also an idea that's laid out in the New Testament, Luke 14 and 32 Her plan to procure the peace and salvation of her own household. Christ says the same thing in Luke 14 and 32. The Lord Jesus Christ writing, he says, while the other is a great way off He sendeth an ambassadors and desireth conditions of peace. And so this is what she was doing. While David's a great while off, she sent her men out before her, says, You go, take the food, take the take the raisins. And and take the bread and take the wine and and he said, I'll she I will be shortly behind you, but she sends them out ahead of her. Remember Jacob did that when he was going to meet his brother Esau. He sent all kinds of gifts and blessings out ahead to try to appease uh the one that was coming that had very good reason to be angry. And so she's doing this and Christ says in in Luke 14 and 32 that while another is at a great way off Send an ambassador or a group of ambassadors or ambassadors desiring conditions of peace. And I was saying this morning that, you know, when we think about God in the heavens, in the third heavens, he's a great way off And we need to make peace with God. We need to send up our prayers and our repentance and and ask him for forgiveness. And He's a great way off, and sometimes we think he's also a great deal of time before He's going to come and collect us and and take us into eternity. We don't always know how far that distance is or that time is. It's a good thing to do that, as Christ uh has says and as Abigail does here And so I would just say this morning, as Abigail sought peace with her king, pilgrim, have you sought peace with the King of Kings? Have you sought peace with the King of Kings and the Lord of Lords? The King of Israel. It's nailed on his cross. It was written on his cross. Jesus Christ, King of the Jews. Have you sought peace with the king? 1 Timothy 6, 14 and 15 calls him not any king, but the king of kings. That's something we need to do. God has commanded all men, God has commanded all men to repent, and because he hath appointed a day in which he will judge the world. Acts 30 and 31. So God has appointed a day that He's going to judge all the world. And He's told us to repent, to make our peace with God. Wow. We've been warned, haven't we, to do that? And Abigail was warned by one of her servants. And as a servant of Christ, I'm warning you to make your peace with God. Abigail was making her peace with her king that day, and she was obviously a godly woman. In verse 20 it says as she rode We hear as she's riding towards David, we hear part of David's conversation. David says, Nabal, he hath requited me evil, or he's he's he's returned evil to me for my good Nabal had said in that conversation, we go back in the chapter, that David was like some sort of a runaway slave. He said, Who is David? Who is David? There's many a slave today who's run away from his master and now he wants something of me. I'll give him nothing. Nabal said. He deserves nothing for guarding my sheep, my three thousand sheep And David's temper, that sweet psalmist of Israel, had a temper. David's temper got the best of him. And his response was in verse 22 that he would kill them all, all that pertaineth to Nabal, everyone down their household, if it's a servant, if it's a child, if it's an uncle, if it's a relative, I'm going to kill them all. Wow. Nabal's words were certainly rude. Nabal's words were certainly not worthy of being spoken. He was so totally off base But if you look at everything that Nabal said about David, you're like a slave, you're a runaway, who are you? I don't even know who you are. I might give you anything. That's a really horrible way to treat the king of Israel. But think about it it are those words worthy of death are those words worthy of killing everybody no they're not wow the sweet psalmist of israel had a David did, and unfortunately there was an Abigail in his life that could Step in the the gap and stop him from doing great great harm and damage. Uh he was not worthy of death. The fool was not worthy of death for what he had said. So I'd say this morning, have you ever lost your temper? Well remember David. That's not excusing it, but if you ever lost your temper, you want to remember that there are others that have as well. How about the Sons of Thunder in the New Testament? James and John. Remember them? The Lord said, let's let's head out for Jerusalem. Get down and prepare a place when they're getting ready to Prepare for the ministry down there and they're coming through Samaria and the Samaritans, they wouldn't so much as give them a nod or a glass of water. I mean they just treated them horrible. And James And John obshibiting, that's John the Beloved, all right. John the beloved. I mean who you couldn't ask for a sweeter disciple. He was supposedly the favor of the Lord Jesus Christ And so John the beloved and and his brother James, they come over and they say to Christ, Call down fire from heaven, from heaven, and consume these Samaritans. Luke 9, verse 53 and 54 for. Whoa. Where'd that spirit come from? Where'd that just for just for not giving him a glass of water, just for not giving him a nod or or a courtesy as they're going to the land of Samaria, they want them all dead And not just the ones that they ran into. Just bring down fire like Elijah did and just burn them all up, consume them all. What a temper in John beloved. Wow. Be not surprised. You see Christians lose it sometimes. They do. They do. And so here we have uh David coming. He's going to shed blood. He's going to shed blood without a cause. It's a wicked deed indeed to shed blood without a cause. But the Lord moves A young woman named Abigail to deliver David from himself. And so often, guys, that's why we got our wives. They're there to deliver us from ourselves. You know that it's It's not a wise man who doesn't listen to his wife for counsel. God's given you a helpmate to listen to. She's there to deliver you from yourself. And it goes the other way, gentlemen. And sometimes we have to deliver our wives from ourselves too. And so here she is. She's going to deliver David from this. And uh and she does, if we find the story. But just for a moment, has has the Lord ever interrupted your plans to sin. Because David was going to kill these innocent people. Has the Lord ever interrupted you from sinning? I can remember a young fellow one time he was he wanted a girlfriend so bad and he told me he's heading out of the bar this weekend. Got it all planned out. Heading for the bar I think he got a flat tire one time, he got lost the next time, and the light was broke and he got detoured and it never happened. It never happened. And God gave him a wonderful, wonderful woman later on on. Have you ever had God just prevents? Have someone insert in your life something that takes place that keeps you from Sinning. You need to thank the Lord when that happens, when he interrupts those plans. When Abigail in verse twenty-three saw David, she hastened off her ass, she fell down before him on her face She bowed to the ground. It says in verse 24, she fell at his feet. You know, when you come into the presence of a king, Maybe you wouldn't today if the king of Saudi Arabia bow and fall at his feet. But the king of Israel, that's a little bit something different. And if you're a believer, you'd certainly want to bow to the feet of at the king of Israel. In fact I sometimes wonder I I've read several of these books about people that they say they died and they went to heaven and they came back And they always come in the presence of Jesus and he welcomes them and he hugs them and you know and he talks to them and he gives them a tour of of the heavens. I never have read any of those I read Five or six of them now. I've never read one of those where the people came to the presence of Jesus, the King of Israel, the King of Kings, and they fell in front of him on in their face and before his feet. I just They just don't do that. It's just a real palsy wellsy kind of a relationship, like their buddy or something. But when you look in scripture, people fall before the king's feet. You know, John in the book of Revelation, what does he do? when he when he discovers Christ he he falls into a dead faint at the feet of the Lord Jesus Christ, the King of Kings. When Christ is resurrecting the grave And the lays are there, and the tomb is empty, and just the angel, and they're walking away, and all of a sudden they find Jesus. Where do you find when they come in the presence of Christ, where do you find those lays? It says they're hugging his feet Now that's what I expect to hear when someone says they died and they went to heaven and they ran to Jesus. They ought to be on their face, bowing down in fear and trepidation of what his next words are. Are his next words Well done, my good and faithful servant, or his next words, depart from me, I never knew you. That's gonna put me, I'm gonna be hugging his feet, kissing his feet Trying to cover up the holes in his feet. Well I'm not going to be just standing around with my hand over his shoulder, walking around and saying, point things out to me, share this with me, share that with me. That's not the way I'm going to write a as I returned From heaven. Paul says he knew a man, caught him in the third heavens. Whether he was dead or not, Paul, and we think Paul was talking about himself, and he says the things that happened was not lawful for me to re Right. I don't think Paul wanted to share with you how he he groveled in the dirt before the Lord for having killed so many Christians and caused so many to blaspheme. I think Paul was weeping and I think Paul was washing the Lord Jesus Christ's feet with his hair. And his tears. So different from those I died and went to heaven episodes that we read. And here she is, she falls at her feet. She falls at his feet, the soon-to-be king, the already anointed king by Samuel. I want you to note she is trying to stop a man from murdering her entire family. I want you to note her demeanor. I want you to note her attitude. She places her face in the dust before David. Wow. She does this to diminish her husband's thoughtless Foolish conduct towards the king. And I want you to think about this. This one didn't, I didn't see this until about the seventh or eighth or ninth time. I was through the scriptures. Think about this. Here comes David and all his men. And she, this isn't some private. Let me talk to you on the side. I'm really sorry, my husband did. You can't forgive us. This is in front of David's men These soldiers and vagabonds, and she's down in her face, groveling at his feet. Oh, but I'm not done yet Didn't she send some people ahead of her? The servants in her household. I mean her word is is like law. If she tells the servant to wash the windows or wash her feet or sweep out the house or clean up the pig side, whatever she does, whatever she says, it gets God and their obedient. I mean she she rules her house well and all of a sudden these ten servants they they look and they see her Abigail the woman who rules their life Falling and groaning at the feet of David and then begging for forgiveness. How do you humble yourself like that in front of a bunch of servants that have been working for you for 20 years? The only way you can do that is if you really, really are seeking to make things right. And she was. You look at all that transpires here. She doesn't just get off the ass and come running towards David. She bows the ground. She falls at his feet. in front of her own servants. It is the uttermost display reserved for a king. And someday you will bow in like manner before the King of Kings. Scripture tells us that every tongue shall proclaim, and every knee shall proclaim Bow. Romans 14, 10, 11. Before the judgment seat of Christ, every knee shall bow Have you yet bowed before your King Jesus and asked for forgiveness? Boy, you need to do it. You don't want to wait until you get to the judgment seat of Christ. It's kind of too late. You know, once the lawyer It's got you in the courtroom before the judgment seat. You really want to get it settled out there, you with you and the cop, or with you and your neighbor. You don't want to be in the courtroom. And you want to bow before the feet of the King of Kings, King Jesus, the Lord of Lords, before that day, that moment happens. And Abigail says in verse 24, and this is where I got the title of the message. First word. Upon me, my Lord, let this iniquity be. And hear the words of thine handmaid Nabal had said when David's men came, who is David? Who is David? But Abigail says, David, my Lord. In verses 24 through 31 that we read this morning, she calls King David in this short little speech of hers, my Lord, 14 times. Fourteen times. I've got them underlined in mind. You might want to go back later on in your Bible and do the same, but Verse 24, my lord, verse 25, my lord's done twice. Verse 26, my lord's done twice. Verse 27, my lord's done twice. Twenty- twenty eight, board my lord twice. Twenty-nine, my lord, thirty, my lord, thirty-one, and my lord is done three times Wow. She calls the king of Israel my Lord What do you hear people call the King of Kings? Jesus Christ on the cross, King of the Jews He's the man upstairs. He's my buddy. He's my friend. He's Jesus. You go through the scriptures, and the disciples never called him Jesus. They call him Rabbi, they call him master, they call him teacher, they call him Lord or my Lord. The only time he's ever called Jesus in the New Testament is when the Pharisees come to talk to him And they said to Jesus, you know, and Sadducees, Jesus, why are you doing this? And Caiaphas and Herod and Pilate, they called him Jesus. Only when the Holy Spirit talks and says, and then Jesus went up to Damascus or up to Galilee or something. The Holy Spirit can talk that way. But anywhere else, the believers in Scripture referred to Christ as my Lord. We've gotten away from we don't know who God is anymore, I guess. We we don't have any rebels or any fear of him We're going to make up for it because of the judgment day. We're moving for the white throne judgment. Well, I hope you don't make the white throne judgment. You might become for the judgment seat of Christ. That's not so bad. But that's not the time to start calling him my Lord She calls the king here, my Lord, fourteen times. And it says in verse 30, and the ruler over Israel. I know your anointed king. I know you're not sitting on the throne yet. You're not in Jerusalem yet. But to me, you're my Lord and you're the ruler of Israel, she says in verse 30. That's a good way to start. She didn't address him as David Oh, hi David. I'm riding ready out here in the woods. I want to talk to you about what my husband did. Not on your life. He's my Lord. The ruler of Israel, she says. She immediately diverts attention, also we note, from Nabel to herself by saying, Upon me, my Lord, let this iniquity be. Punish me, she says. She's offering herself as a substitute to satisfy the abuse that her husband has put King David through. And that King David has endured at the hand of her husband. And I want you to note here, she makes no attempt to justify her husband's iniquity or deeds. All she wants to do is seek a remedy for the insults and the assaults against David's character. Now, how determined should we be to make things right with another? This is a wonderful example of how determined we should be to make things right with another Your mother, your father, daughter, whoever. How determined are you to make things right for the boss at work? Here's her pattern. First thing she does, she brings a gift. Quite a nice gift, by the way. The second thing we find is she's humble, gets up, and bows down. Third thing we find is she doesn't make any excuses for what's happened. In fact, the fourth thing we find is she accepts some of the responsibility. Put it on me, put it on me. Maybe I haven't worked hard enough with my husband to get some of the rough corners chiseled off of him. He's such a fool, but But she takes the responsibility. And I'm going to tell you something. If you want to make things right with somebody, bring a gift. Be humble. Call them my lord. That always works for the man. If the wife comes and says, Yes, my lord, that does a little curtsy. We love that You say, oh that's silly. I call my house and let yes, my Lord. Try it. He'll melt in your hand. He'll love it. Bring a gift. Be humble. Yes, my Lord David. Don't make excuses for what's brought to fight. Accept some of the responsibility. Those are what Luke 3 and verse 8 Christ says are fruits worthy of repentance. If a person is really repenting and really sorrowful, really wants to make amends or really make things right, these are the fruits of a person who really wants to make things right. There's a gift, there's humility, no excuses. You accept some of the responsibility. And you young people this morning are sitting here, maybe you and mom and dad are not getting along too good right now. Maybe mom and dad are got you in a corner taking away your cell phone. There's something going on and and and You're just wondering how to how you can get out of this. And you can just see that before the day's over, they're going to be piling on and piling on more things to you. Go to your parents. Speak respectfully To them. Don't make excuses for what you've just done. He'll greatly reduce the punishment rendered by your Heartfelt repentance, admission. It even works on traffic cops, doesn't it, gentlemen? I think some we've all told stories here. The older men and women here, you've been stopped by a police officer, and you before he even gets up here, you got your window rolled down, you got your license out in your hand and he said, you know how fast you're going? You go, Yeah. I guess I'm going to do about fifty-five. He'll say fifty-four. back. Yeah, I know. Got any previous tickets? No, but probably deserve 'em. I'll give you a warning this time. Humility, humble admission. It works. Boy, that's hard for a 25 or 26-year-old kid to do with a cop, but I'll tell you at sixty-five. I know how much I like to be respected. All right. And these young cops out there, some of them look, they've hardly gotten out of puberty. They look so young. Are are they younger looking or is it just I'm older? I don't know what it is. But you do you know what? These younger c they're not getting much respect in Baltimore City right now Somebody here in the church, or forget what it was, they walked up to the cops in the 711 year day and thanked them so much for the job they're doing in Baltimore City. Can't imagine how they did it, how they kept their their calling. They appreciate that. These young cops, and they are young for my age. But you know what? They appreciate when an older person shows respect to them. And old people appreciate when younger people show respect to them. And you young people, if you just show some heartfelt Regret for something you've been caught doing. It reduces the punishment. It works for the traffic cops. And I'll tell you this: it works for the Lord Jesus Christ too. Heartfelt regret for your sins. Admit him. Talk to God about them. I know from personal experience, and so does the Apostle Paul. He writes about it in 1 Corinthians 7. twenty five, if we have a heartfelt regret for our sins, I know as one that is ordained, uh rather as one that has obtained mercy of the Lord, Paul says And I know that I've obtained mercy. I know there are things I've done in my life, but I regret it. How can God ever forgive me for these things? And you pour your heart out in heartfelt regret, and God does forgive you. Paul says, I have obtained mercy of the Lord. There's not a soul here that's ever done anything that you can't get forgiveness of God. The Lord Jesus Christ, wow He is the most merciful person you'll ever, ever meet. The blood of Jesus Christ, the Son, cleanses us of all. Sins. Paul Paul gives a long list of sins in Corinthians. You ever look at that? There were adulterers, there were murderers, there were uh uh lovers of themselves, narcissists, uh there was there were sodomites in that group, and he says, Of some were such some were such few. And now you are of the Church of Corinth and you're saved. I mean there's nothing he can't forgive you for Well maybe born for Hillary Clinton. I don't know. There's some people we don't like, there's some people we maybe hate, there's some people we we should hate, but they're gonna repent someday and they're gonna find them in heaven. She says in verse 25, My Lord, I pray thee, thy handmaid saw not the young men of my Lord when thou didst send them. Or the results could have been far different as you now see. The results are different. Once I found out what was going on, here I am. And David listened. He could have said, Come away, woman, I'm on a mission. Who are you anyway? I mean I don't think she stopped to put on makeup and do her hair. She probably looks a little frazzled, a little haggard. She jumps on this this uh donkey and she's you know charging off trying to get there and she's probably all uh disheveled and and sweaty and dirty and dusty and out of my way, woman, I'm on mission. But he listened. Do you ever think you know it all and don't have time to hear the other side of the story? Boy, God had a hold of his heart. He listened. And not only did he listen, but he was open to listening to what was telling him he's making a big mistake. Are you open to people when people say you're making a big mistake? You're making a big mistake. You make a mistake, you're going to regret the rest of your life. Are those of you eh, tune them out Because that wasn't King David. She said, you're making a mistake, you regret the rest of your life. Will you listen to me? And he did We need to have that's why God gave us two ears, only one mouth. He expects it to listen more than to speak. Bitter regrets, David. You'll have bitter regrets. You'll have eternal regrets if you don't give me an ear. From one of the disciples of Christ, we read in 1 John, again, John the beloved, chapter 1 and verse 9. If we confess our sins, he is faithful and just to forgive us our sins. Wow. Is that worth hearing? And Abigail continues She says, seeing the Lord hath withholden thee from coming to shed blood. She saw in her first statement, uh the countenance of David changed. It was you know, like maybe that the sword is back in the sheath Or maybe he's not playing with the sword anymore. She she observed something in his countenance and told her she was reaching him. And actually as she she says to him, seeing the Lord withholding me, she she She didn't say, well it's because of what I've done. She didn't Abigail didn't give the Lord she gives the Lord credit for restraining David and restraining his them nature. She doesn't say, Well it must be the gifts I sent ahead. I was pretty smart of me She doesn't say, well it must be my words, you know, tender, feminine voice. Uh maybe it's uh it's not just a reverence that I bowed down, you know, and I'm holding on to his feet. I mean that's all well and good, and those things should be done But the long and the short of it is when we do all these right things to make amends and make things right, when it works, God still gets the credit She says here, seeing the Lord withholding thee from coming to shed innocent blood, she sees that God is in control of the heart of David. It says that uh Heart of the king is in the Lord's hands. He turns it with us over he will, just like a river of waters. Proverbs twenty one one. Abigail understands that God's in control of everything. He was in control of the flies, the lice and the frogs in Moses' day He was in control of the fish in the days of Jonah. He was in control of the viper that bit the apostle Paul that came out of the fire that they had started. He's in control of the dog that licked Lazarus. God is in control of every creature in the universe At all times. And she sees here, it's not just my decorum, it's not just my demeanor, it's not just my gifts, but God has chosen to bless and restrain David. You have to give God credit for everything. Don't ever think, I just went to this person, they got saved. Oh wow, it's pretty good of me. God Paul says I water Paul's plants. God gives you increase. Paul never gave himself credit for any salvation of anybody And then her next statement. Seeing the Lord hath withhold me from coming to shed innocent blood. Abigail continues and says, Therefore, my Lord, let thy enemies, my Lord, be as name. You just see that all the way through it, my Lord, my Lord, my Lord. Let your enemies be as Nabal. Let them be foolish. Let your enemies be foolish in their attempt to hurt thee As Nabal has been. Are you looking for a great verse to memorize in these trying times right now? I wish I had a little Bible verse I could just memorize. A really good verse to memorize. Why not this one? Let thy enemies be as Nabal. Oh God, may the enemies of this country be as Nabal. May the enemies of my nation be as a naval. May the enemies of my life be as Nabal. May all our enemies falter, flounder, and fail like the fools that the nables are. That's a great prayer. Oh Lord, let the enemies of God and my enemies be as Nabal. That's a good verse for the times we live in. In verse 27, she said then in verse 28 to, My Lord, I pray thee forgive the trespass. She continues to pursue peace with her king by saying in verse 28, because my Lord fight the battles of the Lord And because you fight the battle of the Lord, evil hath not been found in the all these days. She says, You fight the battle of the Lord, and evil has never been found in you. Oh, I know, she said. In verse 29, you're being pursued. You're being, and of course, he's being pursued by King Saul. But she said, if you were to shed this innocent blood, it would give King Saul all the excuse he would need for saying what a horrible person you were And you have all the reasons in the world to assault you and attack you and to kill you. But having not shed this innocent blood, it really works in your favor And that's why evil has not been found in you all these days, because you fight the Lord's battles and the Lord's enemies, not your personal enemies Do your actions ever give somebody else an excuse for attacking Christianity or for attacking you? Do you ever do things that just open your wide you're just wide open now to be attacked by people for something you've done? Abigail doesn't want David to kill her husband husband, he's a fool, but if you kill my husband, it'll it'll just open you wide up for Saul to have all the reason in the world. You shed innocent blood, you killed this man down there, you killed his whole household Sometimes we can do things that open us up for an assault, or at least assault on Christianity and the Lord Jesus Christ. It is so important That as followers of Christ, we walk upright. It's so important as followers of Christ that we do as 1 Thessalonians 5. 22 says Abstain from all appearance of evil. Now I've quoted the King James because most of the Bible versions out there say abstain from evil. Well, yeah. They remove that word appearance of evil. And by the way, it's in the Greek. I don't know why they take out the word appearance, but they do. We're to avoid the appearance of evil because people will use it to assault Christianity, assault the Bible, to assault us and our testimonies Abstain from the appearance of evil. That cannot be overstated, dear friend. That cannot be overstated. We have to abstain from the appearance of evil. And she concludes here by saying in verse 29 to 31, the soul of my Lord shall be bound in the bundle of life. That's God's going to bundle you up, He's going to wrap you in in life, eternal life Your your soul will be bundled up uh in the life of the Lord, as Christ taught in 1028 of John, I give on them eternal life, they shall never perish, neither shall it be plucked them out of my hand. He said, God's gonna put you in the bundle of life, you'll be protected, you'll be safe Noah's going to pluck you out of his hand. And the souls of the light enemies, verse 29, he'll sling them out. Sling them out of your presence, David. Sling them out of Israel, David. Sling them into outer darkness. We read in Matthew 22 and 13. And she says in verse 30 and 31: when the Lord shall have appointed thee ruler over Israel, and she knew he'd be appointed ruler over Israel. When the Lord had appointed you ruler over Israel, She says, My Lord, remember thy handmaiden. Fourteen times, my Lord, my lord, my lord Did King David ever remember Abigail? Or was he so busy running Israel and Judah and the twelve tribes? He gets so busy, forgot all about her Would you like to know what happened to Abigail? Did he ever remember her? Verse 42, Abigail became David's wife after Nabal died. He remembered her. He remembered his bride. Yes, he did. How about the thief on the cross? He says, Lord, remember me. When thou comest to thy kingdom, did Christ remember him? He said, This day thou shalt be with me in paradise. Luke 23. Oh, be assured, pilgrim. Christ isn't just the king of Israel. He's the king of kings. He's the Lord of lords, and he will not forget you It says he calls his sheep by name, John 10 and 3. He will not forget you if you call out to the Lord, my Lord, forgive me and remember me. The Lord Jesus Christ will. Yes, he will. Let's pray. Father, we thank you this day Do we have a God that never forgets? He forgets sin, he moves as far as the east is from the west, but he does not forget those who call out to him in repentance, who call out to him and call him my Lord, my God, my king. Those he doesn't forget. Those he does forgive. Lord, we're so grateful that we know that day is coming and we'll be in your presence. So Lord, may everyone here be fighting and scrapping to be the first to touch your feet, to bow before you. And we'll stay there until you bring us up. For we owe you. So much reverence. Thank you, Lord Jesus Christ, for all you've done. Amen.