Our gracious, loving Heavenly Father, we thank you this morning for who you are. And we thank you for who we are in Christ. For Lord, in ourselves we are nothing but wretched sinners deserving of wrath and judgment. But Father, we are new creatures in Christ. You have made us over again. Because He has borne our iniquity. Our iniquity was laid upon Him, and the chastisement of our peace was upon Him. So, Father, we thank you that we are bidden to come boldly to the throne of grace. Lord, because we come not clothed in our sin, but clothed in the righteousness of your Son. Father, this morning it is our earnest desire to bring before you worship that is acceptable in thy sight. And so, Lord, we read in your word that you create the fruit of the lips. And so, Father, the unregenerate man, the old man, cannot worship God. He's incapable of worship because his sins have separated between he and God. But Lord, the new creature has been freed by thee to worship God And so, Father, may you glorify your Son within your people this day. May we lift up our voices. And our hearts in praise to thee, lifting up holy hands. Lord, our hands by nature were defiled, but are made holy by the blood of Christ. And so, Lord, may we lift up holy hands before God. And Lord, today, as our brother has already prayed in our men's prayer time, Lord, may you remove from us all the profanity and filth of this world. The things which would distract us and deter us from the worship of Jesus Christ. May you be pleased with our worship this day in Jesus' name. Amen. Our call to worship is familiar verses from Philippians 4. Be careful for nothing, but in everything by prayer and supplication with thanksgiving. Let your requests be made known unto God. And the peace of God, which passeth all understanding, shall keep your hearts And vines through Christ Jesus. Good morning, everyone. Good to see everybody today. Turn in your blue songbook to our opening hymn. It's number 51, When All Thy Mercies, number 51. It's a really nice little tune from the 1700s, no less The uh the tune is called St. Peter, and you know it from the song How Sweet the Name of Jesus Sounds. It's number 51. And when you've located that, we'll sing all six stanzas Merci O my God, my rising souls were transformed with the flu I've lost in one. Under love and praises. Under compass To my soul, thy tend to care be stools before my infant heart conceived. From to those comforts know when worn with sickness or hast thou without renewed my And when in sail done, revive my soul with race. Ten thousand Thousand precious yes, my daily thanks and voy. Those gifts with joy through every period of my life, thy goodness I'll pursue. And after death in distant world, a glorious beau through all eternity. To be a joyful stone already for only turn on too too short to water all. Amen. Amen. Thank you to Ms. Penny for selecting that. No flats in there. That's nice. And a great set of words to it, which is wonderful Uh brother Anton if you would please. Good morning. Good morning. Please turn to the back of your bulletin. This morning we'll be reading from the 22nd article of the Belgic Confession. First portion of it is regarding our justification through faith in Jesus Christ. Christian, in what do you believe? We believe that to attain the true knowledge of this great mystery, the Holy Ghost kindleth in our hearts in upright faith. which embraces Jesus Christ with all his merits, appropriates him, and seeks nothing more besides him For it must needs follow either that all things which are requisite to our salvation are not in Jesus Christ, or if all things are in him That then those who possess Jesus Christ through faith have complete salvation in him. Therefore, for any to assert that Christ is not sufficient, but that something more is required besides Him would be too roast a blasphemy. Perhaps it would follow that Christ was on behalf a Savior. This morning we read about the justification that we have through faith in Jesus Christ. We are beginning to consider this faith in Christ, Christ the Savior. Well my question to you is how do you know that God's salvation and redemption story or the gospel are true. That it's a true thing. Is it something that you've witnessed with your eyes With your physical eyes, have you seen Christ? Have you been to this new heavenly kingdom that he speaks of? I would say uh you most likely have not, unless the Lord's keeping some secret of something that went on, but this isn't how the Lord is revealing himself. He reveals himself through his word The way that you know is through faith. It's through faith in his promise, in his word that he's given to us. This isn't something that we see with the physical eye. We take it by faith. Well, then you have to ask yourself, where did you receive that faith? How did you get that faith? Is it something that we ought to pat you on the back for because you've made this decision to believe while many others have not? Well no, this faith is not self-derived. Faith that you have in Christ the Savior. It's a faith that's given by God In Galatians, we read that faith is a fruit of the Spirit, something that the Spirit gives. And in Ephesians, we read that it's the gift of God, something given by God And I like how this article points it out that the Holy Ghost kindleth in our hearts in upright faith, something that God must do for us. And we know from the testimony of Scriptures that spiritual understanding, faith itself, it's not received by the natural man It's not received by something that you can work up within yourself. First Corinthians two fourteen says, But the natural man receiveth not the things of the Spirit of God, for they are foolishness unto him. Neither can he know them. Because they are spiritually discerned. It's something that God must do, something that God must give you. And God uses this faith as an instrument of salvation. It's through this means that somebody is saved. It's through faith, not by a work. Ephesians 2. 8 says, For by grace are you saved through faith, and that not of yourselves. It is the gift of God. And a lot of people know John 3. 16. They're familiar with that verse and they'll point to it to try to explain God's Indiscriminate love, that it's goes out everywhere around the world. But it is interesting. I'm going to read it for you and listen closely because there actually is something very discriminating within that verse about God's love. John three sixteen says, For God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life There's an implication there that if you're not believing on Christ, you will perish. You're still abiding under the wrath of God. That's where the multitude goes, the multitude of the unbelievers. Yes, God's love was manifested to the world. That gospel declaration did go out to all places, but who's being saved? Only those that believe in him, only those that believe in Christ. And uh the last thing I just want to point out is that the article begins to uh make clear to us that The uh faith that we have, it is the the faith in Christ that we have is sufficient to justify man before God. Yes, the faith uh needs to be checked. We read about that in James and in other places. It's not just a claim to faith will save you. You must have a genuine faith But that's all that God uh requires and demands. As we read in the scriptures, that the just shall live by faith. It's not by added works or this or that. It's it's that faith that God gives. If you're saying that the just shall not live by faith alone, they have this other requirement and that other requirement, you're adding to God's work. You're changing God's salvation plan. But the scripture is not ambiguous about this topic. Being right with God is by faith alone, and it's in Christ alone. And I'll leave you with Romans 5. 1. Therefore, being justified by faith, we have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ. Thank you. Thank you, brother. Let's go to prayer, brother. Gracious Father, we do thank you for your mercy and grace to your people. Lord, if you had left us to save ourselves, we would be unsaved. And if you had left us to choose the right path for salvation, we would be unsaved. But Father, we thank you that you set us on the right path, that you delivered us from the broad way that leads to destruction. Lord, few there be that go in thereat, because are there few that be saved? Yes, indeed there are few Your people have always been and will always be a remnant, not in the masses, but in the few. Father, we thank you that we are numbered among thine own people through the marvelous grace of Jesus Christ. Father, we thank you this morning that we can call you our Father. We are not orphans, or we are not left in this world without fathers. Well Lord, this morning we do thank you, those of us who had godly fathers on earth. And Lord, I thank you that my children and my grandchildren have the blessings of my father and my father-in-law, who uh godly men, and you promise those blessings to the third and fourth generation. And so, Lord, for those of us that grew up with godly fathers, may we cherish that and thank you for it. For Lord, we did not choose who our father would be. That was of thine ordination. And so, Father, we pray for our children and our grandchildren that they might recognize the abundance of mercy that has been extended to them. By being given godly fathers and grandfathers. Lord, we thank you. Lord, we thank you for many of our congregation who did not have that blessing. And yet in your marvelous grace you saved them in spite of that. They did not have a father who whispered scripture in their infant ears, as my father did to me, and as I did to my children. There are many that did not have that blessing. And indeed, Lord, they have been plucked as brands from the burning. We thank you for that. Father, we pray for the fathers of our congregation and more specifically for the young fathers of our congregation. That you might give them great wisdom and great grace, to, as the old book of discipline says, to live before their children the life that becometh the gospel. to live before their children a life that is itself a picture of the gospel. Oh God, help us. For we are men, and subject to all the trials of the flesh, and our children see day by day. Father, we pray that you would bless our young families. Lord, bless our young fathers with godly sobriety and wisdom to train up their children in the way they should go. Father, as we pray week after week, we thank you that we are not coming to inform you of our needs and concerns. For in your marvelous wisdom you know what things we have need of before we ask. And so, Lord, when we remember these requests before you in prayer, we inform you of nothing, but rather we obey your command. Ye have not, because ye ask not. And so, Father, we thank you. As was mentioned before our service began, the mighty hand of protection and providence on our brother And Lord, we pray that your hand may continue upon him and bring him to good and full healing. Father, we thank you for your Blessing on our sister that had a transplant and our brother that had lung surgery, Father. May we not stop praying for them, O Lord, and praying that you would continue to work in their bodies. Lord, we have others in our congregation that have been on death's door. We have those in our congregation that have grave ailments, Lord, that uh are often not even spoken to their brethren. They're so close and so tender. But Lord, we bring before you these things, or our our prayer request always includes unspoken. And Lord, we bring before you these needs as well, knowing that all of these things you are able Lord, we pray for our dear sister who suffers often with migraine headaches and is not with us today. Oh God, may you give her grace. May you give her healing, we pray. And Father, may you quickly relieve her. Those of us that have had migraines know the overwhelming disability that can be to our very senses. And so, Father, may you help and may you bless. And herself has very grave physical uh Trials which she deals with. Father, may you help and bless there. Father, there are a multitude on our prayer requests that we don't mention frequently in our pastoral prayer that are co-workers uh friends, uh brothers, uh family members of our congregation of of those that are in our congregation Father. Those that are not really a part of us, but they are brought before us in prayer. And Lord, we we do faithfully remember those as well. Father, we pray for those that are enduring distress of heart and mind. Father, we thank you that you have not given us the spirit of fear, but of power and of love and of a sound mind. And so, Father, we pray that you would comfort troubled spirits this morning. Father, we thank you you promised to supply all of our needs And the supply of our needs is according to your riches and glory. It is a supply that is without limits, that is boundless Lord, we worry about retirement and we worry about paying electric bills and we worry about these little things that are so entirely insignificant before thee. And yet, Lord, they are huge to us. They loom large in our estimation. For Father, we see from earth's side and you see from your supply side. And so, Father, we thank you that you do supply our needs. And pray, Lord, that you would supply the needs of the congregation. We have those that are on limited incomes Those that are retired. We have those that are sole proprietors, that have employees that also depend upon their business. We have those that are working in industries which are very tough in these days. We have those that have suffered financial wrong and need your hand to bring correction. Father, what are these things with thee? O Lord, they are huge to us. But Lord, it's naught with thee. You put a coin in a fish's mouth, O Lord. You you fed a multitude with with a little boy's lunch. Lord, you do not need the coins of this world to do your work. And yet, Lord, we do. And so, Father, we pray that you would supply our needs. Father, we Pray for those that mourn this morning. We pray for those within our congregation, both local And those are in our extended congregation that have lost loved ones in in recent weeks and months, O Father, you are the friend that's closer than a brother. And Lord, we pray that you would bring comfort to hearts. And Lord, help us to bear one another's burdens, O Lord And Lord, then we have those who have lost spouses, been bereaved of loved ones, in some cases many years ago now. And yet, Father, those wounds never heal. That sense of loss and sorrow never leaves. But Father, may you bring comfort to hearts and may you bring strengthening. Father, we pray this morning for this poor, sinful Sodom in which we live. Lord, this nation was once one nation under God. We were the nation that sent missionaries all over the world. And yet, Father, today we live in a nation that has so vilely turned from thee and is so very ripe for judgment Lord, we deserve nothing but wrath and destruction. But Father, we know that you would have spared Sodom for the sake of ten righteous. And we find in your word often when entire nations have been spared because of a remnant within them. When mercy has been given. Lord, the Apostle Paul was on a ship full of vile men. But not a one perished, because your chosen servant was among them. And so Father. May you indeed spare this nation because your people are among them. And Father, may your people among them be the seed of revival, that you might turn this land back to Christ. Father, there's a lot of turmoil. There's a lot of earthly wars. But Father, we thank you that great peace have they that love thy law, and nothing shall offend them. Oh Lord, this morning, as we consider peace in our morning message, may your spirit speak peace to our hearts, we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. Please turn to Psalm 62 in your Bibles. Once you've located Psalm 62, please rise. We will responsibly be reading all twelve verses of Psalm sixty two. To the chief musician, to Jeduthin, a psalm of David. Truly my soul waiteth upon God. From him cometh my salvation. He only is my rock and my salvation. He is my defense. I shall not be greatly moved. How long will ye imagine mischief against a man? Ye shall be slain, all of you, as a bowing wall shall ye be, as a tottering fence. They only consult to cast him down from his excellency. They delight in lies. They bless with their mouth, but they curse inwardly. Selah. My soul, wait thou only upon God, for my expectation is from Him. He only is my rock and my salvation. He is my defense. I shall not be moved. And God is my salvation and my glory. The rock of my strength and my refuge is in God. Trust in Him at all times, ye people. Pour out your heart before Him. God is a refuge for us. Selah Surely men of low degree are vanity, and men of high degree are a lie. To be laid in the balance, they're altogether lighter than vanity Trust not in oppression, and become not vain in robbery. If riches increase, set not your heart upon them. God has spoken once Twice have I heard this, that power belongeth unto God, and altogether Also unto thee, O Lord, belongeth mercy. For thou renderest to every man according to his works. May the Lord add a rich blessing to the reading and hearing of his holy word. It was a marvelous psalm selection. I love those last three verses. Men of high degree are a lie. Wow. Yeah. Sounds like God knows the state of affairs of the human race. Turn to our sermon, Psalm number 53, in your song book. 53. It's an adaptation of Psalm 146. And I believe you'll find the tune familiar. Hallelujah. Praise Jehovah. We sing all four stanzas and the Amen. All in your praise of all. Oh my soldier, who God praise, I will sing the glorious praises of my God through all my days. Nor for help or many pen he shall die in just returning and his purposes. And he is the man that chooses Israel's got to be his class. Blessing, for the Lord is God this day. And then the Lord created season all that make a day. He delivered from oppression, the righteous as he will maintain. The morning fresh breeze winds of the down in the thing which makes the sightless eyes to see. Well done. And the stranger he be friends, help the fatherless and widows, judgment on the wicked. Hallelujah, Ray Jehovah, O my soul Jehovah, I will sing the glorious praise. Of my God through all my days. Over all God reigns forever. Through all ages, he is pain unto me. Thy battle sight, joyful hollow. Thank you so much. Turn in your Bibles with me, please, to the Gospel of John and the 14th chapter. John 14 this morning. Just a few weeks ago I sang that psalm that we just sang in a room with 300 other preachers. Not a lady in the room because ladies are forbidden to be there. It's a pastor's conference and they take very strongly the concept of male leadership in worship. I tell you what, it'd give you goosebumps to sing that psalm in a room with with at least three hundred other men uh singing in in four part harmony. It was beautiful. I hope you found your place now in John 14. I mentioned on Wednesday at our prayer service that I was really struggling with what to preach this week. And I I think I mentioned on Wednesday I had four possible messages. The message this morning is not one of those four. But it's amazing to see God's marvelous providence and leading. Brother Vincent and I have mentioned so many times that time and time again without any coordination whatsoever. The Sunday school lesson and the morning message are bookends. They they work together. uh they coordinate by God's providence. I came to the conclusion that I should preach on peace before war broke out between Israel and Iran And the current world conditions are the perfect illustration. Of what I want us to see here in God's Word today. Because peace has nothing to do with this world. Peace has nothing to do with world conflicts. The peace spoken of in Scripture is apart and different totally From what's happening in this wicked sin-cursed world that deserves nothing but wars and rumors of wars. And so I'm going to read verse 1 of the chapter and then drop down the verse 15 and read through verse 27. And then verse 27 will actually be our text this morning. So verse one and then verse fifteen and following. Let not your heart be troubled. Ye believe in God, believe also in me. 15 If ye love me, keep my commandments. And I will pray the Father, and he shall give you another comforter, that ye may ab he may abide with you forever. Even the Spirit of Truth, whom the world cannot receive, because it seeth him not. Neither knoweth him, but ye know him, for he dwelleth with you and shall be in you I will not leave you comfortless. I will come to you. And just to pause for a moment, that word comfortless is the Greek word orphanas. You can hear the word orphan there. When Christ says, I will not leave you comfortless, he is literally saying, I'm not going to leave you as a bunch of orphans in the world. Rather, I am leaving you, Christ says, but I'm going to send my spirit. You won't be alone in this world. Verse 19. Yet a little while, and the world seeth me no more, but ye see me Because I live, ye shall live also. At that day, ye shall know that I am in my Father, and ye in me, and I in you. He that hath my commandments and keepeth them, he it is that loveth me, and he that loveth me shall be loved of my father, and I will love him, and I will manifest myself to him. Judith saith unto him, not Iscariot, Lord, how is it that thou wilt manifest thyself unto us and not unto the world? Jesus answered and said unto him, If a man love me, he will keep my words, and my father will love him. And we will come unto him and make our abode with him. He that loveth me not keepeth not my sayings. And the word which ye hear is not mine, but the father's which sent me. These things have I spoken unto you, being yet present with you. But the Comforter, which is the Holy Ghost, whom the Father will send in my name, he shall teach you all things. And bring all things to your remembrance whatsoever I have said unto you. Peace I leave with you. My peace I give unto you, not as the world giveth, give I unto you. Let not your heart be troubled Neither let it be afraid. Let's pray. Lord, who is sufficient to these things? We try not to say more than you have said, O God, for thy word has said it all. But Lord enable us today, as a congregation, to be led by thy Spirit into green pastures and into the still waters of thy word. Father, we thank you that the Holy Spirit is the one who guides us into all truth. And so, Father, though you've chosen the foolishness of preaching, The foolishness of preaching has no value except that it be accompanied by the Spirit of God. And so, Father, may indeed the Holy Spirit be the true paraclete today. May the Spirit of God be the exegete. May the Spirit of God speak truth and peace to the hearts of your people this day. In Jesus' name. Amen. Peace I leave with you. This has been referred to as the last will and testament of Jesus Christ. When we die, we leave something to those that we love. We leave it to them because we think they need it. We leave it to them because we hope that they'll make good use of it. Sometimes it is left with certain instructions. But we leave something to those which are behind. Christ has been with the disciples. He has been their comforter. He has been their encourager. He has been the one even that restrained them from evil. Peter, Peter, Satan has desired to have you that he may sift you as wheat, but I've prayed for you. I've restrained you from that which Satan would desire to have in you. But now I'm leaving, but I'm not going to leave you comfortless I'm not going to leave you Arphanas. You won't be orphans. I'm going to leave you something. But look what he said I'm going to leave. I'm going to leave you a million bucks. I'm going to leave you the cattle on a thousand hills. I'm going to leave you the gold and all the rocks. I'm going to leave you victory over the Romans. No, none of those things. He leaves them what they need. Peace. Peace I leave with you. This is essentially the Essence of the entirety of his ministry. Remember the prophecy? His name will be the Prince of Peace. Remember his birth? Peace on earth. Folks, during the lifetime of Christ, there was all kinds of war and turmoil on earth. But the Prince of Peace was there. And now he's getting ready to leave, and he ends his ministry. We're just days from the crucifixion. Peace, peace. I leave with you. Did he get it wrong? Was he unable to leave to his brethren that which he declared? Peace I leave with you. Now, this phrase, peace I leave with you, was essentially the Hebrew salutation. Okay, today they still say shalom, which is peace. Peace I leave with you. This blessing which Christ gives is the same blessing of the Old Testament, and it is the blessing which David sent to Nabal. So turn with me to First Samuel twenty-five. Turn over to First Samuel twenty-five. And in 1 Samuel 25, and starting with verse number five, we find this. And David sent out ten young men. And David said unto the young men Get ye up to Carmel, and go to Nabal, and greet him in my name. And thus shall ye say unto him that liveth in prosperity Peace be both to thee, and peace to thine house, and peace unto all that thou hast. You see, David sends a greeting of peace to Nabal. Look down to verse 10. And Nabal answered David's servant and said, Who is David? And who is the son of Jesse? There be many servants now a days that break away every man from his master. Shall I then take my bread and my water and my flesh that I have killed for my shears, and give it unto men whom I know not whence they be Folks, this is a glorious allegory of the gospel. David sends ten men. How many commandments did God put in his law? Ten. What was the purpose of the law? Schoolmaster. To bring us to Christ David here is sending his servants to Nabal with a message of peace Come unto me, oh ye that labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. What is rest but the essence of peace? It's a beautiful allegory of salvation that David sends a message of peace, and the gospel of Jesus Christ goes out as a message of peace. It began with the law, the ten, which was to bring us to Christ. Nabal hears the message of peace. He hears the general call of the gospel, and he says, Who is this David? There's a lot of people that claim to be God. There's a lot of servants that have left their masters. I'm not going to take my bread. I'm not going to take my water. I'm not going to take my meat, my sacrifice. And give it to someone that I don't know where he comes from. If thou be the Son of God, come down from the cross and we will believe you. What say ye of Christ? Some say he's a prophet, some say he's a good man. What say ye of Christ? Folks, it's a glorious allegory of salvation. Nabal refuses and is ultimately destroyed But Abigail, Abigail hears the same message. And she says, oh yes, I must go to this one. And what does Abigail do when she comes to this one, but she kneels before him and pleads for mercy? And because of Abigail, even Nabal is spared for a time. And because of the church of God within this wicked world, God is not slack concerning his promise. but is long suffering to usward, not willing that any of the usward should perish, but that all should come to repentance. And there is also a reflection of Israel here, where Israel, because of their presence, was a blessing to many. And yet most of Israel was with Nabal and not with Abigail. And so as we begin to talk about peace this morning, the first question is this: are you Abigail or are you Nabal? Will you reject this message of peace or will you kneel at the feet of Jesus Christ? Begging, pleading, as Abigail did plead for mercy The lineage of Nabal is gone. It is cut off. But Abigail became the wife of David And her lineage continues. The message of the gospel is this in Romans 5, verse 1, therefore being justified by faith. We have peace with God. 1 Chronicle or Colossians 1, verse 20, and having made peace through the blood of his cross, By him to reconcile all things unto himself. By him I say, whether it be things in earth or things in heaven, and you that were sometimes alienated and enemies In your wicked mind by your wicked minds, yet now hath he reconciled. And so we, the Abigails We, the believers in Jesus Christ, are to go forth. And in Ephesians 6 and verse 15, your feet shod with the preparation of the gospel of peace. And again, Romans 10 and verse 14 and following, how then shall they call upon him who has not believed? And how shall they believe in him of whom they have not heard? And how shall they hear without a preacher? And how shall they preach, except they be sent, as it is written, how beautiful are the feet of them that preach the gospel of peace And bring good tidings, tidings of good things. Folks, when Christ was born, the angels said, Glory to God in the highest. And on earth, peace, goodwill toward men. But it had nothing to do with Herod. It had nothing to do with Rome. It had everything to do with the peace of God that passeth unto all understanding, that is given to the Abigails and withheld from the nables. Yes, he is the Prince of Peace. And he's brought peace. Folks, this is the heritage. Why was he going to die? To give us peace. I'm gonna die, but my peace is what I'm leaving behind. Because the veil of the temple is about ready to be rent. Because I'm about to declare it is finished. And because I'm dying. You will have peace. Folks, it doesn't matter if there's war in Israel, if you have this peace. Doesn't matter if there's war in Baltimore or your backyard. This is the peace that is needed. Isaiah 57, 19, I create the fruit of the lips. Peace. Peace to him that is afar all. And to him that is near, saith the Lord, and I will heal him. But the wicked are like the troubled sea, when it cannot rest. This waters cast up mire and dirt. There is no peace, saith my God to the nables. I changed the verse. You know what it says. There is no peace, saith my God. To the wicked. And so Christ very gloriously says, Look, I'm going away, folks, but this is for the inheritance I'm giving you. This is what I'm leaving you. My peace, not the world's peace. My peace. I leave, I or peace I leave with you. I've got ahead of myself. Peace I leave with you. My peace. I give unto you. Folks, this is an exclusive piece. This is not the peace of possessions. This is not the peace of prosperity. This is not the peace of prominence. This is not the peace of people. This is the peace of My peace I give you. It is a peace that is only found in Christ, and it is a peace which is his prerogative to give I can't give you a million bucks, because I ain't got a million bucks. Thank the Lord. But he has something he can give you. My peace I give you. You see, folks, when God finished his creation, there was peace. In the second verse of Genesis, Genesis 1, verse 2, we find that the earth was without form and void. There was chaos. And the Spirit of God moved upon the face of the waters. And God said, Let there be light. When God finished his creation and rested on the seventh day, the world was at peace. The lion would indeed lie down with the lamb. There was no war. There was no conflict. But sin entered into the world, and death, conflict, sorrow, pain. Chaos entered in thereby. God cursed the ground in Genesis 3 and verse 7. The animals were cursed along with it, and so the lion no longer lies down with the lamb. The unfallen angels were the only exception to the curse. They were the only ones that remained. But they're not of this world. Everything of this world was cursed. Jesus is preparing to die. Who is he? He's the second Adam. He's preparing to die. What is he giving? Well he's giving his life a ransom for many. He's giving his his blood for us. He's giving us peace. He's putting things back the way they're supposed to be He's correcting that which was lost in the fall on behalf of the believers. He says, My peace, the peace that I only have, if you want peace, you've got to go to the source. My peace, I'm gonna sell you. My peace, you're gonna have to work for it My peace, you better count your beads. No, no, none of that. None of all You see, it's the gospel being spoken of here. My peace, I give unto you. I give unto them eternal life, and they shall never perish. He's talking to these disciples. I'm going to leave peace with you. Even better, I'm going to give it to you. You're not going to find it on your own When I was working on the message, I started using the phrase you gotta go to the peace store to get peace. But when you go to the peace store, you've got to buy it. This isn't the peace store. Not to be too flippant, but he's passing it out, folks This is my body which has broken the I'm giving it to you. This is what I'm giving you. Peace I give with you. My peace, the my peace that Jesus gives is peace between God and man. For the peace that existed between Adam and God was broken, and Adam hid himself in the garden. But now I have peace with God through the cross of Jesus Christ. He gave it to me. Therefore, being justified by faith, we have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ. He has removed all the enmity of the fallen creature. He has taken away the wrath of God by taking it upon himself. He has fulfilled the righteous demands of the law. By his sacrifice. Job 22, verse 21, a verse that I had not really paid much attention to before my study this week. Job 22, verse 21 Acquaint now thyself with him and be at peace. Folks, I don't know if you put three or five cards up on the mirrors in your house, but that's a good one. If you use sticky notes, that's a good one. Job 22, verse 22 22, verse 21, acquaint now thyself with him and be at peace. The witch would like the troubled sea when it cannot rest, but wow. Acquaint yourself with God and be at peace. Colossians 1:21, and you who are sometimes alienated and enemies in your mind by uh in your mind by wicked works Yet now hath he reconciled. This peace, the my peace that he gives, is peace with God, but the my peace that he gives is also peace with the people of God He has made us one people in Christ. He is our peace, Ephesians 2, who hath made both one, Jew and Gentile one. And I have broken down the middle wall of petition between us, having abolished in his flesh the enmity, even the law, the commandments contained in the ordinances, for to make in himself of twain one new man So making peace. He's made peace among the brethren. By this shall all men know that you're my disciples, you have love one to another. Folks, where there is not peace in a church, there is not the Spirit of God. And there may not be a complete body of believers. Because God's people find a way to get along. He's given us that peace. He's given us peace with God and peace with the brethren. And thirdly, the my peace that Jesus gives is peace within the world. Let me say that. He gives us peace within the world. He doesn't give us peace with the world. It gives us peace within the world. You see, the storms of this world, the wars of this world rage all around us. And folks, we don't have peace with this world. Is this foul world a friend of grace to help me on to God, the old hymn says? This world is not our friend. This world is our enemy. But the child of God has peace within the world. Not peace with the world, but peace within the world. Folks, that's the peace of God that passes all understanding. That's a piece that cannot be quantified. That's a piece that cannot be understood. And I'm sure all of us at some time or another have seen a dear brother or sister enduring horrendous trials with a smile and with peace. Now folks, maybe you have been blessed to go through overwhelming difficulties. And yet had a unmistakable peace within. Lord, this is horrible. And yet I'm resting in thee. Yet in thee I can find that peace. Because He gives us peace within the world. John 16, 33, these things have I spoken unto you that ye might have peace. In the world ye shall have tribulation. But be of good cheer. I have overcome the world. So the peace, the my peace is peace with God, is peace with the brethren, is peace within the world. But folks, the my peace that Jesus Christ gives is peace with myself. Folks, peace with myself. Folks, sometimes we're our worst enemy. And so so self-loathing is a good exercise. But him that thinketh that he stand, take heed that lest he fall. Pride goeth before a fall. And yet God can give the believer peace with himself. Lord, I know I'm wicked. Lord, I know I fail thee every day. But I rejoice in the calm assurance that on my worst, most sinful day, I'm your child. I fail you. And I grieve, and with Peter I go out and I weep bitterly, but I'm still your child. You will not cast me out, and Satan cannot pluck me out of your hand. The good that I would, I do not. The evil that I would not, that I do. But still there's peace between me and God. Oh yes, there are times when I fear before God because I know I have vitally violated His law. And yet I know I'm his. The old song says, love with everlasting love, led by grace that love to know. Spirit flowing from above, thou hast taught me it is so. Oh, what full and perfect peace, oh what transport all divine, in a love that cannot cease. I am his and he is mine. God's given me peace with myself. And what a glorious peace that is Colossians 3, verse 15. Let the peace of God rule in your hearts, to which also ye are called in one body, and be ye thankful. Romans 8:15, for ye have not received the spirit of bondage again into fear, but ye have received the spirit of adoption, whereby we cry, Abba, Father. 2 Timothy 1, verse 7, for God has not given us the spirit of fear, but of power and of love and a sound mind. Peace I leave with you. My peace I give unto you, not as the world giveth Give I unto you. The peace which I'm giving you has nothing to do with this world. It's not the peace they would give you. It's not as the peace they would give you. It is something so much better I'm not giving you peace, like the world gives you peace. Not the false peace which the world offers. Not the peace that is found in circumstances, but rather the peace that is found in Jesus Christ. The peace that is found in me. We find that there'll be wars and rumors of wars. Let me read Matthew 24 and just emphasize the words. Starting in verse 6 of Matthew 24, and ye shall, that's a certain statement, isn't it? And ye shall hear of rumors, wars and rumors of wars. See that ye be not troubled, for all these things must come to pass, but the end is not yet. For nations shall rise against nation, and kingdom against kingdom, and there shall be famines and pestilence and earthquakes and diverse places. All these things are the beginning of sorrows, then shall they deliver you up to be afflicted, and shall kill you, and ye shall be hated of all nations for my name's. Those are definite statements. Christ said these are things that are going to happen This is the Prince of Peace expounding all the turmoils that are coming. The world doesn't give you peace. And in the world, don't expect to have peace. We can have peace within the world, as we said, but we don't have peace with this world. You see, the world has a mistaken assumption, a mistaken notion of what peace is. Open your dictionary, and you'll find that Webster's and all of them will define peace as the absence of conflict. Folks, peace is the absence of evil. Let me tell you again, the true definition of peace is the absence of evil. There was peace in the Garden of Eden. Why? Because there was no evil And the believer has peace because God's taken the evil out. You see, if all the evil was taken out of the world instantly, there would be no more wars. There'd be no crime. Peace is not the absence of conflict. Peace is the absence of evil. Because it is the evil that brings about war. Israel was told to destroy all the inhabitants of the land in order to have peace. Don't leave any of their what idols. They're evil. Don't look at their images. Don't marry their daughters. Eliminate them entirely. Why? Because they're evil. And if you're going to have peace in this land I'm giving you, clear out the evil before you. Israel didn't obey. They didn't do it. And what was the judgment? From henceforth thou shalt have? Wars. Right? From henceforth thou shalt have wars, is what the scripture says. Folks, Christ doesn't give peace the way the world gives peace. You see The world has a mistaken notion of what peace actually is. The world may honestly desire to give peace, but the world is incapable of peace. You see, the world has no concept of removal of evil. All they try to do is remove the conflict. The world may honestly, Chamberlain, proclaim peace in our time. History is filled with broken and failed treaties. The world offers false peace. The world gives the illusion of peace. Oh, if we prevent Iran from having nukes, we'll have peace. No, we won't. Oh, if we make this treaty we'll have peace. No, we won't. There will be wars and rumors of wars. That's what Scripture tells us to. So the Christians should not be looking for world peace. You know, the big joke is, you know, at the Beauty pot pageants, they asked the dizzy blonde, what what do you want? And her answer is world peace. Well it is a stupid notion. It ain't gonna happen, folks. If you're waiting for world peace, you're waiting for the wrong thing. I'm waiting for the return of the Prince of Peace. Not as the world gives you. The world even lies about peace. I'm a I I enjoy history. History fascinates me. Yeah. How many treaties did Hitler make shortly before he invaded? The the Japanese were in Washington working on on trade and essentially peace agreements when they bombed Pearl Harbor. There there's quite frankly there's quite frankly some evidence that and I don't mean to get too far off here, but some evidence that that Trump may have been uh Encouraging Israel to attack while negotiating with Iran just to keep them off balance for the attack, who knows? Uh our government's capable of such deception and wickedness. Folks, the world lies about peace. But Christ says, my peace, or peace I leave with you. My peace I give unto you, not like they do. Not as the world giveth, give I unto you. The world can't give you peace, but I come with peace. Peace I leave with you. My peace I give unto you Not as the world giveth, give I unto you. Let not your heart be troubled. Don't let your heart be troubled. That's what he said, didn't it? Our hearts get troubled. He said, Don't do that Hmm. Did you ever see your child ready to do something, pardon me, stupid? You know the old say you gotta be tough if you're dumb? That's gonna hurt. That's not for your good That's not for your benefit. That's going to do you harm. That's going to hurt you. Don't let your heart be troubled. When you see all these things come to pass, rejoice for your redemption draweth nigh. You see the wars and rumors of wars of this world, the Democrats buying truckloads of bricks. Before a protest. Yeah, those things if you let 'em trouble you, they're gonna trouble you big. But Christ says, look, I'm leaving you my peace. I'm giving you my peace. I'm giving you something the world can't give you. Don't let. Don't allow your heart to be troubled by these things. Because the peace of God that passeth understanding will keep your hearts and minds through Christ Jesus. Don't let your heart be troubled. In chapter 16, verse 33, these things have I spoken unto you that ye might have peace. In the world ye shall have tribulation, but be of good cheer. In the world you're going to have tribulation, smile about it. Be of good cheer. I have overcome the world. I will not leave you comfortless. Let not your heart be troubled, neither let it be afraid. Folks, what is the nature of this peace? What is this peace that we have? Well, go back to the passage with me And now, as we begin to wrap things up, let me highlight some of the verses that we did not read Verse 1 of chapter 14 Let not your heart be troubled. You believe in God, believe also in me, in my father's house are many mansions. If it were not so, I would have told you I go to prepare a place for you. What's that telling us? It's not about this world. Peace has nothing to do with this world. In the world we have tribulation, we said, look, I'm going away, but I'm going to prepare. I'm going to get things ready for you to be here with me. And if I go and prepare a place for you, I will come again. Thomas verse 5. We don't know the way. Verse 6. I am the way. There's the gospel. There's the gospel that we've been talking about. If you'd know me, you'd have asked my father, etc. Um go down to Oh let's just go down to where we are. Where where we started. Verse fifteen, if you love me, keep my commandments and I will pray my father, and he shall give you another comforter, that he may abide with you, even the spirit of truth, and this is where it was heading, verse 17, the second line, whom the world cannot receive. He says, I'm giving you the Holy Spirit, whom the world cannot receive. You see, the world's never going to have peace because they can't receive the Spirit. And then if you look down to verse 17 again or 27 again, not as the world giveth, give I unto you. I'm giving you the reality. I'm giving you the Holy Spirit. Folks, how is it that we can live in this world and not be afraid and not be troubled? Let not your heart be troubled, neither let it be afraid, because we're not orphans. Because we're not orphans. Because he has given us his peace, and that peace comes through the Holy Spirit that dwells within the believer. And so, let not your heart be troubled, neither let it be afraid. When David fled for his life from Saul and was taking refuge among the Philistines, David is hiding with his own enemies. In Psalm 56, verses 1 through 3, David praised, Be merciful unto me, O God, for man would swallow me up. He fighting daily oppresseth me. Mine enemies would daily swallow me up, for they are many that fight against me, O thou most high, what time I am afraid. I will trust in thee. Say unto them that are a fearful heart, be strong, fear not. For behold your God will come with vengeance, even God with recompense, he will come and save you. Isaiah thirty five verse four. Isaiah forty one verse thirty one For I, the Lord thy God, will hold thy right hand, saying, Fear not, I will help thee. Luke 12, 32, Fear not, little flock for it is your father's good pleasure to give you the kingdom. 1 John 4, verse 18, there is no fear in love, but perfect love. Perfect love casteth out fear, because fear hath torment. He that feareth is not made perfect in love. You see, folks, the reason our hearts are troubled and the reason we fear is because we fail to take advantage of of the Comforter was given to us. And so Christ says to these worried, fearful believers, Who he said I'm going to go away and they said, Where are you going? Whether you go, I don't know And he says, I'm the way that I'm going And he says, Look, I'm not leaving you alone. I have an inheritance for you. My peace I leave with you. Yea, rather my peace I give unto you, not the way the world gives you and takes back. Not the world gives you and it's a it's a figment, not the way the world gives you in lies. I give you, not as they give you. Don't let your heart be troubled. Don't let your heart be afraid. Folks, peace has nothing to do with this world. Peace has everything to do with Jesus Christ. For he is our peace. Stand with me as we pray. Father, we thank you for your most holy and precious word. We thank you, Father, that every Trial, circumstance, or joy that we face in this life, there is Scripture. There is thy word to be a lamp to our feet and a light to our path. We thank you that you haven't left us orphans. You've left us, you've granted us the Holy Spirit, the Comforter. Father, we pray that you would help your people to live in peace. And Father, we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Thank you, Pastor. We turn to our appropriate closing hymn of number 139. Jesus, I am resting, resting. Number 139 is our closing hymn for the day. 139 if we sing all four stanzas. Jesus, I am resting, resting in the joy of what thou art, I am finding out the God has made me case upon me as I could. My soul, for my thy transforming power, thou hast made me walk a science. Resting, resting in the joy of what thou art, I am finding out the greatness of thy life. Loving all great climbing kindness. Oh, how I let thy goodness law on me. Yes, I rest in the love it, no race is thine, though thy certainty of And made it Jesus, I am resting, resting in the joy of one. Thou finding out the greatness of thy loving horse simply cross me. Lord Jesus, I behold thee as thou art, and thine love so pure and changeless, such as twice my My heart satisfies its deepest longing, he surprises everything. Round with blessings, thy love in me Kiss a time, resting, resting in the joy. Of what thou art, I am finding out the brainess of thy loving house. Lift my face up for me as I work and wait for thee. With the thy smile, Lord Jesus, birth darkness Shadows win. The wideness of my father's glory, sunshine of my father's. Ever trusting, resting, fill me with thy grace. Jesus, I am resting, resting in. In the joy of what thou art, I am finding out the greatness of thy loving cause. Amen. Amen. Please receive it