Alright, the names of God. We're going to look at some Old and New Testament names that God uses for Himself. There's um Several. There's ale, there's Elohim. We'll look at that in detail. And that answers to the in the Old Testament. That's the Hebrew word. And that answers to a Greek term in the New Testament known as theos. So we'll look at some examples of that and kind of compare and contrast how that's used in other ways. Then we'll look at another term called Adonai, which is the Hebrew word for Lord, and then the New Testament word in Greek kurios and how that maps to it, how there's a direct correlation there. And then we'll look at the uh there's a compound form of the word ale. I'll just look at one of them. And it's the word uh Shaddai, the Almighty God. Previous study in Genesis, we covered that. It's an interesting term. And then we'll look at uh pantocrater, which is the word Almighty, which corresponds to Almighty Almighty God in the New Testament. That's the Greek word. And then lastly, one of the most famous words. Well, not lastly, there's five points actually. Then I've got Ab or Abba for father and Pater for father in the New Testament. God also reveals himself that way. And then lastly, the most popular one that we know about is the word Jehovah, and how that answers to I am, uh Jehovah answers to Jesus, and that's the most popular name for God in the Bible. And why is that? Before I get started, let me see if I can introduce some questions here. I I started off this study You know, I had one sheet of paper and then I said, let me just do a little bit of preparation review before I get studied and you can see this just bleeding with ink all over it. So uh if I kind of stumble and bumble around, I apologize because I I came across a really excellent resource. It was an ancient um Bible dictionary where the author uh of this particular section on the names of God named Morton Smith had much to say and I found that that it was really profitable. If I had to do it all over again I would have thrown my notes away and used his So uh I uh fixed it a lot. There's always somebody out there who's just done a lot of digging in a particular area and it never fails. I come across it too late in the game. But it was very interesting stuff and and so I I hope to pepper it in. But let me start off with a question. Um how many of you um have had the pleasure of trying to name a child? Sometimes it can happen even like in your family, uh when you've got, you know, a uh sister living at home and she's pregnant and uh uh and and the baby's coming and of course that comes up and you kick around some ideas at the dinner table or uh a niece or someone else in the family. Why is that such a hard thing? I'm assuming it was a hard thing. It was for me. It was not an easy thing. Why is it such a hard thing? Because they're gonna stay with them for a while. Yeah, that name's gonna be stuck with them for a while. Why else is it hard? Yes. Sure, we're gonna name a Bensell child. We're not just gonna give them any old name, you know. This has obviously got to be a name that uh is worthy of the family. Something that's uh uh respectable. The child will grow to live up to. Okay. Make it a high standard, something the the name uh that will reflect an identity for the child that the child would say, Yes, I want to aspire to be that. I've received these little books of child names. Most of them are trash. Some of them are useful because they actually give what the name itself means. They put the meaning behind it, other than just it sounds pretty. And so uh uh God likewise has chosen to reveal to us that He has chosen to give us His name. And what we find in Scripture is that as He gives us His name and as He reveals it, there seems to be a pattern. There's a pattern in the Bible in how He unveils His name over time. It continues to get greater clarity and give us greater insight into who he is and to his character and to the things that are important for us to know about him. Even in his name, you can find the gospel. Just in his name alone as to who he is. It's very impressive. Uh you know, my name uh was Vincent, and my mother wanted to name me after her father, Stephen, whom she loved very much. And so that ended up being my middle name, but my dad said, no, he needs to have a name kind of on his own. It's nice that you like your dad, but you know, he's kind of stand on his own two feet and not take on somebody else's identity. And for whatever reason they chose Vincent. And I went some twenty-five years before I met another Vincent ever. It turns out to be a strangely unique name. But if you believe what the Writers of this particular book said it means victory. And so I'm not quite sure how some skinny guy gets the victory, but in Christ I have a lot of victory. I would have liked to have had that name uh in, you know, lots of flesh and bulk on the playground, 'cause I got picked on a lot as a little skinny kid on the playground. So victory didn't seem to be something I could grow up with. Well, God gives us names that are very impressive, so turn to Genesis 1 and verse 1. We'll look at the very first name used for God and what that tells us. Genesis chapter 1, verse 1. This is the word Elohim. The very first introduction of the word that we find there. In the beginning, God created the heaven and the earth. We all know that passage. It's the word Elohim. And it's the plural form of the word ale. And the word ale is the regular word for God, kind of the usual term of deity. It's used 235 times in the scripture, but Elohim is used a whole lot more times. It's almost 10 times more in its use. It's over 2,500 times So we start off with a plural name for God. The existence is assumed, not proved, in the beginning, God created the heaven and the earth. The Bible starts off with an assumption that God exists. And it starts off with an assumption that he's plural. In fact, you find in verse 26 of the same chapter, and God said, Let us make man in our image after our likeness. So right off the bat you have a plural uh uh Godhead, a plural deity, who insists that he is the creator. He gives us a record of how he spoke all things into existence. And if you look carefully, you see in that opening three verses of Genesis 1, you begin to see elements of the divine Godhead It says the earth, when verse 2, was without form and void, and darkness was upon the face of the deep, and the Spirit of God moved upon the face of the waters. Again, not proven, just assume. Here's something called the Spirit of God. God has a spirit. God is the spirit, apparently, because there's no material stuff around. He's about to create it, other than the waters that are there that he created also. God said, let there be light and there was light. So then we find that he spoke. This God speaks. So you have the Word of God, you have the Spirit of God, and then you've got something called God or Elohim. So right off the bat you have the most fascinating account. And for years I read with great wonder and fascination the first opening chapter of Genesis. To me it's just still one of the most awesome pieces, if I dare reduce it to something, just to say it's a piece of literature, because it's more than literature It's a record of how all of this came into being. This uh this word uh Elohim, Ale would uh be a usual reference to deity, it can be referenced to a false god When you read in the scripture about false gods of wood, brass, or stone, dumb idols which have eyes but see not, ears that hear not, that would use the word ale. But it would never be used, uh and rarely would it be used of Elohim. That would be when a false God tries to take on creator god's characteristics. He would truly be false in that respect. But the word ale has to do with overwhelming majesty. So by making it plural, it's really hinting at a plurality of the Godhead, but it's really more focusing on he has overwhelming majesty. Majesty that excels even that which is so-called a god. It is a doubly impressive majesty. It has expressive power. Indeed, which of us can speak and make something come to pass? I like when Ray Comfort uh goes and talks to uh uh evolutionists and particularly scientists and they uh are there describing how we came from fish. One says, yeah, we're still fish, and that's really interesting. I'm not quite sure how he thinks we're still a fish. I guess maybe he doesn't need a personal flotation device when he goes swimming in the Potomac. Uh but uh he'll uh then come up and say, okay, well can you uh now you seem to know all this information about how all your biochemical physical processes came together and you're very smart Can you make a rose? And they stop and they say, Can I make a what? You know, a rose that smells nice. Uh and they kind of look in and pause, can you make a rose out of nothing? I'm going to give you nothing. Make a rose. Can you do that? And of course they thought, well, no, I can't do that. See our God spoke all these things into existence. We know a lot about a tomato plant. We know the chemical composition. I've got some sitting outside that I'm going to plant that will come up in different colors. But I can't make a tomato plant. I really have no clue how to make a tomato plant. I'm going to start with a seed, maybe a couple of seeds, and I'm going to cross them and cross-breed. I can do that But out of nothing, this God spoke and created it all. So Elohim answers to the Creator God, if you will. He is the one who is the creator behind all things. So let me ask the question. What is the range of this creator God's authority? You mean by the range. What's his jurisdiction? If he's a judge, he's a judge in a certain land and he has jurisdiction over something. How what's the circle of that jurisdiction? There's no limit. No boundaries whatsoever. It doesn't matter whether it's a distant planet where we seem to think there may be life on it. It doesn't matter If it's this planet in the deepest cave where some Buddhist is worshiping a rock, it doesn't matter. He is still their creator God. They still answer to him And you see, this is exactly the point that the unsaved don't like. They don't want to have to answer to somebody else. I want to do my own thing. I'm the captain of my own ship, the master of my fate. I'll sail my boat where I please. Thank you. Except if your boat runs into my boat, I'm upset. And and God may have something to say about that So he is the creator God. You see this phrase ale show up as well in uh Genesis 14. Turn there now with me to Genesis fourteen. There will be times when the word ale will have words compounded to it. I took a language in high school. It was German, and German's kind of interesting. It's kind of a Lego block language where you just bolt on words together. You know, they're Franken Klemmer or whatever. I mean I'm just totally forgot all my German for my two years of it in high school and I'm butchering any attempt at it But you just bolt on these phrases to each other and you build up the meaning of a word. It's kind of clever the way they've done it. Here's a compound word, and it's El Shaddai, and uh we've uh excuse me, uh where am I at? My Genesis 14, it's not El Shaddai, it's El El Yon El El Yon, Genesis 14. This is when Abraham came back from the return of the slaughter of the uh kings who had conquered Sodom and Gomorrah. So we have in verse 17 of Genesis 14, the king of Sodom went out to meet him, that is Abraham After his return from the slaughter of Shedileomer and of the kings that were with him at the valley of Shava, which is the King's Dale And Melchizedek, king of Salem, brought forth bread and wine. He was the priest of the most high God. That's the word ale, el yom. Most high god is ale el yon. It's a compound word. You can kind of hyphenate that phrase most high god. You can just put little dashes between it because it's one Hyphenated Hebrew word, Most High God. He uses it frequently there. He says again in verse 19, Blessed, and he blessed him and said, Blessed be Abram of the Most High God. Possessor of heaven and earth. So there's an indication of what he thinks this most high God is. He's the possessor of heaven and earth Well, he possesses it because he created it, right? A creator, by definition, has possession rights. Verse 20, blessed be the most high God which hath delivered thine enemies into thine hand. He uses El El Yan quite frequently there. He's uh showing the, he's expressing the tremendous power. El Elion. Mm-hmm. El El Yon. E-L-Y-O-N is how it would be uh transliterated into uh from Hebrew to English. You want to go visit somebody? Are you just listening? He needs me. Oh, okay. Yeah. That's okay. It's all right. We love him. And then we see uh um uh There's other places. Hosea 11. 19 is a place that God uses the term ale again. We'll just look at this one briefly. Hosea 11. 19 again. uh a a common reference to the fact that he's he's Lord God, he's creator of all, he has expressive in unimaginable power. Hosea eleven verse nine, God compares himself with um With the wicked. He says, I will not execute the fierceness of mine anger. I will not return to destroy Ephraim, for I am God and not man. The holy one in the midst of thee, I will not enter into the city. Notice the comparison there. He says, I am God, not man. He makes a clear distinction that there's ale and then there's man. There's man from the dust, which I created. I am not that. So he makes himself very clear in this term that he is distinctly different from the creation. He is the creator He's the capital C creator. We're the lowercase C creation creature. We're the little worm that Job describes wandering around in the dust. That's what we get that sense from We see then in the New Testament there is a term that answers to this same typical term of deity. Turn to the book of Hebrews. And we know that this answers to the same term because it's a quote of Genesis 14 that we just read about the Most High God. In Genesis chapter, excuse me, Hebrews chapter seven, let me get my passage correct here for you. Hebrews chapter seven and verse one is describing Melchizedek, and it says For this Melchizedek, the king of Salem, priest of the Most High God, who met Abraham, returning from the slaughter of the kings, and blessed him. So uh It echoes that phrase we saw frequently in Genesis 14, Most High God, and it uses the New Testament Greek word theos. Theos, but again it compounds theos with the phrase most high, the most high theos. So it's answering to the usual term of deity. Do you know where we use that or roots of that word theos in our language today? Yeah, the word theology uh is a compound word consisting of theos and logia. Uh what do you think those two words bolted together mean? Study of God? Yeah, the study of God. Logia is the word, and Theos uh uh is a God, so it's the word of God, words of God, studying the words of God, that's the idea. Anything with an ology at the end of it is a study of something, biology. from biome meaning life, study of li living things, and and so forth, all of these ologies out there. And so we have brought that into our English language as well. So this theos is there. It appears a thousand times in the New Testament, again referring to deities, whether true or false deities, certainly when it references uh the Lord Jesus Christ, you you find uh that uh he has referenced uh that with that term as well, but it'll be bolted on with Jehovah or something else to that effect. You see in Acts chapter 16 this word theos, this woman that the Apostle Paul encountered as he was at Philippi. She was nuts. She was filled with a devil of some sort. And she kept wandering around behind Paul, and she cried something. And here's what she cried out. The same followed Paul and us and cried, These men are the servants of the Most High God, which show unto us the way of salvation. Well I think you'll find out later why that message is a little askewed, because I would think, well, boy, she's a great herald. I mean indeed I'm talking about God and I'm talking about the way of salvation, but she says the most high theos Who's going to show us the way of salvation? I'm hoping after this study you'll appreciate why that particular message is bankrupt. Because she's using the wrong name of God in that context. She's referring to Theos just as a general purpose God. She's using it as a one of just any old God, not not the true and living God. So uh we'll we'll we'll unpack that a little bit more as we as we go on a little further. At first glance it seems like well what she's saying that's so wrong. Uh but there's a lot that's wrong with that statement. And I say it hinges on that word theos. Okay, so this is the way that we see uh uh Theos used. It's in you don't have to turn there, I'll read a couple of other places. Romans 1. 25, who changed the truth of God into a lie. Worship and serve the creature more than the creator. It uses the word theos there, the truth of theos. And 1 Peter 4 says, Let them that suffer according to the will of theos, the will of God commit the keeping of their souls to him in well-doing as unto a faithful creator. So you see there's a modification that it references God and then it says Creator. There will be a connection to that to indicate this is the God I'm talking about, the creator God, not just the generic general purpose God that you might find in the marketplace and be able to buy and fall down and worship. One interesting point I want to make here because when we talked about Elohim, we talked about God in the plural. And turn to Matthew 28 The very last part of Matthew chapter twenty-eight, known as the Great Commission. Because the word ale is singular, Elohim is plural, and I think God wants to hit at certain things by using a name that's either singular or plural. He's trying to teach us something. He's conveying certain truths to it. We all know the Great Commission. It begins in verse 18. Jesus came and spake unto them, saying, All power is given unto me in heaven and in earth. So he has all power. That's the word for authority. Verse 19, Go ye therefore and teach all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and of the Son of the Holy Ghost. Teaching them to observe all things whatsoever I have commanded you, and lo, I am with you always, even unto the end of the age. Amen. Even to the end of the world. It's the word age can be rendered world as well. It's it's perfectly fine that way. But I want to focus on that word on the name. At Singular, we've got further revelation at this point. He's now going to ascribe specific identities to that name of God. We baptize people into a name, not names. We don't believe in three gods, we believe in one God. into the name of the Father and of the Son and the Holy Ghost. Isn't that interesting? Now we have further clarity on this mysterious thing that we refer to as the Trinity. There's three titles given, but it's called name singular. And you can hang a whole lot on the fact that that word name is singular. It's no mistake. The S isn't missing. It's intentionally absent because he has one name And yet he reveals himself through different titles, which are his names. He's one in essence, and yet he has different characteristics that he conveys to us through this, through his names. The name of the Father, the Son, and the Holy Ghost. So that's very interesting. As further revelation comes along in due process of time, he's pleased to explain it and unpack it a little bit more for us. So I find that very interesting. Go to Exodus chapter 20 and then I'll get off Ale and Elohim because there we see several of God's name bolted together and I find that very interesting There are computer programs that will even fit on your iPhone that will give you the underlying Greek and Hebrew text. And you can do these kinds of word searches on your own if you'd like. And this may be something you might find interesting is look for passages where several of the names of God are all used in a short little area in a sentence. They're all kind of packed together Because that is very instructive. It's starting to showcase certain things that God wants to highlight about who He is. And one of these is found right here in the Ten Commandments in Exodus chapter 20 in verse 5. I'll uh mention the Hebrew name, the Hebrew word after I mentioned the name. The instruction is the second commandment to not make a graven image. Verse 5, thou shalt not bow down thyself to them nor serve them. For I, the Lord That's our word Jehovah, thy God, that's the word Elohim, am a jealous God, that's the word Ale. I, Jehovah, Elohim, am a jealous Ale. It's a jealous one, visiting the iniquity of the fathers among the children of the third and fourth generation of them that hate me, and so forth. Now that's very interesting. God is hammering three of his names in there as the reason why you don't ever make anything more significant in your life than God himself. He says, I am the Lord, I am Jehovah. And we're going to get to the meaning of that name later. Hint it has something to do with redemption and salvation. He's just brought the people of Israel out of Egypt with a high and mighty arm. And so he's making it clear, I am Jehovah. I'm the dude, if I can irreverently use that term just to hit you with it, that brought you out of Egypt. You remember me? I'm the one that did that. I am Jehovah Elohim. Not only am I the deliverer, I'm the creator. So there's two reasons why you need to not bow down to anything else. One, I was the deliverer, and two, I'm the creator. I created you, you got yourself into a big pile of mess, and I delivered you out of that. And on top of it I am also a jealous ale, a jealous God. He's jealous. And some people have sought to accuse God of a contradiction here by saying, well, aren't we not supposed to be Jealous. In fact, the NIV uses a passage in the New Testament, I forget where it's at, that says that we are not to be jealous. And the word actually is envious. There's a big difference between jealousy and envy. Jealousy is righteous, envy is wicked. So let me illustrate this. The husband envied this other woman, and his wife was jealous for his affections. Right? The the man was envying another woman, and that was wrong, and the wife was very jealous, which is right, for his affections. No, you're mine. What are you doing looking over here? That's just a A simple illustration to give you the concept of an idea between the difference. God is jealous. He rightly deserves all the worship and the glory and the honor and the praise because he's the creator. He rightly deserves all of our thanks because he rescued us, he redeemed us Of all people that should be thankful, we and we alone are the ones that can give him that. And so that makes perfectly good sense. So you see when those names are just compounded on top of each other, if you stop and think about what you're actually listening, you begin to get the point that That no God is conveying a very intense message in a very short amount of words. Our words are lacking, that's why our books are big. God's word is very compact. That's why we miss a lot of it, because we think it's like man's words, and we just read it too fast. Oh, it's a lot of redundancy and repetitiveness. No, you're reading too fast. You need to slow down and think about what you're reading. It's not how many words you go through, it's how many words get that longest mile from the head to the heart. So that's our word al and Elohim in the singular and plural, and I hope you have an appreciation for that. The last reference in the New Testament, you know, the Lord Jesus referenced uh God on the cross, Eli, Eli, Lamas the Bacthanai, meaning, my God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me? So you see that in the New Testament, even as he refers to God in the generic, in the usual term God. He didn't reference God as Redeemer. There was no redemption for Jesus Christ. He didn't reference him as Creator, because he's the Creator. He referenced him as God and there we would have to look at that as the side of God that's nothing but wrath. And that's all that Christ faced on the cross was nothing but the wrath of God. He couldn't call upon him as creator. And that was an intense cry from his mouth. It was instructive for us. He didn't have to say anything on the cross. Thankfully he did to give us some insight in terms of what went on at the atonement. Alright, well let's move on to our second word in the Old Testament, the word Adonai. The word Adonai. This word has the sense, you can uh I'll go to Psalm 86. Uh, while you're flipping there, I'll give you some explanation. The word Adonai, if you've been in Christianity for a while, you certainly know that there are some hymns out there that use that name Adonai. Some of these words should be familiar to you. Sadly, I must confess unto you that I was content to wallow in my ignorance for far too long to actually bother to spend the time to go looking up just really what that meant. And there were just all these different names and I was kind of confused and I thought, okay, Adonai, Jehovah, you know, whatever. It was God. I just kept it at that and Jesus. I'll stick with that. Uh but that was a really sad approach to it, and I really should have paid more attention to what's going on. The word Anonai has to do with a ruler, someone who is a master or an owner. That's to be distinguished between another common word for it, meaning despot. In the Greek, we'll get to that in a bit. But this is one who is the owner, the Lord, the overseer of things. Psalm 86 and verse 8 is a good example. Where it says, Among the gods there is none like unto thee, O Lord, neither are there any works like unto thy works. That's the word Adonai. So he's David here is crying out that there's a lot of so-called false gods out there, but you master, you ruler, you supreme owner none like you. You are the one that's in charge. They are not. They claim to be in power. You really are. They think they're somebody. They think they're they've got a title and they, you know, have a management title to them. They they really don't. They have a false boast of control. That's the contrast being made there. You, O Lord, you Ad and I. They're claiming to be rulers as opposed to the true and living God who is the ruler This term first shows up in Genesis fifteen. Uh Genesis chapter fifteen. This is the word Lord. It's rendered as Lord. It's like a ruler, an owner, a master. You'll see it in the New Testament used as Curtios. It's uh a little clearer Genesis 15 and verse 2 When God shows up and speaks to Abram. After these things the word of the Lord came unto Abram. In a vision saying, Fear not Abram, I am thy shield, my exceeding great reward. And Abram said, Lord God, what wilt thou give me? So, in verse 1, you'll see in the King James the word Lord L-O-R-D, it's all in small caps, as anybody know what that means. When you see the word L-O-R-D in small caps, that's the word Jehovah. And there's a lot of specialness assigned to that name. The very consecrated Hebrew scribes when they would write the name Yahweh, and they would do it without vowel points. It took us a long time to figure out exactly how to pronounce that They wouldn't dare pronounce it, it was the name par excellence. So when they would write it, they would totally bathe themselves And pick up the pen and write one letter. Stop. Put it down. Totally bathe themselves. Write the next letter. Stop. It's a good thing there's only four Hebrew letters in Yahweh. That's not our word that we're looking at here in verse 2. And Abram said, Lord God, that's the word Adonai, Adonai God. Abram is basically saying, Okay, you're my reward. That's good to know. Lord, Master. He's speaking to him like a servant. You're the ruler of of everything. What will you give me? Seeing I go childless and the steward of my house is this Eliezer of Damascus. He's referring to him like a master-slave relationship. He has used the word Jehovah, and we'll we'll dig into that a little bit more. That's the word God. Again, small caps And they they reference God there as Jehovah because it would be awkward to say Lord, Lord. In a sense, Abram is crying out, Lord, Lord, but not in the sense that we know from Matthew. So here, this is the sense of someone who is a ruler or owner over all things. Look at Psalm. Sorry, I'm choking up a little bit. Look at Psalm 97. Psalm ninety seven and verse five, another place where we find this word Lord Used about three hundred and forty times in the uh Old Testament, just to give you a rough Gauging of how often you're uh going to encounter it. Psalm 97 and verse 5, it says, The hills melted like wax at the presence of the Lord. at the presence of the Lord of the whole earth. That last phrase, Lord of the whole earth, is a reference to the fact that he's the supreme ruler of the whole earth. And notice what happens when he appears. It's his house, it's his shop, it's his business. And he's a little displeased, and the hills melt like wax. That's the sense of the boss coming home and he's upset. He's going to deal with his creation as he sees fit As any creator of something could do. If somebody owns a business and they're really not happy with the way things are going, well don't be surprised if the next couple of weeks the headline reads you such, you know uh the uh pike uh family business uh that had grown to a a large size has just laid off five thousand people for slothfulness and stupidity or whatever reason he chooses to let them go. We shouldn't make you in charge at that five-sided never mind, I don't want to dismiss some people here. That's what the Lord, that's what the Adonai can do. It's all within his realm of control. You see it in Psalm 2, famous passage which says You don't have to turn there, I'll read it. It says, Why do the heathen rage and the people imagine a vain thing? The kings of the earth set themselves, and the rulers take counsel together against the Lord, that's Jehovah. against his anointed, saying, Let us break their bands asunder, cast away their cords from us. He that sits in the heavens shall laugh, the Lord Anani, shall have them in derision. So that's the sense given there. These kings think they're in charge. They're the ones rising up. And the psalmist writes, no, no. the Adonai is going to have them in derision. The one who's really in charge is going to have them in derision. So it it conveys the sense of legal rulership, if you will. I have the right to do with mine own as I please. That's the sense of Adonai. Well, in the New Testament, it has a word that's very similar. Turn to Matthew 6, 24. Matthew chapter 6 and verse 24. We've looked at Adonai. The New Testament word is the word curtios. It's used about 600 times in the New Testament, and it's uh from a root which means to be strong. Certainly one way to show yourself to be strong is to be the boss. It has to do with one who has the legal power of disposal. that has the legal power of disposal. They have the legal right to dispense with the affairs of the estate. It's in Matthew 6. 24 where Jesus says this, no man can serve two lords. That's the word masters. That's the word cordios. You can't serve two cordios. For he will either hate the one and love the other, or else he will hold to the one and despise the other. You cannot serve God, Dios, Theos, excuse me, and mammoth. So Jesus is using, of course, no surprise, the exact picture-perfect word to use there. You can't serve two taskmasters. You can't submit yourself to two totally different Lords, either one's in charge or the other one's not, you're gonna pick. Because invariably that two-headed beast is not gonna make the same agreement. They're gonna go different paths That's why we have organizational charts. That's why we have delegation of authority. You can't have two people in charge. You want to screw a company up or an organization quickly. Put two people in charge of the same stuff. Chaos will ensue. For this very reason, people are not going to know who to follow because they're going to invariably say different things. So that's the word kurios, that's the word master. It shows up in Matthew 7. 21. Not everyone that says unto me, Lord, Lord, that's the word Curtios twice, shall enter into the kingdom of heaven. They cry out, it's like It's like um he a um uh I'm I'm envisioning here the picture just to give an earthly example, of a slothful servant who is called into the back into the boss's office in the back, and he's about to get his pink slipped. He's about to get terminated. And he's saying, but boss, and he's going to make his plea. Well that's kind of the language here. There's no cry of relationship beyond a uh servant master relationship. He's not saying father. He's not saying redeemer. He's not saying creator. He's just boss. In other words, he knew he was the boss. Okay Jesus is saying not everybody that at least calls me the boss to acknowledge the least aspect of my representation over them because frankly at this point when Jesus is bringing them to him It's very evident who's in charge. They've just seen 50 million people before him cast into hell, and he's in the line that seems to be going that direction. It's very obvious that Jesus is the Lord at that point. Jesus is not everybody goes and says to me, Lord, Lord is going to go in the kingdom of heaven. You know, if you can only figure out the very low-level basic stuff, that ain't going to cut it. That's not cutting it If I'm your Lord, how come you're not doing the things I say? You had two masters. You you had me the little God on the shelf, but you ignored you paid attention to a false God and followed that and had that work out for you. Not too good, did it That's what's going on here. He's saying if you just look at Jesus as just some cruel taskmaster and then at the last minute decide to say, well, you're Lord You're using the wrong term. They're using curios. They don't know who God is. They're betraying an utter ignorance of who he is. That's that word. Kudios just means lord? Like a master, like a ruler, somebody who has the legal power of disposal, the boss on the job. It shows up, for instance, uh in um Uh let me find another place where it shows up. Um yeah, Matthew 624 I think is a good one to think about that. You can't serve two masters. So there are those who are sublords, if you will. They're think of it as the boss on the job. It's the easiest way to look at it. Well cuyas cannot mean anything else. besides just that Adonai? Is that the translation from the U. It's the it answers to Adonai. So it uh when used in reference to God, you can think of this as another attribute or characteristic of God. Not only did he create the universe, but he also rules over it. Right? He could have created it and handed it off, could have delegated it. created it, sold it to somebody else to let them delegate it, right? You could have let the angels run this show? Could have. There's a lot of things you could have done That's the sense of Kurtios, that he not only created it, but he's also at the helms. I'm running this ship. I'm in charge. Right? That's the sense there. We uh uh uh looked at some of the compound terms. I'm not going to get into those. Look at Philippians 2, 9 and 10. This is a really good uh uh passage here. It typically will be used in conjunction with another word to continue to elevate and to highlight the worthiness of our Savior. Philippians 2, 9 and 10 is an excellent passage. Here it reads this, Wherefore God hath also highly exalted him and given him a name which is above every name. That at the name of Jesus every knee should bow, of things in heaven and things in earth, and things under the earth, and that every tongue should confess that Jesus Christ Christos is Lord, cordios to the glory of God, Theos the Father There's a whole bunch packed into that right there. That Jesus, now there's a lot of people named Jesus. I don't know why some Mexicans choose a blasphemous name for their son to call their son Jesus. And when I see somebody skin about once every ten years I come across a Jesus in my line of work. And the first thought that goes through my mind is Well, does he go by Jesus or Jesus? I'm because I'm going to call him Jesus. If he calls himself Jesus, I'm calling him Jesus, because I ain't calling that guy Jesus Jesus. So there's many that might call themselves that But there's only one Jesus, Christos, the Christ, which answers to the Messiah, the promised one, the one that the Old Testament prophet said should come that Jesus of Nazareth is the Christ. And on top of it he says that Jesus Christ is Lord. Now that I hope you see that that takes it up another notch. Not only is he the promised Messiah, but he's also God. He's the one who is ruling over all things So those used in conjunction, Paul, under inspiration of the Holy Spirit, is trying to show us clearly that this Jesus is in fact a the highly exalted one, he is over all things. You just can't get any better than Christ. That's the point. To the glory of God the Father. Wow. That means that This Jesus Christ gives God his glory. If he's the source of the glory and God says, My glory will not give to another, Wow, do you see how bright, how shining, how powerful Christ becomes when you start bolting on these concepts together And that's what we've got going here. There's another term that's uh occasionally used for lore, it's used less than ten times. That may breed a little more confusion uh if I get into it some, but it's the word despotes, or uh it's we get our word despot from it. A despot is somebody who's a um uh uh a a uh what's the term a dictatorial ruler uh someone who's in using our vernacular in a negative way, in the Greek term it can have both negative or just the fact that no he's just he's the sole one in charge of everything. Like the lord of a house or property. I'm the despot of this house Sorry. Actually less than 200 square feet is my little turf, right? This is my little tent. And so I'm the despot of this area. And obviously God has a whole lot more real estate than that. So I'm not going to get into that. It's used less than 10 times, very minor reference in the scriptures Let's look now at the New Testament term for we've already looked at that. Let's look at the fourth term, Ab for father. Ab for father. Yes, back in Philippians, sure, let's look at it. Um, Seems like uh that would be one we would go to to kinda show the different persons of God. Uh so we can certainly see elements of the Trinity in here, no doubt. We also see that That God the Father, verse 9, has exalted Christ, given him a name above every name, that at the name of Jesus. So he speaks about uh he's he's trying to connect Old Testament um promises and characteristics and attributes of God to this one fellow called Jesus He's writing to the church at Philippi. This is a European church, the first European church plant. First time gospel came across the Bosphorus Bridge and the Straits over there They um uh are not there wasn't any Jews there. It was this lady that was walking around nuts that she got converted, it was the Philippian jailer, it was Lydia who was a seller of purple. These are just flat-out Gentiles. So he is breaking it down for these Gentiles, all right? And that's what he's putting together. God has exalted this fellow named Jesus Christ. And he's saying that every tongue is going to confess. They're going to give an answer to. They have to answer to God. Every tongue will confess. Every tongue will swear. They're going to say kurios, curios, or they're going to say, Wow, Jesus Christ is curiosity to the glory of He is Jesus Christ. He is the Christ. He's the anointed one who is Lord. That's a different statement than just saying curios. Does that help a little bit? There's a lot of theology in that passage and I'm unfortunately just looking at the names part uh and probably dismissing too much of the extra theology that's in that passage. It would have been absolutely. Yeah. It was a an early doxology, you saw that a lot, a a statement of praise. Let's look at the term Ab for Father in the Old Testament. Ab, Abba. The Arabics use that term to this day, Abba. Um Deuteronomy 32, 6. Deuteronomy 32. 6, uh this term for father is used. It's I'm just doing due diligence here and uh rounding out the The study. We're not going to spend a lot of time on this one because I want to get to Jehovah. But this is an important one, because indeed we do call him our Father. Jesus taught us to pray that way, did he not? Deuteronomy 32, 6 says this, do you thus requite the Lord or repay the Lord? He's saying, Oh foolish people and then wise. Is not he thy father that hath bought thee? Hath he not made thee and established thee? This is an interesting passage because here it says Do you do you uh repay the Lord? Do you repay Jehovah? Oh you foolish ones this way? Isn't he your father? So this is one of his names, Abba, Father. He is the uh and it's used of earthly fathers as well as of heavenly. You might s you might argue that this isn't one of his names, one of his characteristics, but here he's referring to himself as father. Verse six, is not he thy father Father that hath bought thee. Deuteronomy 32. 6. Where are you at, brother? You're in the wrong chapter, brother. Not gonna work. Well, the doll is catching up. We'll go to Isaiah 63, 13. Isaiah sixty three And verse 13, verse 16, I'm sorry, Isaiah 63, 16, doubtless thou art our father, our Abba, though Abraham be ignorant of us, and Israel acknowledges not. meaning uh Isaiah is living much, much, much later than these people. So Abraham and and Isaac and uh Jacob would not know who these people were. They're they're they're dead and in the grave and of course in heaven with God Thou, O Lord, art our Father, our Redeemer, thy name is from everlasting. So again, you see that in this passage in Isaiah 63, many of the attributes of God are being brought together. to help round out the prophet's praise of the Lord. He says, He is our Father, even though Abraham doesn't have a clue how many descendants came along. You, God of the Father. We don't talk about Father Abraham. We talk about God the Father. And so this is what he's talking about here. O Lord, and again that's all capital letters. Now what did Lord and capital letters mean again? That's the word Jehovah, right? O Jehovah, thou art our Father, our Redeemer. That's a very comforting thing in the scriptures. One of the things that I think all children truly enjoy is the blessings of their father. You know, fathers can do a lot of things wrong, but all children have only one father. And fathers, when they carry out their office well, uh leave a deep impression on souls that were theirs. I think about my dad. I still want to spend time with him, though he's been gone for over ten years Uh my mother still thinks about her father and what a tremendous impact he had. Um and so here for the uh psalmist, excuse me, for the prophet Isaiah to speak of God as the Father, the Father of the whole nation, his own personal father. It is a very familial relationship. It brings you into a great intimacy with the Lord. uh and it's a uh it's a it's a pleasant thing. The New Testament continues with this uh with the word patr, P-A-T-R, P-A-T-E-R, Potr. We have um famous closing hymns known as the Gloria Patri, glory to the Father. Patri is the Latin term. I mentioned it to you in Matthew 6. 9. Wherefore after this manner pray ye, our Father which art in heaven, hallowed be thy name. This is how we pray to God. He tells us to pray to him. As Christians, we pray to our Father. We don't pray to God the Holy Spirit. We don't even frankly pray to Jesus. We pray to the Father, because that's how Jesus said to pray. So I always get a little I cringe just a little bit, not too much. I understand the love and the zeal and the desire people have. to want to pray, oh Lord Jesus, please help us. Uh I get that. But Jesus himself said, when you pray, and the disciples said, Teach us to pray, he says, when you pray after this manner, pray this way. Our Father, which art in heaven. If Jesus wanted men to pray, Oh Jesus, he would have told us so because Jesus gave us a straightforward commandment. Why is it hard to say anything other than our Father? It indicates a relationship. And I think that might be hard for the wicked To pray to God as their father. Maybe the wicked are the way they are because they have a bad relationship with their father, and they don't want to own up to this Jesus as a father either I don't know, but I think there's something to that when we pray to our Father. There's a recognition that He, you know, your fathers bring you into this world, do they not? The Lord Jesus brought us into this world by the power, word of his power But not an empty creation like a rock out in the field. We're his son, born again, no less, if we're truly in Christ. So this is the language we have there. Look at Matthew 11, 27, and then we'll move on to Jehovah. Matthew 11. 27 uses that word poter for father. And I like this one because there's a lot of theology in this one, but I'm going to try to just focus on the word father. Matthew 11, 27. He says, this, all things are delivered unto me of my Father, and no man knoweth the Son but the Father Neither knoweth any man the Father save the Son, and he to whomsoever the Son will reveal him. So that's interesting. You see a relationship between the Son and the Father that's being disclosed. And that the only one who truly knows the Father is the Son. And the only one that can know the Father is those to whom the Son reveals the Father. That's another way of saying Jesus is the only way to God. Thomas asked, how can we know the way? And that's a really good question. How can you know the way if you don't know who you're going to? Maybe you've had a job assignment like that. Hurry up. Make it, I want it to work fast. What do you want built? Tell me what you want built. You know, this web thing. Just go make it happen. What do you want? It's this journey without a destination. It's doom for failure. Those are the great software projects to be on if you're not a young software engineer. If you're an older software engineer, you know that you can't fail because the mission by definition will fail. So any failure you give will be considered success because this thing's doomed from the start. I'm sorry, I'm getting into my job. Jesus is making it plain that unless the Son reveals the Father, you ain't gonna make it. You're just not gonna get there. That doesn't matter how many degrees you have behind your name, how intelligent you are If God doesn't pull off those blinders and plant ears into your head so that it gets to the gray matter in there, deep inside, you're searching for something you know not. Utterly blind. And so we thank the Son for revealing to us the Father. Let's now look at the most popular name. For God, it's the word Jehovah. Anybody want to guess? I have two guesses for you. I'll close my Bible. Where's the first place the word Jehovah shows up at in the Bible? Genesis. Good? We're in Genesis. What's that? Moses is a little later with Abraham. Pretty pretty pretty good guess. Back it up a little sooner. Genesis 2. Genesis 2 verse 1. And anybody want to venture a guess how many times the word Jehovah is used in the Bible A thousand. Keep going. Ten thousand? A little lower than ten thousand. Five thousand? So a little higher than ten five thousand. Six thousand eight hundred and twenty-three times. So it truly dwarfs all the other names for God combined. Jehovah. Yahweh. You mean just for the Old Testament or you mean the entire Old End is the first one? Uh uh Yahweh is a Hebrew word and so Old Testament only. Yeah. Yep. Hebrew instances. 6,823 times. It absolutely dwarfs all other references. It shows up in Genesis 2, Genesis 3, Genesis 4. I could keep giving you every chapter of Genesis. It will be in every chapter, practically. of the entire Old Testament. You cannot escape the name Yahweh. It is loaded throughout the scriptures. Oh yeah, they were. Genesis two verse four. These are the generations. Uh that's the word Genesis, the beginnings, the births, of the heavens and the earth when they were created, in the day that the Lord God Jehovah Elohim made the earth and the heavens. That's the first reference to it. Now it's interesting that We transition from Genesis chapter 1, in the beginning, God. Genesis chapter 1 is strictly God's vantage point on how this universe came into existence. Adam would have had this dictated to him. He wasn't around to witness it. This is not an eyewitness account. It is an eyewitness account, but it's of the Creator, God Himself. God would have directly told Adam, this is how it came to pass. The Lord God Created, and he spoke, six days, all of that. It never references Jehovah. God doesn't speak about himself, and I think because he wants to singularly have us focus on the fact that Elohim Creator. There was nobody else around. There's no other title I want you to get confused with. When I say Elohim, I'm talking about creator. So there's almost a pure distinction given in the opening book of Genesis in that first chapter that this is the work of Elohim, the creator God. So when you and I go and see Elohim later on, we go, oh, okay, that's talking about creator God. We're not going to get confused here. Now we get to chapter 2. It says in verse 1, thus the heavens and the earth were finished and all the host of them. Now what we have here is a record of the Jehovah, of the Redeemer God. They know of this name, but the characteristics of it and what it means continue to unpack over time. It gets developed further and further and further. So he's just name-dropping at this point. He's just introducing a name. He says verse 4, the Lord God made the earth and the heavens. Verse 5, for the Lord God had not caused it to rain in the earth. Verse 7, the Lord God formed the man. Verse 8, the Lord God planted a garden. Again and again, verse 15, the Lord God took the man. Verse 16, the Lord God commanded. So you see Jehovah Very much active here. There's a lot of activity with Jehovah God. Okay. What's interesting here is you go to Exodus chapter 6 And uh this has caused some unbelieving pagan scholars who look in the scriptures to say that, well, you know, the Old Testament must have been compiled from different sources because of Exodus 6. So let's take a look at Exodus 6. and see where they get this nonsense from. Exodus chapter six, we're going to look at verses two and three Wow, am I really out of time already? That's ridiculous. Alright. Exodus 6, 2 and 3. You're running the show, brother. Oh yeah, that's right. I'm the uh curteos of this house. I can do it. Oh desperate. Thank you. Thank you for putting me in place, sorry. Yeah. Thank you, hon. That was a big mistake. You rescued me there. Exodus six. two and three. And God spake unto Moses and said unto him, I am the Lord Jehovah. That is actually is the word Jehovah. And I appeared unto Abraham, unto Isaac, and unto Jacob by the name of God Almighty. That's the word El Shaddai. And he certainly did. But by my name Jehovah was I not known to them. Now that's interesting. So some have said, well, see, obviously this this writing was compiled from different sources. No, no, that's that's that's nonsense. Somebody doesn't know God here He revealed himself as the title Jehovah. But what does that mean? He says It's not the is, who is Jehovah, but what does Jehovah mean? He says that wasn't disclosed. That is the sense. The salvation plus the experience, all of that wasn't known. Think about where he's writing this. He's in Exodus 6. He's talking to Moses. The taskmasters have laid more work upon the people, they gotta make bricks without straw, and they're under hard bondage So how did Abraham know him? Well, in Genesis 15, when you look, I mean, here's an old guy wandering around the land of Canaan and He comes up to him and says, After these things the word of the Lord, Jehovah came to him, Abram, in a vision, saying, Fear not, I am thy shield, exceeding great reward. You know, it was he saw God as a provider. He saw God as, you know, he had his name Jehovah. Uh, and this Jehovah is making a covenant with Abraham, and that's the extent that you see But was there any massive rescue of Abraham? If anything, he would have referred to God as El Shaddai because when he went and conquered these five kings that beat up on the four from Sodom and Gomorrah I mean, it was Abraham that did that. God didn't go in and do that. Yes, God was with him. We understand that. So here he's saying Let me show you what I mean by Jehovah. I've been telling you this. Let me show you what I mean by it. And of course, there's this massive deliverance of some one to two million slaves out of the land of Egypt. How do slaves rise up and conquer the greatest superpower in this nation? It'd be like every uh illegal alien in the U. S. ganging up and conquering the U. S. , overthrowing it. destroying all of its military power, every aircraft carrier sunk, every uh army tank blown up, every aircraft shattered in pieces And all of the the uh uh illegal aliens trunking uh trooping off to to Canada or I don't know Hawaii, I don't pick a place, and setting up a sovereign nation I mean, that was what it was like for the Egyptians, slaves, to leave Egypt with such a great hand. Only a divine intervention could help. And that's what he's coming to tell them about. Look at Exodus 34. He's going to look at Exodus. I'm sorry, let's uh I'm jumping around. Exodus 34. I I gotta cut to the quick here Exodus 34, where are we at historically? God has brought them out of the land of Egypt. He has illustrated his name, Jehovah, as he told Moses. This is what I mean by Jehovah. I can bring you out of the land of Egypt. I can rescue you from great oppression. There is no nation on this earth which is beyond the strength and power of my might. Okay, I'm impressed. I like Jehovah. That's good. So they're at the foot of Mount Sinai, they blow it They break the very first and second commandments right off the bat. Two tables of stone, probably still smoking from the hand of God, written as he wrote with his finger the commandments. He comes down What's this noise in the camp? It sounds like the noise of war. No, they're singing and dancing, dancing, dancing around. What? A golden calf? What's going on? And it says, Up, worship these are the gods that brought you out of Egypt. Are you kidding me? I brought you out of Egypt. I mean you pulled the stupid earrings off. Yep. Tossed them in the fire for ev Aaron, the first evolutionist, tossed these earrings in the fire, and out popped this cat Well, look at that, you know, it's not going to work. And so here, Moses smashes these tablets of stone down, and God gives him another set. Here we go. And look at what he says. Verse 34. Verse 1. The Lord said unto Moses, Hew thee two tables of stone like unto the first, and I will write upon these tables the words that were in the first tables which thou breakest. And be ready and come up. And then he says in verse 6, the Lord passed before him and proclaimed, The Lord Jehovah, the Jehovah. Merciful and gracious, long-suffering and abundant in goodness and truth, keeping mercy for thousands, forgiving iniquity and transgression and sin, and that will by no means clear the guilty So here, God is now underscoring a different way that he's a savior. If he didn't tack this part on, we might start to think that, well, God is just, if God's on your side, you know, you've got a really good military strength. But no, God's not interested in military things. He's not trying to set up a political kingdom on earth just to illustrate that he can set up a political kingdom on earth. Whoopy-doo. He's trying to illustrate a far greater victory, one that's in front of the legal courts of heaven. It's called salvation, it's called forgiveness of sins, it's called forgiving iniquities. That's the bondage to be concerned about. That's the adversary we've got that's seeking all of us. And so here he tells to uh Moses. As he has the second tables of stone, he's going to give them his law again. And he's going to come back and say, I'm going to show you what I mean by Jehovah. I'm a gracious God. I'm a long-suffering God. I'm a merciful God. I forgive iniquity. And that's the Jehovah God. That's why he uses that name. And he begins to continue to unpack what he means by Savior. And isn't that so godlike Isn't that what we see in Jesus? Just read through the book of Matthew, and you see the different miracles that he did. The multiplying the loaves, the calming the storms and the waves, the Healing people just with the power of his word, raising people from the dead. All of those are illustrating new aspects of who he is and what he's actually able to do. And so by the timing of when God reveals certain characteristics of his name, he's using the occasion as a memorial to highlight this is what I mean by Jehovah, I'm an iniquity forgiver. I'm plenteous in mercy. And that we might understand that, he uses that name over 6,000 times in the scripture. What a great name to have. This uh answers uh a little bit to um uh I am in the New Testament. It's it's hard to find Jehovah. uh in in the New Testament. Uh the easy way is the word Jesus. Look at John 8. 58 and we'll stop. We'll look at John 8. 58. Uh hold on, go back to Exodus 3, then we'll go to John 8. I gotta introduce something first, then we'll go to Exodus. Uh excuse me, John 8. Got you jumping around like a jackrabbit, sorry. Exodus three thirteen. God bolts on to Jehovah this aspect that most uh people are aware of, the great I am. Exodus three thirteen. Moses said unto God, Behold, when I come to the children of Israel and say unto them, the God of your fathers has sent me to you. This is before he's delivered them out. And they shall say to me, What's his name? What shall I say unto them? And God said unto Moses, I am that I am. And he said, Thus shalt thou say unto the children of Israel, I am, have sent me unto you. So here's this great name I am. And later on he says in verse 15, notice this. God said moreover to Moses, thus shalt thou say unto the children of Israel. The Lord God of your fathers, the Jehovah Elohim of your fathers, the Elohim of Abraham, the Elohim of Isaac, the Elohim of Jacob, hath sent me unto you. This is my name forever. This is my memorial unto all generations. He's tacking onto Jehovah, you know, I am that I am. I exist. All else becomes. God is. Everything else is a creature, is created. He says, that's my name forever. And Jesus, who is Jehovah, in John 8. 58, says this. Jesus said unto them, Verily, verily I say unto you, before Abraham was, I am. He's identifying himself with that eternal, everlasting God. We talk about the eternal mercy of God. That's kind of part of his name I am Jehovah. You're saying eternal mercy. When you say that, those words, that's referring to an eternally merciful God. You see it in Revelation 1. 8. I am Alpha and Omega, the beginning and the ending, saith the Lord, which is, which was, and which is to come. How else would you convey eternity? It's a perfect way of describing the great I am. Which is to come, the Almighty. Alright, well that's our first part of the study. Next week we're going to look at some of the compound words for Jehovah. Because there's a lot of compound words. There's like uh I think ten or twelve compound words that are used that God bolts onto the word Jehovah to refer to him as this merciful God So I hope that was helpful. Comments, questions, other thoughts? Yes. John eight fifty-eight. I I just quoted it. I I didn't take it to it, but it's John eight fifty-eight. Jesus said before Abraham was, I am. So the Jew when people say, well, Jesus never said he was God, right there he just did Because God calls himself I am. When Jesus says I am, he's clearly, clearly, plainly saying I'm God. That's just no getting around that. When you use a name of deity exactly like that, so the Jews uh crucified him for blasphemy because they didn't think he was truly God and uh because he plainly said it. So okay. Yeah, I promise.