Turn in your Bibles with you this morning to the book of First Corinthians and the first chapter. The first chapter of the book of First Corinthians. And I'll start our scripture reading in the 17th verse and read from verse 17 through the end of the chapter. First Corinthians. Chapter one, verse seventeen If you have your places now, verse seventeen, First Corinthians chapter one. For Christ sent me not to baptize, but to preach the gospel. Not with wisdom of words, lest the cross of Christ should be made of none effect. For the preaching of the cross is to them that perish foolishness But unto us which are saved, it is the power of God. For it is written, I will destroy the wisdom of the wise, I will bring to nothing the understanding of the prudent. Where is the wise? Where is the scribe? Where is the disputer of this world? Hath not God made foolish the wisdom of this world For after that in the wisdom of God, the world by wisdom knew not God, it pleased God by the foolishness of preaching to save them that believe. For the Jews require a sign, and the Greeks seek after wisdom, but we preach Christ crucified. Under the Jews, a stumbling block, and under the Greeks, foolishness, but under them which are called, both of Jews and Greeks, Christ, the power of God. And Christ, the wisdom of God, and the wisdom of God. Because the foolishness of God is wiser than man, and the weakness of God is stronger than man. For ye see your calling, how that not many wise men after the flesh, not many mighty, not many noble are called. But God has chosen the foolish things of the world to confound the wise. And God hath chosen the weak things of the world to confound the things which are mighty. and base things of the world, and things which are despised hath God chosen, yea, and things which are not, to bring to naught the things that are That no flesh should glory in his presence. But of him are ye in Christ Jesus. Who of God is made unto us wisdom and righteousness and sanctification and redemption That according as it is written, he that glorieth, let him glory in the Lord. Praise God, our Heavenly Father. Now we pray that you would open your word to our hearts and open our hearts to receive your word. And we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. The Apostle Paul is writing here to the church at Corinth. The church at Corinth was a small little church surrounded by evil and wickedness, surrounded by unbelievers. Surrounded by some who were very religious and had all manner of religious ritual and were very earnest in their religiosity, but they did not know Christ. They were surrounded by those to whom the gospel of Christ was a stumbling block block and a rock of offense. They lived in a wicked city. I would imagine Corinth was a place where you wouldn't feel safe walking down the street at night because of the evil. Sounds kind of familiar, doesn't it? Sounds like our own day. All scriptures given by inspiration of God and it's profitable right now. This is not an ancient book that has no relevance for us today. It is as relevant today as the day it was written. In our text this morning, we're going to focus on verses 26 through 29. So I'd like to read those again to implant them in our heart. This morning we're going to be considering the church. The ministry that God has given to us. Let me read again verses twenty six, twenty seven, twenty-eight, twenty-nine For ye see your calling, brethren, how that not many wise men after the flesh, not many mighty, not many noble are called, but God hath chosen the foolish things of the world to confound the wise. God hath chosen the weak things of the world to confound the things which are mighty, and base things of the world, and things that are despised hath God chosen, yea, and things which are not To bring to naught the things that are, that no flesh should glory in his presence. Isn't that an apt description of the church? The foolish The weak, not the noble, not the wise, not the mighty of this world, but all of God's choosing. Now, we're going to look at the maker of the church, and we're going to look at the makeup of the church. And we're going to look at the method of the church and the message of the church and the majesty of the church this morning. Who is the maker of the church? It's a very basic question. And we would all immediately say, well, God is the maker of the church, Christ, upon this rock Will I build my church? But the first part of this chapter, which we did not read, emphasizes this again and again. And remember the context Paul is writing to a very weak little church, a church that had a lot of problems. But look very quickly with me at uh at the chapter. Um In verse 1, Paul is called to be an apostle. Verse 2, to them that are sanctified in Christ and called to be saints. Verse 3, Grace Grace, grace, for by grace you saved. Verse 4, Grace is given. Verse 5, in everything they are enriched. Verse 6, they are conf Christ is confirmed in you. Verse 7, you're left behind no gift, that which is given to you. Verse 8, you're confirmed to the end, verse nine, but God is faithful by whom you're called into this fellowship of His Son, Jesus Christ our Lord. The church is of God. He is its maker. That's as basic and as common a truth as we can receive, and yet we better receive it. And we better not forget. Because you see, when we begin to build our church When we begin to make our fellowship, when we begin to establish something, we're building on sand. The church is made by God. Both the entire church universal and the local assembly. It is of God. He is the maker of the church. And Paul emphasizes this in these first nine verses again and again. It's by God, it's by grace. It's by his choosing. Folks, you're not doing this. God is doing it. And if you are doing it, stop. Quit it Let God do his work. And may God be gracious to do his work in us and through us and among us. But we better get it straight right from the beginning. God is the maker of the church. It is his creation. On this rock will I build my church, Christ declared. Build my church, will I build my church? And the gates of hell will not prevail against that which Christ has built. But if it's what we've built, the gates of hell should prevail against it because it needs to be knocked down. Turn with me to Isaiah 54. I'm going to keep your fingers busy today, turning to a few different passages along the way. Isaiah 54 is very clearly written to Israel. There's no doubt about it. And yet in Isaiah, these verses in Isaiah 54, we find the church. It's here. It's here. Isaiah 54, and I'll start reading in verse 1 once you have your place there. These are familiar verses, you'll recognize them right away. Sing O Baron that thou dost not break, that thou dost not bear Break forth into singing and cry aloud, thou which didst not travail with child. For more are the children of the desolate than the children of the married wife, saith the Lord Enlarge the place of thy tent, and let them stretch forth the curtains of thy habitation. Spare not, lengthen the cords, and strengthen the stakes. For thou shalt break forth on the right hand and on the left, and thy seed shall inherit the Gentiles and make the desolate cities to be inhabited. Now let me qu ask you a question. Has national Israel inherited the Gentiles? No. So the seed there must not just be speaking of national Israel And of course, they did inhabit the Ca the Promised Land and they took the nations of Canaan and so on. But the seed there is referring To Christ who is the seed. The seed that comes from Israel, He will inherit the Gentiles. And so we have the church here in Isaiah. Let's continue in verse 4. Fear not, for thou shalt not be ashamed, neither be thou confounded For thou shalt not be put to shame, for thou shalt forget the shame of thy youth, and shalt not remember the reproach of thy widowhood any more, for thy maker is thine husband. The Lord of hosts is his name, and thy Redeemer, the Holy One of Israel, the God of the whole earth, shall he be called. Thy maker is thy husband. Upon this rock will I build my church, and the gates of hell will not prevail against it. Who is the husband of the church? And so here this passage very clearly written to Israel But in our New Testament understanding, we find it is the church, and Christ is the maker. Christ is the husband. And so he is the maker of the church. The second thing we consider, going back to our 1 Corinthians passage, What is the material of the church? What does God use to make his church? Verse 27. But God hath chosen the foolish things of the world to confound the wise, and God hath chosen the weak things of the world to confound the the things which are mighty, and base things of the world, and things which are despised hath God chosen, yea, and things which are not to bring to naught the things which are God has chosen the foolish things of the world. Now, we need to stop on that word foolish. It doesn't mean silly. It does not mean buffoonery. It does not mean those who the uh who are just stupid But rather those who are despised by the world, those who are looked upon, those silly Christians. What? Those they do what with 10% of everything they make? What a bunch of idiots. What a bunch of fools And they don't watch the NFL on Sunday, they go to church. They work all week long and they have a two-day weekend and they waste one day of it? Going to church. Glory. And then we are fools for Christ's sake. God has chosen the foolish And we find in our context that the Jews seek after a sign and the Greeks seek after wisdom. The Stoics and the Epicureans, we are so wise. But to them, the preaching of the cross is foolishness. You know what? I love it. And I think everyone here today loves it You're here because you love the preaching of Christ crucified. To you it is rich, it is blessing, it is joyous We don't need the world's entertainment because our souls rejoice in the word of God. God's chosen to build his work church with the foolish. God's chosen to build his church with the foolish. In verse 26 it says, Ye see your calling, brethren, hell not many wise after the flesh. Not many wise men after the flesh. What shall it profit a man if he gain the whole world, if he invests wisely, if he strategizes his life in such a way that he can say when he dies, he that has the most toys when he dies wins. What stupidity. What nonsense we find from the world. But who is a wise man but he that seats Christ? He that runs to the cross. Remember what they said of Paul, and I mentioned the Stoics and Epicureans earlier. It's in Acts 17 and verse 18 that the Stoics and Epicureans say of Paul, what will this babbler say? It's babbler. And that word babbler actually comes from a term for birds in the marketplace that are always picking up seeds. It says what does babbler say? And when Paul was before Festus in Acts 26, Paul, much learning has made you mad. You're crazy. You're crazy. You you really believe that somebody rose from the dead? You're crazy. You believe he's coming again? Yes. Hallelujah, I do. That's right. God's chosen the foolish things of the world. God has chosen the weak things of the world. God used dirt to make a man. God used the jawbone of an ass to s slay six three tho uh thousand men. Christ used mud. to make new ice. Christ used a rod to part the Red Sea. He made iron to swim, to float. He used three hundred men with Gideon. To slay a hundred thousand Midianites. He used five loaves and two fishes to feed five thousand. He used five little stones and only needed one of them to kill a giant and a sling. God's chosen the weak things. And the salient feature that we find at the end of this list is that no flesh may glory in his presence. You see, David couldn't use Saul's armor. David went forth with a stone and a slinger. God has chosen the weak things. Oh, we're weak. We're little. We're a feeble bunch of people living in or meeting in a living room. But we're the church of the Most High God. And we're weak. But we have the greatest power of the universe. Don't talk to me about atomic bombs The power that is possessed by the church is the greatest power of the universe. Bring a doctrine here. Now raise a dead body. Yeah. There you go. God's chosen the weak things. Because you see when the strong demonstrate strong What does the guy do that wins the race? Boy, he throws his arms in the air and he dances around and hey everybody look at me, I'm faster than everybody else. But when God uses the weak, we say it wasn't me, it was him. It's not me, it is Christ. That in all things he might have the preeminence. God is sufficient for our weakness we find in 2 Corinthians. God has used the base things. God used a rooster. To convict Peter. God took a woman of the city. Christ took a woman of the city. Who came behind him weeping, who washed his feet with her tears, and dried them with her hair in the presence of a Pharisee. And the response to the Pharisees was, if this man was a righteous man, he would know that she is a sinner. She is base. And he would not allow her to touch him. But Christ said, your sins are forgiven. The cheapest of sinners he will receive. Ah, God didn't save me because I was righteous. He saved me because I was unrighteous. And it came not to call the righteous but sinners to repentance. Aren't you glad that God is using the base things to build his church? God has chosen the base things. Tax collectors, fishermen, chiefest of sinners. And despise things. In 1 Peter 4 and verse 14, Paul Peter said, if ye be reproached for the name of Christ, happier ye For the Spirit of God and the glory of God spirit and glory of God resteth upon you. On their part he is evil spoken of, but on your part he is glorified. God has chosen the despised Christians. You realize that in the early church The Christians were accused of being cannibals. Check your history. They were accused of eating their own children because the unbelievers heard that they would bring babies to their fellowship And they would dedicate, sanctify those babies to their God, and then they would eat flesh and drink blood. They were partaking of the Lord's Supper. And so around the year 100, the Christians were accused of eating their babies. Despised. This book tells us of another who was despised. He was despised and rejected of men. A man of sorrows and acquainted with grief, and we hid, as it were, our faces from him. Isn't it wonderful to be among the despised? To be among God's people? I don't want this world to love me. And I don't try to make this world hate me. But they will hate me because of my Christ. God is using the despised That's the material of the church. That is the building blocks he's using. And finally in that section. God has chosen the things which are not to bring to nothing the same things that are. We are not. We're a bunch of nothings. We don't amount to a hill of beans. But oh, how God can use a bunch of nothings that are surrendered to his will. That are ready for his purpose and that are seeking him daily. That's the material of the church. That is what God is using. What is the method of the church? And this is probably uh probably one of the most important. I won't say the most important because we've got some great ones coming. But one of the most important things we consider, what's the method of the church? How is it that we are to go about this ministry? Well look back again at verse 17. For Christ sent me not to baptize, but to preach the gospel. Not with words of wisdom, lest the cross of Christ should be made of none effect. Verse 18, for the preaching of the cross. is in them that perish. Foolishness. Verse twenty-one for after the word of after the wisdom of God, the world by wisdom knew not God. It pleased God by the foolishness of preaching to save them. that believe. What is the method of the church? Preaching. Preaching. Preaching. I don't read anything in here about drama I don't read anything here about entertainment. I don't read anything here about programs. I don't read anything here about traditions and doing things the way we've always done them before. I don't read anything here about social gatherings. In fact, in the New Testament, we find that when we come together to the Lord's table, we're to lead. We're to eat our supper in another place. And we enjoy our meals together and they are good and profitable, but that's not what we're gathering for. That's not our purpose. The method of the church is preaching. was I was growing up in the late sixties through the seventies and eighties. There was the big bus movement in churches and I'd not been critical of it because a lot of children were brought into church and received Christ through the bus ministry. But there was a period there with a whole group of well known uh preachers and evangelists who were building great big churches through their bus ministry and they were giving away this trinket. If you come this week we'll give you this and come next week and we'll give you that and They had entertainment and clowns in the parking lot of the church, I kid you not. I mean you you drive down the road and you see the the tax companies with their guy out there in the um Statue of Liberty suit pointing people in. That's fun. It's advertising and it's wonderful. For a tax company. But there was a time in our recent history here in America where churches would have a clown in the parking lot pointing in You know, or or or people out there, you know, come on into the church and car washes. Come into church and we'll wash your car while you're in the service. And in not washing souls, and the church lost its purpose because it got all these methods of man Ian Bounds, who wrote the great series on prayer, said the church is looking for better methods, and God is looking for better men. The method of the church is preaching. You can build a great big congregation if you bring in a comedian. But few people will come for preaching. Few people will come to hear the word of God expounded. But my friends, a comedian, his message doesn't save. Is preaching, is preaching, is preaching. In verse 17 we find the Christ of the gospel Christ the gospel. In verse 23 we find Christ the crucified. In verse 24 we find Christ the power of God. Verse 24, Christ the the wisdom of God. And verse 29 to 31, Christ, the glory of God. That's the message. Christ, Christ, Christ, Christ The method of the church is the preaching of Christ and Him crucified. One other thing before we move on. Look at verse 18. Verse 18 says, For the preaching of the cross is to them that perish foolishness, but unto us which are saved it is the power of God. Compare that to verse 19 For it is written, I will destroy the wisdom of the wise, and will bring to nothing the understanding of the prudent. Okay. The preaching is to those that perish, foolishness. The preaching is to those that are saved, power. Look at verse 15. Or verse five. I'm sorry, back up in the previous part of the chapter, chapter one, verse five. Speaking of the church, Paul says that in everything ye are enriched in all utterance and all knowledge. What is utterance? It is preaching. What is knowledge? It is the knowledge of God. It is true wisdom. True wisdom. You see, the world has all of its wisdom. That has no place in the church. But if we simply preach the truth of Jesus Christ, he will add unto the church daily such as should be saved. What is the motive of the church? What is it that we're about? We're trying to establish a name for ourselves We're trying to build or purchase a great edi edifice that people will ride down the road and say, oh, there's Mission Bible Church. Are we trying to leave a legacy behind us that another generation will come along and take up the ranks and stand where we have stood? What is the motive of the church? It's found in verse 29. Then no flesh should glory in his presence. That's it, folks. That's it in a nutshell. The purpose is that no flesh glory in his presence. And that encompasses evangelism. That encompasses our testimony before the world. That encompasses the raising of our children. We raise them for the glory of God. That encompasses our legacy we leave behind. May a generation follow us that has been taught and trained up in the way they should go. Our purpose is that no flesh should glory in his presence. You see, my flesh is corrupt. There's no glory in it. My will is corrupt. My mind is corrupt. Everything about me that is not of Christ is corrupt. Now by his glorious grace, I am a new creature in him. And it is my new creature that is incorruptible. But everything of this flesh is corrupt. And this cannot glory in his presence. But oh, what glory is brought to him when this flesh is crucified with him. And Christ be seen in me. That is the motive of the church. And Paul, here in this chapter, well before we go there, let's go back to the call to worship. Let's go to Jeremiah chapter 9. I read earlier for our call to worship. And then we're going to uh look here at the perils of a church that loses its motive. Jeremiah chapter 29, I read these verses uh for our call to worship. Verses 23 and 24. I'd love to hear the pages turning and I'll wait till the they stop before I read. Jeremiah twenty-nine, verse twenty-three Thus saith Jehovah, thus saith the Lord. Let not the wise man glory in his wisdom. Neither let the mighty man glory in his might. Let not the rich man glory in his riches. That sounds like the passage we're reading in 1 Corinthians, doesn't it? The mighty, the rich, the powerful, the wise. Verse twenty four. But let him that glorieth glory in this, that he understandeth and knoweth me That I am the Lord which ex which which uh exercise loving kindness, judgment, and righteousness in the earth. For in these things I delight, saith the Lord. Jeremiah nine. Jeremiah nine, what did I say? Jeremiah nine, twenty-three and twenty-four. I appreciate the correction because my tongue gets ahead of my brain quite frequently. Yes, Jeremiah nine, twenty-three and twenty-four. Mark it down and read it again later. What are the parable perils? of the church that loses its true motive? Well, first of all, when a church has a motive other than the glory of Christ, there will be divisions and contention. It'll happen. Look at verse 10. We're back in 1 Corinthians 1. 1 Corinthians 1 verse 10. Now I beseech you, brethren by the name of the Lord Jesus Christ, that ye all speak the same thing, and that there be no division among you, but that ye be perfectly joined together in the same mind. and in the same judgment. You see, the church that Paul is writing to is a church that has lost its motive and there's all kinds of contention. There's all kinds of confusion and fighting. And we know this of the church at Corinth because Christ had Paul had to write to him twice. And in both letters he's dealing with this issue. And so, first of all, when a church loses the motive of the glory of Christ, Then you wouldn't believe what he said about me. You wouldn't believe what she said. That they they did me wrong. They said this to my children, or or she looked at me the wrong way, and people begin to look at themselves rather than look at Christ. But you see, if our motive is the glory of Christ, it doesn't matter that my clothes are not as good as the next person, or my car is not as good as the next person, or I don't make as much money as they make, or whatever else causes division. If our motive is the glory of Christ, it's all about Him. Secondly, when the motive of the church is anything other than the glory of Christ, men will begin to follow men Rather than Christ. Look at verses twelve and thirteen. Now this I say that every one of you saith, I am of Paul, and I'm of Apollos, and I'm of Cephas, and I'm of Christ. Is Christ divided? Was Paul crucified for you? Or were you baptized in the name of Paul? You see, when we get our nine our minds off Christ and our eyes off Christ, we naturally begin to look at man And man becomes the measure. I like this preacher better than that preacher. Well He's more entertaining than he is. Well, she plays the piano better than this one. Well, the yeah, you can get all kinds. We begin to follow men But the motive of the church is the glory of Christ. And when that motive is followed, we're protected from following man. And then thirdly In this context, when the motive of the church is anything other than the glory of Christ, men will begin to place ordinances and traditions above the preaching of Christ. Remember what our method is? It's preaching. But when the motive becomes anything other than the glory of Christ, all these other things begin to take priority over our method and become more important and our traditions and the way we do things become the motto of what we're supposed to be as a church. The motto of what we're supposed to be in the church is the likeness of Jesus Christ. And the message is the preaching of Jesus Christ. And the motive is the glory of Jesus Christ. Excuse me. Look at verse 14 Paul says, I thank God that I baptized none of you but Crispias and Gaius. Lest any should say that I had baptized my own name. For Christ sent me not to baptize, but to preach the gospel, not with words of wisdom, lest the cross of Christ be made of none effect. You see, they started becoming concerned about who would baptize who And how the communion was conducted and how the the baptism was carried out and what kind of this we do. We this is the way we do it. We can't do it any different than that. Because they weren't looking at Christ. They weren't looking at Christ. So we've seen We've seen the maker of the church. And the material from which he makes it, the method of our ministry, the motive for that which we're doing. But what is the majesty of the church? And rather we should say, who is the majesty of the church? Look at verses 30 and 31. But of him are ye in Christ Jesus. Who of God is made unto us wisdom, righteousness, and sanctification, and redemption. That according to his written, he that glory, let him glory in the Lord. Ah, Christ is made into his wisdom. He's chosen the foolish But he's made unto us wisdom. Christ has made unto us righteousness. He's chosen fools. Who are weak and base, who are without righteousness. Christ is made into a sanctification. He takes the adulterous woman and he makes her a glorious child of God. Her virginity is not restored on earth, but it is in heaven. Because he become she becomes part of the virgin bride of Christ. That's right. My sins, which were many, are all washed away. He's made to his sanctification. And Christ is made to us redemption. What is the majesty of the church? It is the glorious righteousness of Christ in which we are robed. And he is the head of the body, the church, who is the beginning, the firstborn from the dead, that in all things he might have the preeminence. Let us stand for prayer.