Well, dear friends, it is so good to be together today. Such a great privilege to gather around the Word of God And I was going to mention some of the same things that Brother Vince just mentioned. Those those words. We've all had a week. And I'm sure we've all had our troubles this week. And I I know a lot of you have physical difficulties. I know our young people are engaged in study. Uh I I know there are jobs and work and frustrations and sick friends and relatives and so many cares of this life. What a blessed privilege we have as the children of God just to leave all that behind and gather as one family in Christ around the precious word. Open your Bibles with me to the book of Joshua. The book of Joshua and chapter 3. And I'm going to read chapter 3. And actually We'll be uh looking at chapter one and chapter three in our message this morning. Joshua chapter three, and I'll start our scripture reading with the first verse. Joshua 3, verse 1. And Joshua rose up early in the morning, and they removed from Shitem and came to Jordan. He and all the children of Israel, and lodged there before they passed over. And it came to pass after three days that the officers went through the host And they commanded the people, saying, When ye see the ark of the covenant of the Lord your God, and the priest, the Levites bearing it, then ye shall remove from your place and go out after it. Yet there shall be a space between you and it, about two thousand cubits by measure. Come not near unto it That ye may know the way which the Lord must go, which that ye may know the way by which ye must go. For ye have not passed this way heretofore And Joshua said unto the people, Sanctify yourselves, for tomorrow the Lord will do wonders among you. And Joshua spake unto the priests, saying, Take up the Ark of the Covenant and pass over before the people. And they took up the Ark of the Covenant and went before the people. And the Lord said unto Joshua, This day will I begin to magnify thee in the sight of all Israel, that they may know as I was with Moses, so will I be with thee. And thou shalt command the priests that bear the ark of the covenant, saying, When ye shall ye shall come to the brink of the water of Jordan, ye shall stand still in Jordan. And Joshua said unto the children of Israel, Come hither and hear the word of the Lord your God. And Joshua said, Hereby shall ye know that the living God is among you And that he will not fail to drive out from before you the Canaanites and the Hittites and the Hebites and the Parasites. And the Gergesites, and the Amorites, and the Jebusites. Behold, the ark of the covenant of the Lord of all the earth passeth over before you into Jordan. Now therefore, take twelve men out of the tribes of Israel, out of every tribe a man And it shall come to pass as soon as the soles of the feet of the priests that bear the ark of the Lord, the Lord of all the earth, have rest in the waters of Jordan, that the waters of Jordan shall be cut off from the waters that came down from above, and they shall stand upon and heap And it came to pass when the people were removed from their tents and passed over Jordan and the priests bearing the ark of the covenant before the people as they And as they that bear the ark were come into Jordan, and the feet of the priests that bear the ark were dipped in the brink of the water, for Jordan overflowed his all his banks all the time of harvest That the waters which came down from above stood and rose up a heap very far from the city of Adam that was in Zaratan, and those that that came down toward the sea of the plain, even the salt sea failed and were cut off, and the people passed over right against Jericho. And the priests that bare the Ark of the Covenant of the Lord stood firm on dry ground in the midst of Jordan. And all Israel passed over on dry ground until all the people were passed clean over Jordan. And I was just gonna say, you want to shout, hallelujah. What a God we serve Let's pray. Great God, our Heavenly Father, we just rejoice in this marvelous miracle and in the blessing that just the reading of your word brings to our heart without any exposition from man. And yet, Father, you've chosen the foolishness of preaching. And so today, Lord, I'm going to endeavor to comment on this passage from your word And yet, Lord, there's nothing that man can say that is profitable except it be the with that which your Spirit directs. And so, Father, as we've prayed so many times before, may the Holy Spirit of God be the exegete today May your spirit preach truth to the hearts of your people. Lord, may you protect this congregation from me and from the errors of tongue that I may make. And Lord, this today, may the your people not leave this place lacking in a blessing from thee. But Lord, may your spirit speak to each heart truth by your word. And Father, we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. The verse which drew me to this passage uh is the fourth verse there where it says Yet there shall be a space between you and it, that's between you and the ark, about 2,000 cubits by measure. Come not near unto it, that ye may know the way by which ye must go. For ye have not passed this way here to fore. This verse arrested my attention probably at least three years ago, if not four years ago, and I tend to take a verse that grabs a hold of me and I put it in a file that I have and just kind of let it sit there and kind of like a a pot on the back of the stove. Let it simmer and bubble and boil until the Lord brings it out into a message at some point. And I never know really when a particular verse that has kind of been on my heart is going to come out. But this one just seems so appropriate. for where we are today at Mission Bible Church. We're heading out on a new pathway and we have not passed this way heretofore. The children of Israel have wandered in the wilderness for 40 years. When I was a boy on the farm, no one ever needed to tell me how to get back to the farmhouse. When I was six and eight years old, I would wander those fields 123 acres, I would wander them alone, and I would get far, far from the house. But I always knew how to get back because it was familiar Mm-hmm. It was comfortable. I knew where the streams were. I knew where there was a little grove of trees that I used to go into and there was moss in between them. And it looked like somebody had planted these trees in an area about the size of these two rooms. It and it was a pleasant place. I knew it, it was familiar, it was comfortable. And even today I think about those places, even though the farm is long out of the family, that was a familiar place and I was always comfortable there. The children of Israel, though they were in the wilderness, had found the degree of comfort. They knew the paths, they knew where the water was, they they knew where the fields were to graze their cattle. But now they're going to a new place. Now they're passing over Jordan. They tried to do it once before. Forty years ago the spies were sent out, and the spies had come out back, and they said, The land in which we go indeed is a good land that overflows with milk and honey And yet the children of Anak are there. That word, that name, the children of Anak, comes from the word Anakim. He was the father of the Anaks, and the word Anakim means long-necked or tall. The Anakim were a giant people. They were massive people. And God had told the children of Israel, This is the land I'm giving to you. Everywhere where the sole of your foot treads, that will I give to you. And yet the twelve spies came back and they said, indeed, here are the grapes of the land, and here's the beautiful land, but their cities are walled. And the children of Anak dwell there. Ten spies said, we dare not go. Joshua and Caleb said, No. The Lord has promised. The Lord will give us the land. Now, forty years later, Joshua and Caleb are the only ones that have seen the land. There is no one in the company. That was an adult to hear those words. A whole generation has died in the forty years of wandering in this wilderness where they've become familiar with And I'm sure that their dying parents had told them about giants. had told them about walled cities. Yeah, on the other side of that river, there's giants. They say the mapmakers hundreds of years ago before we had traveled the entire earth. would make their map, but if they got to an area that they didn't know what was out there they would write on the map, beyond these points be dragons. Well the children of Israel now are going to cross over Jordan. And they know Jericho's over there. They're going into a land that is not familiar. They're going on a pathway that is a pathway of giants. I'm sure they had fear. I'm sure they had trepidation, and yet God had promised them the land The unfamiliar is rarely comfortable. Did you ever go into a dark room and but it's as soon as you flip on the light, ah, it's okay Was there a danger in the room before you flipped on the light? No. But when you flipped on the light, there was sudden comfort. And that's what we're going to see this morning from this passage. They were going into the unknown, but as they went into the unknown, there were marvelous blessings that accompanied them. into that which they could not see with their eyes, but they had been told by the promises of God, no man will stand before you. It doesn't matter if he's an Anak. Doesn't matter how tall he is. No city will resist you. Doesn't matter if they have walls wide enough to ride chariots on the top. Everywhere your foot falls, I'm going to give it to you. They hadn't seen it fulfilled yet. And you read in Hebrews that Abraham, that all these, died without having seen the promise. And yet they believe. And so let's consider some of the blessings that they enjoy. The first blessing that we find in the passage you read is they had the presence of God. You see, for forty years in the wilderness they have been led by a pillar of fire by night and a pillar of cloud by day There's a lot to be said about that. Why was the pillar of fire and the pillar of cloud taken away now as they're going into the land of Canaan? I believe we have a glorious truth of the sovereignty of God in election in that. God did not allow the Canaanites to see the pillar of cloud. God did not allow them to see the pillar of fire. Because faith cometh by hearing and hearing by the word of God. We don't have faith by sight. God allowed the armies of Pharaoh to see the pillar of fire because it stood between Israel. And the armies of Pharaoh, until they had crossed over the Red Sea, they saw it just before they died, just before they were drowned. And if they hadn't seen it and believed, they wouldn't have gone into the Red Sea in the first place. But God took away from the children of Israel that visible sign which anybody could see and say that's the power of God. But did God leave them because they could no longer see the pillar of cloud? Because they had no longer seen the pillar of fire? And beyond that, how did they know where to go in the wilderness? Well, they had become familiar with the wilderness, they knew the paths And yet we find that the pillar of fire and the pillar of cloud descended on the tabernacle. And as long as the cloud rested on the tabernacle, they stayed put. But then when the cloud and the fire was lifted up from the tabernacle, they knew it was time to go. Okay, God's leading us. But now we don't have that. Did the presence of the Lord fail them because they no longer had that visible sign? No, no, not at all. But instead we find that now they're being led by the Ark of the Covenant of the Lord. And you see the People of Jericho looking off their wall, what are those fools doing? They're walking around, they're carrying some big box, and they're not making a sound. The preaching of the cross has to perish foolishness. God's means seem foolish unto man. God's means mean nothing to man. But what was that ark that they carried? It was the presence of God. It was God's presence with his people. The ark was the presence of God. Let me read to you from Exodus 25, verse 22. And there shall I meet with thee. And I will commune with thee from above the mercy seat, from between the two cherubims which are upon the ark of testimony, of all things which I will give thee in commandments under the children of Israel. God says, I'm going to meet with you there at the mercy seat. I'm going to meet with you there at the ark. The ark that they carried was the presence of God among his people. The ark which they carried was the place of the promises of God. God had promised And the Ark of the Covenant, its very name, indicates that it is the token of God's blessing. What ailed thee, oh Seas that you fled back, we read there in Psalm 114. Was it a box? No It was that God dwelt among his people. God meets with his people on the ark. And so the ark was the token of God's presence with his people and was the token of God's promise, I will not fail to give you the land, even though Jordan is at flood in time of harvest. Yet the seas fled back. The Ark was the place of the power of God. You know what? The priests walk up and step in the water and they get their feet wet. But the priest bearing the ark Step in the water. And it's dry ground. Did you ever walk out in your yard after a rain? Don't wear your good shoes because they're going to get wet. But here the waters fled back. The ark that they carry with them was the token of the power of God But not only was that ark the presence of God and the promise of God and the power of God, it was the place where they made petitions to God. It was the place where God answered the petitions of his people. And though the fire cloud was gone, fire pillar was gone and the cloud was gone, God had taken those things away, he had not left them. How often we look back to the things we've lost and say, oh how good and how precious they were and how much we missed them. But there was nothing missing. Only the visible trappings were changed. But God was the same. And so the Ark was a place of petition to God. Remember after the defeat which would come at Ai, after the great victory at Jer at Jericho. Achan had stolen the gold and the Babylonish garment, the goodly garment. And so The people of Israel fail ran before their enemies, and when they ran, we find Jo uh we find Joshua in chapter 6 on his face before the ark. Because the ark was the place of petition. You see, God still answers prayer. God hears the petition of his people, and though the fire was gone and the cloud was gone. God was still listening. The Ark was the place of petition before God But another blessing that they had, the first blessing was the promise of God, or sorry, was the presence of God, but also they had the promise of God's presence The promise. The promise they were blessed with the promises of God. They had the presence of God and they had the promises of God with them. And what were those promises? Well the first one, of course, is the one we've just been talking about. He promised He will be with them. And just as he has said to us, I will never leave thee nor forsake thee. If you look at verse five of Joshua one God says, as I was with Moses, so I would be with thee. I will not fail thee. I'm sorry, I'm in chapter one now. Chapter 1, verse 5. As I was with Moses So will I be with thee. I will not fail thee, nor forsake thee. And then verse 9, have not I commanded thee, be strong and of good courage, be not afraid, neither be thou dismayed For the Lord thy God is with thee, whithersoever thou goest. And so they had the promise of God's presence But then as they went into this new land that they had not seen before, they had the promise of the place. They had the promise of the place. In chapter 1 and verse 3, every place That the soul of your foot shall tread upon, that will I give unto you, as I said unto Moses. In chapter 1 and verse 6 Be strong and of good courage, for unto this people shalt thou divide for an inheritance the land which I swear unto their fathers to give them. God promised them the place They didn't know where they were going. Only two of them had seen it, Joshua and Caleb. But God had promised it to them. Did you ever buy a car without seeing it? Ever buy a house without seeing it? We like to see things, don't we? But here God says, it's good. You don't need to check it out. It's good. I go to prepare a place for you. And if I go to prepare a place for you I will come again and receive you unto myself, that where I am, there ye may be also. In my Father's house are many mansions. Ah we have the promise of the presence of God. And we have a promise that God will prepare a place for us. Little frail Mission Bible church meeting here graciously in a home. God will prepare a place for us. It doesn't have to be a beautiful cathedral. We don't want a beautiful cathedral. But God has a place for us. We have seen again and again and again. Every time I have doubted it, I have seen God reconfirm his blessing on that which we're doing. God has a place for us. We haven't seen it. We don't know what it looks like. We don't know where it is. But the Lord is in this. But He has a place for us. And so they had the promise of God's presence and the promise of God's place, but they had the promise of God's power with them as well. Glorious promise. Look at verse 5 of chapter 1. There shall not any man be able to stand before thee. all the days of thy life. As I was with Moses, so will I be with thee. I will not fail thee, nor forsake thee. Let's look at verse five again. There shall not be any man able to stand before thee except the children of Anak. Accept the walls of Jericho. It doesn't say it. It doesn't say it. And maybe, maybe, sometimes I think maybe I shouldn't Do that with scripture for even for illustration because it's God's word. But you see the hypocrisy of saying anything like that. There's no exception there. They had the power of God with them. What obstacle can we face in the will of God that God doesn't have the strength to overcome? Is there anything too hard for thee? Amen. No, not a thing. They had the promise of the absolute unfailing power of God. And in chapter 2, which dwells between chapter 1 and chapter 3, we find the two spies that talk to Rahab. And Rahab says, We've heard! We've heard how the Red Sea was crossed. Mm-hmm. What stood between Rahab and the children of Israel when the two spies came? Jordan. Jordan. Those two spies that had to cross a mighty river that was overflowing its banks because it floods in the time of harvest. And you know what? God could have sent them any time other than the time of harvest. God could have sent them when the Jordan flowed at its tiny little bit. But instead God sent them at the time of the flood. He sent them at the time that Jordan was in flood at harvest. Just like when their fathers had come to the Red Sea and they saw the Red Sea in front of them and mountains on both sides and Pharaoh's army behind them. It was a test of their faith. And it was a triumph of the power of God over their fears. Certainly Israel can't cross the Jordan right now to defeat us because it's in flood stage. What is that to the God who made the Jordan? What is that to the God who spoke and the oceans were filled with fishes? It is nothing before him And so Rahab said, I know that the Lord hath given you the land, and that your terror is falling upon us, and that all the inhabitants of the land faint because of you. That's chapter 2, verse 9. In chapter 2, verse 11, as soon as we heard these things our hearts did melt, neither remained there any more courage in any man because of the Lord your God. He is the God of heaven above. and the earth beneath. And again we have another glorious picture of election. How many houses were there in Jericho? How many other places were there that the spies could have tried to hide? But they went to the house of Rahab. And Rahab would become the great, great grandmother. Of Ruth, who would become the great great grandmother of David. How could that ever happen? It happened because of the sovereignty of a living God. who gave to his people his presence and his place and his power. And that verse there in chapter two of Joshua is the fulfillment of Exodus 23, verse 27. Exodus 23, 27, I'll read it to you, and I will send my fear before thee. This is back in Egypt, folks. I will send my fear before thee, and I will destroy all the people to whom thou shalt come, and I will make thine enemies to turn their backs unto you. And so they were blessed with the presence of God, and they were blessed with the power of God. But also we find in this very passage That these children of Israel who were to pass over Jordan were blessed with others that came along to help them. Look with me at chapter 1, verses 12 to 16. Chapter one, verse twelve to sixteen. And to the Reubenites And to the Gadites and to the half-tribe of Manasseh spake Joshua, saying, Remember the word which Moses, the servant of the Lord, commanded you, saying, The Lord your God has given you rest and has given you this land. Now what's the backstory? You know the story. The Gadites, the Reubenites, and half the tribe of Manasseh. They had found homes on the other side of Jordan. They were not taking their families into Jordan. They were not making this journey. They already had their homes. They already had their cities. They had their place. Verse 14: Your wives, your little ones, and your cattle shall remain in the land which Moses gave you on this side of Jordan, but ye shall pass before your brethren, armed All the mighty men of valor and help them until the Lord hath given your brethren rest, as he hath given you and they also have pros possessed the lamb which the Lord your God hath given them. Then shall you return unto the land of your possession and enjoy it, which Moses the Lord's servant gave unto you on this side of the Jordan. What happened there? There were those that were making this journey into the Promised Land, but there were other brethren who were going to help them. And as we, little, frail, failing by our own means, but prospering by God's means. As we go on a journey, God is sending others to help us. They are already established congregations. That are indicating, yes, we're with you. We are praying for you. And I'm being given the opportunity to visit with some of those churches as a missionary, just as I did when my family was going to Jamaica. And tell them the wondrous, exciting story of what God's doing here. And share with them the vision that we have, that their eyes may be lifted up to see the fields. That are white already to harvest. Brethren, we're not alone. We have other brothers that are not with us in this venture here today, and yet they're with us today in prayer. And they're with us today in their finances to help us along. Isn't God good? And so God had promised that He would give them others to help them in the journey. But you know what? Every blessing comes with responsibility. Every gift from God requires that we be stewards of the gift. Everything that we have is from Him. This suit. I didn't get this. God gave it to me. God has ordained that by the sweat of our brow that we labor, yes. And yet nothing had I that I got myself. God did it all. And so every blessing carries with it responsibilities. Every blessing carries with it obligations. And we find that in this time of great blessing as they went out on this new venture, there were requirements, folks. They had obligations. Look with me at chapter 1. Verses 7 and 8. And we find first of all that they were obligated to the law of God. They were obligated to the law of God. Chapter 1, verse 7, Only be strong and very courageous, that thou mayest observe to do according to all the law. Which Moses my servant commanded thee, turn not from it to the right hand or to the left, that thou mayest prosper whithersoever thou goest. Remember what happened to Ai? They didn't prosper at AI the first time, did they? Why? Because they turned from the law. They'd failed in their obligation before God. Thou mayest prosper whithers where thou goest. This book of the law shall not depart out of thy mouth, but thou shalt meditate therein day and night. That thou mayest observe to do according to all that is written therein, for then shalt thou make thy way prosperous, and then shalt thou have good respect good success They were obligated to the law of God. Everything they did had to be conformed to God's law. It had to conform to God's truth. There are many things you can do to quote unquote build a church. Bingo brings them in, folks. Watch out now. There's a lot of Amen. There's a lot of things you can do to get people together. That's right. But that's not what we're about. Oh, if you want to have the young people, you have to have the young people's music. The King James Bible is just so hard to understand. It's confusing. Let's dumb down the scriptures. You know, you don't really believe that that God meant a man and a woman. See there's so many things that you can do to quote unquote build a church. And it's not a church, it's just a bunch of Apostates. And we are, folks, we don't deny it. We are a congregation of sinners, but we're sinners saved by grace. Amen. We have great blessings and great promises, and we have the power of God with us because we have the presence of God with us, but we're obligated to the law of God. And we dare not deviate. We dare not try to take an easy pass. The word of God and the law of God has got to constantly be our standard. And we're talking about and praying about what standards we could use, as in the Westminster and the canons of Dort and all those things, but those are secondary standards. The standard is right here. Amen. We're people of one book. Thank you, O Lord. And so we're obligated to the law of God. But turn with me to Deuteronomy 31. I'd like to compare these verses. Deuteronomy 31, and we're going to read verses 25 to 29, but we're going to kind of stop in the middle and make a few comments along the way. Deuteronomy thirty-one and starting in verse twenty-five And it kind of begins in the middle of a thought, but I think it was the best place to begin. That Moses commanded the Levites, which bear the Ark of the Covenant. Remember we've been talking about the Ark, which was the symbol of God's presence that bear the ark of the covenant of the Lord, saying, Take this book of the law, and put it in the side of the Ark of the Covenant of the Lord your God, that it may be there for a witness. Does it say to you or against you? A witness against you. Put the law of God in the ark that it may witness against you if you do anything but it. Put the law of God in the ark that when you deviate from the truth of God, it will witness against you. It will call out your sin. No wonder when they failed at Ai, Joshua went and fell on his face before the ark, because the law of God was in there. It will witness against thee. Verse 27. For I know thy rebellion and thy stiff neck. Folks who are human. Behold, this is Moses speaking, while I am yet alive with you this day. Ye have been rebellious against the Lord. How much more after my death? What is the first verse of the book of Joshua? Moses, my servant, is dead. Moses said, take that law, put it in the ark, because you've been rebellious now, when I'm dead, it's really coming. Right? And now Moses is dead. And the people were prone to rebellion. And so they were obligated and reminded. We hear Joshua 1. 8 quoted and quoted and quoted, but it's quoted out of context, folks. This book of the law shall not depart out of thy mouth, but thou shalt meditate therein day and night. That thou make thy great prosperous and have good success. And people try to talk about prosperity and success in that verse. But it's a warning. It's a warning. If you deviate from this law, you will not have prosperity. Just try to go to AI. You will not have good success. Thirty men are going to die. And so gathering, or continuing there in Deuteronomy 31, verse 28, gather unto me all the elders of your tribes. of your officers that I may speak these words in their ears and call heaven and earth to record, Moses says, and I call heaven and earth to stand against you to be your witness. Call heaven and earth to record For I know that after my death ye will corrupt yourselves, and turn aside from the way which I commanded you And evil will befall you in the latter days, because ye will do evil in the sight of the Lord to provoke him to anger against you through your works. Most of us at some time in our lives have been a part of another church. That it's no longer standing where it wants to. And that's what Moses was warning here. All things deteriorate when we fail to keep the word of God How easily and how quickly we turn from the way. How prone we are to turn to the right hand and the left hand. May God give us grace to always cling to the word of God, which is in the side of the ark, to testify and witness against us. Prone to wander, Lord, I feel it, prone to leave the God I love. Take my heart, O take it, seal it, seal it for thy courts above. And so first of all we find that they were obligated to the law of God But then we find that they were obligated to prepare for the journey. They had to prepare for that which God was giving them to do. Turning back to the book of Joshua now, please. Joshua chapter one and verse eleven. Joshua one and verse eleven Pass through the host, and command the people, saying, Prepare ye victuals, for within three days ye shall pass over this Jordan To go in to possess the land which the Lord your God giveth you to possess it. Prepare rituals Or vitals. That word victuals. We don't use that word too much. We say vitals today. My my folks came from the hills of North Carolina, well from uh Scotland before that, but But the McKnights came from the hills of North Carolina and and uh southern Virginia and they said vitals, but this word basically means provisions It means food. It means meat. Our word venison does not come directly from this word victuals, but but the roots are the same. It means a meat. Prepare venison. Wait a minute, wait a minute, hold on a second, hold on a second, hold on a second. What happened to the manna? What happened to the manna? Why why do we have to prepare? We've always had everything we needed. It's always been there. Why now are you passing through telling us to to cook some meat for the next three days? They're going into battle. The manna of the wilderness has not yet ceased. It will cease in chapter 5. In chapter 5, after they get into the land, they eat the corn, the old corn of the land for the next year, and we read the man of Cesas in Joshua 5. God's given them a new way of providing for themselves, and it involves providing for themselves. Prepare mintals. Get ready. The free food's done, folks. You went out and you picked it up in the wilderness But now you're gonna have to prepare for yourselves. You're gonna have to store up. I I I learned the phrase back when I was when I was selling cars many years ago, to nut up is what they'd always say, because every car salesman knew that the month of January you didn't sell anything. Because people that were buying a car wanted to buy it by the end of the year for the tax advantages. People bought cars for Christmas, gifts January car sales just dropped out. If you hadn't nutted up in the month before, your paycheck wasn't going to be what it was in December leading up. You had to nut up And folks we have to nut up. There's there's not a yeah, th there's not a there's not a free lunch. The children of Israel they had to prepare. God was gonna provide everything they needed. God was going to provide for them. God had promised in the land. He had promised in the victory. He had promised them his presence with him. But they were still under the obligation to prepare some food. Folks, we're not gonna like anything. But my God shall supply all your need according to his riches and glory. And yet. That doesn't say we just sit back and do nothing. We've got to prepare for the journey. We've got to be ready to face what needs to be faced as we go forward for the Lord. But then the third thing to which they are obligated, and I believe this is the key of this whole passage. I believe this is the most important of all. They were obligated to sanctification. They were obligated to holiness before their God. Turn back with me to Joshua chapter 3 They were obligated to the law, they were obligated to prepare, they were obligated to sanctification. Chapter 3 and verse 2. And it came to pass after three days that the officers went through the host, and they commanded the people, saying, When ye see the ark of the covenant of the Lord your God, and the priests, the Levites bearing it, then shall ye remove from your place and go after it. Yet That word, yes, very important. When you see the priest bearing the ark, you'll go after it. Yet, there shall be a space between you and it. About two thousand cubits by measure. Come not near unto it, that ye may know the way by which ye must go. For ye have not passed this way heretofore. And Joshua said unto the people, Sanctify yourselves, for tomorrow the Lord will do wonders among you. Don't you want to be as close as possible? Don't you like to be first in line? When you go to a free event, don't you want to get the seats right up front? Be close? Didn't Uzzah think well when he put forward his hand to the Ark? Moses, Moses, take off your shoes. Because the place whereon you stand is holy ground. The children of Israel were to follow the ark at a reverent distance. Our God is a consuming fire. Our God is holy. Sanctify yourselves. You see, there would be a great victory won at Jericho. And without them firing an arrow, without them pulling down a stone. The walls fell down and the people marched straight into the city. But it wasn't long after That they were defeated by tiny little puny AI. Why? Because one of the myths failed to sanctify himself. He failed to put a difference between the clean and the unclean. He failed in his own personal holiness. Dear friends, every one of us must walk in holy fellowship with our God. Search your hearts daily. The children of Israel were to follow the ark. And yet a specific distance is given, about 2,000 paces. Keep back in reverent respect. And this is a great warning to us, folks, because there's a way that seemeth right unto man, but the ways in throughout the ways of death. And Brother Vince and I have been praying together daily, pleading, Lord, don't let us rush into something that's not of your hand. Don't let us get ahead of your will. Don't let us get so close that we can't see where we're supposed to go anymore. And that's the next thing. They were obligated to sanctify themselves, but they were obligated to keep a respectful pace that they might remember the fear of the Lord and that they might know the right way to go. Have you ever been following somebody in your car and all of a sudden they put on the turn signal and turn? Couldn't you put your signal back there? I'm following you. How was I supposed to know where to turn? And if you're too close to them, they turn and just keep going straight because you can't turn that fast. You weren't ready for it The children of Israel were to keep back a holy distance, but not too far away. Not so far back that they couldn't see where the ark was going. They were not to be too close, they weren't to be too far. They were to have a reverent respect for God, but be close enough that they could know what the direction of God. In other words, perfect fellowship. Just in the right place all the time. May we know the fear of God. Oh Lord, you are holy Lord, your word, your law is in the side of the ark to testify against me. Oh God, keep me from sin. Oh God, keep me in purity before you. O Lord, make my heart right before you. Search me with a candle, cleanse me, wash me, O God. Cast my sins into the depths of the sea, remove them as far as the east from the west, O God. I come before you in holy, reverent fear. But God, don't let me get too far away. Lord, don't let me wander. Don't let me lag behind. Lord, show me thy perfect place. Psalm 25, verses 4 and 5, show me thy way, O Lord, teach me thy path. Lead me in thy truth and teach me, for thou art the God of my salvation. On thee do I wait all the day. Psalm twenty-seven eleven Teach me thy way, O Lord, lead me in a plain path because of mine enemies Psalm 86, verse 11, Teach me thy way, O Lord. I will walk in thy truth, unite my heart to fear thy name. They were obligated to sanctification. They were obligated to walk in holiness before their God. And so we've seen three great promises that they had. They had the promise of God's presence with them. They had the promise of God's power. They had the promise of God's caring for them through the wilderness. They had to set sanctify themselves, verse 5. What does it mean to sanctify? It means to set apart. It means to make holy. It means to make righteous. Up, sanctify yourselves. Let's start reading again at verse 10 of chapter. I'm sorry. Turn with me to uh verse. Turn to chapter seven with me real quick. Let's let's not leave sanctification just yet. Chapter seven of Joshua and verses seven to ten This is after AI, after they send And in Joshua 7, verse 7, and the Lord said unto Joshua, Get thee up, wherefore thou liest thou upon thy face? Joshua was lying on his face before the ark. Verse 11. Israel has sinned, and they have also transgressed my covenant which I commanded them. Therefore the children of Israel could not stand before their enemies, but turned their back before their enemies because they were accursed Neither will I be with you any more, except ye dis ye destroy the cursed thing from among you. What is what does that verse sound like? It sounds like the removing of all the promises they saw. They had the promise of God's presence The promise of God's power that they would overcome their enemies. But here God says, I'm going to remove my presence from you. And your enemies won't turn their back before you. You'll turn your back before your enemies, except you remove the accursed thing. Verse 13 of chapter 7. Up, sanctify the people and say, sanctify yourselves against tomorrow. And so they had an obligation of sanctification, but they failed in that obligation. They failed and they fell before Ai. And what is the command of God? The same command they started with. Sanctify yourselves. Remove the accursed thing. And so I said that each one of us have an obligation to sanctification before the Lord. But what happens when we fail? Well what would have happened if before they went to AI, Aiken had it thrown to Joshua and said, Joshua, I'm so sorry Lord, Lord, I saw the accursed thing and I coveted it and I took it. And no, it's hidden in my tent. If we confess our sins, he is faithful and just to forgive us of our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. You see, there could have been there could have been repentance for Achan before they went into battle against Ai. But once they go into battle, it was too late. The time of repentance had passed. And so we are obligated to sanctify ourselves, and we are obligated when we fail in that sanctification to run right back to Christ. Now turn with me for conclusion. Back to chapter seven. And I'd like to read again uh I'm sorry, that back to chapter three, excuse me, back to chapter three and verse seven. Forgive me, my Chapter 3 and verse 7 as we as we tie this all together. And the Lord said unto Joshua, This day Will I begin to magnify thee in the sight of all Israel, that they may know that as I was with Moses, so will I be with thee. And now shall command the priest that bear the Ark of the Covenant, saying, When ye come to the brink of the water of Jordan, ye shall stand still. And Joshua said unto the children of Israel, Come hither and hear the word of the Lord. And Joshua said, Here, Boy Shall you know that the living God is among you, that he will not fail you to drive out before you the Canaanites, the Hittites, the Hutites the Perizzites, the Gergesites, and the Amorites, and the Jebusites. Behold, the ark of the covenant of the Lord, who who is the Lord of all the earth, passeth before you in the Jordan. Now therefore, take twelve men out of the tribes of Israel, out of every tribe. And it shall come to pass as soon as the souls of the priests that bear the ark of the Lord, the Lord of all the earth, shall rest in the waters. That the waters of Jordan shall be cut off from the waters above that come down from above, and they shall stand upon a heap. Ever see water stand up on a heap? Not really. You ever ever spill a glass of water on the floor? It goes everywhere. Folks. God had great things for us or for the people of Israel. And going back to verse five Joshua said unto the people, Sanctify yourselves, prepare yourselves in holiness, for tomorrow the Lord will do wonders among you. We're not looking to walk through a river on dry ground. That would be a great miracle. We're not looking to see walls of a city fall down before us. We don't expect every adversary and every foe we face to turn their back and run. But I believe the Lord's going to do wonders. Amen. I believe the Lord is going to do great things right here in Mission Bible Church. We're praying about a building already. You know what? There are liberal apostate churches all around us. But have six people this morning in beautiful buildings. Our God can give us one. He can give us one. They don't need it Devil's had it long enough. There are storefronts that are under a bank lien. And the bank's losing money on them. And people are coming in and stealing the lighting and the copper out of them. There are pieces of property that a bank would love to let us use for a year just to keep it clean and open and unvandelized. They're out there. We don't know where they are. We haven't been to that land yet. We haven't gone that way heretofore. But God's going to do wonders. Yeah. We just need to trust Him and sanctify ourselves and do His law. The Lord has already done great things for us wherever we're glad. And who knows what he has in store. So the children of Israel were beginning on an uncertain journey with all kinds of fears, but all kinds of blessings to go along with them. Let us stand for prayer.