You know, what's the expectation of one who is doing or giving or offering the sacrifice? I mean just the general definition is betterment of others at cost of personal good. It's already been established that he's a priest after the rule of Melchizedek, here he's an eternal priest. And you enjoyed it. But she gave of her life, she gave her best. I could care less what 432 representatives in a hall vote. the Macedonian Church, as we read here. Hebrews 13, we're going to look at two verses today, verses 15 and 16 of the thirteenth chapter. Uh certainly those are big ones. usually is of some cost to you and you're doing it with an expectation. What's with the big deal with what would it could you erase those first two words and and the meaning be the same? Gabe and I recently had a discussion about his ethics course and we were bantering back and forth. you know, sacrifices because he loves his family. in Hebrews. You know, all we do as Christ followers is by him. It's verse 17. If you shall ask anything in my name, I will do it. Their Mary does not. You know, we know where Moses is from, but as this fellow we know not where he's from. and kind of recognize that uh I think that um his grace and his goodness that's the um that's truly what drives our lives, not necessarily ourselves. We go back to my study on that to refresh your memory, but um and so now we have sacrifices here. I like that verse a lot, that concept of fruit of the lips. uh communicating. in Macedonia. And the second is it just practically brings you to tears in thanksgiving to the Lord, that God's working through his people. And things increase. uh is a way to glorify him and that is acceptable to God. And that's from heaven above. That's not where my biggest concern lay. the anchor to us, the hope to us, all it's uh I think we can trust in the Lord. An interesting one once the light turned on. family, friends, neighbors. place in Hebrews uh in a bit, so it may be handy to pull it up in your Bible, and then we'll actually be jumping around. Uh the uh husband who sacrifices and purchases an extra rifle because he needed it or something. And the first thing I looked at when I read this is, okay, well, what if I remove those first two words by him? Well I mean maybe for modern Christians you could take it out, but in the context of Hebrews it was written to the Jews who are still thinking about the old Testament sacrificial system, but we no longer have to sacrifice bullocks and calves, now we have Christ who is our welfare sacrifice. to the Old Testament Hebrews, you know, the Hebrew of Hebrews. Uh so part of leaving the camp, of course, is leaving for Jesus. And then we drag in something from the Mosaic Covenant in to say we still have to do this part. just how much of Judaism do we leave behind and how much is brought forward. But this man, speaking of Christ, because he continueth forever, and he lives forever, hath an unchangeable priesthood. that come unto God by him. So you you find this all throughout. Which would be quite beneficial, I believe, you'll find that this to be the case. I discovered that nowhere after Acts chapter 1 do we read about Mary, the mother of Jesus. Nowhere in the New Testament do you find in Mary or through Mary. She's not. to think that she was exalted over her divinely ordained and begotten Son. Now, it's uh, again, back to the Hebrews here being told to offer this sacrifice to praise by him. And will call upon the name of the Lord. In Psalm 107, 21 and 22, it says, Oh that men would praise the Lord for his goodness and for his wonderful works to the children of men. and holy priesthood to offer up spiritual sacrifices acceptable to God by Jesus Christ. about hand how to answer how hard it is. I'm thinking about the word wonderful. reserving the best words for him. He is the one that is truly awe-inspiring. I hope that underscores in you what had impacted me through the week was this concept of the sacrifice of praise. ceremonies and sacrifices were brought, but it's throughout our lives. that ye present your bodies a living sacrifice, wholly acceptable unto God, which is your reasonable service. You know, he spoke to those who troubled this woman who broke open an alabaster box of ointment and poured it on his feet, and he's and they were troubled about it, and he said, leave her alone. From our estimation, but from the Lord, He knows, He understands when we are truly giving Him our best. uh in the new, but they're anchored thoroughly in the old. I really like this one from the book of Hosea, if you will, turn to Hosea. New spirit indwelt Christian has a confession. Commended because he returned to give thanks. You know, you think about the ten lepers. is how we might use it today. spiritually speaking as well. In 2 Corinthians 9, the apostle here is writing to this church. for your professed subjection to the gospel of Christ, and for your liberal distribution unto them and to all men, and by their prayer for you, which long after you, for the exceeding grace of God in you. When you see some kind of contribution come through, it can be a plate of food, it can be a timely check, it can be various ways, some offering of help and assistance I tell you, the biggest praise I've received in prayers for other people has been when a very elderly woman will send in a small check I do see that uh it's amazing. And God says, I am the vine, you are the branches, except you abide in me, you cannot bear fruit. And that's a fruit that God looks for. Lives forever, lasts forever, is your eternal hope. Two concepts today that I hope you take home. No, uh the minister can't really be laboring in the Word of God and uh uh uh laboring in a secular role at the same time. which which was the occasion for me to meet him and discuss and just kinda get to know each other. Uh the Levites served in the temple from age 30 to 50. So we'll close with that. uh sacrifice before thee. Anything that costs us something and it doesn't have to be money. But to do good and to communicate, forget not. So we had somebody in PG County give us this answer. What are some other ideas about what a sacrifice would be? In the religious world, there's certainly a very rich concept of sacrifices. uh concept, but who is the guy we were discussing before that? Aristotle came up with that, right, that there really is no such thing as altruism. uh Mount Sinai with absolute rules. Yeah therefore by him we are sacrificing. were many priests because they were not suffered to continue by reason of death. By him, in him, you find that a lot. It's to those who may be of the Roman Catholic persuasion, perhaps they're Roman Catholics by birth and by momentum So, she's never a mediator, and such teachings are not only fiction, they're blasphemous. She's just not there. If these Hebrews were familiar with their Psalms, and again these would be songs that they would sing, they would recognize that this is not something unusual. Because this hits the point quite nicely. The contrast is there. cult or a sect which some unbelieving Pharisees of the sect called the way. And that now brings me to my next conundrum in the study, which was sacrifice. And let them sacrifice the sacrifices of thanksgiving and declare his works with rejoicing. So I think the sacrifice sometimes is the learning to humble ourselves before by learning to submit ourselves. Um you know, there was an altar mentioned in Hebrews thirteen ten. instance here the sacrifice of praise is acceptable to God. Is it hard? And you know, I have some applications that come from that because if I'm on the right track, that that's the concept, this idea of the sacrifice of praise, that praise is to be with our best words, let's think that out for a moment But God alone is awe-inspiring. Your best terms belong to him. Our child, a grandchild, a car, more than God, are our best terms reserved for these things which will curl up and die or lust and perish. The sacrifice of praise. Yes, the sacrifices were normally burned, but it doesn't mean we throw ourselves on a fire on a weekly basis. You know, whatever an individual does for the Lord, you need to contemplate, is this my best? You know, the priest received all kinds of animals and they were to be the best, and so they could judge over time. That was her best. There's uh a couple of passages from the Old Testament. And Hosea is after the book of Daniel, Hosea chapter 14, and in verse 2. You I don't think Lazarus is going to ever forget the day he heard a voice lying in a tomb and he woke up and could look with his eyes and realize where he was at and said, I think I want to get out of here. Well, he writes to them and reminding them of what these Macedonians did, and he says uh in 2 Corinthians 9, for the administration of this service not only supplieth the want, the need of the saints, uh that what these Corinthians did. These Macedonians were very poor, and yet they gave richly to the Apostle Paul. It matters a lot to those on the receiving end, and as one who's been in ministry for a long time, it definitely impacts you in a great way. But is abundant also by many thanksgivings unto God. And it's not willy-nilly out of abundance. You only are looking for one. Communicate, that's that word, share, give, unto him that teacheth. Minister in Southeast DC. So those most engaged in speaking to you and praying on your behalf likewise need encouragement of financial support. This was read by people of old in one sitting. We pray, O Lord, that you would continue uh working upon us, conforming us to the image of Christ, Lord. We read in Hebrews chapter thirteen and verse fifteen the following. Most true sacrifices somewhere or another, and not to contradict that at all, is somewhere based on love. Alright, no. The Hebrews were very devout. In John 14, Jesus says, whatsoever you shall ask in my name, that will I do, that the Father may be glorified in the Son. First Peter two, five Right, I um is the sacrifice of praise hard for us to do? That's great. Okay. creature, a new thing in there that will grow and bud and it will bring forth fruit. There were dinner parties, he was the subject to be brought in, and people would ask him, and he would recount it again and again. Ecstatic. the beneficiance, the one who benefits the other. I came up with a term for it, I call it praise fertilizer. Lastly is my last verse here is uh you don't have to turn to Galatians 6. Well that's all for today. What you're doing is for the good of your people. I pray you would even bless our uh gathering for the rest of this uh morning, this day, even uh worship over. dies for his country, does it because he loves those he defends and loves his country. Yeah. As a New Testament Christian, would that really make a difference? Wasn't that a problem with the early church? Offer unto God thanksgiving. This also shall please the Lord better than an ox or a bullock that hath horns and hoofs. This is should be all salvation. rams it's an acceptable giving to to to the Lord. Which is the sacrifice of praise to God means instead of bringing your best beast, you reserve your best words for the Lord. You know, I I I just I I can't help but to wonder of I think our best praise belongs to Jesus, not to fallible things hypermixing the metaphors that we're we're taking with us words. It talks about now that to do good and to communicate forget not, for with such sacrifices God is well pleased. In Scripture it means uh typically in the King James is talking about sharing. That's the name of the individual who receives the withholdings or the proceedings of whatever it is they're assigned to in that document. It when you realize that it was even a sacrifice of their time. Do what you gotta do. Hebrews 7. Um there's another one I I'd I'd I want to draw your attention to. So when I think about this, why is it called the sacrifice? Or yeah, that's that's okay. It's a confession. It does two things to the church treasurer. And I think unfortunately our modern social media has emphasized something which maybe we've even bought into. But let me open with our question because I try to get our minds thinking along a particular avenue, and this has to do with the concept of sacrifice, and I'm going to limit it to our secular world, just the people that we live around Nowhere after Acts chapter 1 do we read about Mary, the mother of Jesus. Dichotomy being presented. What what else was uh required of the sacrifices of the Old Testament? That's you can't give that praise to that man. And say unto him, Take away all iniquity, and receive us graciously. And the doing good underscores that it's the only time in the Bible that particular word is used. Uh I'm not sure about the expectations, but I would say in terms of if you're the person doing the sacrificing, what you give up has to be or Well, um so if you look at Hebrews 13, 15, let me ask you a question. Why tack in by him? But praises shall not cease. proclaim your works and praise you Lord for for your deeds and and to give thanks even in all things, knowing that you work all things after the counsel of your will In fact, let's go back and look at this. It's not that it's hard. A a nod to the old covenantal signs of the bulls and uh goats and calves. Thank you, Lord, for preserving your word for us all. So for instance in Psalm 50, uh you you can turn to Psalm 69, we'll go there next. It was seasoned just ripe and s simmering in tomato sauce and onions all day long, slow cooked in the oven. Then there's this concept of the fruit of the lips. In this matter, in a very gentle and polite way. Well, I can tell you that's okay when you're 30 or 40, but uh you can't keep doing that. describes this this concept. Yeah. Should we speak so well of another man using words which strictly belong to Jesus? Which is, okay, yep, springtime flowers are gonna come up. Yeah, yeah. Yeah, you couldn't steal it. Macedonia had a church there and there were a lot of poor brethren there, but they were his big biggest benefactors. a base of what we do when we do it. And so the Mary that the Roman Catholics worship is not the Mary of Scriptures, for the Mary of Scriptures said that she rejoices in God her Savior. Isaiah Hosea 14, 2 says this, take with you words. It says, Whatsoever ye do in word or deed, do all in the name of the Lord Jesus, giving thanks unto God and the Father by him. She's not a co-redemptress. So let me start with an easy question. Well, we have to submit ourselves. So the first one's easy as word communicate. I've seen it again and again and again that God's able to fund his work. That's actually a very very good yeah, there's obviously some expectation. Um It was it was it one it was done. You're going to give a compliment, and a compliment is going to be stronger than average words, as opposed to, yeah, thanks So yes, there is this praise fertilizer that is encouraged among the saints, not only to the needy, but to those who are teachers as well. They have a different idol. They doesn't use the term better. 23, where this has already been uh explained at length, it says in Hebrews 7. The widow who gave her one might, it says, that'll be remembered far more than those which dumped in a tongue, because to whom they they had much. I like that. Well it grows in the spirit. It's not me that does good, but it's him. And it's with this concept here of doing good and communicating and sharing. I could care less what the masses believe, and my friends, you were before an audience of one, and that audience of one We've just got a few more studies in Hebrews. Yeah, that's good. I I think I've got a new appreciation for that term uh these days. This was the best words ever. And I'll comment on that in a bit here. And then unbeknownst to this individual and to the church at large, someone else steps up There's there's a quote from Jim Elliott that I love. Every saint has a confession. In our secular world around us, what is a sacrifice? There's our phrase by him again, seeing he ever liveth to make intercession for them. Yes, there's bullocks. I mean that would be an insult, right? To do one who is sharing, who is reaching into his wallet. So this beneficence, this doing good, this sharing of your means to the needy and to the uh and to the other saints Betray, O Lord, that you would give us the right thoughts, the even the right words to say as we come before you to uh I mean it seems like if I were to tell a Christian, if you've been in church in any season of time, offering the sacrifice of praise to God continually, that that seems to have biblical warrant So I would say um as humans we probably want to glorify ourselves. You know, that's actually his name in the book of Isaiah, chapter 9, and verse 6. Why? It was a very stern no. It's Ephesians 5. Right, salvation, yeah, that's a big one, right? One is the praise fertilizer one, and the other is the sacrifice of praise, that it's reserving those best words for him. Sacrifice in many cases didn't survive the sacrifice. He alone is worthy. His son is now the new uh activity director at Only Memory Care. And so here it says that we are going to offer the sacrifice of praise. You become very careful about what you spend it on, and you're much more cautious in what you do. Sometimes I'll get a note from from from some individu uh donor that says, hey, you know, things are coming up, things are changing, I'm probably gonna, you know, have to drop off the uh the donation or whatever, so that's fine. Mm-hmm. Even they knew this implicitly. That should be a term reserved for him. Because it's confession. Well we uh go through what seems to be hard, confusing times for us, although you know you work all things together for good and that love you Key phrases is by him, sacrifice, and doing good. One was healed. And he says, okay, well what's the good from all this? Hebrews uses it extensively. She's not a mediatrix. Here the psalmist says, I will praise the name of God with a song, and will magnify him with thanksgiving. For with such sacrifices God is well pleased. Uh you've gotten into the uh other part of my question which I fought forgot to mention to you, and what forms or ways have people sacrificed? I think we rob God of a lot of his glory by using deified words for mere men and using secular terms for our Lord An individual's best, compared side by side with everyone else, is going to vary We've taken several hundred lessons in this to cover it. They have Maryolatry going on. You know, uh Jamison Fawcett Brown records an old saying of the rabbis that, quote, at a future time all sacrifices shall cease. Yeah, that's good. I know it'll affect the pastor in the same way. Yeah, you're getting into the motivation behind it, right? These are not just the secular Jews. And you you don't go to that priest anymore because all he had was signs and shadows. You know, you eat a good meal, uh, and your wife cooked a dynamite uh meal Some may talk about their new car as awesome. At 50 they were kind of off. For what might we praise Him? Tell me a little bit more about the nature of the Old Testament sacrifice. Yes, there's horns and hoofs, but it says there's something better. 20. You know, I want to make a point here about this phrase by him. Anytime you see that word communicate, um So that's good. And that's correct, and that's correct. By him, therefore, let us offer the sacrifice of praise to God continually, that is, the fruit of our lips, giving thanks to his name. Here's the difference. Oh no, this fellow is the fulfillment of prophecy. Okay, it grows. This giving thanks it speaks about. Thank you for his healing. As the ten well, the ten were sent for their cleansing and their healing, and as as they were on the way they became healed, one came back to return and give thanks. He's the only one whose opinion counts. The sacrifice of praise is a big deal to our Lord. In Acts 15, there was this debate, you know, that, okay, they're they're brought into the faith, they believe in Jesus, but And God received that. Okay. Um so utilitarianism is about maximizing the good. Yeah, you're describing a uh a a good characteristic of the sacrifice and that in this In Isaiah 57, 19, God says, I create the fruit of the lips. Whilst by the experiment of this ministration they glorify God That is a New Testament sacrifice that actually is commended. You're looking for one like, one thumbs up. Yeah, you certainly read a lot about the value of Christ in all that we do. Again, these are not New Testament ideas. Peter puts it this way, he says, ye also, as lively stones, are built up a spiritual house. And w one and done. That would be the teacher in all good things. Okay, yeah. I mean, don't we therefore let us offer the sacrifice of praise that God continue, that is the fruit of our lips, giving thanks to his name? I like that, kind of emphatic. Yeah, for all of his attributes and who he is, his mercies are enduring uh new every morning. Uh I think the idea here is that we are bringing our best words to the Lord. You know, in Romans 12 it says this, I beseech you therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God There's no wrong answers here. Why is it called fruit? It's summarized very nicely in Colossians 3. All that we do, we do in the name of Jesus. She's not a mediator. And so that is our word doing good, to be a beneficiarie, to be a benefactor, if you will. We'll wrap it up. Absolutely. It can be something we do for somebody that costs us time going out If you just look for that phrase in the New Testament, you'll find it repeatedly. At that point they were effectively elders, still overseeing and rulers, not doing the heavy duty heavy lifting. Nowhere. But there it is in their Old Testament. We have an altar. Worthy is the Lamb. I want to kind of focus on the secular side of it, but Jim's quote is is is a good one to bring in at any point And so, as Joey pointed out, and also as Rick as well, that we're going to him. There is some continuity, but there's also some strong contrast. He points out the fact that, yes, they did receive much, but wow, it's really something. It's in uh Psalm 107 and verses 21 and 22. If you've been born of God, it's hard to miss a resurrection. Uh he is no fool who gives up what he cannot keep to gain what he cannot lose. Yeah, there was this idea that there's nothing that can ever be done truly altruistically. I love it. Jews have secularism, as j Muslims do as well. Hebrews 13, 15, and 16. Betterment of others at cost of personal good, right? I mean year after year the priest dies, and oh wonderful we have a new priest, we have a new high priest. It was there in the Tanakh. He alone is the ultimate shock in awe. Right. Um a mother sacrifices for the good of her children because she loves them. It's the Roman Catholic Mary. Yeah. I'm not sure it was I'm pretty sure the leper that came back didn't just tip his hat and said, Yo, thumbs up, nice job. Praise fertilizer. And he said that, yeah, his uh the people in that church told him, Well, you know, it's good that you work as, you know, so that you're like the people, but then you also come and bring the message. You're sacrificing usually to gain something else. Are there any expectations with that? We you know cynically put we might say there's strings attached, but uh sometimes there are truly altruistic uh sacrifices. How are you going to improve upon that when you praise the Lord? It's like we're putting a rope around these words and we're going to cordon them off. Maybe they were even cutting into the needs of their own existence. Hosea chapter 14. If he's in it, he'll fund it. Yeah, one and done. Why do we care? I don't care. Wherefore he is able also to save them to the uttermost By him, it turns out that our prayers are mediated and answered. Is it is it hard? That's one one thing about sacrifice. 6. Pure and simple. Number one, the church treasurer is very careful how he spends that money because this money was hard fought, hard won, and I guarantee you she fought for every nickel of it. I don't know. Nowhere. Not blood of bulls and goats. I'm I'm driving to something uh I want I want all of you to get that aha moment that I had. One of the fruits is praise from the mouth. Out of the abundance of the heart the mouth speaks. But if you want really good flowers, you've got to fertilize them. And that really was a source of wrestling in the first century church Um any other ideas about what we might praise him for? Uh is the word uh uh Koinonia, I believe, is that word sharing, this concept of sharing, of giving I just want your minds to explore and get engaged a little bit here. They were trying to make it out as Because obviously there has to be some driving motivation to want to give up something of value to you. Uh let me read it again. She shows up as a historical figure and stops. It says this, let him that is taught in the Word, that is the student I'm contemplating doing a few studies in Hebrews after that to just hit the highlights. We um thank you for this study even regarding the uh the praise now that's our We'll go to the Psalms and other places today. Just to pick a random example. What are your thoughts? And every believer, every blood-bought Holy Ghost born of God Guess what he's looking for? She's not she does not have an unchangeable motherhood. Am I really giving it my best? Sacrifice is willingly giving away something of value. It's from a secular viewpoint, trying to figure out which one perhaps is the most Christian in nature. That was certainly its end. Why not? It's just blasphemy. You have to go to him. Uh and so but now it's mentioning the sacrifices, and what's an altar for? Turn to first Peter two five and then I'm gonna get to this concept of sacrifice for a moment It's not that it's hard, it's that you reserve your best words for him. That got back to my bonus question, why do people fertilize things, which I failed to mention today. This is an encouragement from the apostle that says You know, the someone who who You know, we discussed the question of sacrifice earlier. And this giving thanks is impossible to exceed the truth here. Is that what the concept is? In the Greek is the word confessing. So I kind of uh related to always centering him at the uh It didn't survive It just went fantastic. Take with you words. But then it talks about the in verse 16 of our of our passage here. I do, but not ultimately. It's not the Mary of the Scriptures, because the Mary of the Scriptures would recoil And you know, I see that at Mission Bible. It's a light thing. I could care less what nine judges on a court rule So we see that by him is a big deal. And then it says continually, it's not merely at fixed seasons like the Old Testament They're emphasized Turn to 2 Corinthians 9, and this will be our last passage to look at here while I have a few moments left. It's in Philippians 2. Nowhere. Those are the phrases that were a bit of a stickler to me. This directive is not a new thing. I'll read it for you It's interesting because Some of you may have some legal documents that you have to sign that if you die you have a beneficiary. Yes, supporting the ministry will cost you something. Offer unto God thanksgiving and pay thy vows unto the Most High. And He's actually looking for that. We were discussing those concepts of sacrifice. There's that phrase, by him again, except it's by name, by Jesus Christ. And again, And he's reminding them of the forwardness of those By him therefore let us offer the sacrifice of praise to God, dot dot dot, and you can see the rest of the verse. That's, I think, the point. It began to move the Corinthians so that they started to share, and then they went and they started to help out the needs of the Uh I would say reading the New Testament and when I think of Christ uh So again, there is a And so She would just not have that What are some things we might praise the Lord for? Our Lord knows when we're doing the best. We're going to be looking at another We're going to render the calves of our lips. Did I mention nowhere? Some of you may feel like that's the case, but that's not what God's asking here. Fruit. How many likes, subscribers, thumbs up do you have? But let's just pause at that part, offer a sacrifice, right? No And I think that is grievous. And you would say, thank you. They gave him more than anything else. And uh help us to have trust in thee. Had to be spotless and perfect. So we can start with the best words. Out of the abundance of the heart the mouth speaks. Yeah. It says the sacrifice of praise. Why is it called a sacrifice? Jeffrey, why why is it called a sacrifice? Somebody does a performance. He says, take some words, okay, and turn to the Lord. I know some people don't like it when I say that particular term, but I do believe it's true. Well But it does result in greater praise. You read in Psalm 116, verse 17, I will offer to thee the sacrifice of thanksgiving But let me read our passage for recovery and uh then we'll get into our question. Turkey is a great example of a lot of uh secular Muslims. It just is not healthy, it's not good, it's not the Old Testament example I thought it might be good just to pick out some highlights. I mentioned that this was a difficult study, but also uh But in Psalm 50, the Psalmist asks, Will I eat the flesh of bulls or drink the blood of goats? Let's let's um expand a little bit on what it means by doing good and by um He's central. Well one of the biggest contrasts is that you have a priest after the order of Melchizedek. Hebrews chapter 7 is where I'm turning to now. It's not a sacrificing for yourself, that would be a contradiction in terms, right? It's it's acceptable our praise to to God. Somebody who's perhaps taken an ethics class can mention that 10. They're not being asked to do anything unusual here. Are we just going to tip our hat? Well, there's a way to do that. And so, um, you know, do we publicly praise a politician, an athlete? That word toda in the Hebrew is very emphatic. I do see that God does work through his people. I don't need to cover those verses, uh, a simple search on your part So will we render the calves of our lips. That was a that was a great meal. Fruit of the lips. Peace, peace to him that is afar off, and to him that is near, saith the Lord, and I will heal him. Alright. He is that mediator. It's giving up something that's good and important to you He's exhorting them. Pray that Christ would be exalted. Now the Corinthians were quite wealthy and it seems they couldn't get off their dime. Nowhere in the New Testament do you find the phrase by Mary. We're going to constrain them. It's a sacrifice. All right. You know, it's like I got that job because I had a great idea discussion, so it's You were wonderful! But that makes you the beneficents. This Jesus is not some um And then Kant is kind of like You had a concept of that. There's always an expectation for good. You know they they just couldn't continue And that's where my mind lit on. 23, it says, and they truly They could give much We're not going to go back to the Levites. It's fruit because God planted a new The world looks at that and goes, they can come with all kinds of negative reasons behind it. That's not a real sacrifice. We can start with that. Joey? Your answer is correct. I recently met a fellow uh whose father is a Pentecostal. A husband Psalm 6930 is quite interesting. Everything he is As opposed to the Bullocks and And so if we're bringing sacrifices, to whom else are you going to bring them? The sacrifice to the praise of the lips must be encouraged. How might the world use that phrase She's not the mother of all. And these are the words we're going to bring. No, he's not. It's from our mouth I really enjoyed that What was the one that you were oh is uh Kant's She had done what she could And that's a fruit. It's a sacrifice to God, by him, by Christ. You know, what are the big highlights that stood out from Hebrews? So I don't know necessarily It it's still building it up Hebrews 723 Yeah, all this in Christ's name. He's not the Savior. You see what I'm getting at We can't help but to praise God enough. Who was that? Joey They would know that from Daniel But you bring a sacrifice to it, right? It literally means an acknowledgement, a confession. I mean no, this was They're not radicalized. So you've mentioned money, you've mentioned time. Was that Hill? Spoiler alert Think of the concept of your best. And he says, in so doing, we're rendering the calves. He was the one to whom God Like our prayers is in any sense that It's hard to miss. That's Jesus' name. He he She's not the new Jerusalem There it's even So here we find that Oh, uh I like this one a lot. Uh That's a huge theme. It really is. We have an altar. But uh