Open with me this morning in your Bibles, please, to the book of First Peter and the second chapter And I'm only going to read three verses there, the first three verses of 1 Peter chapter 2, verses 1, 2, and 3. First Peter, second chapter, first verse Wherefore, laying aside all malice and all guile and hypocrisies and envyings, envies, and all evil speaking As newborn babes, desire the sincere milk of the Word that ye may grow thereby. If so be that ye have tasted that the Lord is gracious Let us bow for prayer. Father, as we approach thy word, we pray that you would open our hearts to receive thy truth. Father, open thy truth to our hearts May Christ be revealed in thy word. And Father, may we be drawn to thee. We pray these things in Jesus' name. Amen. Who doesn't like a ba a baby? You are in a store And you're having a bad day and everything is is just chaos and you're walking through the store and there is a little baby just with a big smile Couldn't that brighten your day? Couldn't it change things? Those of you that have children or grandchildren know the the joy of that child and the longing for them. Uh my wife is going through withdrawal because my daughter and son in law were out of town for a week. And uh a week without the grandson is a long time uh for a grandmother's heart. Children are great joy. Here in the second verse, we find that as newborn babes As newborn babes, we are to desire the sincere milk of the Word that we might grow thereby. I've shared with you many times that I'm not a big fan of of uh sermon topic titles. You know, I I will put a title on a sermon, but if we were to put a title on today's sermon, it would be the characteristics of a newborn babe. What is a newborn babe like? And the first thing that I would point out to you is that a newborn babe is alive. It's very tragic when there is a stillborn baby. When a mother has a miscarriage, and I may be speaking to ladies here that have gone through that sorrow, and I don't mean to to add your sorrow or in any way to bring up painful, painful memories But when a child does not come to birth, it is a source of great sorrow. But here we're talking about newborn spiritual babes. And if there is no life To begin with, then there can be no hungering and thirsting after righteousness. There can be no desiring the sincere milk of the Word But you see, folks, what the world totally misses, and what much of the quote unquote church today fails to preach is that mankind are born spiritually stillborn. When men are born, they are born dead in trespasses and sins. Because God warned Adam and Eve in the garden that they could eat of all the trees of the garden, but of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil they were not to eat. And God said, In the day ye eat thereof, thou shalt surely die. Adam and Eve had one prohibition. And they sinned the one sin that they could sin That was before their children were born. It was before the birth of Cain and Abel. And the first man born was born in sin, and he was a murderer. And the second man born was born in sin and he was murdered. And Paul tells us that as by one man, that's Adam, sin entered into the world, and death by sin, so that death passed upon all men, for that all have sinned. And so, folks, though, we rejoice when a young baby comes into the world And that baby has life, that baby is breathing, that baby is crying, that baby has movement. We rejoice in that Yet the sad and tragic spiritual truth is this, that child's a sinner That child with all of its innocency is born in trespasses and sins. And that child is born spiritually dead. And it must be born again. For except a man be born again, he cannot see the kingdom of God. Nicodemus, to whom Christ said that, was a very righteous man. He was a Pharisee. He was a ruler of the Jews. And Jesus said to him, Except a man be born again, he cannot see the kingdom of God. Now it's interesting that that particular passage doesn't say he cannot enter the kingdom of God. There in John 3 it says he cannot see the kingdom of God. Why is that important? Well, because the kingdom of God was come, the kingdom of God was there, the kingdom of God was there, but he couldn't see it A dead person can't see, can they? Their eyes are blind. They can't see And you see men that are born dead in trespasses and sins. The kingdom of God is available, but they can't see it. They can be right beside it. But they do not see it. Why? Because they must be born again. And so a newborn baby will have, must have life. Because if that baby does not have life, that baby is no longer a baby, it's a corpse. And so there are many today that are very religious Very involved in churches, very good, honest, honorable people. But spiritually they're as dead as Cain. And they cannot see the kingdom of God. And so the first thing that we would point out about a newborn babe is that a newborn baby is alive. And the newborn baby that can truly hunger and thirst after righteousness, that can desire the sincere milk of the Word, is a living baby. It is one that has been born again. But the second thing that we'd see about a newborn baby being alive is that a newborn baby's hungry. A newborn baby has a hunger And if that hunger is not met, they will let you know it. They'll let you know it at 10 o'clock. And again at eleven o'clock or eleven thirty, and again at one o'clock, and again at two o'clock, and again at three o'clock, and you mothers know that Wow, that newborn baby, it's it's eating all the time. You see a mother who's just given birth in the last few weeks or months, she's exhausted Because she's up all night long feeding that baby. Why that baby desires milk. And that baby will kick and scream if it does not get milk. And that baby will perish without it. That baby understands that its life depends on feeding. Doesn't know a whole lot yet. But he knows he has to have that food. And folks, that's a glorious picture of someone who's truly been born again. As newborn babes, desire the sincere milk of the word that ye may grow thereby. I don't care what prayer you prayed in Sunday school as a child. I don't care what your grandmother told you before you went to bed. If you're not hungry for spiritual things, then you're spiritually dead. Because a baby is hungry. A baby has a ferocious appetite. A baby that does not eat is sickly and dead. The psalmist said, My soul thirsteth after God David said, as the heart, he wasn't talking about the heart, you know, the emotion, but rather the heart, the deer, as the heart panteth after the water brooks, so panteth my soul after thee. And the picture David was giving there it was of a deer that is being chased by the hounds. It's being chased by the wolves, and it's running for its life, and it knows if it stops running, it will be killed And yet it is so thirsty that it has to have something to drink. It has to slack its thirst. The roaring lion is pursuing the child of God. And as the deer pants after that water brook, so my soul must pant after Jehovah. And folks, if you claim to be a child of God, but you have no hunger for spiritual things. You do not hunger and thirst after righteousness. I'm sorry, my friend, but you're dead. There is something wrong with that faith. The baby will be alive and will be hungry. But also a newborn baby Has changed locations. It has changed its very form of Existence. Now, folks, we we believe that the child becomes a child before the foundation of the world because Christ declared that He had chosen that were chosen in Christ before the foundation of the world. And so I'm not here making an argument for the abortionist to grab a hold of to say that well before the a second before they're born it's not a child. Yes, it is a child. But that baby that is born has gone from one plane of existence to another one. He has gone from being in the mother's womb To breathing the good air that God gives. And folks, there is a transformation. That baby changes its location and changes its plane of existence. It is indeed born again. And if any man be in Christ, he's a new creature. Old things are passed away. Behold, all things are become new And just as that baby that has been in the mother's womb and now has come to birth, suddenly the whole world is changed for that child. So it is for the child of God. And we find that in the very text, because the first verse says, lay aside malice and all guile and hypocrisies and envyings and all evil speakings. Here's a change. In those that truly hunger and thirst after righteousness, there's a change in those that truly As newborn babes desire the sincere milk of the word. And so the first thing we find about a newborn babe is they're alive. A newborn babe's alive. But then secondly, a newborn babe will be like his parents A newborn baby is in the likeness of the parents. And again, it goes all the way back to Genesis In Genesis 125, God made the beasts of the earth after his kind, and cattle after their kind, and everything that creepeth upon the earth after his kind, and God saw that it was good. And again in Genesis 127, so God created man in his own image. In the image of God created he him, male and female created he them. And God blessed them. And God said unto them, Be fruitful and multiply and replenish the earth. A lot of people call their cats their children. And we know what they're referring to. But a woman doesn't give birth to a cat. And a man does not father a dog. You see, the child will be like the parent, because God ordained that everything reproduce after its kind. And we all know situations where we see a child and we say, I know who he is. You know, you haven't seen the kid for three or four years and he's grown and changed, but mama's face is on the child. Daddy's appearance is right there. There's a likeness. And even the way she waves her hand is her mother. Why? Because she's in the image of the parent. The child of God will be in the image of Christ. We will be like our elder brother, Jesus Christ. The child of God will bear the image of God because we read that God created man in his image. There will be a transformation power that has taken place in their lives, and the Christian will look like his father. The Pharisees said to Christ, We weren't born in sin. We have Abraham for our father. And Christ said if Abraham are your father, you would believe in me. Ye are of your father the devil. And the lust of your father ye will do. He was a liar from the beginning and the father of it. Folks, the true born child of God will bear the likeness of the Father. And Christ said of the false prophets, ye shall know them by their fruits. Okay, what do we know about the plants? Well, I mentioned to you before that my apple trees don't bear peaches. Well actually my apple trees aren't bearing apples either, but trees aren't any good. But an apple tree has apples, a peach tree has peaches, a plum tree has plums. Why? Because they bear according to their kind. Christ said, you don't gather figs of thistles. You don't gather evil fruit. of good plants, and you don't gather good plants, good fruit of evil plants. Why? Because you shall know them by their fruit. And in that passage, it's actually Matthew 7. I'm not going to turn to it. But Christ says, wherefore you shall know them by their fruits. And then he says in the next verse, Many shall say to me in that day, Lord, Lord. And now we prophesied in thy name, and in thy name cast out devils, and in thy name done many wonderful works, then will I profess unto them, Depart from me, ye workers of iniquity. I never knew you. You see, their fruit was not the fruit of the child of God. Why? Because they didn't have the seed of the new birth. And so the baby will resemble the parents. But further Not only will the baby resemble the parent, and the child of God resemble God the Father, the new baby wants to be with his family. Yeah. The new baby wants to be you know, you can take a baby from his mother and put him in a room of very loving women. But he wants mommy. He wants mommy. And he will cry for mommy. But what's wrong with these other women? They're not mommy! That's why And the same with daddy. When a little child gets hurt, they run to daddy. Where's daddy? You see, a true child of God will want to be with the family of God. You see, someone who says, Oh yes, I'm a Christian, but I would rather be at the ballgame with those people than with the people of God Oh yeah, yeah, I'm part of that family, but I want to play with Satan's family. You see, someone who has been born again will have an urgent desire for fellowship with his family. Someone who truly is a child of God will plant themselves in the house of God. And they that be planted in the house of God will bring forth fruit in the kingdom. I'm not quoting the verse exactly, but you know the verse we're referring to. You see, the true child of God will want to be with the family of God just as that baby wants his mother. Desperately. Just as that child clings to his father. If you look at the last verse of this book of 1 Peter, 1 Peter 5, verse 14. The last verse of the book says, greet one another with a holy kiss of charity. Peace be with you all in Christ Jesus. Amen. Greet one another with a holy kiss of charity. There's a unity there. There's a longing to be together. There's a love for the body of Christ. Therefore, my beloved brother be uh sorry, let me get my tongue's getting ahead of me. In Philippians 4 verse 1 Peter's uh Paul said, Therefore, my beloved, dearly beloved, and longed for my joy and my crown, stand fast in the Lord, my dearly beloved. Doesn't that sound like the end of a love letter? How many of you ever written a love letter? See a few hands. When you write a love letter, you're you're just expressing to the to your beloved how wonderful they are How much you love them. Paul's writing a love letter here. Paul is expressing that kind of emotion for the body of Christ, the child of God. Will truly be alive. And that life will be demonstrated in his hunger. The child of God will truly be alive. And that life will be demonstrated in his likeness to the Father and His longing for the people of God. But further. The baby that is alive and that is hungry has needs. He's an eating. A baby isn't born and walks immediately. A baby isn't born and is ready to go out and face the world. A baby is indeed A baby. That's why there's such a big you know if you want to invest in something that you know they say the best investment is something that everybody needs every day Well, invest in diapers, folks. Those of you that have young children Know how many diapers you can go through. You know when we when we were first having children in Jamaica, uh we tried using cloth diapers and that lasted about a month. Be babies go through the diapers. And we throw out the dirty diapers and not the baby. You see, a newborn baby is not perfect. A newborn baby hasn't come to maturity yet. But what does the verse say? As newborn babes desire the sincere milk of the word that ye may grow thereby. Characteristic of the true newborn baby is that they're growing. They're not staying the same. They're not static. They have needs and they see that those needs are met because they're hungry and they are growing. They will need to be spoon-fed for a while. Paul said I feed it fed you with milk and not with meat because heretofore you weren't ready to bear it. They will need to be changed, they will need to be bathed. What would be what if your kids just bathed them once they were clean forever? Those of you that raised boys You know that it doesn't take a boy but five minutes outside to be dirt head to toe, behind the ears, between the toes. It's a it's amazing where a little boy can get dirt. Uh You know what? The child of God's the same way. The newborn babe in Christ walking through this world is going to pick up the filth of this world, and it's going to need to be washed and cleansed again and again and again. But if we confess our sins, He is faithful and just to forgive us of our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. The newborn baby has to learn to walk. The newborn baby has to learn to talk. The child of God needs to grow. Then the final thing I would point out to you today is that a newborn baby's rejoiced over. What joy there is in that child. They are rejoiced in today for our congregation. Today for the grandparents and the family is a day of great joy. It is a day of rejoicing. A new child is born. Children are in heritage of the Lord, and the fruit of the womb is his reward. Happy is the man that hath his quiver full of them. There's great joy in that child. Well, we find in the responsive reading that we read this morning that children are an inheritance of the Lord, and the fruit of the womb is his reward. As arrows in the hand of a mighty man, so are children. of the youth. What we find in the Book of Luke, likewise There is joy in heaven in the presence of the angel over one sinner that repenteth. Ah, my friend, what joy it is when we see our children come to faith in Christ. What joy there is in heaven when our children come to faith in Christ. But you know what? Nicodemus was not an infant. He was a well-grown man. Many people live ninety years in spiritual death before they are ever born again. And folks, it is great joy in heaven and great joy in the family of God when they come to faith in Christ. And so we have many on our prayer list that we pray for week after week. God, save this one. Oh God, save that one. And so a newborn baby is alive, they're hungry, they're like their parents, they are growing, and they're the source of great rejoicing. Let us stand for prayer. Father, we thank you for your word and your truth. Lord, we thank you that you have given us the seed of the new birth But the Word of God is that seed, and so Father, I pray that you would plant that seed within the hearts today. And Lord, may we truly know Christ as our Savior. May we truly hunger and thirst after righteousness. May we truly desire that sincere milk of the word that we may grow thereby. Father, bless these things to us we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen.