Hebrews 13. We're still in the book of Hebrews and we are just wrapping it up. We're at our seventeenth verse. I'm going to read that and then get to our question, which I think I remembered to send to everybody. So hopefully you've had a chance to look at it. You did. You have to check. Hebrews 13, 17 reads as follows, Obey them that have the rule over you and submit yourselves, for they watch for your soul as they that must give account. That they may do it with joy and not with grief, for that is unprofitable for you. Now I will make one comment on that verse before proceeding. That word grief is an interesting word. It literally means A sigh. A groan. It's a great descriptive term Speaking of groaning, have you ever been in a supervisory position? And I'm talking about managing people, not necessarily material, uh possibly with as much as hiring or firing responsibility And uh and uh if you were the boss, assuming you were a good boss, what was the difference between your best employees and troublemakers? Describe your experience. We had some really good feedback from those to whom I send this One says yes, over 67 people, various race and nationalities, a few were her senior. What did it take to get there? Had to be diligent, do a good job, dependable as an employee. Consequently, the regional manager took note, went to the CEO, and promoted her What was the difference between your best employees and the troublemakers? I always like to hear this feedback. The uh troublemakers were lazy, shallow, insecure, undependable, never stepped up, and were group thinkers That's a pretty accurate and broad description, I think. Uh experience in the supervisor role would meet the employees to set the tone, motivation and training, how to succeed. encouragement and an open door policy, all with an expectation of respect, honesty, and diligence. The one-third troublemakers tried to intimidate, hoping that she would leave or get fired. Consequently, she fired the three ringleaders and the others fell in line. That's a pretty good approach. The other two-thirds were glad they were gone and rose to the occasion. That's a really powerful insight. Other people will just kind of hide. The office culture improved dramatically and production arose. Another individual mentioned that uh uh thank God no he wasn't, but he doesn't count managing 20 or so volunteers at a science center planetarium as a supervisory position. I would kind of count it. You're managing volunteers. That's the worst kind. You can't hire them. You're not paying them. You don't have a chain. And it and that's very close actually to a church scenario because they're all volunteers. You're not being paid to be here. Dealing with volunteers has its own set of issues. They could slide or slouch to ignoring procedures, uh become borderline insubordinate, but firing them was somewhat uh looked down upon by the staff. I could imagine that. And uh yeah, that's uh a good good example as well. Your experiences and have you s managed people in some capacity? Anybody here Well that's okay. Yes. Um I was in management for a few years with a home health care and um you had some people that the way the way my boss put it they could find their way to work. Yeah. Right. Um and other people that could not find their way to work. Yeah. You know, and the ones that could find their way to work, even even though maybe they didn't do as good a job as some of the other ones, you knew they were gonna be there. Their shift would not be on up. Right? At least they're present. And as you once said, and I like this term, there's no ability like the penability. That's a big one. My joke was as I would drive down the beltway to go to certain Washington, D. C. federal agencies for support. I was just amazed at, you know, and these are all federal workers in the morning trying to get to DC and they're just racing, driving like mad, speeding, zooming around you, you know, just breakneck speed and you get there and their head is on their desk asleep. I'm like, why are you people racing? to get to work so you can fall asleep. I don't get it. You know it the biggest we would we would refer to some uh slackers as their chief production was carbon dioxide. So Let that sink in a bit. All right, well we're going to talk today about rulers and why obey rulers, and I hope that little intro will maybe set some framework as we get into it some Before I get into this much further, I just want to let you know up front that when we talk about rulers, what does Mission Bible Church think are rulers? So we actually recognize a little bit distinction between an office, which the Bible describes, and their role. And that's very helpful, I think, for understanding how um churches can operate very effectively. There's the office of elder, bishop, and deacon. Those are described. Some would say bishop means overseer, that's the function we I do like to make that distinction in there. And there's a paper that we have online. If you look at Staff's Rod number 22 on our website in our article archive, you can Read about that. Now, they can be installed in the role of they could be a pastor, teacher, administrator, evangelist, trustee, treasurer, song leader, foreman, etc. They can all have separate roles depending on what the church needs at that time. But they still have that office position. So that's just some introductories to how we view leadership around here The breakdown of this passage is the text, it's kind of taken phrase in a time, obey them that have the rule over you. And we're going to look at obeying and submitting what that means. Their rulership, it says they watch for your souls, and we're going to look at the three things that they do. They watch for your souls, they have to give account, and they have to do it for your profit. That's the implied in that last phrase. So that's what we're going to kind of look into Alright, so let's talk about some basic presumptions of the passage which says, obey them that have the rule over you. Well That presumes two things. Number one, that there are in fact rulers in the New Testament church, right? It's not an anarchy situation Uh like the end of the book of Judges, every man did that which was right in his own eyes. You don't want that scenario. And the second presumption is that as a Christian, you're under them You're actually under a ruler. That's why the admonition here is obey them that have the rule over you. You may be under them, but you may not be obeying them, and so this admonition would encourage you in that direction. But it does imply that you're under them. Right off the bat, we have an immediate quick win application. There is a form of church government, and there's a lot of different forms of church government out there called congregationalists, congregationalist form of government. This is completely upside down. This is the sheep in charge of the shepherd. If the sheep can vote and the shepherd's vote doesn't count, but one, just like everybody else's, that is not a New Testament model. All we like sheep have gone astray. It's not the sheep that have the direction and the guidance. Yes, we live in America. Praise God. Wonderful that we all have our ability to vote and have a representative form of government. Praise God. That is not, the American form of government is not the form of church leadership. Just look at your leaders that you have in office today. Are they morally, are they good moral examples to follow their faith No. Some get close. They may talk about faith. Why do you think they're talking about faith? It buys votes. Because that's how you get in office. And so that can happen at congregational Baptist, and I'm picking on the Baptist because that's commonly where I've seen it, although the Mennonite brethren have somewhat similar, where it's congregational, the sheep are in charge of the shepherd. The downside of that is The uh power hungry people, the people who think about what it takes to get into power, know what it takes to get the votes. And so you end up having secular semi-religious politicians ending up in the job because they know how to dress nice, stand tall, look nice coif their hair correctly, wear the right clothes, say the right things. Oh, he looks good. And what do you have? You have a Saul, a King Saul. Right? As opposed to a David, a man after God's own heart. So, right off the bat, the congregational form of government is incorrect. If the sheep are in charge of the shepherd, that's ridiculous. You don't submit to that That's just not going to work. It's just dysfunctional. Alright. And we're going to pick on the other ones as well. We're going to have an e equal dishing out here of uh of goodness and badness to example to for your example Now this word here, obey them that have the rule over you and submit yourselves. Let's talk about submit for a moment. That's not the normal word or obey. We're going to talk about the word obey. That's not the normal Greek word for obey. You find obey in Ephesians 6, children obey your parents. You find it uh in verse 5, servants obey them that are your masters. Oh by the way, it doesn't say wife obey. It says wife submit. That's a willing thing. She's not to go to obedient school and learn how to, you know, follow the rules. That's not biblical either. It is an interesting word. It's not that normal word hapakuo. It's uh peitho. It's most often rendered persuade It's most often rendered persuade. This is a very unusual word to use in this section here. Now again Greek words all have a variety of meaning, but there's a sense of persuasion, there's a sense of trust, but there's also the sense of make friends of. And let me give you an example of two of these. I'm just going to read to you from the book of Acts, chapter 12 and verse 20, and then we're going to look at Romans 15, 14. In Acts 12, 20, you have to turn now or read it. It speaks about an account where Herod was highly displeased with them of Tyre and Sidon. This is a nation to the seven sections, some cities to the north of Israel. In the Lebanese territory, King Herod was displeased, but they came with one accord to him, having made Blastus the king's chamberlain their friend. made their friend, that's our word Paetho, having made Blasphus their friend, and desired peace, because their country was nourished by the king's country What's the point? I think this word carries the sense of that there is a friend, friendship, relationship that is there. And that would make sense If he's your older brother in the Lord, wouldn't you expect to be in a good, friendly relationship with that individual? You'd expect that. There would be a measure of trust. in Romans 15, 14. I myself also am persuaded of you. That's that word here for obey. This persuasive, but they're persuasive in the sense of your grandfather. Somebody you trust and know, somebody you have a lot of respect to, that you would listen to. Oh, well, grandpa said we ought to do things this way. Well, that kind of gets passed down generationally And that's the sense here. It's more of a family sense, not a political sense of rulership in the church. Again, this would not be an alien thought to the Jews of old Their entire leadership structure was clan, tribe, family-based, of the house of Levi, the house of Judah, Benjamin, etc. It would always be a patriarchal system. This is still very true in the Orient, where there is a tremendous respect for the elders, and there is this system of respect for those who are senior in years and age and wisdom. Now the passing of time doesn't necessarily guarantee wisdom, but because there are old fools, but it does in general, uh if they make it to that uh uh octogenearian age or the like, uh certainly over 60, that you would expect. They've figured out how to survive in life and they've got a few wise uh tips to share with you that you might want to listen to That's the sense of this obedience. The implication is that they are trusted individuals. It's not a militaristic form of obedience In Philippians 2. 25, the Apostle Paul speaks here, and I'll try to cool my heels here, I'm going a little quick. It shouldn't be going that fast. In Philippians 2. 25 it says this. Paul says, I supposed it necessary. to send to you Epaphroditus, my brother, but your messenger. Receive him therefore in the Lord with all gladness, and hold such in reputation. That's Philippians 2, 25 and 29 The apostle here says, look, the Philippian church, I'm sending you a fellow. His name's Epaphroditus. Receive him. He's one of the good guys. But he doesn't use the term good guy. He says he's your messenger. And you know what that word is? Apostle. He's your apostle. Now it doesn't mean he was one of the uh tribe a tribe, one of the original twelve uh apostles, eleven plus the new appointee, but that it does mean that, hey, he is your messenger, he is your divinely appointed ruler over you. Receive him as a as a trusted one. Hold him in reputation. He's a dear brother. Notice again that word brother. He's a dear brother. So let's talk a little bit now about a biblically qualified ruler. If you have a biblically qualified ruler, and you have a lot of details spelled out in the New Testament, you have two epistles, both in Timothy as well as Titus. We're not going to cover those today. You can go look those up. Those are both short reads. And you're not going to read very far into the epistle before you hit what a elder, a bishop, an overseer, what their qualifications are. There's 17 of them. Only one has to do with the tongue. The other sixteen have to do with character, and it's character that can be easily identified by looking at their children and their household. And so the test of time is right before you. You can observe it, examine it, hmm A man is not responsible for the salvation of his children, he can't do that, so it doesn't say they have to be uh uh uh believing Christians. I've had some people stretch some of those phrases to that point. But it does mean that they're that they're under authority, that they do understand and respect authority because that is pretty essential. Not getting into that, but one of the rules, uh one of the roles, the the fundamental role of a ruler is to be an overseer. And that was my question about being in a supervisory position, an overseer Even on the job, and we just had our sister come through a horrible line at the airport, that there has to be somebody can oversee things and guide and direct. Because without that, what do you have? Chaos, long lines, confusion, disgruntled individuals, to name a few. You've got all kinds of chaos. Employees tend to not be able to manage themselves well. It just doesn't work. It really doesn't work. There are some individuals who are Kind of, I will just use the phrase natural leaders, they do know how to lead, and there will be some individuals. You see this in the military, they're lower ranks, they're captain shot. They'll rise to the occasion and they'll take on a leadership role and praise God for some people in the in the military and in various theaters of the past who have been able to do that and rally the troops to some sensible position of of safety or advance. But But this is just not so in the scriptures. A biblically qualified ruler is an overseer. It's an overseer. And if they're not an effective overseer, there can be problems. One of the things they have to do is they have to know the state of the flock. It's in Proverbs 27-23. It's one of my favorite passages to know the state of the flock, because that word state is literally the word Face. They're to know the face of the flock. They're not strictly an internet-only preacher or teacher. They've got to be able to see the individual from face to face uh on a reasonably regular basis. That's the idea. And it uses the word flock. Now, imagine the farmer The husbandman, the rancher, I should say, not a farmer, who has a flock in his field and he visits them once every three months. Can anybody venture a guess what the if A will he even have a flock to return to? Maybe the wolves decimated him and he had no idea while he's playing video games. Or they're so emaciated and full of lice and they're you know, we've got other issues and diseases. You you've got to know the state, the face of the flock. There's got to be literal, not the phone, FaceTime with these individuals. It really is an important thing. They've got to know that state. They've got to pray for you. They've got to pray for your interests. It's very difficult. If you've been in leadership, I have a phrase called MBWA. Manage by walking around. If you're waiting for somebody to give you their status by way of email, good luck. And I don't believe in luck, but you know what I'm saying. You learn a lot about people by showing up at their desk. With their favorite snack or a cup of coffee and just sit and chat. And all of a sudden, they start talking. And you can learn so much about what's going on in the organization when it's not in writing and it's going to get circulated all over the place just to show up in their house as a pastor and to talk with them. I still remember a pastoral visitation I had years ago, many, many years ago. In fact, it was the only one I can receive, I think I've ever received in my entire life. One pastoral visitation as a pastor in Ramona, California. I was a young single person. He showed up at my house. And sat down and, you know, just said, I'm here for a pastoral visitation. And he said, you know, so has the Lord been giving you enough enemies to love in your life That was one of his questions. He had several others, but that one stuck with me. What an impact just one visit had. I remember that to this day, and I thought, what a glorious thing. You know, we live in a day right now where it's exceptionally difficult. The devil's done everything he can to make this nigh to impossible. But it is a goal that we have at Mission Bible Now, when someone rejects the shepherd's biblical requests and direction, because he's praying for you, he's trying to make good sermon application, he's knowing the state, now he needs to come in with some Direction, some guidance. Faithful sheep have to side with their shepherd. The shepherd says, you know, you Let me give you an example. Turn to 2 Thessalonians 3. Let me just give you a biblical example. Turn to 2 Thessalonians chapter 3 and let's go to verse 14. Second Thessalonians three, and let's get to verse fourteen Here the apostle writing to this church says this. He says, if any man obey not our word by this epistle This apostolic letter, this divinely ordained statement of God. If any man doesn't obey it, note that man, make a note of him And have no company with him, that he may be ashamed. There's a shunning, there's a breaking of fellowship that has to occur. And he's writing not just to the pastor. He's writing to the church, that he may be ashamed. Yet count him not as an enemy, but admonish him as a brother. There will be some, unfortunately, some stiff-necked individuals that show up in church sometimes. And you have to biblically the pastor is going to go and speak to them and tell them what to do And, you know, gently admonish them. It's not a sharp rebuke. I've had those. Sharp rebuke. I wasn't even a member. I just I just want to get to know you. I didn't expect this. But count him not as an enemy, admonish him as a brother. You know, make it an admonishment. Hey, I'm coming alongside of you as a brother to encourage you that this is how you should go. And eventually at some point, if they don't choose to obey it They've got to be told this is not right. I've had people show up at my Bible study in years past, probably over a decade ago, 15 years maybe. Beautiful family, wonderful family, homeschooled, the children were attentive, they sat there with their Bibles open and their eyes fixed. I think they were trained at an early age to put Elmer's glue in their eyes and attach it to the pastor because they would not break eye contact. They were told to be attentive and they were. And they were they would listen, they would think. There's a wonderful family But the wife had a mouth and different ideas than the teacher. And after the study, would cordon off people on the opposite corner of the house where I was. And just chew away at the lesson and chew away and try to undermine. And the kids I think knew what mom was about and said, Oh yeah, that's mom just being mom. And they would listen and they were starting to understand. But there were there was a a family a married couple with children in the congregation. And the wife was listening to her. The husband was not. And it brings division. And a divorce resulted because this woman couldn't shut her mouth. And I didn't learn about it until too late. Isn't that amazing? These things happen in these four corners here. Have you ever had a bad boss? I'll ask the rest of you here who haven't been in supervisory position, you ever had a bad boss? You're shaking your head, yes. Um what were they like? Describe that situation. They were so bad that I quit the next You're exactly right. Most people don't leave a job, they leave a bad boss. Well uh what were they like? What was the individual like? Anybody? Who's had a bad boss Um they didn't let their personal stuff get too far involved in the the work aspect. So probably if I didn't agree with them personally, there would be a trouble with Oh, oh, okay. They let their personal preferences creep in so that that became their official rules for being on the boss's good short list. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Uh preferential treatment, right? Oh, you like the Knicks? Yeah, I'm not a Knicks fan. You're outta here, right? Yeah. Have you ever been under a good boss? A really good boss? And what were they like? Penny, you're shaking your head, yes? My boss is amazing. He knows everything that's going on, but he has the wisdom of when to step in and when to stay out. So he's not trying to micromanage and control every little aspect. He knows how to encourage us to personal growth and help us to work things out when we need that help. Yeah, that is a good boss. That is a good boss, one who doesn't micromanage. Micromanaging is a dream. You don't have a boss that micromanages, I hope, Joey. You don't? That's good. You have too much latitude, could you, you know, like drain the store of every ounce of uh s okay. Well that's that's Yes, that's a good thing. So the rulership in a church has they have got three main functions. They've got three main functions, okay? And I think they're listed here. At least I'm going to draw them from here. There's at least these three functions. Let me not make them main, but I think they're pretty important functions here. They are to watch souls, to know the state of the flock. They're soul watchers. They are to watch for your soul. Okay? They are to enable your prophet. And we're talking spiritual profit. They're to enable that, to encourage that, to fuel it, to fertilize it, to keep, to enable, to encourage you in a good and godly way. And they are to be accountable. They're to give account. The one to whom they have to give account is the Lord Himself. And so that needs to be reflected to you, that, hey, look, I I'm doing this not because of my personal preference, because as a representative of the Lord, I need to say this. And sometimes it can be difficult for a minister to say things. It's like, oh, hey. They just think through this is just not gonna go well and they agonize over how to say something is not to offend and and boy have I been guilty of that. the Lord pastor is a far better communicator in writing than I am and I lean on that and that's wonderful. But uh boy did the ul the ability to just speak correctly Thus saith the Lord boldly, is a real gift and talent. It's a blessing to have it. But even if it's rough, from a hairy guy named John the Baptist says, Depart ye vipers, who has warned you to flee from the wrath to come, or a Jonah, yet forty days God will destroy you if it's thus saith the Lord in biblical, if it's a tough rawhide, or if it's nice kid glove. That is the role and one of the tools they have. Watching souls, enabling profit, giving account. All right. Let me just give you an example of how I see current rulers we have across our land doing this today. Let's pick on a big, easy candidate, Joel Osteen. Yes, I mark individuals and point them out. Alright? He watches headcounts. He maximizes profits and he makes excuses. That's how he's interpreted those three commands. There's a twist there. What about PCA churches? The ones I've been in, I haven't been to all of them, all right, and I've heard some good things from their pulpit They watch the message. They're very careful about that. They enjoy their profits. And they have forced accountability. They enforce that very strictly. Okay? Congregational Baptists, they number the souls, pass the plate off, and keep account of who passed through. There's a twisting of how these things actually are played out. Soul watchers. Watching for your soul is twofold. It's for fruit from within and to avoid external threats. The pastor doesn't have x-ray vision. He can't look Inside and see what the soul is doing. You can't do that, right? However, they can detect fruit, and they are to be fruit inspectors They look for faith, they look for repentance. They do look for imminent threats and failures that could lead to greater dangers. We're going to spend a little time in the book of Ezekiel, so turn to Ezekiel chapter 33 for a moment. These are 33 and 34 are The classic passages that address the matter of the pastors, Ezekiel 33, Ezekiel chapter 33. And we're going to go to verse 2. Ezekiel chapter 33 and verse 2. Says this, Son of Man, speak to the children of thy people, and say unto them, when I bring the sword upon the land, notice who's bringing the sword. The Lord is If the people of the land take a man of their coasts and set him for their watchman, if, when he seeth the sword, come upon the land, He blow the trumpet and warned the people. Doesn't say he blows a saxophone. Doesn't say he blows a little harmonica. A trumpet is a loud instrument that says, warning. Take heed. Danger. Verse 4, then whosoever heareth the sound of the trumpet, and taketh not warning, if the sword come and take him away, his blood shall be upon his own head. He heard the sound of the trumpet He took not warning. His blood shall be upon him. But he that taketh warning shall deliver his soul. You know This is so instructive because in a one way men and women consistently ignore the sound of the trumpet. Now in in imagine now you're in an old testament city. It's walled. You've got a wall. The guy climbs the wall. It's his job. He's supposed to be watching While the gate is open, maybe at night as well, they would bring the herds and flocks inside the gates of the city for protection from wolves and animals and open it up during the day and so forth. But you've got to have somebody out there watching just to make sure things are safe Brother Rick is out in the field tending to his flock, maybe his uh plot of land to grow things, and he's focused on the ground, his animals. He's not up looking around, he's trying to do what he's got to do. He's counting on a watchman And when he hears the trumpet and a blast, he knows danger warning, I've got to secure my stuff. I've got to get back in the city. I've got to get to a place of safety. I need to change what I'm doing right now Well, you would wonder about the individual who doesn't listen to that warning. Well, God is going to use this example of the watchman. It's a very classic text known to every minister who's trying to be halfway serious about this. role of being a ruler is the role of a watchman. Ezekiel 33 and 34 talk about this. And one way that I have found personally that men and women consistently ignore the warning is to not even be in the presence of the sound. It's like I'm just out in the field with earmuffs on. I don't want to hear it. They literally stick their fingers in their ears and they do that by not even showing up They don't attend church. They don't commit to a ministry. They don't. They just don't. I can enjoy God on the beach. I can enjoy God over here. Oh, I I I I all the excuses Over my years, I have repeatedly warned several young husbands to regularly commit to a faithful church where they can operate. You have a gift, wonderful Your gift is teaching. Great. Wait your time. They may not jump up for joy just that you know how to teach right off the bat. Wait your time. Look for an opportunity. Look for a place. Look for a new ministry to start up on your own. Hey, can I teach the youth Hey, can we take them out to a basketball game on on a court, some open court play, shoot some hoops and afterwards sit down, a bunch of sweaty boys around a table with some Kool-Aid and cookies or something, and hey, let's have a little devotion here or something like that. You know, just find a way to operate. If the leadership says no, don't do that, well then you may want to find a different place to operate. But I'm talking about a faithful church that they will take you. And they will not go. They won't do it. I exhort them, they won't do it. It's amazing because I the various excuses are well this is when uh I was at a church that was typically within about thirty to forty-five minutes drive for most people. For the individuals. Ah, it's too long of a drive. I hate that excuse. That's so lame. I do get and understand for very senior citizens, a very long drive can really be an issue. I get that. I'm talking about a young fit individual who has young children. This is not hard. And these same people will stand in line for an hour to attend the ballgame. They'll drive 45 minutes, they'll stand in line, they'll sit in the stadium on uncomfortable seats and watch a ballgame. They will sacrifice whatever to watch that There's there's something lopsided here. What's the result? I'll tell you what I've seen having now allowed the passage of time to occur and seeing what has happened to these individuals, number one, death. Yes, God in fact does allow some people to die because of this. Unfortunately, it was the Christian wife in that midst who suffered the worst because her husband was stiff-necked. I've seen divorce. I've seen three cases of that. Not committing to a faithful organization Because uh counseling, I love my brother's quote on this, counseling begins from the pulpit. It's much easier to keep a lawn green if you put a lot of weed preventer out in advance Broad spread. I'm not picking on anybody. Nobody may have any of these issues, but just in case, I'm putting a little weed preventer out And that happens regularly here from the pulpit. And guess what? Weeds don't appear. You don't have troubles in marriage all of a sudden, because when those little things crop up at home, when The leadership can't be around to pop up at your table and say, you know, Mr. Husband, probably would be a good thing not to say anything right now. Maybe you want to hold your tongue. You know, that but we prevent her, that comes from the pulpit. And if you're not there and you're not hearing the warning in advance By the time they reach Joe's desk or mine, Humpty Dumpty's fallen off the wall, the egg's broken into 50 pieces, and there's no putting it back together again. It's very sad. I've seen entire families whose children diligently went to the Sunday school uh uh lessons and meetings. Their young children could recite scripture. They went to to different events and they were They were delightful kids and they would sing the Bible songs and they were there. And sadly, sadly, I personally know of several that are blatant atheists. Parents were not consistently in church. They were moved to and fro with every wind of doctrine, wouldn't commit to a faithful church. And their children scattered. This is real. This stuff happens. I've seen it. It's too much. And you know what it is? It's a grief. It's a grief of mine. It causes you to groan. It causes you to sigh. Account givers, let's go to Ezekiel 34. Faithful ministers are going to have to give account, and they know that. And maybe some also ignore that because at the end of the day we're all humans. The the sin of the pew can also reach the sin of the pulpit. There's the old joke where the wife uh hears the alarm clock uh clock go off and says Honey, we gotta get up and go to church. Another little bit more sleep. Oh honey, we gotta go to church. Come on, we gotta get up. Why? Why do we gotta get up and go? Because you're the pastor Yeah, sometimes uh ministers don't necessarily show up for the job. In Ezekiel thirty-four verses two through four we read this. Son of man, prophesy against the shepherds of Israel. Prophesy and say unto them, Thus saith the Lord God unto the shepherds, woe be to the shepherds of Israel that do feed themselves. Should not the shepherds feed the flock? Ye eat the fat, ye clothe you with wool, you kill them that are fed, but ye feed not the flock. Now listen to this. This sounds very similar to what the Lord said in Matthew 25 about the those gathered on the right and the left, and he's giving them a reward. Listen to this language here. The disease have ye not strengthened, neither have ye healed that which was sick Neither have you bound up that which was broken, neither have you brought again that which was driven away, neither have you sought that which was lost, but with force and with cruelty have ye ruled them. God takes note of what these rulers do. He takes note. God observes it. And so a wise individual, laboring, in the scriptures, in the name of the living God, has to be painfully aware of this. He if he's going to be faithful, if he's going to take any serious stock in what he's doing He's going to have to pay attention to these passages. And yeah, it's true some won't commit to an available faithful church, but sadly faithful good church leaders are not that common. There weren't too many of you who shook your head, yep, I have a great boss, but there were a few headshaking when you say have you ever seen a bad boss? There's plenty of those out there to go around. It's no different in churches as well. So my first piece of advice is if you do find a faithful church, you really need to think long and hard before you leave. I've seen an elder at what I thought was a reasonably faithful church. Got a job offer. at another state for more money. And, you know, pray that we find a good church. Why don't you find a good church before If you're at one, maybe your decision is I'm not going to take this job for more money. Maybe I stay here because hey the Lord's blessed it right here. Or if you do go, then there better be a calling of God to this other location first Don't let your pocketbook drive you. I'm not talking about times of famine and you know you're broke and your family can starve. I'm talking about bright sunny day type of decisions. Ezekiel warns these bad rulers of their consequences. What was your phrase, Mrs. Ross? You're tired Ezekiel thirty-four verse ten is how God answers this Behold, thus saith the Lord God, I am against the shepherds, and I will require my flock at their hand and cause them to cease from feeding the flock. Neither shall the shepherds feed themselves anymore, I will deliver my flock from their mouth, that they may not be meat for them I mentioned one pastor that had strict forced accountability. I made a joke. I tend to be a joking guy. My wife rightly faults me for being a little too humorous at times in inappropriate places. But um I made a joke with this pastor. He asked me what we were talking about uh where we were from or something, and I said, well, uh everybody was giving their different states, one from Oklahoma, one from Arkansas, and and uh Another one Uganda. I said, well I I said you can I said I'm a Texan. I said you can buy your American citizenship, but you can only be born a Texan. I was joking, right? Mr. Ross would appreciate that joke. Well, this pastor would refuse to meet with me for lunch to learn more about my wife and I until I repented to him of that joke. It was an evident token of great pride and and uh I mean I was kidding, laughing. Wasn't I I acknowledge, yep, that is a proud joke, you're right. But I'm thinking, wow, if The tiniest infraction. I'm not even a member yet, Tenny. This is our second visit. I mean you talk about a whip cracking, right, when you go in. Oh yeah, I want to join that church. Well, God took note of that. And that man doesn't have a pastorate. Because eventually that form of strict authoritarianism caught up with him. When Gabe and I were out hunting, came across one of the members of the congregation walking his hunting dogs out in the same hunting field, and he gave us the story on this particular pastor. Yeah, he got into some issue and his elders said, nope, you shouldn't approach the individual with this concern, and he was stiff-necked and did it anyway, and they put a censure on him and he fought it to Presbyterian Eventually he got dismissed from his pastorate and he's no longer there. He was a great preacher. Great preacher. He could watch the message well. Forced accountability? Oh my word. God said, you're fired. With force and cruelty, you've ruled over my people. God does not like that. And God, in fact, did fire him in a very embarrassing way. It does catch up. God makes clear his expectations, and he's also clear that he fires pastors who harm his flock. God holds them accountable. I'm out of time, but I do want to talk about being a prophet enabler. Uh and it's back in Hebrews thirteen and it's verse seven. It's I'll just jump to that point. Um Which this whole chapter talks three times about rulers, and it says here in Hebrews 13, 7, Remember them which have the rule over you, who have spoken unto you the word of God, whose faith follow. Considering the end of their conversation, the end of their conduct, consider the end of it. Think about these men who lead you in the Lord. Follow that. And that will be of great profit. The word of his grace is able to build you up. Alright, well uh yes. Can I share one verse? Please do. Please do. This is uh in Jeremiah 4 and I'm sorry. Jeremiah 3 in verse 15. I will give you pastors according to mine heart, which shall feed you with knowledge and understanding. And that's what every church should pray for. Lord, give us a pastor after God's heart, not after the pastor's heart, not after the times in which we live, but pastors after God's heart who will feed us with knowledge. That's a really good verse. One of the best pieces of advice I heard from a Congregational Baptist Church, small place in Hagumba, California, when a uh man that I and my best man of my wedding, Craig Hodson, have been working on to and he came to the doctrines of grace, began to preach it, congregation. Sheep got upset. Sheep were ready to fire him. The regional guy came in, apparently the guy who's really in charge And said, You don't like your pastor? He said, Pray for him. Just pray for him. I I I was impressed with that answer. I thought that was the right answer. Um Joey, could you close us in prayer? Can I ask you to do that? Thank you. Father, thank you for gathering us today, Lord. Thank you for your message and your word that has gone forth. Lord, thank you that we do have a pastor who does treat his congregation well and under your word. The truth and sincerity of the gospel, Father. You know you just bless the messages today, Lord, that your word go forth and your people be blessed. Amen and amen. Thank you. Thank you.