When we have been called into worship, called to give the right due and honor, respect. Tithes and offerings, glory, ascribing all to thy name and to that of thy Son, the Lord Jesus Christ. And Lord, strengthen thy weak servants today to worship thee. in spirit and in truth. And that you would indeed find the words of our mouths and the meditation of this, the heart of thy people, acceptable in thy sight. We do ask these things in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, if you would please turn in your blue songbook, the Rejoice Hymnal, to our opening song, I sing the mighty power of God. We're blessed to have not only a variety of people who can handle the word, but also those who can handle the instrument. And so we are blessed this morning to have our sister lead us congregationally with the violin, so please sing along together. All three stanzas. I think almighty our God that may come home noise that's And there are locked the skies. I sing love with The sun tours of his garden and all the stars of I sing the goodness of the Lord that fill the earth with for the preacher, witness. And then brought out my wonder where her hair I turned my arm. There's not our plant or My deal, but maybe goes known, and quite sent for my order from. Amen. Amen. The ever presence of God demands the ever-praise to our Savior. Amen. Please be seated. And now we have our confessional Bur Instruction Confession. We have Brother Anton bringing the Belgian confession to us Good morning. Please turn to the back of your bulletin. For our reading of the Belgic Confession, we're reading from the second portion of the 24th article. This is regarding man's sanctification and good works. Christian, and what do you believe? Good works as they proceed from the good root of faith. are good and acceptable in the sight of God, forasmuch as they are all sanctified by His grace. Howbeit, they are of no account towards our justification. For it is by faith in Christ that we are justified Even before we do good works. Otherwise they could not be good works any more than the fruit of a tree can be good before the tree itself is good. If you're truly in Christ, if you've been regenerated by the Spirit of God, then you'll understand your own sinnerhood. You'll understand that you're a sinner. You'll understand that there's no good works that you could do that add or contribute to your justification or your salvation before the Lord You understand that it must fully and it's only in the Lord Jesus Christ alone. And good works don't add any part to that. But did you know As a believer, that you can't actually do things that are pleasing unto the Lord. You know, some get carried away with the doctrine of being a sinner. They think, well, there's nothing good I can do, even as a believer. All I can do is sin. But no, there's actually believers can do things that are pleasing unto God. We read from 1 John 3 22 And whatsoever we ask, we receive of him, because we keep his commandments and do those things that are pleasing in his sight. A believer can actually do something that is pleasing in God's sight. It's not everybody that's capable of doing uh good works or something that's pleasing uh in the Lord's sight. In Romans 8 verse 8 it says, so then they that are in the flesh cannot please God. If you're in the flesh, if you're still unconverted, you've never humbled yourself before the hand of God, you've never submitted to Him, you're still in the flesh, you can't please God And even as a believer, if you're walking in the flesh and not in the spirit, you're walking in rebellion to the Lord, you can't do those things that please the Lord. As it says in Romans 8:5, for they that are after the flesh do mind the things of the flesh, but they that are after the spirit, the things of the spirit, either walking in the flesh or in the spirit. Though believers are able to do good works, we do understand that it doesn't save us. It doesn't contribute to us. It's not that Well, God saved us and now we have to keep up the good works in order to keep ourselves saved. No, it's all fully in Christ. But we do have to make a uh distinguishment between the root and the fruit, between what comes first. Is it salvation or is it your good works? And truly, as this confessional reading pointed out to us, it's those that are in Christ, those that are saved, those that bear that root of faith in Christ, they can then produce those good fruits. It's even as Christ said, that you'll know them by their fruits. You can distinguish what kind of a tree is somebody, what kind of a life do they have? Are they in Christ or are they not? Based on what they do and what they say. By their fruits you'll know them. And you know, many people can do good deeds and kind deeds, but not be doing good works unto the Lord. There can be many kind neighbors that you have and even people willing to sacrifice themselves in the battlefield for their nation. But it doesn't mean that they're pleasing the Lord. What's important is do you bear that root? Is Christ truly your vine and are you a branch of his? That's what makes the distinguisher of are you bearing good fruit? Are you doing good works into the Lord or not? And I'll leave you with John 15 verse 5, when Christ speaks and he says, I am the vine, ye are the branches. He that abideth in me, and I in him, the same bringeth forth much fruit. For without me you can do nothing. Thank you. Yeah, thank you, brother, for bringing that confessional reading. I very much appreciate that illustration that The fruit of the tree can't be good before the tree itself is good. That's a pretty simple illustration and you're reminded of a parable that Jesus gave, either make the tree good and his fruit good, for the tree corrupt and its fruit corrupt, for a tree is known by his fruit. Very excellent illustration, a biblical one as well. Very good for that. Well, we turn to our season now of corporate prayer. We do this because we have an example from Scripture. When Israel would get together, either the dedication of the temple, some main event, or even as we do now for worship, there would be a collective season of prayer. Not that everybody would speak, but that rather they would hearken unto the voice of the chief speaker, and they would align and unite their requests before the throne of God together. So if you would, please join with me in our season of prayer. Well Lord our God, strictly and solely on the basis and the merits of the Lord Jesus Christ, we come before thee, Father, to present, Lord, our petitions. To present before thee the things that we would desire of thee. Yet we would be negligent, Lord, to not consider all the worthy attributes thou hast, which uh we find in thee and admire. Lord, indeed, as Jeremiah wrote, great is thy faithfulness Thy mercies are indeed new every morning. Can it be said there is any new thing? Oh yes, it can be. Your mercies are custom fit for the day at hand, sufficient unto the days the evil thereof, and your mercies are indeed New unto us every morning. We thank you for this precise watch care over each and every one of thy people. A custom fit mercy for them for the day We thank you that you have sustained us, given us life and breath and all that we have, yea, houses in which to dwell, plenty of food, clothing, raiment. Yea, Lord, we thank you even for air conditioning safe vehicles, roads for the most part that are open, electricity that is available, or these are modern creature comforts that were simply not known. to the early Christian church. And yet, Father, I confess that even sometimes these things can be distractions to us. It was idleness and abundance of bread and and pride. Many things we see in our land, those were the things that were the cause of Sodom and Gomorrah's downfall. Lord, let not thy people be Beholden to these things. Let us not be snared up by comfort. Lord, let us ever seek to be soldiers of the cross. Lord, we thank you for these things and let us use them aright. Father, we're grateful that you have answered many prayers that our congregation has brought before thee on Wednesday night prayer meeting. We thank you for those who are zealous to want to pray On the behalf of thy people, brother in Arizona, our brother in Texas, Father, we thank you for their service in that respect. And others who have prayed for us, Lord, though we don't know them by name. Uh we have a broad reach here through these, again, modern means which our early Christian forefathers knew nothing of. Father, we uh are grateful for the answers to prayer that you have given to us. We have seen much healing, we have seen uh much uh recovery of of ills, we have seen uh Loved ones that have uh uh gone astray and turned back around, those who are beginning to walk a little more closely. There are such a wide variety of things. Our brothers who have endured great catastrophe physically and yet have been restored. We're grateful for these things. Lord, we uh we thank you that uh our pastor emeritus who is not here with us today has uh recovered from this great ill that has befallen him and is safely recovering at home that which normally takes out men of his age And yet, Lord, you have permitted him to remain here. We're grateful, Lord. It tells us that he still is profitable to thee and is of value to thee in the kingdom, as he certainly is in the hearts of many of us here. We do continue to lift him up. We pray for a brother who recently had hand surgery who uh plays the organ for us And uh we are grateful for his ongoing service to thy house and thy people. Lord indeed, the music ministry is a delightful one. It is a chief reason, the people of God, a chief reason, a chief benefit, a joy, the people of God. uh delight him as they worship in the house of God to be led and use it. Well you have ordained that as a paid institution in Israel where The singers were the Levites, and uh they were paid out of the tithes of the people. Lord, you've counted music as a glorious thing, and with praise we give to thee along with singing. We thank you. We pray for his complete recovery of his hand, his wrist. We pray that his fingers could bend. Lord, I have recently had wrist and hand injuries. I understand how long it takes. Lord, give our brother patience and strength in his hand that he could recover. Recover soon. We pray for his dear wife uh that she could recover from again another significant health issue uh that can prove, yea, very debilitating to someone. And yet, Lord, she's been greatly spared of some of those effects. uh and she is uh at home and able to do things and get about and we pray for her continued recovery. Uh we pray for those in our midst who are struck with cancer. Lord we uh pray that you would uh Indeed, guide and direct them to useful courses of treatment and pray that the medications they take would truly be effective for the purpose for which they're given. Lord, that you would stabilize other parts of their body. Lord, we pray that their immune system would kick in and conquer this hideous disease, Lord. It is not with thee to heal them. And we do lift up a number of our saints who are afflicted with these things We thank you that through these grievous afflictions, Lord, they suffer as Christians, and their testimony is seen as such. It's very difficult. When we suffer in the flesh to rejoice in the spirit, we are an interconnected being. Soul, body, spirit, all joins together. Paul says, when even the littlest member of the flesh is in pain, it all hurts. Lord, if a finger or a toe can cause us great grief, how much more discouragement of the soul? We pray that they would be lifted up and strengthened. We rejoice that our sister in Wisconsin is greatly recovering after receiving a new organ, organ transplant. And it's been over a year now, I believe. And uh last report I heard is that she's even able to drive a car again, or something which was beyond uh our request in our prayers. We didn't request that she could drive again. We just requested that she'd be healed, that she'd get an organ. Indeed, you've answered that And uh you've sustained her. We do pray for continued energy and strength and that uh Lord this would just be it, that it would be this one big Job-like experience that's fallen upon her and she could enjoy a good long season of rejoicing in my name and keep her faithful, Lord, to proclaim thy goodness to others that she encounters. We pray, Father, for our young and our youth in our midst, where youth is anyone who is under the age of 30. Seeking employment or perhaps is underemployed. Lord, business cycles do come and go. Those of us who have seen work know that there are seasons where it's tight and there's seasons where it's plenty Lord, for some right now it's very tight. And we pray, Father, that you would grant them an entrance. Please sustain them. Please provide for them, Lord, even in this difficult time. Lord, you're able to feed uh a widow uh of Zarephath with uh oil. You're able to uh uh to sustain uh people. We've seen you do it in the Old Testament. We know, Lord, you could speak the word and feed 5,000. Lord, we pray that you would guide and direct them to either the right client for those who own their business or to the right company for those seeking employment within a firm. Guide and direct them to that which enables them to meet, make ends meet, but Lord, not the sacrifice of worship on Sunday. Help them to hold the line there and to continue to be able to praise thy name. Father, we uh pray for the elderly in our midst who face Lord, various afflictions of life due to the infirmity of age, and it is a it is a hard thing Uh it's only slightly touching some, it's more heavily touching others. Father, we pray that you be gracious and gentle and merciful to them in their latter days. Lord, we rejoice that you number the very hairs of their head. And I'm sure father as they get out of the top, they see a lot of those hairs at the bottom of the drain. And they see a lot of gray and they wonder, oh my, this thinning is just a bit too much. This aging business is just really wearing off on me. Father, strengthen them. Lift up their eyes, Father, from the bathtub into the into the glories of heaven. uh where they will receive a new body. They will receive they will be like unto angels, which are glorious in appearance, that cause men to tremble and to fear, and they're bright and they move quickly. Lord, indeed, we will have none of these restrictions that we know about here, this side of the grave, none of the infirmities of the flesh uh will be known to us. It will be an alien thing to us. We are going to a place where we will have brand new, glorious resurrected bodies those bodies in which there is no more the old remnants of the old man and of the nature and even a taint of desire to sin. Our chief glory will be to glorify and enjoy God forever. And we look forward to that day. And Father, we pray that thy aged ones would look forward to that, not focusing on the issues of the flesh, but let that pain have its perfect work. Let them begin to release the things of this world so that they do begin to grow strangely dim. Father, we pray for our beloved pastor and his wife. who are on vacation very well, deserve season of rest. Lord, we pray that they could fully recover from this illness which struck them in the middle of the trip. And we thank you that you have allowed them to finally um make their flights and all of the hang-ups and the delays due to the severe weather, things that are becoming increasingly more common. But Father, we thank you that they are there. We pray that they'd have a good and safe and refreshing time together after a long season. We thank you, Lord, that our small congregation can uh can allow such a thing, can support such a thing. And we thank you for the generous donations of thy people who are committed to tithing and supporting thy work. We pray, Father, that that you would sustain us through this and and we thank you for our pastor. We pray for his recovery and return unto us soon. We thank you for our beloved brother Paul, who's here with us, who's been a great help to our house, Lowe, for over a decade now, and we pray for him, for his dear wife for the matters concerning teaching the Word and his projects at Authentic Scripture Foundation. Lord, he's uh he's not one to be idle. And uh we thank you that the foot of idleness is simply unknown in his ministry. Now Lord, we pray that you sustain him. Let not him let him not encounter a grievous health setback. Lord, grant that his projects would see a fruition of ending. Lord, he's been given great opportunity with the lifelong ministry of Dr. Pickering, to now be overseer of that. Lord, we pray that it would be brought forth to light and that a great many of the homeschooling youth could be turned again to the faithful word. Turned again to the authentic scriptures. Doubt erased from their mind that thou could not keep every jot and tittle as thou hast promised. Lord, that these foolish doubts could be erased replaced with complete and implicit trust in thy word and a sure foundation. Let them not slip away. Father, please strengthen my brother to that end. Lord, we lift up the very youngest in our midst. The very youngest. Their delight. Particularly to older people, but Lord, they're a delight to ministers, they're a delight to all around. At times not a delight to their parents, I'm sure. But Lord, these young ones. These young ones, Father, we look into the eyes of the next generation. Lord, let them not be reprobates. Let not a one of among them be a reprobate. Lord, may they all be faithful servants in thy hand. Could it be that in our midst is one that Uh one day in the future, in whose house of worship we would sit, and one who would mightily refute tens of thousands. Lord, we pray that you would magnify uh the strength of thy and the power of the of the of worship, uh the strength of thy word, of the power of thy spirit. Lord, could it be seen in these young people? Lord, we we beg and beseech thee that that would be your greatest fruit. And an enduring legacy. Father, we ask all these things in Jesus' name. Amen. We turn now to our responsive reading. If you're ready for it, brother, please give it. I wasn't sure who was doing it today, but you're coming up soon. Please turn to John chapter 3 for a responsive reading. Once you've located John 3 in your Bible, please rise. We'll be reading verses one through twenty of the third chapter of John. There was a man of the Pharisees named Nicodemus, a ruler of the Jews. The same came to Jesus by night And said unto him, Rabbi, we know that thou art a teacher come from God. For no man can do these miracles that thou doest, except God be with him. Jesus answered and said unto him, Verily, verily, I say unto thee, except a man be born again. He cannot see the kingdom of God. Nicodemus saith unto him, How can a man be born? He is old. Can he enter the second time into his mother's womb and be born? Jesus answered, Verily, verily, I say unto thee, Except a man be born of water and of the Spirit, he cannot enter into the kingdom of God. That which is born of the flesh is flesh, and that which is born of the spirit is spirit. Marvel not that I said unto thee, ye must be born again. The wind bloweth where it listeth, and thou hearest the sound thereof, but canst not tell whence it cometh, and whither it goeth. So is every one that is born of the Spirit Nicodemus answered and said unto him, How can these things be? Jesus answered and said unto him, Art thou a master of Israel, and knowest not these things? Verily, verily I say unto thee, we speak that we do know, and testify that we have seen, and ye receive not our witness. How shall ye believe if I tell you of heavenly things? And no man hath ascended up to heaven, but he that came down from heaven, even the Son of Man which is in heaven. As Moses lifted up the serpent in the wilderness, even so must the Son of Man be lifted up. That whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have eternal life. For God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life For God sent not his son into the world to condemn the world, but that the world through him might be saved. He that believeth on him is not condemned. But he that believeth not is condemned already, because he hath not believed in the name of the only begotten Son of God. And this is the condemnation that light has come into the world, and men love darkness rather than light, because their deeds were evil, and altogether For everyone that doeth evil hateth the light, neither cometh to the light, lest his deed should be removed. May the Lord add a rich blessing to the reading and hearing of his holy word. Please now open in your hymnals to number 528. It's number 528. Be still, my soul. Once you have your place, we will sing all three stanzas. I will bring that this little mystical I best I will be bread. Please kill my soul, I got The love is made all this driver shall be right. Jesus Basil my soul giving on When we shall be for a border. Why does support and free and give our gone sorrows for God? Love's pure bless restore It's still my soul when changes are. Well, we shall be able to do that. Thank you. Thank you. Always a joy to be with you. Always. Um Brother Anton, I just wanted to say that I listened to your message from last week on the way down here today. And It was edifying. It was evangelistic. And oh was it convicting? Praise the Lord for it. Praise the Lord for the work of his word. The word that is alive and powerful, that is the inerrant discerner of the thoughts and intents of the heart. Praise the Lord for that. Just a brief word about Authentic Scripture Foundation teaching the Word Ministries, couple of updates. There was a period of time earlier this year when we were actually as far as international radio was concerned, we were off the air everywhere. We were off the air in twenty-eight countries. Uh and that happened because last summer a hurricane destroyed the radio station that was the flagship station for the network that we're on in the Caribbean. Uh praise God through the uh the the the the faithful support of some churches in the states they've been able to rebuild new radio tower up in the air and uh new antenna systems and rebuilding their radio station which the the building was destroyed. Uh back on the air again. We're back on the air all across the Caribbean. Praise the Lord for that And we're hearing from folks across the Caribbean again. We've also been off the air for some time in West Africa the series of events, the station in the flagship station in Monrovia, Liberia that we've been on for years, needed to come under new management. And there was a gap of transition. When the station was off the air, there was no one in country. to manage the station. Well, uh there's still nobody in country to manage the station. But Through the blessings of the internet and uh the employment of a technician uh on the ground in Liberia, contract technician, uh the station's been refurbished. New internet connection. It's back on the air. There's nobody physically there except for this contract uh technician who maintains things as needed, but uh The station is actually operated from Northern Ireland now, remotely. Well, uh twenty-four hours a day And so we're glad to hear. And this is a station the the flagship station is uh an FM station in Monrovia, Liberia, a city of about two million people. But the the network that they're on covers eight other countries in West Africa. So we praise the Lord for that. We we started a couple of weeks ago. I I have a personal Facebook page and started a couple of weeks ago hearing from folks saying uh getting in touch from Liberia saying we really appreciate the ministry. We appreciate the series right now. And they named what was being preached. Wonder how they're finding out about that. Well maybe they're listening online. Well then this morning I got the word, hey, station's back on the air. It has been for a couple of weeks now. So we praise the Lord for that. And uh uh in about two weeks' time uh We'll send out an announcement about this, but uh we'll have I believe it's eight new video presentations uh on the Authentic Scripture Foundation website Uh they're in the final stages of production. Now they'd be going up this week, except for the fact that my video producer had to go and get married and and and and he and the nerve of him he he and his wife are cruising the Caribbean right now so he's and and And I said, if you take your laptop along You'll never hear the end of it And not just for me, you won't ever supporter of the ministry as well. We're we're thankful for both of them. Well, this morning I want to call our attention once again to the account that we read a few moments ago in John chapter 3. We've read together here of the beginning, and I say the beginning because that's what it is, the beginning of the account of the conversion of the Pharisee Nicodemus. this preeminent teacher of the law in Israel. And that's how Jesus identifies him, as we'll see. And we're going to see that Nicodemus was what we might call a really hard case. Nicodemus's conversion really powerfully demonstrates the sovereign and amazing work of the Spirit of God to save a sinner. And yet Nicodemus's conversion is typical of many. When he was first confronted with the truth of the gospel, as we read, Nicodemus, he's confused. Because the message of the new birth is foreign to his thinking. Even though he was a well-educated religious leader and the pre-eminent theologian in Israel. And I think it's appropriate for us to look at this account of Nicodemus as we consider the situation that we find in the what I'll call the post-evangelical church today. We now have a generation, several generations, of self-described evangelical pastors and teachers who are a lot like Nicodemus. They've been contaminated by falsehoods. Mm-hmm. Well what do I mean by that? Well, for the past few generations, even if you've had a solid doctrinal upbringing as a young person in a church You go to a college or a seminary where you begin to hear things that undermine your confidence in the very existence of authentic scripture. And inevitably you become contaminated. Inevitably. Perhaps in ways you don't even realize. So where do you end up Where you end up is you come out of that environment and you come into church leadership and you're not as strong in the truth as you used to be. You're not as emphatic or determined or convinced about the reliability of the Bible as you should be. And all of this weakens and destroys that confidence in the Word of God in the next generation And it impacts evangelism, it impacts Bible translation, it impacts the life of the church It has produced this come as you are, stay as you are mentality that we find in so many places today. And in this digitally connected world, the contamination spreads at the speed of light. I was hearing uh Netanyahu, the Prime Minister of Israel, he was talking about some of the the the anti-Israel propaganda and he said, you know Lies these days spread at the speed of light. It takes a while for the truth to catch up. Mm-hmm. And we've got that kind of a situation in the church. The truth needs to catch up. Uh Can the situation be changed? Is post-evangelical Christian academia salvageable? Is the difficulties, the troubles in the churches thinking, the wrong view of thinking. Is that correctable? Well it certainly is. The Lord's the Lord's arm isn't shortened. But the f what's the first thing that's got to happen? Christian educators in the church have to get the doctrine of scripture right again. And that really was the essence of Nicodemus's problem. Here in John chapter 3. He had the same problem that the Roman Catholic leadership had at the time of the Protestant Reformation. Same problem. The traditions of men in place of the Word of God. The traditions of men, the doctrines and commandments of men over the Word of God. What's the cure for that? Well All we have to do is take a look at the great confessions of faith that were written at the time of the Protestant Reformation. How do they begin? Those great statements of the faith don't start out talking about Jesus. They don't start out talking about God or creation or man. Or about sin or salvation? Any of that? How do they begin? They begin by stating what is true about Holy Scripture. That's how they begin. Westminster Confession of Faith, London Baptist Confession, others that you'll see. Well how they begin. First heading of the Holy Scriptures. That's how they begin. Because everything that we're going to say after this is rooted and grounded and founded on this and this alone. This alone. Scripture first, scripture alone. The reformers recognize that the book that we hold in our hands is the only supernatural book. Well Until they have that right in their thinking, Christian seminary teachers and evangelical pastors today cannot receive and they cannot act on the evidence that authentic scripture does exist, that every Christian can have absolute confidence in it, and it's a generational problem. Uh one generation of pastors and professors has taught another, which has taught another, which has taught another. our our our board, Teaching the Word Ministries, our board, for the first time this week, uh we actually got to have Dr. Wilbur Pickering join our board meeting by Zoom from Brazil. And it was great. And one of the things that he said along the way he said, you know, we're talking about Christian academia, and he said He said virtually all professors in Christian academia are parrots. They're saying what somebody else learned what they learned from somebody else, which that person learned from somebody else, and They never delve in, dig into scripture itself. They rarely delve into scripture itself. And he cited some examples even from his own experience which were very interesting. Here's a really tough part of the problem. You're a seminary professor or you're a pastor. And In essence, you've believed and taught some wrong things for a long time. And you're passing on what you've been taught, the next generation views you as the subject matter expert Well, when you're confronted with the evidence, very often the hardest thing to do is to admit that you're wrong. That's true for any of us. It's true for any of us. And frankly, I think that many men and women in Christian education and in church leadership are going to have an awfully hard time admitting that they're wrong when faced with biblical truth. But that's where Nicodemus was when we first encounter him in John chapter 3. But time goes on. And Nicodemus, this man of a confused and hardened heart, becomes more open to the truth through the convicting work of the Holy Spirit through I think doubtless hearing the words of Jesus himself beyond this first encounter in John chapter 3. And we begin to see that the message of salvation through faith in Christ is becoming clearer. To Nicodemus. And scripture doesn't tell us the exact point when it happened, but at some point between that first encounter with Jesus and John chapter 3 And John chapter 19, when Jesus has died on the cross, sometime in that period, Nicodemus passed from confusion to conviction to conversion. And that's what we see. That's what I'd like for us to see together this morning. Well it might be good for us to just think about this for a minute. How does that happen? How does God save a sinner? How did God save us? What happens? Well, let's just briefly recall what the Word of God tells us. When a person is saved, Scripture tells us that a lot of things happen simultaneously. A lot of things. Here's a short list, and this is not all inclusive, but this perhaps hits the high points. Titus chapter 3, Ephesians chapter 2 tell us that we're regenerated We're made alive in Christ. That's where it all begins. Ephesians chapter 2 tells us, and other passages tell us, we're given the gift of saving faith. And it is a gift. 1 Corinthians chapter 2 tells us that we're given spiritual minds to understand the truth that we couldn't receive in our natural state. We needed that regenerated mind in order to understand the truth. Ephesians 1 tells us that we're given the Holy Spirit as the down payment on our ultimate redemption. Romans chapter 5, 1 Corinthians chapter 1, chapter 6, 2 Corinthians chapter 5 all tell us that we are positionally set apart in Christ. We're sanctified in Christ, set apart. Positional sanctification. We're justified. We're declared not guilty on the basis of Christ's perfect life and atoning death. Our sins are imputed to Him, His righteousness imputed to us. And Romans 8 and Galatians 3 tell us that we're adopted as God's sons. And Philippians 2 and many other passages tell us that we're set on a path. When we're saved, we're set on a path of personal inward sanctification, becoming more and more like the Lord Jesus Christ. And that is a cooperative work with the Holy Spirit. Philippians chapter 2 and elsewhere Romans 8, 1 John chapter 3 tells us that when we're saved, we immediately obtain the promise of ultimate glorification. And it is so sure that Romans 8 talks about it in the past tense that it's an already accomplished fact in the mind of God. This all happens the moment you're saved. It's quite a list. And that doesn't, yeah, there's a lot more we could say All these things are the workings of God's infinite grace. All these things appear simultaneous to the human eye. And to human eyes, they are simultaneous. We make no distinction between flipping the light switch and seeing the lights come off. Hmm. We really we really we don't make that distinction. Oh, I turned on the lights. The lights came on. But there is a distinction. There's no light until live voltage is applied to a dead circuit. And that's the same way with salvation. Regeneration has to happen first. None of the other things in this list can't happen unless regeneration happens first. As Jesus told Nicodemus, except a man be born again, he cannot see the kingdom of God. Let's take that apart a little bit I won't do it. People accuse me of giving too many Greek lessons from a pulpit. I won't do it. But the words here, born again. literally mean born from above. Born from above. And the words that are translated cannot see here. It's not talking about physical eyesight. It's talking about being able to perceive or discern. Except, let me put it this way, except someone be regenerated. They cannot perceive or discern the kingdom of God and all that that means. That's where it is. Not by works of righteousness which we have done, Titus 3. 5, but according to what? His mercy he saved us. By what? The washing of regeneration and renewing of the Holy Ghost. And and the word that's translated uh regeneration in Titus 3, 5 is from the same root as born again in John 3. 3. Same root. And then you get to 1 John 5. 1. And literally 1 John 5. 1 reads like this. Everyone who is believing continuously that Jesus is the Christ has been born of God. Everyone, and it's the same word again What it's literally saying is everyone who is believing that Jesus is the Christ has been regenerated. Has been regenerated. And it's a passive thing. It's a passive verb. It indicates that it's something that's an action that's done to us. It's received by us. It's not something that we do ourselves. It's not from within us. There's clear statement of cause and effect in Scripture that regeneration comes first, logically, causally. and that the rest follows. But it's not a matter of a time interval. It all happens at once, but this one thing must happen first. That's the first thing that God does. He regenerates us. That's the first thing he does. Why does Scripture make that distinction? Well, we've got millions of unregenerated professing Christians, don't we? What have they done? A lot of them have prayed a formula prayer They've filled out a decision card. They've gone forward in a meeting. They've joined a church and been baptized, but they have never experienced a regenerating work of the Holy Spirit. They're still dead in their trespasses and sins. And they may have taken that action for a lot of different reasons. They may have they may have done those things, one of those things to to avoid embarrassment. They may have done that sort of thing to get somebody off their back, to escape parental pressure, a young person, to be socially accepted in a church group. Or, as I knew one man, my one of my brother-in-law's father, one of my brother-in-law's fathers He he when when when when when Billy Graham came to Baltimore He wasn't a saved man and he died an unsaved man, but he wanted to go and go forward in that Billy Graham meeting because he'd get to go down on the ball field and see what it was like. That was the reason why he went down. And I'm sure he wasn't alone. I'm sure he wasn't alone. These people haven't exercised saving faith because they've never been given the new birth and saving faith Two things that are both the gift of God, two things that are imparted by the Holy Spirit simultaneously. Their faith is false because it's a work of their own, not a work of the Spirit. The message we're to preach is believe on the Lord Jesus Christ and thou shalt be saved, if thou shalt confess with thy mouth the Lord Jesus, and believe in thine heart that God has raised him from the dead. thou shalt be saved. For with the heart man believeth unto righteousness, and with the mouth confession is made unto salvation. This is, Paul calls this the supp the simplicity that is in Christ And and let me put it another way. We we take a certain position about predestination and election. But we don't need to tell anyone about predestination or election or the causal nature of regeneration in order to communicate the gospel. Those doctrines, those truths, are spiritual meat for the believer who's growing in Christ. It's the work of the Holy Spirit to enable those doctrines to take root in a believer as a believer grows in the grace and knowledge of Christ. Salvation is, and Scripture speaks of it this way, it's the secret work of the Spirit. He does this secret work in us. He does it in many different ways, uses many different things, many circumstances, most of them hidden from our view as we would look at somebody else But we're told the essence of how God does it. Jeremiah 17. 9, the heart is deceitful above all things and desperately wicked. Who can know it? How can a heart that is deceitful above all things and desperately wicked believe unto righteousness, Romans 10? Only when God gives a new heart by the new birth, by regeneration. Taking away the heart of stone, giving a heart of flesh. That's what happened to Nicodemus. But Nicodemus comes first to Jesus as a man in deep spiritual confusion. John 3, as we've read, we see that Nicodemus He's confused because he he's thinking of the new birth that Jesus is talking about in terms of the things of earth rather than the things of heaven. And that's what the teachers of the law had done with the precious truths of the books of Moses for centuries. They materialized the spiritual over and over and over again. And yet even in his earliest meeting with the Lord Jesus, Nicodemus was beginning to see that Jesus was no mere man. He realized that. Rabbi, we know thou art a teacher come from God. No man can do these miracles that thou doest except God be with him. But what does Jesus do? He doesn't even respond to that. He just immediately confronts Nicodemus with the issue. Verily I say unto thee, except a man be born again, he cannot see the kingdom of God. And What does Nicodemus say? How can a man be born when he's old? Can he enter a second time into his mother's womb and be born? He's focused on the physical. He's focused on the material. But Jesus, as we saw, as we read, Jesus explains it further. This is the difference between flesh and spirit, Nicodemus. This is the difference. You need to get that. And yet Nicodemus at this point couldn't receive this truth. Why is that? Because he was as yet the natural man that 1 Corinthians chapter 2 talks about. The natural man who cannot receive the things of the Spirit of God, their foolishness to him, because why? They're spiritually discerned. And he didn't yet have that discernment. So Nicodemus keeps saying, how can these things be? And Jesus pointed out to Nicodemus that this was his condition. Jesus says this. He says, art thou a master of Israel and knowest not these things? And here in the original Greek, there's a definite article and the statement is declarative. It doesn't have a question mark at the end. It's like this, it's more literally like this. You are the preeminent master teacher in Israel, and you don't know these things. And later in John's Gospel, we find Nicodemus's heart being moved from this initial state of confusion. We find him Turning in its focus away from the works, religion, and the tradition of the Pharisees, and we see it in two very distinct places. First of all, we find Nicodemus exhibiting a greater openness to the gospel message. And when that began to happen, as Nicodemus came under the conviction of Jesus preaching Nicodemus opposed his fellow Pharisees. That was the first turning point that we see. We come over to John chapter 7. John chapter 7 beginning at verse 31. And we find this leads up to another mention of Nicodemus, John 7, beginning at verse 31. And many of the people believed on him, on Jesus, and said, When Christ cometh, will he do more miracles than these which this man hath done? The Pharisees heard that the people murmured such things concerning him, and the Pharisees and the chief priests sent officers to take him, that is, to arrest Jesus. But then come down to verse 30, verse 45. Verse 45 and note what we find. Then came the officers of the chief to the chief priests and Pharisees, and they said to them, Why have ye not brought him? Why didn't you arrest him? And the officers answered, never man spake like this man. Here the officers who were sent to arrest Jesus but refused to do so, they were in a sense echoing what Nicodemus had said in John chapter 3, Rabbi, we know that you're a teacher from God, because no man could do what you're doing. if God were not with him. But the legalistic Pharisees here in this chapter, verse 47, they scoff at this. They they answered them and they said the the men that they had sent to arrest Jesus and then answered them the Pharisees, are ye also deceived? Have any of the rulers of the Pharisees believed on him? But this people who knoweth not the law are cursed. Now clearly Nicodemus, who was a leader of the Pharisees Had not yet come to the point of publicly declaring himself to be a believer in Christ. That comes later. But the convicting work of the Spirit has clearly begun. We come down to verse 50 and what do we find? Nicodemus saith unto them, he that came to Jesus by night, being one of them, he's a Pharisee. Nicodemus says, Doth our law judge any man before it hear him and know what he doeth? And they answered and said to him, Art thou also of Galilee? Search and look, for out of Galilee ariseth no prophet. Nicodemus was drawing a line. He's already drawing a line. This is the beginning of Nicodemus's break from the old covenant. And from this point onward until John chapter 19, we hear nothing about Nicodemus. Not a word. Well we come to John chapter 19 and we find that God the Holy Spirit has continued his work in Nicodemus' heart. After Jesus' death on the cross, Nicodemus was willing to openly identify himself with the Savior. And he was used of God, marvelously used of God, to demonstrate that Jesus had indeed risen from the dead. God used Nicodemus to do that. And what we see here in John's Gospel is the fact that Nicodemus' conversion is typical of many people. When they're first confronted with the truth of the gospel, the message of the new birth is foreign to a person's thinking. And that can be true even of somebody who is a well-educated religious teacher. We were talking about this with Dr. Pickering. Uh last Tuesday when when uh When the committee was formed in the 1950s that took responsibility for uh producing and managing what's called the critical text of the New Testament, the corrupted text of the New Testament that's been used for Bible translation worldwide for decades now. Dr. Pickering, you know, he named the men. I mean it was easy for him to name off the names. Including, among the five, Cardinal Martini of the Vatican, who later almost became Pope. But they're there, they're in charge, and Dr. Pickering says, there's not a man among them that knows the Lord. There's not a man among them that believes that what they're dealing with is the inspired Word of God. Not a man. And you've you've got so much of that among well-educated religious leaders and teachers today. But Nicodemus's heart opens, the Lord opens his heart. John 19, we find that Nicodemus is a convert. And soon after God uses Nicodemus and Joseph of Arimathea in a really remarkable way. Turn, please, if you would, to John chapter 19, beginning at verse 38. John 19, beginning at verse 38. And after this, Joseph of Arimathea, being a disciple of Jesus, but secretly for fear of the Jews. Besought Pilate that he might take away the body of Jesus. And Pilate gave him leave. He came therefore and took the body of Jesus. And there came also Nicodemus which at the first came to Jesus by night, and brought a mixture of myrrh and aloes about an hundred pound weight Then they took the body of Jesus and wound it in linen clothes with the spices, as the manner of the Jews is to bury. Now in the place where he was crucified there was a garden, and in the garden a new sepulchre wherein was never man yet laid. There laid they Jesus, therefore Because of the Jews' preparation day for the sepulchre was nigh at hand. Here is the preeminent think about this. Here is the preeminent teacher of the law in Israel. A man who would have the reputation of being the absolute strictest keeper of the ceremonial law. And what's going to happen tomorrow? This is the evening. What's going to happen tomorrow? One of the highest, holiest, most sacred days in the Jewish ceremonial calendar. And what does Nicodemus do? He makes himself ceremonially unclean by touching a dead body on the very eve of one of the old covenant system's greatest holy days. This was unthinkable. Numbers chapter 19, beginning at verse 11. He that toucheth the dead body of any man shall be unclean for seven days He shall purify himself with it on the third day, and on the seventh day he shall be clean. But if he purify not himself on the third day, then the seventh day he shall not be clean Whosoever toucheth the dead body of any man that is dead, and purifieth not himself, defileth the tabernacle of the Lord, and that soul shall be cut off from Israel. So, Nicodemus does this. Nicodemus is publicly and dramatically divorcing himself from that old system. The next day comes, this great holy day, and the Jews are gathered at the temple, and we can imagine that the Pharisees and the Sanhedrin and many of the common people are asking, where's Nicodemus? Where's Nicodemus? Oh, he can't be here because he made himself ceremonially unclean. He touched a dead body. Who's dead body? Jesus, that man we crucified yesterday. That man who claimed to be the Son of God. That's who Nicodemus defiled himself with ceremonially. That was the position that Nicodemus put himself in. He He wasn't physically present, but he made a very public statement, didn't he? No man would have taken the risk of doing this apart from the continued work of the Holy Spirit within him. He was risking his life, truly risking his life. And furthermore, in God's plan, Nicodemus now helped to provide the physical means by which The physical evidence of Jesus' resurrection from the dead comes about. Nicodemus brings this mixture. Along with strips of linen and spices used by the Jews to wrap a corpse for burial, and I mean wrap wind and wind and wind and wind and wind. And the enclosure of claws and spices, you probably know this, that would very quickly harden into a shell that was the shape of the body inside. And so we read in John chapter 20, beginning at verse 4, we read this: that on the first day of the week following Jesus' crucifixion and burial, Joseph and Nicodemus have wrapped the body, they've buried it in this tomb. And Peter and John hear from Mary Magdalene that Jesus' body is no longer in the tomb. And John chapter 20, beginning at verse 4, tells us that they both ran together, Peter and John. The other disciple did outrun Peter, came first to the sepulchre, and he stooping down, looking in, saw the linen clothes lying, yet he went not in. Then cometh Peter. Good old impetuous Peter cometh following him, and he went into the sepulchre, and seeeth the linen clothes lie, and the napkin that was about his head not lying with the linen clothes, but wrapped together in a place by itself. The words that are translated, the linen clothes lie, seeing the linen clothes lie, more accurately it would be like this, seeing the linen burial wrappings standing as they had been placed. In other words, the strips of linen containing the hundreds of pounds of burial spices that Joseph and Nicodemus had used to wrap Jesus' body were not disturbed in any way. The shell is there, but the body's gone. There's now an empty shell. The body hasn't been moved or stolen. Can't say that. Can't say it. The evidence is there making it clear that that did not happen. And then verse 8, then went in also that other disciple. John, which came first to the sepulchre, and he saw and believed. That is, he believed Mary's testimony that Jesus' body was no longer in the tomb. For as yet They knew not the scripture. They did not understand the scripture that he must rise again from the dead. That understanding would soon come. They would see him themselves. And he would appear to them repeatedly during the following 40 days before his ascension into heaven. But that knowledge began to dawn on the disciples because two Jewish religious leaders who had become believers, Joseph of Arimathea and Nicodemus the Pharisee had in the sovereign plan of God provided what now produced the clear physical evidence that Jesus was indeed risen from the dead exactly as he said he would be A miraculous resurrection, a bodily resurrection, as some of the confessions say, in the same body in which he went into the tomb. Let's be clear about this. We're not talking about a spiritual resurrection. We're not talking about a different body. This body that went into the tomb is the one that came out. Well, there there are a lot of important lessons that we could draw from this. I just would want to mention a a few. And part of it has to do with the fact that I I suppose many of us, perhaps all of us Find ourselves yearning for the work of the Spirit in an unsaved loved one, a friend, acquaintance. I I pray often for the salvation of the President of the United States. Jesus said it's easier for a camel to go through the eye of a needle than for Donald Trump to be saved. But but but the Lord is able. The Lord is able. Uh The Spirit controls the timing of salvation. The Spirit controls that. We've got these time gaps on Nicodemus's road. Nicodemus's road to the narrow gate. John chapter 3, we see him coming. confused, he's even offended by Jesus' declarations. John chapter 7 we find Nicodemus clearly under conviction. clearly thinking about things. He's willing to listen further to Jesus himself, and he's urging his fellow Pharisees to give him a fair hearing. And then, at what Nicodemus and others must have thought was the sad and bitter end of everything, we find Nicodemus a convert. Find him along with Joseph of Arimathea preparing Jesus' body for burial in a way that would soon provide the physical evidence that Jesus was indeed bodily risen from the dead. God performs his unseen work in each person, and in some are said, to our limited vision, salvation would seem to be immediate. That can happen. Somebody who was just an absolute miserable wretched reprobate suddenly completely turned around. That happens. You can see that. That happens. In still other cases, that work of conviction, of sin, and of righteousness and of judgment takes longer. And we don't even see necessarily all that's going on. I've known of cases where someone has come to Christ and mentioned In retrospect, you know, there were these things along the way that pointed me to Christ. And it took time, but the Lord brought me to Himself. That's right. Never stopped praying, never stop witnessing. Who knows what the Lord can do? Who can tell? Who can tell? And there are going to be cases where our witness is going to have a different kind of effect. It's going to magnify the condemnation of the one who refuses Christ. That's reality also. That's the Lord's sovereign business. Dr. Pickering was saying this on Tuesday. He said, you know, the prophet's not responsible for what people do with the message. He's just responsible for giving it. And that's that's our part. That's our part. Even the most religious person needs the new birth. We see that here. I think of A number of men that I was involved with in church circles in the past who at first I thought were truly believers I mean, I'm talking religious men, I'm talking seminary professors, I'm talking beloved pastors. Who in the end demonstrated and with their mouths spoke the fact that they denied the faith, they denied Christ. Even the most religious person needs the new birth. They demonstrated in the end that they never had it. Sad. Sad. But even the most religious person needs the new birth Understanding and submitting to Christ meant putting aside all the false man-made theology that Nicodemus had been trained in from the time he was a kid, I'm sure. Probably from the time he was twelve onward. But one final thing. Note that God used a new believer here. Use this man Nicodemus, who is a fairly new believer. To perform an unexpected act, and an act that in and of itself at the time was not seen by many people. Uh wasn't it wasn't a big public demonstration. It wasn't the mass evangelism crusade bringing the sports star who is supposedly now a convert up on stage and giving some kind of a thing called a testimony and then you find out that he's right back living the life of sin that he was living before. Uh this wasn't like that. This wasn't like that. Uh God can use a convert in unexpected ways. And he does that. He does that. We find that Nicodemus, he's not preparing himself for this high Sabbath by making sure with meticulous certainty that he's ceremonially clean. But he's deliberately making himself ceremonially unclean by preparing a dead body for a grave because he recognizes that true cleansing from sin is in Christ. He's this now humbled master teacher of the law who serves as the mortician for his savior. What an incredible thing. What an incredible thing. Do you have loved ones or friends or acquaintances to whom you've witnessed there seems to be no change, there seems to be no hope? Don't give up. Don't stop praying. Don't stop witnessing. The Spirit of God is at work. Is at work. He's accomplishing his purposes. Trust in the work of the Holy Spirit. The Spirit who said, the Spirit and the bride say come, and let him who hears say come, and let him who thirsts come. Whoever desires. Let him take the water of life freely. Pray that that desire for the water of life would be imparted in the soul. 1 Thessalonians 1. 5, for our gospel did not come to you in word only, but also in power and in the Holy Spirit. And in much assurance. Amen. Let's pray. Father, we are the recipients of so great a salvation. We thank you that you put it into the heart of such a man as Nicodemus to be used as the instrument. To provide the visible proof that our Savior had risen bodily from the dead To live evermore and to reign evermore, and to intercede for us at your throne We thank you for the intercession of such a Savior. We thank you for the work of your Holy Spirit in our own lives. And oh Father, uh I I think this morning just now of the of the little ones among us. And pray, Father. We trust and hope that you have begun that good work. We pray, Father, in years to come, days to come, that we would see that bear fruit, that you would raise up. another generation of the remnant. Believing on the Lord Jesus Christ, being true to you, counting all things loss for the sake of the Savior. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Thank you. Thank you, brother. Appreciate that very much. Return to our closing song number 664 in your songbook. Am I a soldier of the cross? The brothers spoke about continuing to witness and to pray for unsaved loved ones. Praying, yes. Seemingly that might be the easy part, but are you a soldier? Are you witnessing? You have to speak, you have to open your mouth, God gave you a mouth. We can talk about something other than what we watched on TV this week, can't we? 664. Am I a soldier of the cross And we'll sing all four stanzas. The mice soldier of the cross of all her of the For the last name must I became To the skies on our reads of beast while others for two price And self register are there no bold for me to face? Must I not stand the law? Is this my world over and the grace to help me on to God? Sure, I must find it. If I would rain increase my course, I'll bear the sword toward a face so for define. Amen, amen, please be seated.