And leave lots of room for questions because I think that's a little bit more beneficial. We're in Hebrews 11, 7, where we're going to read about Noah's project. I call it his project. We know it by another name, so I'm trying to give it a little spin here. Hebrews 11, 7, we read this, By faith Noah, being warned of God Of things not seen as yet. That's a big theme throughout Hebrews 11. Not seen as yet, not seen. Moved with fear, prepared an ark to the saving of his house by the which he condemned the world and became heir of the righteousness which is by faith. So what is the single largest task that you have ever undertaken in your life? You're laughing back there. The single largest task you've ever undertaken in your life. Uh they got some very high classified stuff on that left. I don't know what I was doing. So at work they dumped a huge mountain of stuff onto your desk and I'm sure they gave you ample instructions on what to do. Here in your spare time knock yourself out and you have to go figure out a whole pile of stuff, Mary. The single largest task you've ever had to undertake in your life. Raising God's two sons. Raising God's two sons. Yeah, that is a lifelong endeavor. That certainly would be a lifelong endeavor. Uh anybody else? What's the biggest single task you've ever undertaken? A big one. Getting married, that turned out to be a bigger job than you anticipated. Yeah, that's husbands need a lot of help. Lisa and then Joe? I would say mentally helping going through the process and James and dying, that was the hardest thing I've ever had to do because to care for him. I mean it was easy but it was hard mentally You know, I loved them all the way up to the end and you know that was hard. And it's um it's still hard. So that's defined. Yeah. I I could certainly see that um for those who couldn't hear the uh police's challenge was mentally dealing with the death of her husband who was diagnosed with a terminal illness and you know the work per se wasn't hard but just mentally navigating through all of that. That that is very, very difficult Um building one church building from foundation to finish and redoing us an 80-year-old church building, a different building. stripped to the bare walls with all no no rafters, nothing, just the concrete walls and starting over again with that building. And then rebuilding the mission compound and a thirty-five foot water tower built out of commit cement blocks over a period of years. Yeah. Uh life as a foreign missionary in a country that doesn't have Home Depots scattered all abroad and they uh Mission budget that is uh pennies a day, not uh dollars a minute type of thing. Well I'll never be broke. I I know too good, I know. Penny and I both groaned. Jeffrey Someone I managed a construction project, but it was for others and that made it a little more difficult than being able to bear the mistakes of our own Construction projects, uh work projects, uh life, family, marriage projects. Those are not unusual. Uh I'm gonna pick on Gabriel because I know he's had some difficult projects in life. Well, the most difficult project in a day for me was running a marathon. Um But over a time is probably taking care of Mrs. Ross and Holly as well. You did jump leap in and and greatly assist Mrs. Ross when and at the loss of her eye, and he still does of course as a steward of her house while doing college full-time as well. That was very much an admirable one. I actually had in mind the sporin that you made out of a raccoon. You had to find it, catch it, grab it, skin it, and patch it together, get Tata to help you make it and so forth. Yeah Well, today is about NOAA and I do have a handout near you if you haven't found it. Victoria will bring it up on screen at the appropriate time. Um and um because Noah is perhaps one of my most favorite biblical patriarchs really. Uh the first thing you see and the one that Victor will bring up on screen, he is the bridge to our knowledge of the antediluvian world. You know, he lived, if you look at this map from Rose's book of Bible charts, uh you kind of see a timeline of events Just study that for a moment in that timeline there. Notice that all of his ancestors, Methuselah and Lamech, they all died before the flood. So the line of the godly was departed when Noah's flood occurred. And then Noah continued to live after the flood. And look at when his uh who overlapped him? Abraham. And Abraham, of course, did a lot of sojourning and wound up uh with the um uh uh uh with the records back to that time and that would have been conveyed on then to another uh to uh to a fellow Jew named Moses who would later actually put it into the modern form of communication known as writing So he is our bridge back to that antediluvian world. Everything we know about the period of time from Adam, all these people, would have come through Noah. He's the one that would have told us all that information. And then um and in fact Noah Abraham uh I want you also look at while we're looking at number one and Noah's life work. Uh does anybody know off top of their head how many years Noah was working on the Ark? 120 years. 120 years you get that from the fifth chapter where God says that his days with man would not He wouldn't endure with man more than 120 years. So that's how much time Noah had to work on an ark. Well his life work on that ark lasted longer than uh Abraham's life work I mean you think about Abraham and just sojourning in the land of promise and not perceiving it, and yet Noah, his his job went far better. Second point is uh and this is where I kind of get uh impressed, is I'm already impressed, but he was the greatest engineer ever recorded, period. He saved the entire race with his inspired invention. Um all that God gave him were the major top level requirements, the size of the boat. It wasn't a boat like you and I think it with a V-shaped hull because it didn't need propulsion because it wasn't going anywhere. It was really more like a barge If you look at the very large vessels that come from China that sail across the ocean, their dimensions from a from a height, wenth, width, length perspective are very equivalent to Noah's Ark. It would have been very stable in any kind of tumultuous ways. They've done dynamic studies on that. So he wouldn't have known that, right? In his day, they didn't know what rain was. It was a mist that went up from the ground and watered the earth. But if you look at what information God gave him to go on, and we will look at that in a moment, it wasn't much. There was a tremendous amount of detail that had to be broken down. And a fellow named John Woodmore put out a book that said Noah's Ark of Feasibility Study and it's several hundred pages long and what it basically does is goes through and say well If I were an engineer in Noah's day, given those requirements, here's how the Ark could have been built to carry out the mission, because it was some basic dimensions and a mission. You and your family, two of every animal in the Ark, and you're going to survive the flood. That's enough to know what the mission is, and then he could elicit requirements from that. He could break them down further. John Woodmarap has done that. I believe I I don't have any confirmation of this, but I wouldn't be surprised that Ken Ham and his crew uh it was the Amish who built the ark at the Noah's exhibit in Kentucky. Yeah, because they're the woodworkers. Right, they if you're going to turn to skilled, knowledgeable woodworkers, it was the Amish, and that's who they turned to. And they did a fabulous job, no surprise. So you can actually go see them. Third thing about Noah is that there are over 300 flood legends in North and South America alone. Those two continents. A civil engineer with a PhD began to become fascinated with this constant theme of flood legends. in Indian tribes and races. What's in your handout number three seems to be like a map and little arrows pointing to it. It's not an eye chart. It's just intended to show that Here's the location of where these different p ethnic people groups have lived and the legends that are associated with it. And they all have themes and elements that are consistent. What's fascinating about that is even though they differ, they will Put things in it, you know, the great bird came and did whatever, or you know, our god said whatever. You know, those little things, some of the factoids are removed, but the fundamental theme is there You don't find a big ball from space came, hit ground, kill dinosaurs. You don't hear about a great earthquake. That's not the common theme. You don't find that anywhere that people are having ancient themes of an asteroid hitting the planet. In fact, this one evolutionary idea that an asteroid hit in the Gulf of America, formerly known as the Gulf of Mexico uh was what killed the dinosaur. Do you know there's absolutely no proof for any such asteroid strike there? And yet it's held out as the chief reason why dinosaurs died. They've done all kinds of research to try to validate that, not found. Not found. And it's not even found in the flood legends either. So on two continents, I don't think that's coincidental. Fourth point is that as a former geologist slash geophysicist, geologically The flood answers all of the major rock formations that you find today. Every single one of them is answered by the flood of Noah's Day, to include the Ice Age That's the fascinating thing for me. I never understood at first how the flood affected the ice age, but it very much did. The current models, and again I I Folks, I'm I'm rich for rabbit trail on this, so I'm going to try to be brief on this, but the current evolutionary models say, well, it was cold externally, and so the water was cold, and all their models they run shows that you get a lot of um ice um uh i in different parts but but not enough to make the the the the kind of ice age errors we've seen. But the flood of Noah's Day does answer it because what Noah's flood would have produced would have been warm ocean waters. So the water would be warm, which means you'd have lots of moisture and evaporation, because when it's really cold, what is it? Dry. Your skin cracks. It's very dry. Well you would have had a very warm ocean, which means it would have been percolating like that, throwing off and you would have had a blackened sky because of all the uh volcanic eruptions and everything else that would have been thrown to the atmosphere. So you have a dark sky and a warm bubbling water. You have a perfect combination to make ice and snow and lots of it. Perfect combination. You can't duplicate that. You can't boil the ocean again. It's not going to happen. So it answers so much, and a fellow named Dr. Walter Brown wrote a book called In the Beginning which I highly recommend. It's a great reference toolbook. His credentials are incredible. He taught at the Air Force Academy a number of places. uh PhDs, very very competent teacher, but he writes at a high school level and lots of pictures. I like pictures. Lots of pictures, right? Every page is loaded with pictures, except when he gets to the footnotes And you can read his book for free online. You don't have to buy it. I would recommend buying it, but you can read it for free online. What's included in that book is his collection, over the 20 years of his research, of a numerous credible sightings of Noah's Ark. from Air Force pilots who have flown over it to Army, people deployed in the Army, in the Kurd regions with the Lourdes. And having trekked up Mount Ararat and having seen it to a young boy, uh having hiked up there with his father and walked around on it, and then some is you know, umpty squat years later, meeting up with the Air Force pilot and the two are describing what they saw. And the man who's the artist drawing it, the hair goes up in the back of his neck. These fellows are describing the same thing They were correcting each other's details. No, it was like this. One of the fascinating details of the report is that the door of the ark opened up like a garage door. It didn't fall down flat. It came from the top and went up like that. Makes sense. You don't want animals tromping on your door. So just little things like I just I'm just very fascinated with Noah and maybe one of these days I could do some more work on that. But let's talk about our text for the moment Because Noah's rec record to this day remains suppressed due to the past and future ramifications for it. There's a reason why it's suppressed. Because you can't get around a global catastrophic flood taking out the whole human race, with the exception of one nut job who built who happened to build an ark, happened to be big enough not just for his family, but to bring in a bunch of animals. and food, you you can't you don't have an answer for that. There's only a divine response to that. And God knows it, and man knows it, and so he suppresses the truth and unrighteousness. So we find, first of all, let's turn now to Genesis chapter 6. We're going to look at Noah's reputation because I want to consider now this first part of the seventh verse Noah warned of God, things not seen as yet, moved with fear, prepared an ark. Let's look at Noah's reputation. We find, first of all, in the sixth chapter of Genesis, and in the fifth verse We read this, and God saw that the wickedness of man was great in the earth. And that every imagination of the thoughts of his heart was only evil continually. I cannot imagine being around such a people. But then again, maybe I can. Verse 6, it repented the Lord, they made man the earth, it greeted him his heart, verse 7 The Lord said, I will destroy man whom I have created. And then lo and behold, we get to verse 8, where it says, But Noah Found grace in the eyes of the Lord. He found grace, he found favor. Verse 9 is interesting too. These are the generations, the Toledoth, we talked about that last week, the history, of Noah. Noah was a just man and perfect in his generations, and Noah walked with God. Noah walked with God. He found grace in the eyes of the Lord. He found favor in the eyes of the Lord. But Noah walked with God. What do these verses tell us about Noah? What was his relationship to Yahweh? Any thoughts? Very close. Very close Anything else? He had a desire toward God that those around him didn't have. Interesting, he had a desire toward God that those around him didn't have. What was in your thoughts or your considerations, maybe putting yourself in Noah's shoes for the moment, what was Noah's relationship to other men in the in that antediluvian world? I mean not very good. But yet he found people to do good work for probably his sons He might have hired others. He might have hired others. It says that they are. Yeah, the armature everywhere. But that's a good thing usually. Doesn't scripture call him a preacher of righteousness at this point? Yeah. In fact that's uh the the the other uh verse we have here. It's it's in your handout, 2 Peter 2. 5. God spared not the old world But saved Noah, the eighth person, now it doesn't mean he was the eighth from Adam, is talking about one of eight on the ark. A preacher of righteousness. So Noah was a preacher, he found grace in God's eyes. I read an article on three of her before too, that this boat could never have been built today. You guys have the best engineers in the world. If you couldn't have got permission from the environmentalists to cut the trees down Around in the area. You know, there'd be water from diverting, you know, some creek or somewhere. Uh the mesh you might be leaving behind. Uh they probably were spray painting it and setting on fire to it as much as they could to stop this thing from being built. Well I mean the government regulations they would never allow this boat to be built. That's interesting. Not of wood. That's interesting, yeah. They would have uh fought against it and I don't believe even if they had gotten all the permissions that they would have found suitable material for. Because the keel that Noah sailed on would have been at least sixty to eighty years old. It would have taken him a long time to figure out how to build it first But you're sailing on some mighty old timber, and that timber was all hand cut, and there were no nails in it in all likelihood. It would have been pegs In fact, the, this is another rabbit trail we'll try to be brief on, but the early boat makers and the early sailors all had a very common way of building boats Some had surmised could it have been from their knowledge that Shem, Ham, and Japheth passed along? Here's how we built the boat. Mortise and tenon with pins in it. so that the wood swells in the water, keeping it watertight, all kinds of interesting techniques that they use without nails. So, but anyway, back to to Noah. Thanks for that. He would have been reproving the wicked of his day. He would have been preaching against them. He would have been reaching repent. And in fact, you can't argue that there was no salvation for others In fact, the design for the arc was such that it would have been at most three-quarters full. You would have had ample extra space had somebody else wanted to come on board. There would have been room. There would have been room But I strongly suspect they were all laughing at Noah. Bill Cosby made a routine about that back in the day. It was actually kind of a clean routine on Noah, but they were mocking them, mocking him. Just as they will do God's people today. Look at God's warning. It says he was warned of God, of things not seen as yet. You know, the earth had not seen a flood. They've not seen it The book that um well let me let me let me read the uh uh text here, Genesis 6, 9-13. These are the generations of Noah. Noah was a just man, perfect as generations. He walked with God. Noah begat three sons, Shem, Ham, and Japheth The earth also was corrupt before God, and the earth was filled with violence. And God looked upon the earth, and behold it was corrupt. For all flesh had corrupted his way upon the earth. And God said unto Noah, The end of all flesh has come before me, for the earth is filled with violence through them, and behold, I will destroy them with the earth. Now for the moment here, imagine that you are on the receiving end of this. If you're a man, pretend you're Noah. If you're a woman, pretend you're Mrs. Noah. We don't know what her name is, but we'll just call her Mrs. Noah. What would have gone through your mind if you received this message from God? Impossible. Impossible. How's that going to happen? Yeah. What would have gone through your mind? Now remember, Noah walked with God. He's close with God. What would go through your mind? Possibly gratitude for a warning. You know, s if someone tells you there's there's danger ahead or even you know somebody flips their lights because there's radar, it's like, oh, hey, thanks. Gratitude for the warning? Yeah. Maybe dumb with silence? Where are you gonna get the material? Well they haven't told them about the ark yet. This is just the warning. This is just what God yeah, this is just the warning. This is just the bad news part. Yeah, we'll get to that too. The bad news part. Interesting we have this thing news right now. What's our reaction? You said we have the same news right now. Could you expand on that sir? We don't know today, but he is coming, he will destroy the earth and all the unsaved in it. Yeah, yeah, that's interesting. Yeah. It's a thing not seen You know, people would mock that. Rain? What what rain? Don't you know water comes bubbling up? It doesn't come down. The Hebrew passage does say move with fear was part of his reaction. Yeah, part of his reaction, move with fear. Oh, you're just scratching your head. How he worries about his family? Like what's gonna happen to otherwise? Yeah. Yeah, yeah, as you as it begins to sink in, 'cause it's heavy news, this is not like, oh did you see the flowers today, they're blooming so nice Oh, by the way, I got a message from God. Everything's going to be destroyed here pretty soon. And the whole human race and the earth with it. The earth with it? Are we all going to die? How are we going to escape? Because he hasn't told him that that he's going to be spared. I mean, this is a grievous message. And then we maybe they thought he had lunatic. Not at this point. He was pretty s pretty sober. Yeah. When he gets off the ark and he sees that he's three he's safe. Woo-hoo, plant a vineyard. Took him three years to get to the wine. Longer than that probably to get to wine Same thing now. What's happening now? It's the same thing. Nobody's uh listening. Nobody's listening, they don't take it seriously. They think you're a lunatic. You know, if you want to it's like knitting. If you want to knit that's harmless, but it's not anything of a that's a of a thrat. Yeah. Let's look at Noah's preparation and what he's got, what the task that he's been given. Alright? Look at Genesis 6, 14 to 21 now. So God gives him this tremendous fear, this heavy, heavy news. He's moved with fear, and now he prepares an arch for the saving his house. So listen to these requirements God says this, Genesis 6. 14. Make thee an ark of gopher wood. Now we don't know what that wood actually is. That that rendition, I don't believe, is found elsewhere in the New Old Testament. Somebody correct me if I'm wrong. Rooms shalt thou make in the ark. So it's going to have rooms in it, it's not one big ballroom. And shalt pitch it within and without with pitch. This would be uh some type of tarry substance, something really tarry. Well, lots of tar. Makes it waterproof. And this is the fashion which thou shalt make of it. The length of the arch shall be three hundred cubits, a cubit, foot and a half. Now there's the Egyptian cubit and there's the standard cubit, but if you take it at a foot and a half That's gonna be about four hundred and fifty feet long or what is that in yards, hundred and fifty yards. Uh that's uh yeah that that's larger than a football stadium. That's mighty big. The breadth of it, fifty cubits, the height of it, thirty cubits. A window shalt thou make to the ark, in a cubit shalt thou finish it above And the door of the ark shalt thou set in the side thereof, with lower second and third story shalt thou make it. Alright, so he's every if it's thirty cubits tall you got Three stories, you got ten cubits per story. Hey, so we can figure out how tall each of the stories are going to be at a minimum. Maybe it's different, but just three three stories. And behold, I, even I, do bring a flood of waters upon the earth to destroy all flesh, wherein is the breath of life, from under heaven And everything that is in the earth shall die. But with thee will I establish my covenant. Thou shalt come into the ark, thou and thy sons and thy wife and thy sons' wives with thee And of every living thing of all flesh, two of every sort shalt thou bring into the ark, to keep them alive with thee. They shall be male and female, fowls after their kind, cattle after their kind. Of every creeping thing after his kind. Now he's not talking about caterpillars, he's mostly talking about dinosaur reptilian things. They they creep upon upon the ground. Two of every sort shall come unto thee to keep them alive, and take thou unto thee of all food that is eaten, and thou shalt gather it unto thee, and it shall be food for thee and for them. Alright, my next question. Woo. That's kind of short. That was verses 14 to 21, eight verses inclusive. You're a farmer. You're a cattleman. You've just been handed the task of building an ark. Okay What are your concerns about carrying out this project? Just the feasibility. Where are you gonna get all these animals? Feasibility? Where are we gonna get all these animals What else? Who's gonna help me? Who's gonna help me? This is a lot of work. God tells him to bring in food, but doesn't tell him how long the journey is going to be. How the fuck can be said? How much food? Yeah, bring in food, but an undetermined, unspecified amount of time. That's exactly right. God didn't tell him when it would land Yeah, very good. And I wonder who's going to help the sinners are going to help them to build the the ark probably. Yeah, how's he gonna g yeah, it's a big job. Am I gonna have to convince these sinners to help me all these sinners helping them Yeah, if they were willing. Well they would probably they have because he was not going to be able to do it. He's got a hundred and twenty years to do it, he and his family. It's a long test. I don't know that he did I'm I'm not convinced of that fact yet. I haven't seen Noah's Ark and I gotta see the reason for it, but scripture doesn't record. All the others helped him to build the ark. But he has a hundred and twenty years. Remember, he's got a hundred and twenty years. He used them. He used them to do the the if they were willing. If they were willing. Okay. If they were w they would have had to been paid off to be willing. Uh I got the cheat side. I I read the feasibility of the order. Oh you did. It's quota with pitch inside as well as outside because it acts as a deodorant. It it won't stink with all the animals inside. And something that that he did not know, that we know now. When the climate changes radically, which it didn't in Noah's day, but when it changes radically, mammals go into hibernation. He doesn't need enough food to feed these animals for a whole six months or eight months. A lot of animals go into hibernation. Birds go into what's called estivation, and they don't have to be fed that much either. So there but he didn't know that because there was no radical climate change before. But so he thinks how many that's not enough food to feed on his animals for whatever But most of them are going to sleep during it. So it's not gonna be a lot of shelving and error on the side and you know the the feasibility of the art is is a great book. All the things they wanted everybody about you couldn't find room for them Uh he's not bringing in thirty-foot-high dinosaurs. He's bringing in young dinosaurs, young cows, young horses, who don't even they're not even old enough to reproduce yet. They're small, they're little, but they're very fertile when they get off that boat So yeah, what other concerns would you have? So yeah, the stench, the animals, the size, how much food, the pinch, why the pinch, uh, you and then Jeff N not as much as a concern, but an observation. Scripture does not tell us, but there's the likelihood that that Noah may have been a wealthy man to begin with, with a household full of servants So he may have had a ready workforce in addition to his sons. You know, just as many of the Old Testament men had it tells how many servants that Job had and so on. You start to ask that, well we built the uh the ark for you and then you're not letting us in. Well they I will concede we we we're short on time. I will concede that obviously a big concern is labor force Do we all agree on that? Labor force. This is a mighty big task. There's a reason I'm touching that that I'm drawing that out, because that's good. Uh hold on just a second. Jeffrey, yeah. That would be a lot of rooms because animals might eat other animals. I mean that's just what they do So obviously this is a big task and getting your head around it is not something we can do in five minutes in a Sunday school and he probably gave himself if he's a farmer, he's a rancher. I mean this is This seems like totally out of his ballpark, but do you see how God is giving an engineering task that's mighty tall and mighty steep to what might appear to be an unqualified individual Right? Do you see that? And do you see how there's a swarm of questions? And it he may think he knows how to do something, but he stumbles into it, messes up, and he a trial and error Do you see how God's operating? But the success formula with Noah is that he walked with God. The success aspect is that he found favor in the eyes of the Lord. And so As Jeffrey was alluding to a little earlier, it's kind of the same for us now, isn't it? We have a mighty big task. What's our commission? Go into all the world and preach the gospel. By the way, that's not something you can outsource. Can I get the wicked to go into all the world for me and preach the gospel? How willing are they to do that? How much can I pay them to get them to do that? They're just not interested in it. They don't have a heart for it. I'm wasting my time. Why am I banging on this wood? I got a field to till. I've got other these are farmers They didn't go to their Amazon warehouse job back in the day. That's not their line of business. And we are moved with fear likewise that this earth in its entirety will be destroyed, not by a flood, but by fire. And all the wicked will perish, and the only way of safety and escape for you and I is to be found in one and only one ark, and that ark has a name And his name is Jesus Christ. And if you're not found in him when he comes, and we don't know when he's coming, we don't know how long our task on this planet is lasting, but we do know this. That when those last two, stop for me for a moment, chickens went onto the ark, and he struck them in their cage, and Noah stood back. Done. God shut the door. And how many parables do you read in scriptures when the Son of Man comes? And he shuts the door. And you begin to ask without, saying, let us in. We know that when this task of evangelizing the world is done That God is not slack concerning his promise, as men count slackness as long-suffering to us, not willing that any of us, meaning his sheep, is 2 and 2 and is 7 and 7. There were two, I think, of every unclean, seven of every clean that went on the ark. Picture of Jews and Gentiles That are being brought into that ark, into Jesus Christ. And when that job is done, you better believe God's going to be instant with judgment. It's over. We have a very similar task to Noah. Have you ever stopped for a moment to get your mind around this fact that everything you see out here You know, your house. Oh, I'd like to change it. Oh, this backfield, I'd like to cut some trees down here. Oh, the garden is not the way I'd like it. I need a new this. I want to better that. It's going to be gone, folks How many of you were fearful and scared when the towers of 9-11 came down? Did that kind of rattle you a little bit? Folks, that's just two buildings. Impressive buildings. Took a long time. That's just two Every single city, every single nation, every single square inch. Vince, you're crazy. We've you're crazy. We've never seen that kind of destruction. We've never seen a global. We've seen a few Uh Monaloa in Hawaii has a little uh calm little earthquake that bubbles up and roasts a few baby harp seals and it flows out in the ocean. There's never been a I mean we've had some asteroid strikes, but fire? No No. Oh yes. Oh yes. The godly believe it. The godly are moved with fear. And the godly have a big task. And the godly wonder how that task is going to happen. How do we go into all the world? Praise God, Joe and Penny took the commission seriously, went to Jamaica. They started where they could. An opportunity knocked on the door, they answered the call, we're going. Praise God. Go richly bless them for that You can't outsource this job. And you may say, well, I I'm old, I I can't move, or I'm I'm young, I'm swamped with kids. Do you have a back pocket with a wallet? Can you pay somebody to send? You know, there are people willing to go. Do you see how Noah is placed in the hall of faith? Because his life is not different than ours. We have a lifelong, monumental, exorbitant task, and you have to wonder, how am I going to do that? Can you start in your backyard? Can you start with a track right where you're at? Can you start there? So Noah, do you see how he was a man of great faith? He took the task seriously and he endeavored to do it. And what now were his rewards? What is Noah's legacy? It said he prepared an ark, he saved his house It's a good verse for Presbyterians. Saved his house. God saves them one of the city, two of a family. God's interested in families. God said to Abram that he would be the uh I will make thee a father of all the families of the nation. God does tend to save in a family relationship. By which he condemned the world and he became heir of the righteousness which is by faith. I cut in too much into my time, but consider now Noah's enduring legacy as it continues. The Lord Jesus points out Noah. He points him up. And he gives our generation a warning. He says, But of that day and hour knoweth no man, not the angels of heaven, but my Father only. But as the days of Noah were, so shall also the coming of the Son of Man be. For as in the days that were before the flood, they were eating and drinking, marrying and giving in marriage until the day that Noah entered the ark. In other words, it was life as usual for them. When do marriages happen? In wartime or in peacetime? Both, but typically more in peacetime. When do people tend to want to have families and get established? When do they have feasts and celebrations? Typically in peacetime, not so much in wartime. It'll be business as usual. Things won't just seem to be going swimmingly great. And then the scripture says, and they knew not until the flood came. And took them all away. So also, Jesus says, in this fashion, in this very same manner, so also shall the coming of the Son of Man be. There's one man who knew. He wasn't in darkness. He knew. He knew what he was building. He knew why he was building it. And so it is with us. In 2 Peter, Peter says this, in the last days those will come scoffers, walking after their lusts. Say, where is the promise of his coming? For since the fathers fell asleep, all things continue as they were from the beginning of creation. For this they're willingly ignorant, that by the word of God the heavens were of old, and the earth standing out of the water and in the water, whereby the world that then was being overflowed with water perished. But the heavens and the earth, which are now, by the same word, are kept in store. The very thing that kept that subterranean body of water beneath the earth. Because the day that Noah entered the Ark, it says the selfsame day Noah entered the Ark, the great fountains of the deep opened up and it began to rain. There would have been a global mid-Atlantic ridge rip in this baseball-shaped planet that squirted all that water under high pressure straight up into the atmosphere, globally surrounding it and coming down as a massive, massive quantity of water. That's where it came from. You want to know where it went? Go to the ocean and look at it. People say Mars was eroded with lots of water activity. Where's the water? And here on Earth they say, oh no, we started off as a fireball. We got a lot of water. How backwards is that? Here's the warning God gives us today. And I'll close with 2 Peter 3, 10-12. But the day of the Lord will come as a thief in the night in the which the heaven shall pass away with a great noise and the elements shall melt with fervent heat. You know, before 1950 we had no idea how elements would melt with fervent heat Nate, do you know how an element, an atomic element, can melt with very, very, very, very hot heat? You ever heard of something called Hiroshima? Does that city name ring a bell to you? Does Nagasaki ring a bell to you? No, it's not a motorcycle. Does atomic bomb ring a bell to you? Does a hydrogen bomb ring a bell? You know an atomic bomb is, yeah. You may not know the physics behind it, but that's exactly what the Bible describes here. Elements melting with fervent heat. And it says the earth and the works that are therein shall be, not might be, shall be, burned up. Does an atomic blast burn anything? Yes, it does. Seeing then that all these things shall be dissolved, what manner of persons ought ye to be in all holy conversation, conduct, and godliness, looking for and hasting unto the coming of the day of God, wherein the heavens being on fire shall be dissolved, and the elements shall melt with fervent heat So this is Noah and his legacy. So now you get to think about the largest single task you've actually been assigned in your life. Let's pray. Father God in heaven, thank you for this marvelous patriarch of Noah. Thank you for giving him strength and providing for all of his needs every step of the way, Lord. Convince us, Lord, that we are on a doomed planet. We are on a terminal earth. And Lord, we must, must, must not forget the warning that you've given to us in Jesus' name. Amen.