All right, we're going to be taking a look at a number of things in this Bible study series known as pictures of Christ. And today we're going to start at one of my favorite characters, the depiction of whom is on the wall behind me, Noah's Ark. In Romans 15, 4 it says, whatsoever things were written aforetime were written for our learning that we through patience and comfort of the scriptures might have hope. So let's turn back to this very ancient passage in Genesis chapter 6. If you don't have a Bible, we've got some in the corner. If you just want to listen, you can do that as well. Genesis chapter 6 And I'm going to read the flood account, and then I've got some questions. This is not my Friday night Bible study where it's tended to be more of a monologue. I'm trying to get it so there's some QA opportunities here Reading now from the Word of the Lord, Genesis 6, beginning in verse 1. And it came to pass when men began to multiply on the face of the earth, and daughters were born unto them that the sons of God. saw the daughters of men, but they were fair. And they took them wives of all which they chose. And the Lord said, My spirit shall not always strive with man, for that he also is flesh. Yet his days shall be a hundred and twenty years. There were giants in the earth in those days, and also after that, when the sons of God came in unto the daughters of men, And they bare children to them, the same became mighty men which were of old men of renown. And God saw that the wickedness of man was great in the earth and that every imagination of the thoughts of his heart was only evil continually. My my, what a statement. And it repented the Lord that he had made man on the earth, and it grieved him at his heart. I'm going to skip down to verse 11. Because it's central to my point. The earth also was corrupt before God, and the earth was filled with violence, and God looked upon the earth, and behold it was corrupt, for all flesh had corrupted his way upon the earth. Alright, question time. I understood that uh when the angels uh procreated with the people that they produce giants. Yeah, that has been put out there as an idea. Uh and some take this passage to show that angels were doing that. I don't believe, sons of God, there is a reference to angels. We've haven't seen that used in reference to angels before. And angels are spirit beings. They're immaterial. And so they are a different kind. Corinthians says there's different kinds of flesh. And uh seed would propagate according to his kind. And so angels would be a different kind. In fact, they don't have flesh. So they could not procreate. When the demons, which were a form of fallen angels, would appear in Jesus' day, they would have to invade a person. And in fact, it could be multiple uh an uh bad angels that could uh populate a person. So they're not angels there in that uh sense. What about the giants then Where did they come from? Uh from man. Uh they were uh sons of man. In fact there are uh all kinds of archaeological finds of enormous people, uh eight, nine, ten feet tall, absolutely. uh very long femur bones that just would not match. Uh and there's no reason why a human can't be that large. Should you get a comment? We're off my track, but we'll get to that in a minute. Also on on the matter of whether these were angels, remember when the Pharisees were trying to trap Christ and they mentioned the woman who had had a husband and he died? It was actually it's not the Pharisees, it was the um Sadducees. They were trying to trap Jesus and said, Well this woman husband died, she married again, husband died, she had that seven husbands, who will her husband be in the resurrection? And Christ's answer was, you do not know the scriptures in heaven were as the angels. And so he was pointing out that that distinction between the angels not being procreators, the purpose of marriage is procreation, um as opposed to man. Yeah. So my question is, what was in lieu of what we just read, and thank you for covering that, because I would have uh talk talked about that as well. What was a notable cause of the descent into worldwide wickedness What was the notable cause of the descent into worldwide wickedness from what we just read? That's a good question. Where did uh sin come from? Yeah, where did that dispense what accelerated it? Was it endemic? Certainly because man is a fallen creature uh and he became very sinful. Uh we certainly see that from Adam and Eve's actions afterward, God's cursing and so forth But in the account that we read here, there's something that's noted as precipitating, accelerating this descent. And let me answer something first. Let me give you a little bit of a hint. Sons of God, I believe, would refer to believers. Christians uh in the Old Testament were saved every bit as much in the same way that Christians in the New Testament were by faith. They look forward. God spoke of the woman's seed who would crush the head of the serpent And when Eve named her child, uh, she was rather excited because uh she thought that this was the man that the Lord had promised. And um but that wasn't yet the case. The Messiah was long to come. So sons of God, believers, daughters of men, unbelievers. Yes, Victoria? So along that line could it be that what accelerated the sin was that Christian men were marrying ungodly women? Exactly. Yep. So one of the things that accelerated that is unequally yoked marriage. You had a mixed marriage going on here. Turn uh for a moment, keep your finger in Genesis six to Exodus thirty-four, fourteen, because God clearly articulates this for the children of Israel a little later on. Exodus 34 and verse 14 And it's two verses, 14, 15, 16, well three verses, excuse me. It says this, for thou shalt worship no other God, for the Lord whose name is jealous, is a jealous God. Lest, in other words, here's why you worship just him, lest this thing happen. What is this thing? Lest thou make a covenant with the inhabitants of the land And they go ahooring after their gods and do sacrifice to their gods, and one call to thee, and thou eat of the sacrifice. And thou take of their daughters unto thy sons, and their daughters go ahooring after their gods, and make thy sons going ahooring after their gods. God in a sense here sounds like an individual who is looking ahead and seeing if this happens, then this happens, then this happens, and here's the catastrophe. It's going to derail. a generational blessing. Because remember, the promised seed had not come. And there was to be a uh uh the worship began in the home, the propagation of the Christian Christian gospel began in the home And so, uh, as they would uh they would say uh a man's first pastor is his family, they would say. We still say it today. Um, whether we live it today or not is a different story. But the problem is that you don't want your sons and daughters to go off into a different pagan path. And one sure way that happens is the wife pulls him in that direction. Son or daughter, either way. And of course, is there any New Testament passage that prescribes that same rule? Is this just Old Testament thinking? Is there anything in the New Testament that also talks about unequal marriages? I think there is, but I don't know where it is. Okay. That's all right, you're correct. So much help. I'll give you partial credit for effort. Yes, there is a New Testament verse. Very good. Well some would say no, that's Old Testament. We don't have there's no New Testament evidence, and though I was gonna say the Second Corinthians being not an equally yoked with unbelievers. Exactly Yep, it says, be not unequally yoked together with unbelievers, and that word yoke uh is referring to uh a connection, both marital, but also in a broader sense Uh and Joey, this will be of interest to you. Someone said to me, and I think this is so true, as and I pick on you because you're uh soon coming up on a college contemplation and you know, uh a year or less than a year from now, maybe on the campus somewhere. And I wish somebody had told me this, and this this is an excellent piece of advice, the friends you make within your first 30 days on campus will determine which direction you go Who do you make in those first thirty days? And unfortunately I made the wrong kind of friends the first thirty days, and it took me down a very bad path. James says this, ye adulterers and adulteresses, know you not that the friendship of the world is enmity, hatred with God. Whosoever therefore will be a friend of the world is the enemy of God. Now I'm not talking about business relationships. We have to relate to people. We don't need to, you know, I'm not talking to you today and try to figure out how you're going to get along with a job, right? That's not going to go too terribly far But I'm talking about a friend, two that walk together, what do you do after work? Hey, let's go to the bar and celebrate something after work. I'd put pretty hard brakes on that. So that's the kind of idea that we have back here in Genesis 6. So I'm trying to round that out for you. That precipitated this worldwide descent. It accelerated it. It put grease on the rails of a train that was already headed in the wrong direction and took it right off the tracks and it was a complete train wreck. Well we go back to Genesis and I want to back up a little bit to Genesis 5 and we're going to look at Noah's name So we've looked at man's depravity. I should have given you an outline before I started, so you know where I'm going with this. Noah's name, we're going to take a look at his name. We're going to look at God's grace, because the first time grace is ever mentioned in the Bible shows up in the account of Noah. We're going to look at God's covenant, Noah's obedience, picture the gospel of the Gentiles, and then we're going to try to find how many ways the ark actually typifies Jesus Christ. Okay, Noah's name, Genesis 5, 28 to 30. Anti, why don't you read that for us, Good and Loud? 28 to 30. And Lamech. lived an hundred eighty and two years, and begat a son. And he called his name Noah, saying, This same shall comfort us concerning our work and toil of our hands, because of the ground which the Lord hath cursed. And Lamech lived after he begat Noah five hundred and ninety and five years, and begat sons and daughters. Alright, so what is the significance of Noah's name? Yeah does that be just you? Okay, comforter, do you get your aunt what were you going to say? What he said. So you're gonna pile on top of it. Well you're you're correct. He's a comforter. Who else is a comforter in the scriptures? Yeah, Jesus Christ. God the Holy Spirit is referred to as a comforter. Jesus said in John 14, I'll pray the Father, and he shall give you another comforter, then he may abide with you forever. Later he said, Comforter, which is the Holy Ghost, whom the Father will send in my name. He shall teach you all things. And so yes, the uh name of Noah is significant. He was going to be a comforter. Now I find that interesting that Lamech his father uh gave him that name of comforter. Now I'm looking for a study, and I think I got the digital copies from one of your sons, from Chuck Missler, about his studies in Genesis, where he went through and did an excellent job espousing, and I couldn't find it, so I can't share it with you. But this is a teaser. At some point I will find it for you. The individual names of the patriarchs stemming from Adam all the way down through Noah Hebrew is very descriptive. The letters themselves have meaning. That's how that ancient dialect was. It wasn't later until the concept of producing sounds. The just phonetic rendering for the words was established as the base that Hebrew began with individual letters had meaning. And you can take those letters And there's actually a very interesting message that God gives from the names of those early patriarchs that's listed. And one of them is about Noah, whose name means comfort and rest. So that absolutely gave you nothing other than a teaser. Genesis 6. 8, God's grace. It says in Genesis 6, 8 through 9, Noah found grace in the eyes of the Lord. These are the generations of Noah. Noah was a just man and perfect in his generations, and Noah walked with God. So, this is, as I mentioned, the first time that word grace is used in the Bible. Now, I know that some have taught, and uh it sounds enticing. Um it's I I I I don't believe there's biblical rationale for it. But there's a concept, an exegetical tool known as the rule of first mention. And it is interesting anytime you find uh a a word mentioned the first time in Scripture, uh oftentimes it'll be in the Old Testament in the Hebrew, and it'll be full of uh of color with it But that doesn't define it entirely. I wouldn't limit it to just that passage. The scripture is its own interpreter. It's a dictionary. And just like Noah Webster came up with his dictionary, you look at how the word is used in context throughout And you build up a profile. So to take and limit it to just the very first instance would be like me going out to find the first time I'd find O the word uh civility in some manuscript or document and saying this is what it always means. I have to look at a whole lot of and so God's given us about eight hundred thousand words, plenty of context here, and you can get what God is teaching from that word. Noah found grace in the eyes of the Lord. Now, it's interesting. Noah's not the only one that is spoken of in the Old Testament as finding grace in the eyes of the Lord explicitly. There's another character. Does anybody know who that person was? This is a tough question. Yeah. It wouldn't be Abraham, would it? That's a pretty close guess, but you're on the same track. It would be a significant Old Testament individual. Not I'm not gonna say Zephani. Well, he certainly did fight a lot of guys. Moses was, Exodus 33, Exodus 33, 12, Moses said to the Lord, See thou sayest unto me, bring up this people, thou hast not let me know with whom thou wilt sent me. Yet thou hast said, I know thee by name, and thou hast also found grace in my sight. Interesting. Moses was an individual that also found grace in the eyes of the Lord. Good morning. Good morning. So my question here, we're in Genesis 6 in the account of Noah, we're looking at Genesis 6, 8, and 9. And my question is this, why did God spare Noah? It says the earth was filled with violence. Why did God spare Noah? One that has grace. Okay, yep. Now, and so the basis of that exception uh was the grace of God. Uh let's unpack that. You said he found grace. What what does that mean? What's the basis of that grace He believed. Okay, he believed, alright. That says that he found grace in the eyes of the Lord. And uh basically means God looked beyond his sin. Okay. Past the sin. To the Savior. So okay. So why um all right. Um I'm still you know may maybe I'm phrasing my question wrong because I'm I'm I'm not you're you're all correct, but um I'm you're accurate but not precise. So I want to hit my target in the bullseye here. What was the basis of God Looking at Noah saying, You're different. Was it because of what Noah did? No. Say no. Why would you say no? So what was the basis? Uh out of God's own mind, out of his own choice. His choice. God's election, God's sovereign grace in determining whom he intends to save and whom he does not intend to save. Out of the whole morass of the human race, he could have picked any individual. And yet God granted Noah faith to believe. God looked at Noah through the eyes of the atonement of what Christ would do for him. He was an elect child of God. And because of that God's sovereign grace came upon this man. It wasn't because Noah walked upright. That was not the basis. It wasn't because he walked good and nobody else did. The fact that he walked upright was proof that God had worked a tremendous work of grace in his heart, and he lived differently and he shunned evil. Right? Ephesians 2, 8 and 9, many of you should know this by heart, for by grace you say through faith, and that not of yourselves. It's the what? The gift of God, not of works, lest any man should boast. For we are his workmanship created in Christ Jesus unto good works. So I'm trying to make sure we have the horse first and then the cart. And we don't want to put it the other way around. The good works listed of Noah follow after the grace that God saw and gave to Noah first. That's how the text reads. Noah found grace in the eyes of the Lord. Noah received the grace of God. And because of that, he had lived a different life. We don't know when that grace occurred. We don't know when that it would have been before that time. That not at that instance, that second, he all of a sudden didn't change. This is something that God did to him early in life. Joe, by the way, this is Mrs. Ross. Good fa friend of the family and uh Ms. Salva as well. Go ahead, Joe. Hey. Come into the throne. You know how your f your group is. He saved him. But what we do know, he saved him while he was yet a center. Yes. Yes. Yeah, we do know that. Yes. Now had God not if God had not given him grace, would Noah have been any different than the people around him? No, everybody was talking wickedly. Right. God in other words, God is the one that made the difference coming. And also Noah was raising his children per correctly. I doubt that there were very many others that were doing that. Correct. This could be one of the reasons that he was chosen Yes, yeah, he was uh he he was uh uh as God saved him, uh he realized that we need to live very differently, and so he would have been raising his household in the nurture and admonition of the Lord. Absolutely. All right Let's look at the covenant of God. So now we skip down to Genesis 6. 17. And um Genesis 6. 17. Here's what God speaks about here. He says, Behold I, even I, do bring a flood of waters upon the earth to destroy all flesh, wherein is the breath of life from under heaven, and everything that is in the earth shall die. But with thee will I establish my covenant Thou shalt come into the ark, thou and thy sons and thy wife, and thy sons' wives with thee. I would point out that this is the first time the word covenant is used in the Bible And this one happens to be a very instructive word, so we can understand the nature of covenants, and there's a whole study of God. You can go to holdingfast. net, look for covenants, and there's a section about how to look at that. This is very instructive. I'm not going to get into that Um but my question is this, how many promises are in this passage? How many promises are there? God insists he's gonna do something. That's a promise. Okay, you see three, all right? What three do you see? He will bring a flood. Right? Yep. He's gonna bring a flood. He will destroy all flesh. Yep, the the wherein is the breath of life, the which is the breath of life from under heaven. So is that one do you see that as one or two? Promises. I was looking at this last party from under heaven and everything. But he's just that's a description then Okay, you can see two there. Alright. I would see one. He's bringing a flood, and the description is what's he going to do? It's just destroy all flesh, wearing this and breath of life. One or two. That's fine, I'll go with that. So he's going to destroy the wicked. That's promise. That's one promise. Uh we can make it too. That's fine. What's another one? There's another one in there. I'll save you and your family and hand. But I'm establishing a covenant with you. And that covenant is a very gracious covenant. Yeah. But isn't that interesting? The promise to the wicked is destruction, pure and simple. There's just no further terms and conditions. It's the death sentence It's the gavel of the judge hitting the hitting the the bench, condemned. But with Noah, a covenant. There's an arrangement. There's an agreement. Covenant has terms and conditions, has promises, has signs. has beneficiaries, has terms and conditions. What a wonderful thing. God is entering into a one-way He initiates this. Noah didn't say, okay, God, let's bargain about this. There was no back and forth bargaining. God says, but with you, I'm establishing a covenant. God rolled out the legal red carpet treatment for Noah. Huge difference, huge difference. And we see Noah's obedience, thus he builded the ark. He went into the flood In Genesis 6. 22, thus did Noah build the ark according to all that God commanded him, so did he. And Noah brought in all the animals according to all that the Lord commanded him. And he went in. Now, why did Noah do all this? I know this sounds extra stupid, simple. Belief? He believed what God said. Absolutely. He believed what God said. He was driven by what drove him. Fear and faith. Fear, moved with fear, built an ark to the saving of his house, it says. Yeah, fear and faith. There was both held in a tension there. He believed God. He said, I'm sending a flood upon the earth. Making a covenant with you, build an ark. Now that ark was a hundred years in the making. God spoke to him in the 500th year of his life. And that was approximately in Genesis 6. 17. That was about 2349 B. C. if you can trust Rose's biblical timeline of history. That's actually from Bishop Usher. Uh about 2340. So this is a long time ago. Can you imagine a 100-year task? Let's just break this up. I've been an engineer. 20 years to design it. twenty years to fell the material and gather it all, and another sixty to build it. That is a long time. The keel of that ark was riding on at least sixty-year-old lumber. Pitched? I mean, this was a massive undertaking. What's the longest project you've ever had in your life? The longest project. The one that just took forever. Seems like it's going to drag on and on and on. A hundred years. Can you imagine 20 years into this thing, Mrs. Noah coming around saying, you know, honey, I gotta talk to you You got an incredible pile of wood out here. Mice are just going crazy. Are you sure you heard something from God? And 40-year mark. You know, you're kind of taking this thing a little too seriously. God didn't speak to him other than the beginning And near the end of the project, you talk about faith. This man believed God and he was moved with fear. He said, Oh my Lord. This is what he's going to do. I believe God. I heard from God. He went to his wife, but honey, I heard from God. I heard God's voice. I unmistakably heard his voice. He built an ark of saving in his house Hebrews 11, 17 says, By faith Noah, being warned of God of things not yet seen. You and I are warned of God of things not yet seen. They've never seen rain before. A mist came up and watered the ground Full of old flood. What are you talking about? We're going to gather up a little bit of dew and splash it on Noah. Ha, there's your rain. They've never seen that before. You've been warned of God, of any of a flaming fiery judgment upon this earth. The earth will be destroyed by fire. Earth's never seen that before. We've never seen that before. Being warned of God of things not seen, moved with fear, prepared an ark to the saving of his house. There's your phrase, Victoria, move with fear built an ark to the saving of his house, by the which he condemned the world and became heir of the righteousness which is by faith. We believed in God, God made a covenant with him. Do you think during that whole time then God also imbued him with the Holy Spirit for guidance. I'd be hard pressed to say no to that. Uh you know, I I don't think I do not see the own flesh Correct. Correct. Maintain that type of loyalty towards God. Salvation is a resurrection of the soul. Right. And you know, his spirit bears witness with our spirit that we are the sons of God. Right, right. And that has not changed. Yes. Yes. It it it's kinda like instructions. Um by the instructions that are recorded in scripture, it's kinda hard to build an arc. There had to be more instruction, more detailed giving it. And guidance because Noah had never even seen a boat. Exactly. And something's gonna be built that's gonna withstand a storm and so God told him Very specifically I believe how to build it. Right. Yeah, there's a lot of uh the information he was given as an engineer, I don't I would argue God gave him the critical requirements. And Noah could have derived the requirements from there. I I really believe he could have But the critical elements, like the the dimensions of the boat, ironically are identical to the dimensions of transoceanic barges. So the boat didn't have a bow You know why it didn't have a bow? What's the bow of the boat for? You know what I mean by a bow, it's kind of got this point to it? It didn't have a bow. These pictures, that's really an incorrect depiction with a bow. It didn't have a bow. You know why? What's the bow of the boat used for? Well that's the propeller, but yeah, to push the water aside. He didn't have to push any water aside, he just had to float. And not be capsized. That arc was so stable that it could have withstood a wave and tip it nearly vertic uh nearly ninety degrees on its side and it would still write itself uh uh the the it's extremely stable structure and design. And interestingly enough, subsequent boat designs, very, very early boat designs dating back to the days prior to Abraham uh employed uh very interesting and similar uh uh boat making techniques because as you point out no one had made a boat out well I gotta move on because I want to get to some of the uh parts about the art Now, uh, you all know about how many animals went on the ark, right? It was by how many? Two. Two. Two by two. But it's interesting. Yeah, you mentioned sevens, let's talk about that. Genesis seven two three. Of every clean beast thou shalt take to thee by sevens, the male and his female. And of beasts that are not clean by two, the male and his female. Of fowls also of the air by sevens, plural, the male and the female, to keep seed alive upon the face of the earth So Hebrew scholars have debated exactly what that meant. They're clear on the two, that there were pairs of animals. And that's all you need, the male and a female. And by the way, do you need really tall big giraffes and big elephants on board? Let's see, think about this. I'm going to be putting animals on a ship and it's going to sail into the new world. Do I want the large animals or do I want junior-sized animals? Gee, I think in if I'm thinking cleaning up poop and feeding animals, I'm gonna go for the smaller is better, right? Smaller is better. You know, a little healthier can withstand things, a little bit easier to to to to shepherd around The average full grown dinosaur, folks, was about the size of a chicken. The average dinosaur wasn't really that huge. And lizards like Tranosaurus Rex and all that Lizards will continue to grow and grow and grow. There's nothing that stops them until they hit a predator. Alligators will continue to grow and grow and grow and get bigger. There's nothing that they keep growing all their life. So if there's plenty of forest and habitat, yeah, they'll get huge. So Noah didn't bring on, you know, an 80-year-old T-Rex. That's nonsense. He just needs a baby. He just needs a couple of babies. That's all he needs. Okay? But sevens came on board, and it was seven of the clean. And it's a question as to whether it was seven or fourteen. In Hebrew, that seven would be a plural. word because it's seven. Two by two. And also seven birds was that four males and three females or three males and four females. You know, how does that work? But regardless, there's more of the clean And there are of the unclean. Now, question, why do you suppose God saves seven clean and two unclean of every animal? Okay, food and sacrifice, right. Yeah, that's that's that certainly would be a purpose later on. He came to sacrifice uh some of the clean after he came off. What do you suppose that typifies? Here's a picture of it. Does anybody remember Peter had a vision? What was an unclean animal? What was the significance of those later in the Bible? in the days of Moses when he began to articulate rules for the Jews. Gentiles. Okay. You're jumping ahead, that's great. You're on second gear. So God would talk about they could eat clean animals but they couldn't eat unclean. So for instance, pigs. They divided the uh the hoof, but they didn't chew the c uh the cud. Cows, on the other hand, chewed the cud and divided the hoof, therefore they were clean unto you. And so God made a distinction. Things without scales, catfish, are unclean to you. Things with scales, bass, are clean. You can eat that. It turns out that biologically, from a food source perspective, God was helping them to identify uh sources of food that naturally would be cleaner animals. They had fewer um uh worms and parasites and diseases with them, cast as your bottom feeders, all the junk and and if you don't cook it right You can have problems to this day if you don't cook pork correctly. You can get trichinosis and other horrible things that can lead to sister circosis, which is where the parasite gets into your brain and can kill you And every year there's about a handful of people across the globe who eat uncooked pork, and sure enough, they get that. So God was very wise in protecting his people. long before the microscope was invented, long before we could figure out how to prepare it properly. God protected his people then. But I thought we didn't eat meat until after Noah. Uh that could be as well. Uh yeah, you know you mentioned that earlier. I didn't quite check that out. But there's a picture going on here. There's a great picture going on. Because these clean animals represented the Jews, people of God. I'll just say the Jews for now. The unclean animals depicted who? The Gentiles. You remember when Peter had this vision? And it came down from heaven, the four corners of a net, and wherein were what? All manner of four-footed beasts of the earth, wild beasts, creeping things, fowls of the air. A voice came to him and says, Peter, rise, kill, and eat. He says, Not so, Lord, I have never eaten anything that is common or unclean. A voice spake unto him, What God hath cleansed, call not thou uncommon. This was done to him three times And then he says, Of a truth I perceive God is no respecter of persons. In every nation, he that feareth him and worketh righteousness is accepted with him. That's Acts 10, 34-35. You see, God was telling the Apostle Peter, no, go to the Gentiles. Bring the Word of God to the Gentiles. He wasn't telling him to kill the Gentiles, but what he's talking about is that's a picture. These unclean animals were pictures of the Gentiles. Now, we can take this and we can transport that teaching of the unclean animals, pictures of Gentiles, clean animals, pictures of the Jews, all the way back into Noah's day. Who goes into the Ark? It's an early shadow. It's an early figure of both Jews and Gentiles coming in to God's plan of salvation. The arc was absolutely huge. Um the amount of space and storage to include fresh water, to include food, to include animals would have uh occupied about at most 75% of the arc. 75% would have been filled to capacity. Twenty-five percent left over. Could have had a ballroom in there for all we know. He he had plenty of room. There was plenty of room on that ark There's absolutely plenty of room. Has anybody here been to New York? I know you went recently. Anybody else y'all went now? Yeah. It really is fantastic, isn't it? Yeah. Where is that at? Minnesota? It's in the Kentucky I think. It's a six hour drive from here. She'll give you the map. That's right. I can tell you how to go. I've been twice. So the Ark of Noah is uh uh it is uh already beginning to uh serve God's purposes. I opened up this uh study today with whatsoever things were written the foretime, were written for our learning. As you pointed out, there's many things, many details over that hundred year construction period that could have recorded what Noah did. God left that out. He wanted certain factoids to be kept and preserved for us, for our learning, that we through comfort and scripture, patience of the scriptures might have hope. So now I want to talk to you about In what ways did the ark typify Jesus our Savior? And this is free free form. Everything you've heard about now looked at covenant, looked at the size of it, who all was going in, and so forth. What is it about the ark that is a picture of Christ your Savior In what ways are there similarity? You must be found in Christ to get salvation for salvation. That was the only way of deliverance, wasn't it? So to be delivered from the flood, what was the solution? In the ark. Did any other solution work? What about climbing up high mountains, worshiping under high trees? If the whole earth is flooded To fifteen cubits over the highest mountain, which would probably indicate the draft of the ark. It would easily sail over that, no problem, or float over it. destroy everything. Yeah. That was outside the earth. Outside of the art. Right. And so the same would be with Christ if you're not found in him In the end, there's no solution. There's this destruction. Absolutely. Yep, he's the only way of deliverance. Neither is there salvation in any other Any other? No other. Yeah, there's none other name under him. Why do you think in the days church that most Let me just say preachers or pastors are so afraid to talk that way. I mean they don't they never go that deep into salvation And you know, so it well I know it's many reasons, but what would you think why they don't touch d any depth? You know, many people say that Christianity is a thousand miles wide and two inches deep Mm-hmm. So why why why what makes us so afraid to speak like this? To if you do speak that way. If you're going to declare all that God says in the scriptures, the more I read this book, the more I discover the following. God really isn't impressed with human clay. Exactly. He just isn't. So if you're coming in here to feel good after the flesh, you're going to be sorely disappointed if you stick with the text, if you stick with what God says, if you declare it, thus saith the Lord That's offensive to men. That's offensive. And if you're in a ministry position and your paycheck comes from tithes and offerings and your esteem and your pride and psyche is built up by the multitude of people you see, if that becomes the driving factor, well then of course you're gonna In that day seven women, Isaiah says, shall take hold of one man, saying, Let us eat our own bread and wear our own apparel, only let us be called by thy name to take away our reproach. I saw a hand up over here. expansion of what what Vince is saying is that a lot of preachers don't preach it because they don't believe it. They don't believe it's yeah. the social gospel, be good, don't kick the cat and you're alright has so taken over theology. And even the The free will gospel, if you want to call it that, which is not a good news at all. It's a bad news because it's since been to hell. But um Man wants to do something. And man has boiled salvation down to one good work, I believe. But the only reason I believed was not because it was a good work in me, it was a good work in him who made me. Ark's the only way of deliverance. What's another way that the Ark is a picture of Christ and his salvation? I've got at least six. Okay. Yeah, the um uh the ark endured the wrath of God. Right, yeah. The ark endured the wrath of God. I mean that was God's wrath upon the whole earth and There wasn't a little bubble around the ark. It had rain coming down, it had floods coming up. It went through that flood just like everything else did, every tree, everything wherein was the breath of life that moved land creatures. Didn't kill all fish. Land creat killed a lot of them, but not all. I remember reading about a hurricane or a typhoon that hit on the uh shores of uh uh over in the uh uh in Indochina region of the world and there were just a huge volume of fish, dead fish, all washed up on shore because those storms that are so severe stir up a lot of the muck and the mud and the junk from the bottom and it just temporarily chokes them. There's too low of an oxygen content in the water. And it'll kill some of them as well. Great, great hordes of 'em. And that's what you see in the geologic record, millions of dead things buried by water all over the earth. Well how about uh the idea of homosexuality? Oh yeah. With a man and a woman of each was not two men, wasn't two women. True. So that makes it a little difficult for the homosexuals to be a good thing. Although I have a one of my students it thinks that she's a homosexual. And she says that uh uh Sodom and Gomorrah were not had nothing to do with sin. That it was just that the people were not treated nicely Yeah, they that that is a common thing that Salma was was condemned for their in hospitality. She just hasn't read Genesis 19 Oh, she claims that she has. She claims that she is a Christian. You know, in when we're found in Christ You know, you we I'm I'm thinking that we are saved and we recognize his sovereignty. And so it be with the ark and we're saved from God. From God's wrath, exactly. That's right, right. The Ark was able to save, it had plenty of room. Yeah, okay. The Ark was able to save, it had plenty of room. I don't think for a moment that if somebody had truly been banging on the outside of that ark prior to the flood coming before a drop of rain came, please let me and and my house in here. Please let us come in. There was room. There was room. But the scripture records zero interest on the part Uh i it says uh Noah was vexed with the filthy conversation but Noah was speaking a lot. But I'm sure is Noah under uh underwent a tremendous amount of mockery. Yes, Penny? Um is the covering of pitch of a re Absolutely, yes. It's interesting when it talks about you shall pitch it within and without that word pitch literally is the word atonement. It has atonement, it covers, it seals. See, you're sealed with the Holy Spirit. So it's sealed inside and out. There's not one drop of the wrath of God getting through. When the it was dry inside the ark So when the children of Israel crossed through the Red Sea, they walked on dry ground. Not one drop. Not one drop. In the ark, all the animals, how did they get along? You read about fighting and quarreling, lions devouring other things. All the animals got along peaceably. They all got along peaceably in New York. And that's how it is among the people of God. We have a very disparate background. Apart from salvation, none of us would be here right now. We'd be doing something totally different But God takes uh every tribe, kindred, tongue, and nation. Very, very different inclinations. The lion was still the lion, the tiger uh and the dogs and the cat you know, all the different creatures were still their unique Creatures, but they got along in the ark. How many uh entrances were in the ark? Entrances. One door. Yeah. How many how many uh ways for light to get into the yard? There's one window. Jesus says, I am the light of the world. He didn't say I am a light of the world. I'm the light of the world. In the ark there was only one source of light In Christ there's only one source of light. He is that light of the world. That ark had one door. There's only one way you can get in the ark through the door That was it. There's only one way you can get into God's plan of salvation, that's through Jesus Christ. You may say, I have an ark, I built a boat. Does it have a door? It's named Jesus Christ. Because if you don't, you're in the wrong boat. Just in the wrong boat. And the last thing I find in here that I think is very impressive is that the Ark in fact brought them safely through the flood. It actually delivered. It's one thing to build it. It's one thing to talk about building it. One thing to put animals in it. But did it do did it do its job? It actually did. It actually brought them through. It didn't it doesn't talk about anybody being sick or getting sick from Nobody died in the journey. Right. Everything was maintained Even in more modern shipping methods that the pilgrims enjoyed when they came over and the uh John Bradford's account of the uh Plymouth colony There were a number of people that died on the boat coming over. And that was many, uh that was thousands plus of years later after the flood of Noah's Day. This is the first boat to and that he was in there for well over a year in this uh boat. Now the pilgrims weren't. That brings the mind to Titanic Yeah, there you go, the unsinkable ship. Is it a god Yeah, you don't want to launch a ship shaking your fist at God. That's really a stupid idea, right? Can there be anything dumber than that? Right, that's extra dumb. Yep, and they'll go down in history as uh they had tigers and lions and all kind of beasts. Yep. And nobody was Mainly maybe by any of these animals. Heroes. Yeah, yeah. you know, that it's very likely that it was juvenile animals which were brought in which are much more docile than adults. But you take that and extrapolate it Except you become as a little child. Right. You cannot enter the kingdom of heaven. And there is there is that childlike gentility, you know. Um Mentioned the unity within the body of Christ, um we don't bear the animosity that adults bear as as the children of God. We we are as uh the children of God. So if you become converted being children. I just want to le read these last passages because this really uh I'm I'm very uh it's in it's an encouraging, you know, this is the encouragement. Ark brought them through. You and I are here because Noah succeeded And up until the 1800s, the world fundamentally basically believed that the geological column and the things that we saw in the geologic record was in fact evidence of a worldwide global catastrophic flood. And multiple cultures across the planet all have flood legends. Noah and Moses writing the first five books of the Bible, recording this story. This would have been handed down through Oral Tradition, which was extremely reliable because Oral Tradition was a group community where they would correct each other. They didn't have television, internet, and stuff to distract them. This was the topic of the day. They would talk, tell me again about the flood, tell me about the building of the arc. Tell me about these things. And it actually came to pass. He actually delivered. So is your salvation. You have a good hope in Christ. John six thirty-nine, this is the Father's will which hath sent me, that of all which He hath given me I should lose nothing but should raise it up again at the last day. John 10, my sheep hear my voice and I know them and they follow me. They follow me, they followed Noah in the Ark. They don't That animal couldn't explain why he's leaving his forest and his comfortable lair and his nest and the rabbits coming out of his hole and the lizards coming out of his crack of the crocs. He couldn't explain it. All he knows is I think I'm going this way Contrary to all the other animals in the forest, I give unto them eternal life, and they shall never perish, and neither shall any man pluck them out of my hand. My father which gave them me is greater than all, and no man is able to pluck them out of my father's hand. And you reflect and think more and more about the Ark of Noah. And how what a wonderful plan of salvation we have, and you can get a lot of hope and comfort from them. Amen.