Open up in your Bibles to James chapter 2, and I'm going to read verses 14 through 26. of James chapter 2. And then we're going to consider together faith versus works. Or faith and works. Or non-working faith. James chapter 2, and I'll start with verse 14 when you have your place. What doth it profit, my brethren, though a man say he hath faith and had not works, can faith save him? If a brother or sister be naked and destitute of daily food, and one of you say unto them, Depart in peace, be warmed and filled. Notwithstanding you give them not those things which are needful to the body, what doth it profit Even so, faith, if it hath not works, is dead, being alone. Yea, a man may say, Thou hast faith, and I have works. Show me thy faith without thy works, and I will show thee my faith by my works. Thou believest there is one God, thou doest well. The devils also believe and tremble. But wilt thou know, O vain man, that faith without works is dead? Was not Abraham our father justified by works when he had offered Isaac his son upon the altar? Seeest thou how faith wrought with works, and by works was faith made perfect. And the scripture was fulfilled, which saith, Abraham believed God, and it was imputed unto him for righteousness, and he was called the friend of God. See then, ye see then how that by works a man is justified, and not by faith only. Likewise also was not Rahab the harlot justified by works when she had received the messengers and had sent them out another way. For as the body without the spirit is dead, so faith without works is dead also. Let us bow for prayer as we approach God's Word this morning. And it's always important to bow in prayer as we approach God's Word, because this word is not understood by the natural man. but by the spiritual. And so we need the Spirit of God to guide us and instruct. Father, bless thy word to our hearts today as we open it together. Gathering for corporate worship. Gathering, Lord, for corporate educ edification. Father, we thank you for your word. We thank you that in it is the way of life. And yet, Father, we do not approach your word this morning with human knowledge or human understanding. But Lord, as we read your word together and as we expound upon it, it is our desire that the Spirit of God be the preacher here this morning. That your Spirit illuminate the truth. That your Spirit point us to Christ. And Lord, that we may gain spiritual understanding, that we may be edified today. that we may be instructed and better equipped to be the servants of God. But Lord, those are not actions which take place by the efforts of man. But rather those are things which are done as your Spirit is given liberty to work and move in our hearts. And so, Father, may today you open your word to our hearts, and open our hearts to receive your word. And we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. This matter of faith versus works is very important to us today. It is important today because we as believers, we as Protestants have broken away from the legalism of Rome. We do not come and bow down to a statue. We do not venerate an individual or a saint today. We come to worship Jesus Christ. And though the Romanists would not say that they are saved by works, yet their practice is they rely upon their works to gain for them favor with the Holy God. And that which takes place today is not new. It is very old. For in Paul's day, the Jews would look back to the law and say, well, we keep the law, and so we must be right with God. And today, in our modern setting, there is what's called the New Perspectives on Paul, or and it goes by many names, where people are trying to go back to adding works into Faith for salvation. And so, though what we're going to consider today is familiar to most of us, and most of the verses I'm going to refer to, you could probably quote. And yet it's important for us as believers, first of all, to re-examine our own faith and make sure we're relying on faith alone and not being good. And secondly, it's important for us as believers to be equipped. This book is a sword. This book was given to us to smite down the errors of Satan. And we are to be ready always to give a reason of the hope which lieth within us with fear and trembling. And so we need to understand what Difficult passages are saying. And Brother Vince has been dealing with difficult passages in the Friday night Bible study as well. It's important for the believers to be equipped and prepared to give an answer. And to know what we believe and why we believe it. And so we're going to look at familiar truths today, and yet we need to look closely at them. We need to digest them and see exactly what this passage is saying. And so I'm going to kind of divide our message this morning into three parts. The first part is Scripture presenting works as the antithesis of faith, or in many ways almost the exact opposite of faith And then we're going to consider that our works are the demonstration of faith, and there's where we're going to do an exposition on this second chapter of James. But then finally, we're going to see that works are presented in Scripture as the introduction to faith. And don't mean an introduction for ourselves, but an introduction to others. The works of the believer are a means of grace to the lost sheep. Our good works are to let our light so shine before men. And so let us begin by considering that Scripture presents works as the antithesis of faith, as works and faith being opposite poles of the battery, being totally different elements. And of course we read there in Galatians 2 and verse 16, knowing that man is not justified by the works of the law, but by the faith of Jesus Christ, even we have believed in Jesus Christ. That he might be just and the justified, that he might be justified by faith, not by the works of the law, for by the works of the law shall no flesh be justified. How many of you ever perfectly kept the Ten Commandments? If you raised your hand, you just broke one because you're a liar! And if we violate one, we're guilty of all. And so, how could we ever hope to be justified by the works of the law? And if you can't keep the law, what else can you keep? And so it's obvious that works cannot save us, that works cannot gain that merit of God. And yet that is the mindset that many people have today. Are you a Christian? Oh yeah, oh yeah. I I I grew up in a Christian home and I go to church and I was catechized. I was baptized and you know Whatever else eyes they want to add on to it. But those things don't save a man And that's where Martin Luther, the great reformer, found himself when he came to Romans 1 in verse 17, and he was smitten by those words: the just shall live by faith. Let me read to you a few things that Luther said before about his conversion. He said, I tortured myself with prayer. Fastings, vigils, and freezing. The frost itself might have killed me. So he's fasting, he's praying, he's doing all these things But he couldn't find vic peace in his soul because it was the antithesis of faith. He was doing these works Rather than believing. He said, What else did I do what else did I seek by doing this but God So he was doing these works to seek God, who was supposed to note my strict observance of the monastic order and my austere life I constantly walked in a dream and I lived in real idolatry, for I did not believe in Christ. I regarded him only as a severe and terrible judge, portrayed as sitting on a rainbow. And so here you have Martin Luther who came to realize the just shall live by faith. He said, I did all these things. Faith is the opposite of works. And works is the opposite of faith. They're polar distances. Works cannot save us. Israel stumbled at that stumbling stone, and the stumbling stone they stumbled at was Christ. But the other side of the same coin where we find that faith and works are opposite pose True good works are the product of faith. Where there is faith, there will be good works. Where there are not good works, there is not faith. I've spoken with quite a few drunks in my life. And it's interesting how religious a slobbering drunk can become. And if he wasn't drunk, he wouldn't have a good thing to say about the Lord. But oh, when he's slobbering drunk, how he can tell you how good he really is And I was talking with a drunk one day, and he said, I did my good deed for the day. I gave part of my soup to a cat. And yet, in his stupor, he thought that that was going to gain some merit with God. And yet, how foolish it is! For man to think he can be saved by works. And yet the man who is truly saved, there will be good works. If any man be in Christ, He is indeed a new creature. Old things are passed away. Behold, all things are become new. And so Paul said in Ephesians 2 that we are his workmanship. created in Christ unto good works. Why does a blacksmith make a tool? Well you say there's no blacksmiths anymore. Well, not many, but it's a good illustration. Anyway, stay with me. Why does he make a tool? Well because there's a job to be done. You don't make a hammer because, oh, isn't that pretty? It's a nice hammer. You don't make a screwdriver because, oh it's a beautiful screwdriver. See the colors of the handle. No, you make a tool because there's a job to be done And so it is with the child of God. We're created in Christ unto good works. God didn't save me to sit around and do nothing. God did not save you to sit around and do nothing. Nothing. Every child of God has a service to his God. It may be very visible, or it may be totally invisible, but we're all the servants of God. And so, where there is faith, there will be works. Faith will produce good works. In Titus chapter 2, verses 13 and 14, Paul says that we are looking for that blessed hope and the glorious appearing of the great God and our Savior, Jesus Christ. who gave himself for us that he might redeem us from iniquity and purify into himself a peculiar people and you know those last words zealous of peculiar good works. Christ saved us that he might make a people that have great zeal for good works. And then one other passage I would bring to our mind. When Paul told the Philippians in Philippians 2 verses 12 and 13, to work out your own salvation with fear and trembling. He immediately qualified that statement. He said, work out your own salvation with fear and trembling. That sounds like you're working for salvation, doesn't it? Work out your own salvation with fear and trembling, for it is God which worketh in you, both the will and the do of his own good pleasure. And so we find, first of all, that faith and works are the opposite polar elements of grace. And yet in the believer they come right back together. And the believer will demonstrate good works. But then I want to turn it specifically To this second chapter of James. And here we find that the scripture presents that works are the demonstration of true living faith Look at the first verse that we read there in verse 14. What does it profit, my brethren, though a man say he hath faith and have not works? Can faith save him? Now we need to kind of take this verse apart a little bit because it seems to be a contradiction to man being Saved by faith alone. First of all, notice that it says, if a man say, He hath faith. You know the old saying talk is cheap. And I made reference earlier to the drunk who becomes a theologian when he's drunk. Oh, he can say an awful lot about God now. Because the liquor's loosened up his tongue. But he has no faith. And though a man say he have faith And hath not works, can that faith save him? So that's the first word you need to look at. That word say. But then that second part there Can faith save him this Phrase in Greek comes across as one word in our English. Okay? Can faith save him? The uh Greek wording is not important to know what the Greek words are, but it's dynamia me pistis is is the phrase there Dynamia means power or the faith, okay, can. It's related to the word dynamus, that you heard before, which is the word in Acts 1. 8. that if um is she power. Okay. So can, that's the dynamis. May is not translated Okay? I'm going to talk about that a little bit. And then pistus, faith. Can faith save without works? Now why it's important is that that may is not translated. And this is where we're really going to get into the the nitty-gritty of this. The may or that is there and not translated is referred to as a primary participle of a qualified negative. Lost you all, haven't I? A primary participle of a qualified negative. What is that? Okay, let's have an English lesson. What's a participle? Well, the easiest way to describe a participle, and I have to be careful. You know my wife's an English teacher. But the easiest way for me to describe a participle is just an in-word. Okay. Working or run in. It is a verb that now is changed just a little bit. I'm getting smiles from my wife. And it becomes an ing word. Okay. But the translators couldn't say canning faith save him. So they didn't translate this little participle. They just left it out. Now, that's not unusual. It is a negative. This participle is translated in other verses as no 486 times. It's translated as not forty-one times, and then there are fifty-one times where it's just not translated at all. Because To translate from the Greek to the English, it makes more sense just to bypass it. And so the translators translated this as can faith save him? Because it's a qualified negative. No, it can't. Obviously. It cannot do that. Can a dog sing a hymn? Well you wouldn't think. No. It's a ridiculous question. And so in light of all scripture, can can that faith, but man just says, I have faith, but I don't have works, can that save him? Well, obviously not But to better understand it, I want you to look at another passage with me. Turn over to Matthew 7, and we're going to look at verses 9 and 10. Matthew seven, verses nine and ten This is where Christ is talking about giving the Holy Spirit and giving good things. And he says, or if a man or what man is there of you whom if his son asks bread, will give him a stone, or if he asked a fish, will give him a serpent Now, in those two verses in 9 where it says, will give him the same may, may is in the Greek, but not translated, because it can't really translate in. But it's an obvious no. It is a it is no, he's not going to give him a serpent. No, he's not going to give him a stone. It's a ridiculous question. And so that is what James is actually doing here in chapter 2, verse 14. If a man say he had faith and not have works, no, that faith can't save him. Other other Modern paraphrases say, can that faith save him? Or can this type of faith save him? They put another word in there. It's not needed. And so, to go back to verse 14, obviously, no, this faith cannot save him. And so this one in verse 14 is one who claims to have faith, and yet his life doesn't show it. Now, what kind of claims of that faith do we find? Well I was baptized. So I must have faith. So I must be saved. Oh yes, I believe in creation. Yeah. I believe that God created the world. I must be saved. Live however I want to live. My tongue is always on fire, but no, obviously that faith cannot save. And it's beautiful that Scripture gives us its own reference on Scripture. And so as we continue in the passage, we find illustrations of this truth in verses 15 and 16. If a brother or sister be naked and destitute of daily food, and one say, and you say unto them, Depart in peace. Be warmed and filled, notwithstanding you give them not those things which are needful to the body. What does the prophet? Ugh. Cold Cold. Oh well brother, hope you get warm. No, here is my coat. You see If I had the means to meet the need, and I just say, well, you know, be warmed and filled. I have not demonstrated any faith there, have I? I haven't put any works into my faith. And so that's the first illustration. In verse 18, he says, or verse 17, even so faith of it hath not works is dead being alone. Saying to somebody, I hope you feel, you know, somebody says, Oh, I feel so hungry, and you say, I hope you feel better Well, no, give him something to eat. And so faith without works is dead. Verse 18, yea, a man may say, Thou hast faith, and I have works. Show me thy faith without thy works. But I will demonstrate to you, I will show you my faith with works. And then the next illustration we have is found there in verse 19. Thou believest there is one God, thou doest well. The devils also believe and tremble. And this is where most of the world and most of America is today. Well, we're a Christian nation. Yes, I believe there's a God. There must be. This is one of the problems with taking creation and trying to Dumb it down into intelligent design. I understand what they're trying to do there, but it's not just intelligent design. It's Jehovah God. It is God who created all things. And if you were to go out on the street today and survey the majority of Americans, do you believe in God? They would say yes. But the devils believe the same things. But how many of those people have ever had any transformation? How many of those people have ever had any change of the vile nature of sin? You see, all have sinned and come short of the glory of God. And simply saying, I believe there is a God, does not save. Rather, the true child of God will demonstrate That he is saved by his works. Verse 20, But wilt thou know, O man, that faith without works is dead And then we have a third illustration at the end of the chapter, in verse 26. For as the body without the spirit is dead, even so faith without works is dead. Okay. Here's a dead dog. The kicking, hey, bark. Here's a dead dog. Want some steak? Want some beef? Hey, here's a dead dog. There goes a cat Well, he's dead. He's not gonna run. He's not gonna bark. He's not gonna eat. And so the man who says, Oh, I believe in God. dead in trespasses and sins. But works are the demonstration of faith. There's two more illustrations given here in scripture from the Old Testament. Look down to verse 21 and 22. And here we're going to dissect some of the words a little bit more. In verse 21, was not Abraham our father justified by works? That sounds like his work saved him, doesn't it? Was not Abraham our father justified by works? when he had offered up Isaac, offered Isaac his son, upon the altar. See then how faith wrought with his works, and by works was faith made perfect Okay, what is this verse say? Well, first of all, we have to take that word justified. What does it mean to justify? We tend to think of someone being justified as being made righteous. Don't we? Well he was justified. He was made righteous. It's not what justified means. Justified means declared righteous. And that word declared is very important. When God justifies a man, he declares that he is righteous. It was not that the works made him justified, but it was because of the works that God declared him to be righteous. God saw his works and makes the declaration, he is indeed righteous. And further, it says in verse 22, or seeest thou how faith wrought with his works, the two work together. And by works was faith made perfect. And here again we need to consider that word perfect. What does the word perfect mean? Well, this word perfect in Scripture means to make complete. Or to make entire to finish. The literal meaning, made perfect, Compared with the whole of Scripture makes a lot of sense. And let me show you how. Turn with me to John chapter 3 or John chapter 5. John chapter 5, and we're going to see this same word perfect. In John 5 and verse 31 ver John 5 and verse 31, if I bear witness of myself, my witness is not true. We talked about that verse several weeks ago. It's not that Christ is saying I'm lying, but but don't trust me, trust my Father. I have a greater witness. Verse thirty-six I have greater witness than that of John for the works which the Father has sent me to finish. The same works that I do bear witness of me that the Father has sent me. The word finish there in John 5 and verse 36 is the same word perfect. Now, Christ said, the works the Father gave me to perfect or to finish, those works bear witness of me that I, or that the Father has sent me. Did the works that Christ do make him the Son of God? No. The works that Christ did didn't make him the Son of God, but they bore witness that he was the Son of God. The works that Christ did, the miracles, were the proof that he was indeed who he said he was. He was the Son of God. He was not made the Son of God by doing works, but the works were the proof that he was the Son of God. And it's the same word that James uses here. My works do not make me the child of God, but my works prove that I am the child. of God. And so my works work along with faith as that testimony to show that I am the child of God. It was the evidence. And so in Hebrews 11, we read by faith, this is verse 17 through 19, by faith Abraham, when he was tried, offered up Isaac. And he that received the promise offered his only begotten son, of whom it was said, that an Isaac shall I see be called, accounting that God was able to raise him up even from the dead whence he also received him in a figure. What is so significant about Abraham offering Isaac? Well he offered his only begotten son, obviously, his only child But when Abraham offered Isaac, we find here in Hebrews that Abraham believed that God would raise Isaac from the dead. Because God had promised to Abraham, in your son Isaac is the blessing. And so the faith that we find in Abraham, by which he's called the friend of God, was he was willing to say, Look, you promised that in my son Isaac you would bless And so if you have to raise my son from the dead, you'll do even that. Because you'll never break your promise. You see, when we say that Abraham was justified by faith, it was or by justified by works, it was not that the works made him just, but the works declared him to be just. The works were the proof. This guy not only believes God, he believes the promise of God. And Isaac will be the promise. And he believes that God has to raise Isaac from the dead. God will even do that. Because we'll never break his promise. You see, these things manifest themselves in the way we behave ourselves. They manifest themselves in our obedience to the promises of God and our trust in the promises of God. We live out our faith. Because the faith exists. And so works are not the means of salvation, but the works are the evidence of the salvation that exists. Long before Long before the great trial of offering his son Isaac, God had said to Abraham, get up out of your country. Leave your father's house. Abandon all the things of this world and follow me. And Abraham believed, and he left Ur of Chaldees. He started with a small work. That demonstrated, I believe God. And when the time came to offer his son, he offered his son. And so, if you look at verse 23, it's the confirmation of what we're saying about that word justified, that it means to declare righteous. In verse 23 of James 2, and the scripture was fulfilled that saith, Abraham believed God, and it was his righteousness? No, it was imputed to him Righteousness was declared upon him. Righteousness was attributed to him because of his faith. And then verse twenty-four. You see then how that by works a man is justified. And not by faith only. And I mentioned that word justified a little earlier. It doesn't mean to rank righteous, but it means to declare to be righteous. The faith is the testimony. The old saying, the proof is in the pudding. a man who truly has faith will live out that faith. And then we have a second Old Testament example, and we do need to to move along. But here in verse 25 we have the example of Rahab. Likewise also was not Rahab, the harlot, justified by works when she had received the messengers and had sent them away sent them out another way. The two spies come into Jericho. Rahab could have gained great honor. If she had gone to the magistrates and said, I've got them. She probably would have received financial reward if she had turned these guys in. She at least would have had respect at the well of Jericho when she went to the well with the other ladies to draw. Oh, here comes Rahab. She's the one that found those two splies. But Rahab turned her back on her family. She turned her back on her well not her family, I misspelled, on her people. She turned her back on her city. She turned her back on the magistrates. She turned back on all of them. She forsook all to follow Christ. She forsook all for truth. And so, was Rahab saved because he hid the spies? Well, that's not what Scripture teaches us. Turn with me to Joshua chapter 2. Joshua chapter two. And here we'll look at verse nine and following. Joshua chapter 2, verse 9. This is Rahab's testimony. And she said unto the men, that is, Rahab said to the two spies, I know that the Lord, that's Jehovah, that the Lord hath given the land, given you the land. and that your terror has fallen upon us, and that all the inhabitants of the land faint because of you. For we heard how the Lord dried up the water of the Red Sea for you when ye came out of Egypt. And what ye did unto the two kings of the Amorites that were on the other side of Jordan, Sion and Ag, whom ye utterly destroyed. And as soon as we heard these things, our hearts did melt. Neither did there remain any more courage in any man because of you. For the Lord your God, He is God in heaven above and in earth beneath. You notice the personal pronouns in there? She says, I know. She says, Your terror is fallen upon us, all the inhabitants of the land. We have heard how the Lord Our hearts did melt. You see, everybody in Jericho had knowledge. They all knew that God had dried up the Jordan. They all knew that this tiny little ragtag army had defeated Sion and Am. The gods, the Amorites, they all had knowledge. But only Rahab had faith. And Rahab's hiding of the spies didn't save her. Her fate saved her. But the fact that she truly believed in Jehovah, not just with the head, but with the heart. Was demonstrated in the fact that she was willing to risk arrest, that she was willing to give up financial gain, that she was willing to forsake and betray her own people That she was willing to do all these things and risk her own life. What do you think would have happened if they found the Rahab hiding the spies? She would have gotten worse than the spies. And so it wasn't her works that saved her, but the her but her faith that saved her, but her faith was evidence in her works. Faith indeed, without works, is dead. And no man is saved by his works. Why didn't all the people of Jericho believe? They all knew. Hebrews 11, verse 30 and 31, by faith the walls of Jericho fell down after their compass about seven days. By faith the harlot Rahab perished not with them that believed not when she received the spies. And so coming back to James In verse 26, for as the body without the spirit is dead, so faith without works is dead. Dead belief kills. Even so, faith that hath not works is dead being alone. Yea, a man may say, Thou hast faith, and I have works. Show me that faith without thy works, and I will show thee my faith by my works. But the last thing I'd like us to consider this morning, we've seen that Scripture presents faith as the antithesis of works. Scripture presents works as the evidence of faith. But finally, Scripture presents works as the introduction to faith. And this is amazing. My works are the introduction to faith. There's an old saying that I have written down in a Bible I used, the Bible I had in high school, your walk-talks and your talk-talks. But your walk talks louder than your talk talks. What you say speaks to man. What you do speaks to man. But what you do speaks a lot louder than what you say. And many of you I know work with unbelievers in your workplace. And you may try to tell them about the saving grace of Jesus Christ. But they'll never listen to your witness until they see your works. They'll never listen to that witness until they understand this guy is different than the other people around me. There's just something about him that is different. I know he's trustworthy. I don't know why. But I know when he speaks to me, he's going to speak the truth. I I I know that if he is handling company money and is a little bit left over, he's gonna turn it in. He's not gonna pocket it. I know that when he gives account, the account is going to be true. What are those things? They are works. They're demonstrations of the faith, but they are works. I know that when the foul language is going on, he's not going to be a part of it. I know that when we're going out partying after work, he's not coming along. There's something different about him. There's something that I need. There's something I admire there. There's something different. You see, our works, our works are the introduction to faith Our works are the first things that men may see. And yes, faith telleth by hearing it, hearing by the word. Men are not saved by seeing my good works. But I am to let my light so shine before men that they may see my good works and glorify my Father. Brother, you see how glorious this is. What a privilege to walk in faith. What a privilege to be different. Well, you may be ridiculed for it. You may get called preacher boy at work. Sorry. You may have people at work that don't invite you to their parties because they know that you don't approve of what they're doing. You may have other employees that don't like you because when they want to slack off or the boss's time, they know they can't get away with it because you're going to work. There may be employees that would like to take a little bit on the side, but they know that they can't do it because it's going to be seen evidently when you don't participate You see, we have been given this glorious privilege to work, to demonstrate our faith, to make our faith a testimony to all men. Because we stand for truth. And so I mentioned already Matthew five, verse sixteen, let your light shine before men. But here are the words of 1 Peter chapter 2, verses eleven and twelve. Dearly beloved, I beseech you as strangers and pilgrims, abstain from fleshly lusts which war against the soul. Having your conversation honest among the Gentiles, that whereas they speak evil of you, speak against you as evildoers, they may by your good works Which they shall behold, glorify God, in the day of visitation. And those last words in the day of visitation are very important. In other words, the lost co-workers, the lost family, the lost friends may behold your good works, and in the day of visitation they will glorify God. In other words, when the Spirit of God begins to convict them of sin, your good work standing as testimony will draw them to glorify God, and they shall be saved. And I so often think of Saul on the road. Saul, Saul, why persecutest thou me? It is hard for thee to kick against the pricks. What does that mean? Well, the kicking against the pricks is like the the the the ox that kicks against the kicks against the prodding of the master. You see, Saul had kept the coats at the stoning of Stephen. Saul had bound Christians and taken them to prison. Saul had stood by for beatings and for martyrdom. But he watched the Christians suffer with patience. He watched Stephen, instead of picking up rocks and throwing them back, he watched Stephen lift up his eyes to heaven. And see it, said I see the Son of God. And it influenced him. It worked at his conscience. Until the day of visitation when he glorified God, what would you have me to do? And so friends Our faith is by faith alone. Our works cannot save us. It is the antithesis of faith. And yet where faith truly exists, works will be working with it. Works will come alongside because true faith will bring about good works. And those w works that we do, that lifestyle that we live because we're not the old man but the new man. We'll be a witness and a testimony to our friends, our co-workers, and our families. And in the day of visitation, those very works become a means of grace. Let's draw men together. God. How great is your reward in heaven? You see, you could take the graft at work You could do the things that your friends do, but by laying up treasures in heaven rather than earth, how great is the And so, brethren, we're not saved by works, but may God equip us to have the verses to battle against this trend in American churches. that tries to add works to faith, but rather may we show forth our faith by our good works and a good testimony to the saving grace of Jesus Christ. Christ. Let us stand for prayer as we close today.