Open in your Bibles with me this morning. The book of Romans, chapter eight, for our text, but then we're going to spend most of our time this morning in Second Corinthians chapter twelve. So we'll begin by opening to Romans chapter 8, and there I'm going to read verse 28 through 31, and then we'll be going to 2 Corinthians chapter 12. Romans chapter eight, verse twenty-eight. And if you want to go ahead and find it ahead of time, we'll go from there to Second Corinthians chapter twelve. If you have your place now, our text will actually be the 28th verse, but I'm going to read through verse 31 of Romans 8. And we know that all things work together for good to them that love God, to them who are the called according to his purpose. For whom he did foreknow, he also did predestinate to be conformed to the image of his son, that he might be the firstborn among many brethren Moreover, whom he did predestinate, them he also called, and whom he called, them he also justified, and whom he justified, them he also glorified. What shall we say to these things? If God be for us, who can be against us? And then turn over to 2 Chronicles, 2 Corinthians, excuse me, 2 Corinthians chapter 12, and I'll read verses 7 through 9. Here the Apostle Paul, under the inspiration of the Holy Spirit, is speaking, and he says, Lest I should be exalted above measure through the abundance of the revelations. There was given to me a thorn in the flesh, a messenger of Satan, to buffet me, lest I should be exalted above measure. For this thing I besought the Lord thrice, that it might depart from me. And he said unto me, My grace is sufficient for thee, for my strength is made perfect in weakness. Most gladly, therefore, will I rather glory in mine infirmities that the power of Christ may rest upon me. Let us bow for prayer. Gracious Father, we thank you that the book that is before us is the very preserved Word of God. We thank you that it was given by inspiration and that it is profitable. Father, may you make your word profitable to we, your people, this morning. And Father, we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Our text this morning is that twenty-eighth verse of Romans chapter twenty-eight. And I would notice, have you notice first of all that it begins with a confidence in the purpose of God. And we know. It doesn't say that we hope that all things work together for good. It doesn't say that we think all things might work together for good. But rather, it says we know. There's a confidence. And so it begins with a confidence in the Word of God. And then there is a comprehensiveness of the purpose of God. So, first of all, confidence in the purpose of God. a comprehensiveness in the purpose of God, and we know that all things work together for good. It does not say most It doesn't say the majority. It says all things work together for good. And thirdly, there is a constructive objection object I'll forget it right yet. A constructive objective to the purpose of God, and that is good. For we know that all things work together for good. God has a good purpose in his purpose, whether it seems good to us or not. But then the verse ends with a clarification of the purpose of God. All things work together for good to them that love God. To them who are the called according to his purpose. There's two elements there. All things work together for good to them that love God. It says nothing about the heathen. It says nothing about the unbeliever. It says nothing about those that do not love God. It's not applicable. It's not for them. It is to those that love God. and to those who are the called according to his purpose. And so that is our text. And that's a very brief four-point outline of the text. confidence in the purpose of God, the comprehensiveness of the purpose of God, constructive objective of the purpose of God, and the clarification of the purpose of God. But with this verse in mind, all things work together for good to them that love God, to them that are called according to his purpose. We kind of need to stop back and say, is this really true? Because the things that are happening to me right now don't seem to be good. Because my current circumstances are not to my liking. Because that which I currently am seeing day by day I'm having difficulty seeing the good. And so I'd like to take this text and then make application to it. From Paul's testimony in 2 Corinthians 12. But before we get there, let's consider the context of Romans 28. There's a lot of verses we didn't read in the chapter. Look at verse 18 of Romans 28. Paul says, For I reckon that the sufferings of this presence are not worthy to be compared with the glory which shall be revealed in us. Paul's not talking about a happy time. He's not stating that all declaring that all things work together for good when all things seem to be good. The context is suffering. He says, I reckon that the sufferings are not compared. And look at verse 19. For the earnest expectation of the creatures waiteth for the manifestation of the sons of God. In other words, there's not a fulfillment yet. There's a waiting of the creature. Look down to verse 22. For we know that the whole creation groaneth and travaileth in pain denal. Look down to verse twenty six. Likewise the Spirit helpeth our infirmities, for we know not what to pray for as we ought Look to verse 38. I'm persuaded that neither death nor life, nor angels, nor principalities, nor powers, nor things present, nor things to come. Nor height nor death nor any other creature shall be able to separate us from the love of God, which is in Christ Jesus our Lord You know what? I think all of us would admit that it's a lot easier to say all things work together for good when all things are going good. Then it is for us to say all things work together for good when the skies are dark, when we know we have this confidence and yet we don't see it. And I'm sure every one of us can think of a brighter day than today. Because we can look back at days in our lives that were wonderful days. But folks, I think most of us probably could find a darker day than the day as well. You see, this life is not about pleasure. This life is about pleasing Christ. For the child of God, this life is not about the things we accumulate, but rather about the things we store Lay not up for yourself treasures on earth where moth and rust doth corrupt, and where thieves break through and steal. But lay up for yourself treasures in heaven where neither moth nor rust doth corrupt, and where thieves do not break through The believer has a totally different concept of this world, and you know what? The believer's right. And the world is wrong. And so indeed, all things do work together for good to them that love God to them who are the called according to his purpose. So let's see that put into practical application. Now we're going to go back to 2 Corinthians chapter 12 and spend the bulk of our time there. We find here that Paul had a problem. Things were not easy for Paul. He has a thorn in the flesh. that he refers to as a messenger of Satan to buffet him. Now you'll find if you dig into the commentaries and go to different sources, you'll find different People trying to explain to you exactly what this was. And some will say, well, he couldn't see well. Others will say he was somewhat deformed. He was short of stature. Some will say there was actually a demon presence that was oppressing Paul. I believe from the context we can say that it was some sort of physical malady, most like. Paul talks a lot about his physical condition. In Galatians chapter 4, he said, Ye know that through infirmity of flesh I preach the gospel with you. Galatians 4, 14, my temptation which was in my flesh. Paul talks about that quite a lot. In 1 Corinthians 2 and verse 3, I was with you in weakness 2 Corinthians 11, verse 27, in weariness and painfulness and so on. So I think we can safely say that most likely what Paul is talking about is some kind of physical ailment. And you know what? That would make sense. Because Paul and the early evangelists of the church were traveling in a day when travel was extraordinary. The men of that day were not world travelers. Those that traveled all across the known world were the exception. And those that traveled all across the known world were not known to be healthy because they were exposed to all manner of viruses and sicknesses that they had no natural immunity to. And remember Paul talking to Timothy. He said, Timothy, don't drink any water. But rather, take a little wine for thy stomach and thine oft infirmity. These were people that had a lot of sickness in their bodies, and a lot of that sickness had come about because of their service for the kingdom of heaven. Because they were evangelists. They were the early missionaries. And so the Apostle Paul most likely had some sort of physical ailment. That he was talking about when he said that he had this thorn in the flesh, a messenger of Satan, that he had prayed three times that God would remove it Now, wouldn't you think that it would be good for the evangelists to be in perfect health Wouldn't not that be a good thing? Wouldn't not the gospel be able to go further? Wouldn't he be able to preach with more power? Wouldn't he be able to visit more places? Couldn't he have planted more churches if God had just taken this sort of flesh away from him? You see, we can come up with all kinds of fleshly reasons why God should do it our way. But your ways are not my ways, and your thoughts are not my thoughts. And so the first thing it happens to notice in this was that Paul was in spiritual danger. And so God graciously made him sick. Look what the passage says He says there in 1 Corinthians 2 Corinthians, I'll try to keep my tongue straight here. He says there in 2 Corinthians 12, verse 7. Lest I should be exalted above measure through the abundance of the revelation, there was given to me a thorn in the flesh, a messenger of Satan to buffet me, lest I should be exalted above measure. Twice in the verse, he confesses that he was in date in spiritual danger. God resisteth the proud. And Paul says, lest I get proud, God gave me a thorn of the flesh, lest I get proud. He says it twice in one verse. And so right from the beginning, we can see that God was doing something here in the apostles' life. Yes, certainly he could have preached more if he wasn't sick. Certainly he could have traveled more, but the knee was in his own heart. And so Paul sa recognizes first and foremost that God had a purpose. Likewise the Spirit helpeth our infirmities, for we know not what we should ask for. He that searcheth the heart, this is Uh Romans 8 27, the verse before our text in twenty-eight, He that searcheth the hearts knoweth what is the mind of the spirit, because he maketh intercession for the saints according to the will of God. You see, God knew Paul's heart And God knew that the Apostle Paul could get proud. And so Paul says right from the start, lest I should be exalted above measure through the abundance of the revelations. There was given to me a thorn in the flesh, a messenger of Satan to buffet me, lest I should be exalted above measure. You see, all things do work together for good, to them that love God, to them who are the called according to his purpose Verse 29, for whom he did foreknow, he also did predestinate to be conformed to the image of his son. You see, what this life is about is not about our comforts. It is not about our pleasure, but rather it is about God conforming us to the image of His Son. God restoring Adam. And so the first thing we see here is that there was a spiritual danger that God was protecting the Apostle Paul from He was in danger of pride. But then, secondly, not only was God protecting Saul from spiritual danger, the infirmity did not come about by simple fate. It wasn't simply that he went to to glacia and came in contact with a virus and got sick. Or it wasn't that that by some chance he was in the wrong place at the wrong time, but look what it says. There was given unto me. Paul said I was in spiritual danger. I could be brought built up with pride. This didn't happen by chance. God gave it to me. And that word give is an interesting word. It actually means given for benefit. It means given for benefit. God for the benefit of Paul made him sick. God, for the betterment of the apostle, allowed him a thorn in the flesh. It was not by fate, it was not a chance. He didn't eat some bad pudding. God gave him this thorn in the flesh. In James four and verse six we find But he giveth more grace, wherefore God resisteth the proud, but giveth grace to the humble. And so more grace was in store for Paul, but before he could find more grace He had to endure a trial. Before God could give him more grace, God had to deal with the pride issue God had to deal with something in his life. And so Paul was given a thorn in the flesh in order that Paul could be given more grace. God sent a messenger of Satan to remind Paul of his need of gra humility. God gave Paul a thorn in the flesh so that he would be restrained from the sin of pride. It was given to him. God has given To all of us, hard situations. God has given to us all bad days. God has given to us all grief of heart. Does that mean that God has suddenly one day decided to be unloving? Does that mean that one day God decided to be unkind? Does that mean that God has somehow forgotten about us? No. And we know there's a confidence of the purpose of God, that all things, there's a comprehensiveness of the purpose of God, work together for good. And so this was not some chance or some fate. Remember David's prayer in Psalm nineteen and verse thirteen? Keep back also thy servant from presumptuous sins. Let them not have dominion over me. Then shall I be upright, and I shall be innocent of the great transgression. Is that not exactly what God is doing for Paul? Is not God through a thorn in the flesh? Keeping Paul back from the sin of pride, lest I be exalted above measure. And so it was not by chance. But the third thing it happens to notice here. He said God's chosen message was not pleasant. Our method was not pleasant. The method that God chose for the confirmation of Paul in the image of Christ was not pleasant. It was a thorn in the flesh. It was a messenger of Satan to Buffett. Have you ever had a thorn? I think probably most of us at some time or another have had a thorn. Do you ever have a thorn that stayed there for a while? You know when the thorn first goes in, you sometimes don't even notice it. Sometimes it's not until the next day that you realize you've got a thorn. Then it starts to turn red, it gets hot, begins to fester. Paul had had this thorn for a while. He's praying three times that God would remove it. And by now it's become very painful. By now it's become a constant reminder, a constant burden to his flesh. God's method was not pleasant. It was a thorn. God's method was not joyous. It was buffeting him, a messenger of Satan to buffet him. In Hebrews 12, verse eleven, we find this. Now no chastening for the present seemeth joyous, but grievous. Nevertheless, afterward it yieldeth the peaceable fruit of righteousness unto them that are exercised thereby. If you're taking notes in either reference, it's Hebrews twelve, verse eleven. No chastening Seemeth pre- ple pleasant or seemeth joyous for the present. What is chastening? Now we think about chastening typically as punishment. But that's not actually what the import of this word in Hebrews 12 is. Actually, I'm looking forward to Brother Vince getting to this passage. uh in in our study, because I'm sure he will really flesh this out far more than we have time for today. But this word chastening doesn't just mean you got taken to the woodshed for a paddling. But rather, it's the word instruction. No instruction. Now why do you spank a child? Well, for their instruction, for their education. All scripture is given by inspiration of God and is profitable for doctrine, for reproof, for correction, for instruction in righteousness. It's the same word in Hebrews, chastening. For chastening in righteousness, why that the man of God may be perfect, thoroughly furnished unto all good works. It's the word instruction And in Ephesians 6 verse 4, and fathers provoke not your children to wrath, but bring them up in the nurture and admonition of the word. It's the same word, chastening. So when we find here that no chastening for the present seemeth joyous but grievous, nevertheless it yieldeth a peaceable fruit of righteousness to them that are exercised thereby. It's not that God is punishing you for some sin. It's not that God is raining judgment on you because you've not walked in righteousness, but rather that God is instructing you through a hard trial. That God is nurturing you. To nurture a child is what the child needs. But God is instructing and nurturing Paul that Paul might be conformed to the image of Christ. that Paul might be made more like his Savior, that this pride problem, lest I be exalted above measure twice in one verse. might be dealt with, that Paul not be built up. And I said that wouldn't Paul be able to start more churches and go to more cities and evangelize more if he didn't have the thorn of the flesh But folks, he would not be better prepared to start more churches and preach more and to go to more cities until the pride problem was dealt with in his life. And so indeed, we know that all things do work together for good. That chastening wasn't a spanking just to make it hurt, but rather it was God teaching and nurturing his servant. And so we see that Paul was in spiritual danger, that the infirmity did not come by faith, it was purposed by God, that the method was not necessarily pleasant. But gloriously we see that Paul is indeed becoming more like Christ. It's working! Because Paul's response is appropriate. For this thing I besought the Lord thrice. Paul prayed about it. For this thing I besought the Lord thrice that it might depart from me. Folks, I'd be impatient. I probably would be getting a little bit angry, but here Paul just takes it to the Lord. He prays about it. It's working, folks. God's purpose in Paul's life was to humble him and hear, Lord, I can't fix this. You're gonna have to take care of this one. Lord, here's the problem. What can you do about it? You see, when we pray about something, we are admitting that the solution is beyond our ability. There's things that we can fix, folks. And you know doesn't mean we shouldn't pray about things that we that we can fix, so to speak. We pray about everything, we pray without ceasing. But we understand that, you know, i if we we don't sit around and pray, God feed me, we go out and get a job. You know. There are there are things There are prayers that we can put feet to that we can answer ourselves, but the things we really beseech the throne of God over are the things we understand, God, I can't fix those. Lord, this one is so far beyond me. And Paul here is admissing that very thing. He prayed about it thrice. The very act of praying is acknowledged, but the solution is beyond our ability. And so It was this same Apostle Paul who under inspiration said, Be careful for nothing but in everything by prayer and supplication, let your requests be made known unto God. James said in James 4, verse 3, ye ask and receive not, because ye ask it amiss, that you may consume it upon your lust. Paul wasn't asking this You know, for his own purposes. He was asking it for the furtherance of the gospel of Christ. He's already admitted that that you know that he had an issue that God was dealing with, that God was working on something. And I think the words of the hymn, Spirit of God, descend upon my heart, are apt here. Says, Teach me to feel that thou art always nigh. Teach me the struggles of the soul to bear. Teach me the rising doubt. Or catch the rising doubt the rebel sigh. Teach me the patience of unanswered prayer. And folks, that's a prayer we should pray, and yet it's a dangerous prayer to pray. It's a prayer we should pray. Teach me the patience of an unanswered prayer, but it's a dangerous prayer to pray. Because how do we learn patience? The trial of your faith worketh patience. And folks, we don't like unanswered prayer. It is part of our fallen human nature to want instant gratification. To want God to answer our prayer the way we want our prayer answered and to do it right now. We have examples in Scripture of those who pray with importunity. And we have the parable of the man who lacked bread because a guest had come and he goes to a neighbor at midnight. And we have the examples of those that have cried out and cried out and cried out over the same request. And Paul says, I prayed three times about this. And so we find that Paul's response was appropriate. But the fifth thing we'd find is that God was not unsympathetic to Paul's condition. You know, it wasn't that God just didn't care. It wasn't that God was unaware. It wasn't that God had forgotten about the Apostle Paul. God was working. God was doing his part and fulfilling his purpose. But God was not unsympathetic to his condition. Look at verse 9 of 2 Corinthians chapter 12. For this thing I besought sorry, I'll read verse 8 and verse 9. For this thing I besought the Lord twice That it might depart from me. And he said unto me. Did Paul deserve an answer? Was God required to tell Paul why? Who hath knowing the mind of the Lord or who has been his counselor? Shall the thing formed say unto him that formed made it, Why hast thou made me thus? Lord, why do I have this store in the flesh? Why do I have this thing? Lord, it's not fair. Lord, it's not right. Lord, it's. God was under no obligation to give Paul an answer. But isn't our God gracious? He said unto me. In the midst of Paul's trial, God spoke to him. In the midst of his difficulties Oh, he had asked three times and it didn't give the answer the first or second time, or he wouldn't have asked again. And when it says he asked thrice I I doubt that he was writing down in his diary, well, January twenty-first, I asked the day again at number two. No, he was praying without ceasing. He was instant in cease and out of season. I think the thrice has more to do with morning, evening and night than it does with just the third time. But he asked. For this thing I asked thrice And the Lord said to me, My grace is sufficient. My grace is sufficient. Hebrews 4 verse 15 for we have not a high priest which cannot be touched with the what's the word folks feelings the feelings Of our infirmities. He feels it too. He knew all about Paul's sword in the flesh. He had lived in the flesh. He knew about the aches and pains and sickness of these bodies. He was touched. With the feeling of Paul's infirmity. It wasn't that God was not sympathetic. It wasn't that God is a cruel taskmaster. It wasn't that God was being unkind. It wasn't that God was punishing Paul. God was nurturing him. God was instructing him. And folks, we have a beautiful illustration here of our sympathetic God in those five words, and he said unto me. Paul didn't deserve an answer, but God was gracious to give an answer. Folks, God's not going to speak to you in a dream and tell you why things are going on God's not going to come in some big audible voice, but God still speaks to his people in the Word. And folks, when we are struggling, when we are discouraged, when we're not feeling well, when it seems like the world is against us, go to the Word of God. And I guarantee you the Spirit of God will lead you to just the blessing you need. I can guarantee you that because I've seen it myself over and over and over again. And I guarantee you also that Brother Vince can testify the same thing. And anyone who is who loves this book will tell you that when you are in distress, when you are struggling, God will use his word to lighten your darkness. The entrance of thy word giveth light. Folks, God was gracious to speak to Paul in this time of struggle, and God will be gracious to enlighten your darkness through his word. He's not unsympathetic to our situation. Number six. God was able regardless of the outcome. Could God have removed the thorn in the flesh? Yes. God ordained not to do so, but there's no weakness or lack in the power of God in any of this story, in any of this account. God was able. God was sovereign. It was all within God's purview. It was all within God's wheelhouse. It was all within God's control. Is there anything too hard for thee? And God's answer was, My grace is sufficient. Paul, this will not break you. It might kill you. But it won't break you. Paul, my grace is not insufficient. Doesn't it make more sense when we kind of turn it around? He said to them, My grace is not insufficient. I'm sorry I don't mean to twist scripture there. But my grace is sufficient There is enough grace to sustain you through this trial, whether by life or by death. My grace is sufficient. There was no weakness. There was no lacking in the sufficiency of the grace of God. Paul, no matter how bad it gets No matter how long the trial, my grace is sufficient. And that word sufficient in our English doesn't bring out the full understanding. That word sufficient means possessing of unfailing strength And it also means contenting. My grace is contenting. In other words, that sufficient grace can make me content in my trials. Even when I'd rather be out of my trials. My grace is sufficient. Other uses of the same word John 4, verse 8, Philip said unto him, Show us the Father, and it sufficeth us. Lord, if we see your Father, that's enough. It's sufficient. It's contenting. Hebrews 13, verse 5. This was important if you're taking notes. Let your conversation be without covetousness, and be content with such things as ye have, for he has said, I will neither leave thee nor forsake thee. That word content is the same word sufficient. Be content uh let your conversation be without covetousness, and be content with such things as ye have, for he has said, I will never leave thee, nor forsake thee. It's the same word as sufficient. Why was the word there to be content? Because it's sufficient that he'll never leave us or forsake us. It's sufficient. It's contenting. Having food and ramoth therewith be content According to my earnest expectation, Philippians 1 verses 20 and 21. According to my earnest expectation and my hope that in nothing I shall be ashamed, but that with all boldness as always, so now also Christ shall be glorified in my body, whether by life or by death, for me to live is Christ and to die is gained. Isn't that content sufficientness? And so we've seen that there was a spiritual danger that God was protecting them from. That the infirmity was not by simple chance or faith, that God's method was not necessarily pleasant to Paul, that Paul's response was good, that Paul's response was prayer, that the that the God was not unsympathetic to his situation, that God was able regardless But number seven, God had a good and pleasant purpose in Paul's suffering. God had a good and pleasant purpose in Paul's suffering. What was the purpose? My strength, God's strength. is made perfect in my weakness. And that word perfect means complete. That word perfect means to be brought to fruition. God's strength was made perfect in its application to Paul's weakness. God had a good purpose. God was doing something perfect. Psalm 138, verses 7 and 8. Though I walk in the midst of trouble, thou wilt revive me. Thou wilt stretch forth thine hand against the wrath of mine enemies, and thy right hand shall save me. The Lord will perfect that which concerneth me. Thy mercy, O Lord, endureth forever. Forsake not the works of thine own hands. The Lord will perfect that which concerneth me. What was happening there in Romans chapter 8, verse 29, for whom he did foreknow? He also did predestinate to be conformed to the image of his son, that he might be the firstborn among many brethren. Those that God foreknew. were chosen in Christ before the foundation of the world. He also did predestinate to be conformed to the image of Christ, that Christ might be the firstborn among many brethren Moreover, whom he did predestinate, then he also called, and then he called, them he also justified, and then he justified, and those he justified, them he also glorified. Which element there did God miss? Well, he foreknew us He predestinated us to be conformed to the angel of Christ. Being predestinated, he justified us. And being justified, someday he'll glorify us too. God finishes his work. God had a good and blessed purpose in Paul's suffering. And Paul's final response demonstrates that faith and grace have had their work. Most gladly, therefore, will I rather glory in my infirmities. What was the problem Paul was facing? He was glory in the abundance of revelation, right? Twice in verse 7, lest I should be exalted above mount measure through the abundance of the revelation Most gladly, I'm going to glory in my sufferings. I'm going to glory in my tribulation. Why? Because these things are working together for good to make me like Christ. Because these trials that so grieve my heart and weigh down my spirit are God's nurturing, instructing, teaching hand to conform me to the image of Christ. And it doesn't seem pleasant for the present, but it worketh a far more exceeding weight of glory. And so, my friends, indeed, all things, comprehensively, all things Or I'm sorry, we know. We're confident. All things. Work together comprehensively, all things. For good. To them that love God, to them who are the called according to thy purpose. It's been observed several times that we are a small congregation with a lot of big problems. And that's very true. If you take most congregations percentage-wise, we seem to have a lot more people that are seriously ill in our midst. And human nature would say why. And our enemies would love to say, oh look, they must have sinned greatly because you know the on who the tower fell Etc. But folks, could it not be that we have a lot of sickness and a lot of problems in our midst because God is doing a great thing in our midst? Because all the things that we face are working together as good to make us individually and us as a body of believers more like Christ. And if this world is not like being about the being like the world, but if this life is about being like Christ, isn't that glorious what God is doing among us And so, folks, we pray earnestly for the sick, and I hope every one of you are bringing by name the illnesses of this congregation before the Lord every day and three times a day, morning, evening, and noon. But folks, as our brother has so eloquently said so many times, God's got this. And God is doing his purpose. Glory be to God. Let us stand for prayer. Father, we thank you for your word. We thank you for the beauty and simplicity of thy word. May you richly bless our hearts with thy truth this day. Father, may we look to thee rather than the problems. May we rely on thee rather than ourselves. And may we have that assuring peace that all things do work together for good, whether we see the good at this moment or not. Bless us your people for your purpose in Jesus' name. Amen.