Turn with me to First Samuel, Chapter thirty It's a reminder. Last week David and his men had returned from the field of where they'd expected to have been in combat to the city of Ziklag to their families, their wives, their children. And they found the city was burned and it all was gone. And David sought the Lord as to what he should do, and God told him to pursue after them, and that he would recover all. And in the f time of that prayer to God and everything else that was going on in that situation, the men were so upset with David, uh the fact that he had led them out of the city and left no one to protect the city and their wives and children was very upsetting to them. And they were ready to stone David when he returned from prayer from God and said, God has told me we are to pursue them. And that's what we picked up this morning in 1 Samuel Chapter 30, being verse 9 through 19. So David went, he and six hundred men that were with him, and came to the brook Bazor, where those that were left behind stayed. So he finally convinced them not to stone him. And to go with him. But David pursued he and 400 men. They started with 600, now they're down to 400, for 200 abode behind, which were so faint they could not go over the brook Bezor. And they found an Egyptian in the field, and brought him to David, and gave him bread. And he did eat, and they made him to drink water. And they gave him a piece of a cake of figs, and two clusters of raisins. And when he had eaten, his spirit came again to him, for he had eaten no bread, nor drunk any water, three days and three nights. And David said unto him, To whom belongest thou? And whence art thou? And he said, I am a young man of Egypt, servant to an Amalekite. And my master left me because three days ago I fell sick. We made an invasion upon the south of the Karaathites, and the Karahites is another name for Philistines. And upon the coast which belongeth to Judah, and upon the south of Caleb, and we burned Ziklag with fire. This guy doesn't realize how deep he's getting himself in. He says he's an Egyptian. We know how the Egyptians treated the Israelites, right? made of slaves. And then we find out he was at the Amalekites, and now he said, And we burn Ziklag. It's like three strikes are out here And David said to him, Canst thou bring me down to this company, this company of Amalekites? And he said, Swear to me by God that thou wilt not neither kill me, nor deliver me into the hands of my master, and I will bring thee down to this company. And when he had brought them down, behold, they were spread abroad upon all the earth, that is the Amalekites, eating and drinking and dancing, because of all the great spoil that they had taken. out of the land of the Philistines and out of the land of Judah. And David smote them from the twilight, even on the evening of the next day. And there escaped not a man of them save four hundred young men, which rode upon camels and fled. And David recovered all that the Amalekites had carried away. And David rescued his two wives, and there was nothing lacking to them, neither shall small nor great, neither sons nor daughters, neither spoil, nor anything that they had taken to them. David recovered all, just as God had promised. So we find here in verses 9 and 10 that David sets out and he pursues, pursues of 400 men These are the men that were about to stone David one verse before. And I want you to see in this the power of God to overcome the desire of someone's heart. In just in a just a moment, in a moment of time, these men who want to stone David, it's not explained why. But he just comes back and talk to God, we're to pursue And the men must have dropped the rocks in place. How quickly God can change a heart of not just one, two, or three, but of six hundred men And so all of a sudden we got 400 of the 600. The power of God has overcome their desire to stone David. Wow We pray all the time for people's hearts to change and we pray and we pray and we keep wondering is it gonna happen? Is it is it starting to happen or it's not happening? You know, it can change like that I know we've all seen movies from Hollywood and we had this impression at the cross that the centurion stood there. He looked a lot like John Wayne, if you've ever seen that movie. And and he says, Truly, this was the Son of God. As he stands at the Golgotha at the feet of the crucified Christ, we see his heart changes like that. The man who led the crucifixion of Christ But if you look at Matthew twenty-seven and fifty-four, what takes place there with the centurion at the foot of the cross is even greater than the movie for show portrays it For Matthew twenty-seven, fifty-four it says the centurion and they with him, that is his whole group of centurion, the centurion and all his soldiers who who dragged Christ up, who held Christ down, who hammered the nails into his hands and into his feet, who shoved the spear into his side, the centurion and they with them said truly this was a son of God. That whole team of centurions and his men, the whole team, the whole crucifying team. His heart was changed like that. And it can happen to you this morning if it hasn't already. God can change your heart. You don't have to be looking for it. You don't have to desire it. You don't have to pray for it. God can Well oftentimes just do it. And some of you sitting here know that's how God got a hold of you. You weren't looking for God. Things were going well. You were happy with your life. And so here we have David. And he is pursuing the Amal Amalekites to bring back their wives and children. And he's got starts with 600 men. 200 of them are faint. He ends up with only 400 men. Kind of like Gideon. You know, the numbers get chopped down a bit. And so he heads out with the men who are about to stone him. The fatigue of the 200 that stayed back at the brook of Basar must have been tremendous. They had already marched several days and gotten to the city of Ziklag. It must have taken an awful lot on them to find their wives and children had been captured, and they must have just sat down depressed and must have just just knocked the wind out of their sails, but they stood up to go and pursue. But by the time they got to Brook Bazar, some of them, 200 of the 600, were so faint they couldn't go on. They must have really been tired, exhausted to not want to pursue after and get their wives and children back. I can't imagine being that tired. But they were And David, knowing the frame of man, and as God knows the frame of man that were but dust, did not belittle them, did not berate them, did not yell at them, did not threaten them with a spear in her back or a sword to her throat if they didn't continue with him. He left them at the Brook Bazar and he went out with the 400. It must have been tough to have 200 men just plucked out from your 600, because if we go forward into verses 17 of this chapter and elsewhere We find that David was pursuing the Amalekites a much larger army than his. And the last thing he needed to do was to leave or to lose 200 more of his army, to go from 600 to 400 As we read there this morning, when he took it over and he killed everyone, four hundred young men escaped on camels. So we know that he's pursuing after a group larger than his own. It took him from one evening to the other even to kill everybody he could kill And four hundred still escaped, so we know that he was after a much larger body of soldiers than his own. And to lose two hundred of them in the last moments must have been difficult. It must have been quite a challenge for him And I want you to note this morning that even when we are in the path of obedience, we are going to meet with obstacles and challenges in our life. If we think that we walk the straight and narrow, we're always doing what God wants us to do, we never stray right or left from the Word of God that everything's going to go just wonderful, that's just not the case. There is a devil out there who wants to make our lives miserable, and God will give us trials to test our faith. And so when we're in the line of obedience, as Abel found out, his brother Cain slew him while he was sacrificing to God. God. And as Moses in the line of obedience, obedience, one of the from within his own stood up named Korah, and he wanted to overthrow Moses and take over the sacrifice, and he wanted to be the chief priest in town as it were And then how about the Lord Jesus Christ in Jerusalem preaching and praying and healing? And Caiaphas shows his ugly head. So you can be in the walk of obedience with God and do not expect there won't be some obstacles. Stephen was stoned, Acts seven fifty nine. James was beheaded, Acts twelve and two. We find that the apostle Paul fought with beasts at Ephesus as he was in the lion walking in obedience to God, fought with the beast in Ephesus, and he was in perils even among false brethren. First Corinthians fifteen thirty-two and second Corinthians eleven twenty-six Do you ever give others the impression that if you'll just become a Christian, all your troubles will be over and everything's going to go smooth, sailing? Or have you ever heard people talk that way? Oh, once you be once you give your life to Jesus, things are gonna be wonderful. Are they? Ask Kim Davis, sitting in a prison down in Kentucky. Kentucky, who gave her life to Christ four years ago. If things are just going wonderful There are those in the media, of course, who are picking on her, saying she should have obeyed the law. She should have obeyed the law. Well, she obeyed the Constitution. She should have obeyed the law. She should have obeyed those judges. As I handed out to you, and as you study, if you go back and read your Constitution, the Supreme Court is the weakest of the three branches. They hand down opinions They do not make any laws, create any laws, destroy any laws, they hand down opinions. That's why when the Supreme Court gave the opinion that illegal immigration was illegal the president of our country went, yeah, he doesn't care what the Supreme Court says. It's only their opinion. It's only their opinion. The federal laws right now state that you can't smoke marijuana anywhere you want to. But in Colorado the people said we want to and they passed the law and some of the judges said you can't do that. But you know something? That's only the judge's opinion Washington State the same thing. Judges render opinions, and Kim Davis knows that. She knows her constitution. You know why they're so mad at her, really? You know why they're really mad at her? It's not just because she won't sign the wedding certificate for the gays, all right? It's because there was a time when she wasn't saved and she lived an ungodly life. life. She was kind of like them. And all of a sudden one of them has turned to become a Christian. And that that's betrayal. That's traitorous. Now they're bringing all the dirt on her that she was married four times, that she's been through all kinds her life was nothing but you know debauchery or whatever they want to call it. Like Rahab the Harlot. Hey, I'm glad Rahab the Harlot got saved. I'm glad that Kim Davis got saved. I'm glad that Kim Davis portrays the fact that when you get saved, you become a new creature in Christ and all things pass away And that's what's bothering them that one of their own came out of the world and has stood up against immorality. That's what they can't stand She said on the courthouse steps for the news media to record it that Christ saved me, forgave me, cleansed me. I owe him so much. I can never turn my back on his word if I spend every day of the rest of my life in prison. I will not betray my ABC and NBC maybe didn't show that. CBS or Fox did and some of the others. So don't think that when you're in the obedience Godly obedience. She won't meet obstacles in your life. But she's not obeying the law. She's not obeying. That's what I'm hearing. From conservatives to Most of you are too young to remember this, but there were men in Germany who put to death the Jews and the gypsies and the Catholics and the Christians and the Protestants under Adolf Hitler And they said, we were only obeying the law. And the Nuremberg trials were held after the Second World War and those men were brought in. And it was determined by the courts, the world courts and all the people and all the world that it was determined this you never obey an immoral law, an ungodly law Obeying an ungodly law because it's a law is not acceptable. The Nuremberg trials established and no one's talking about that right now The Nuremberg trial is established for all eternity that it is never right to do wrong because it's legal. And Kim Davis knows that. She will not do something immoral because the opinions of five judges say it's okay. In fact, in her state, the Kentucky state law says that you don't issue licenses to St. sex couples. And the Supreme Court says well it's her opinion that you should. Okay, that's her opinion. The Senator from Kentucky said she's right. Rand Paul He said she's right. You don't do, you don't obey. We were taught everyone here has been in service. Were you ever taught how many guys are in service, military service? Were you ever taught you don't disob you don't obey an illegal command, right? If a commander said we just caught these prisoners, well we've interrogated them, take them over to the corner and shoot them, you'd say, I can't do that. You are not to obey an illegal command from your commanding officer. We should expect some rough spots in the road ahead as Christians if we're following Christ. And David found a rough spot here. He lost 200 of his 600 men at the Brook Bazaar. But he pressed on. Now he presses on, and he's out there in the wilderness and he's looking for the Amalekites. And you know, they've got trackers, they've got scouts, they find broken twigs and and twisted leaves and footprints in the dirt and and he's following and trying to follow and and sometimes he sees groups spreading off this way and that way and He's trying to get a a hold on where these men are heading so that he can pick up the pace a little bit. He's now short two hundred scouts. He's he's short men that can scout out and try to figure out where these guys are going. He wants to get there on time, but with a two or less men, he doesn't know if with a fewer scouts whether he'll be able to track these Amalekites down in time and save the wives and save the children. Even though the Word of God has promised him he'll recover all, he has to be disenchanted by losing two hundred of the six hundred men. He's not only got less men to fight with, he's got less men to track him down and catch up to him with And then, verse eleven and twelve, they found an Egyptian Now, to an Israelite, finding an Egyptian isn't much of a find, you know. I mean, you remember the Pharaoh how he traded the Israelites for hundreds of years? So finding an Egyptian out in the wilderness, that's not much of a find They find this Egyptian in the field, and he hasn't eaten for three days, hasn't drank water for three days. You try to go without water for three days. Hasn't eaten or drank anything in three days, and they gave him bread, water, figs, and raisins. For he had not eaten no bread nor drunk water three days David and his men are in hot pursuit to recover their wives and their children, and they stop for an Egyptian? Wow, that's amazing. And they don't have any idea this Egyptian could help them at all or expedite what they're doing in this mission, and yet they stop to nourish him, for he has, this Egyptian, a great need. And the Lord Jesus Christ taught us, we looked through the scriptures, that if you find someone laying along the trail, like the Samaritan found the man beaten and lying there and dying, half dead, Christ said the man was half dead in Luke 10 and 33 Do you just walk by him because you're in a hurry? You got other things going on? Christ said that the Samaritan, when he saw him, had compassion on him And here we find David and his men acting Christ-like. They have compassion upon an Egyptian. They could not forbear to deliver one, draw nigh unto death They could not say afterwards that they come back a couple days later and there's the Egyptian lying or dead. They could not say, Behold, we knew it not. They knew this man was dying. And although they were in pursuit of their wives and their children, they stopped for an Egyptian. Because like the good Samaritan, they would have compassion on one that was nigh unto death. These are soldiers. These are men committed to battle, men have been in battle, men who have taken the lives of others And yet they still have compassion. We need that in the military, and I believe we have that. Men that are willing to die for their country, men who are willing to kill for their country, and yet there must still be a heart of compassion When you find a wounded prisoner, or you find someone along the way Never, never, never deny a kindness to someone who later on may be empowered to return to you You know, you don't know if I'll be able to return a favor to you. And that's not why you do it. But so often we go through scripture, we find that people who have given a favor to someone found in the long run, whoa What a unique favor they're able to return unto me. America We've aborted 50 million babies plus. Had we had more compassion, we can't say, oh well, we didn't know. We can't say uh uh you know that uh we knew it not You we weren't in those abortion clinics, we didn't know what was going on. Well we got films now. Now we know what's going on, right I mean we got films and we got the people and they're laughing and chatting and talking about and how much money they made on it and how they sell the baby forks. We got all that going on We can't say we don't know, and yet our Congress and our Senate says, you know, we're not going to defund Planned Parenthood this year. We'll have to take a little more, we'll have to take another look into it. Another look into it? They got nine films right now Fifty million plus babies dead. Have you ever stopped to think that a fit of fifty million babies and those fifty million babies who have now been old enough, that starts back in the seventies, to have had children. So it's more than fifty million People we've been deprived of in this country. Have you ever stopped to think about those 50 million babies? Maybe, maybe at least one of them would have given us the cure for cancer. Wow, did we cut our throats, did we not? as a nation. Or maybe one among those fifty babies would have been the one that who would learn how to bring the spinal cord that's been severed and knit it back together again so people could walk. Among those 50 million babies, maybe there was a Louis Pasteur, maybe there was a Thomas Edison or an Einstein. Or better yet, maybe among those fifty million babies there was a Martin Luther or a George Whitfield or Charles Spurgeon. Oh my, what have we done to ourselves, people? That we continue to allow this And you know why we allow it? Because the judges in Washington, D. C. issued an opinion. The Supreme Court issued an opinion, Roe versus Wade, that it was Okay. It it was legal to do it Here was an apparent worthless half-dead Egyptian slave. Who cares? The Amalekites would have they'd have had jobs in abortion claims today, I think. Who cares about life And he's lying there in verse 13 and 14. He says, I am a servant to an Amalekite. Second mistake he made. And my master left me because I fell sick. And that was not good to say he was a part of invading forces down south. In fact, he says we made an invasion and we burned Ziklag with fire. He could have kept that one to himself as well. You know, you have to stop and think for a moment, okay, he fell sick. These Amalekites, don't they have any compassion for life at all? Didn't they have an extra wagon they could have thrown him on and carried him out Why toss him off to the side? What what what what is wrong with people who have no compassion at all? They didn't they wouldn't even put him in a wagon, they wouldn't throw him on a camel. We we read there that four hundred men escaped on camels. Why couldn't they put him on a camel? He's sick He needs help. How about leave him? How about just leave him some food and water? And the Amalekite master didn't even leave him food and water. Yeah, you tossed out in the wilderness from that. That's a sure death sentence. No food or water? And what's the other guy going to say? Well, maybe an Israelite will come along and help you. Not likely an Israelite will come along and help you. Or a Philistine will come along and help you. We hate the Philistines as well. No one's going to help this guy Without water and food, he's not going to recover. Anybody else in Scripture ever show such little regard for human life Yeah. The Pharaoh did not value the life of the Hebrew babies. See, this Amalekite attitude is not new. We go through all scripture, we find those who have no concern, no compassion for the life of others. And how about the chief priests? They thought so little of the life of Christ they sold him for thirty pieces of silver. Wow. Of course he had rebuked him. Christ had said, the stone which the builders rejected, the same has become the head of the corner. Matthew 21 and 42. Christ says, You're rejecting me like I'm just a stone somewhere to be tossed aside, but I'm going to become the chief cornerstone. And it irritated them. And they got together 30 pieces of silver to take his life. The slave here, the Amalekites had carelessly set him aside, and that which they had carelessly set aside was going to become the instrument of their destruction. Yeah, he's nobody important. Well you you treat him that way, and if it ever comes push comes to shove later on, he gets an opportunity. Maybe it won't go so well with you, Amalekites, and that's exactly what helped happen here And you say to yourself, Well I wouldn't have done that. I'd have given the guy some bread and some water and tried to find a cart or a place for him to stay. Wouldn't have just dropped him off in the wilderness. I wouldn't have done that, really. I bet you know someone if it's not you. You're so careless that you've tossed the Lord Jesus Christ aside You know. You tossed him aside. You you place the Lord Jesus Christ in the back burner somewhere. You only bring him out for the holidays. You only bring him out for your funerals. You only bring him out for the weddings and special occasions Or during the 9-11 emergencies in your life, you know, we break the glass and bring Jesus out and get on our knees and we pray. Or just like the Malachites tossing this half-dying slave on the side. We tossed our crucified Savior on the side. I'm talking to you this morning. May that not always be the case Before you face eternity. Now note: God by his providence. This some people don't think there's a God. They think, well, that was an interesting coincidence. Well, I'm going to share with you eight coincidences here. And you know with each coincidence it gets cubed. One coincidence, chances may be one in five. Two coincidences, two times two times two, you know, the chances are one in six, or sorry, one in one in eight. And if three coincidences, two times, you know, it just gets bigger and bigger and bigger, and pretty soon you're out there talking about astronomical uh chances of something being a coincidence. There's eight coincidences here that take place, all right First off, who caused the Egyptian to be ill? God. God's in charge of viruses and bacteria and sicknesses. and diseases and whatever's troubling you this morning, as much as you may not like it, it's in the province of God to grow you to be a witness to others. others. Nothing befalls you without God's permission. Oh, Satan might be the delivering instrument, but nothing befalls you without God's permission. And so the first thing that is in the problems of God is his Egyptian became ill. The second thing is that his master dumped him. Just dumped him. And the third thing is he dumped them without any sustenance, without any water. He's going to die. And the fourth thing is that the God saw too in the province of God that this Egyptian was dumped in the wilderness Exactly where he needed to be dumped for David to come across his path. And the fifth thing you have to think about here is that the hearts of David's men They didn't they slowed down and they cared. I'm out there trying to save my wife and save my children. Wait a minute, here's an Egyptian and Amalekite, apparently the way he's dressed. I mean, what who cared? But they cared. That's a miracle. That's a providence of God. And so they give him food and water. And it says he quickly recovered. Whoa, you know, quick after three days, no water and no food, he quickly recovers. Providence of God. And then he Six, he was made willing to answer David's questions. And seven, it says he would He would lead them to the Amalkites. I mean, do you see all the things that had to work here? I think I lost track of the numbers, but the thing is, eight things must happen. Eight things in a row must happen or nothing happens. David doesn't find out where the Malachi are. David doesn't rescue his wife and his children. David doesn't get to count the hero, they maybe get stoned when it's all said and done. Eight things must happen. What are the eyes of these eight coincidences unless there's a God? No one of the scriptures tells us that all things work together for good to them that love God. Romans 8:28. All things work together for good. I should just leave it there, but that's not where it's left. All things work for the gather to good for them that love God. If you don't love God, man, go at it. But don't expect all things to work for your good. Don't expect providences and coincidences to work for your good. It says all things, all all things work for the good of those that love the Lord. And here's David: eight things work for the good. Of David because he loves the Lord. The province of God makes a big difference In the life of David. The promise of God makes a big difference in the life of David, in the life of his men, in the life of their wives, in the life of their children. The promise of God makes a big difference all because of the slave. That was dying. The death of a carpenter, the crucified Christ, also made eternal differences I mean, how does the death of a carpenter make any kind of eternal difference? Well, he made eternal differences with the thief on the cross, did he not? He made eternal differences with Saul and a road of Damascus. He made eternal differences with some here. But not all here, not yet. Maybe if there was a ninth point of coincidence Someone who's sitting back thinking, uh, six, seven coincidences, that could happen. Eight coincidence. You know, if you had a ninth coincidence, well, maybe I'd swing around and think there really is a god Who deserves my praise, prayers, and attention. If there were nine I think the pastors covered them all. But if there were nine. Number nine. Verse 15. And David said, Canst thou bring me to this company? And the s he said the slave, the the dying Egyptian, he said, Swear unto me by Elohim. That thou wilt kill me not, nor deliver me the hands of my master, and I will bring thee to the company. Here is an Egyptian who says to an Israelite, Swear by Elohim He didn't say, swear by the god Moloch, swear by the god Balaam, swear by the god Asteroid, swear by the God Dagon, swear by the gods of Egypt, swear by The gods of the Amalekites, He says, Swear by the God Elohim Wow, where do you find an Egyptian that thinks something of the God of Israel, Elohim? You couldn't find another Egyptian in all of Egypt like that What a coincidence. Or providence, number nine. And not only that, he believes that if David swears an oath by the god Elohim, He can put his life in his hands and believe him. What a reputation David must have had. What a reputation the Israelites must have had that they uh they they if they swore by the name of Elohim I could trust my life to you. Are you like that, Christian? People know you're a Christian. They know you love God, and they know that they could trust your life to you. I tell you whose life I would put in I put my hands on the life of Kim Davis down Kentucky. I know I could trust her. I I don't know if we could have found another like this Egyptian in all of Saul's army, because they're allowed to try to kill David. They the whole army. What are the odds? What are the chances of finding one of such faith in all of Egypt or even Saul's army at this time? Not much. But then again, what are the chances of finding a Moabite? A believing Moabite in the days of Ruth? Well, we did find one. Well, what's the chance of finding a believer in the land of the Persians and the Medes? Well, we found Esther and Mordecai. Well, what's the chance of finding among the Pharisees a believer in the Lord Jesus Christ? Well, we got Nicodemus, we got Joseph Aribathea. There were a few God has his sheep, and he has them strategically placed to accomplish his purposes. Boy, he has them in some unique, unique places. We find there were some in Caesar's household. Philippians 4, 22. In Caesar's household, there was a believer. And it's not unusual to find a believer in jail. Ask Joseph. Ask Peter. Ask John. Ask Paul. Ask Kim Davis in Kentucky. And you know something? I think we're heading for a day when We're going to find a lot more Christians in jail, in prison, for their testimony of Jesus Christ. God has strategically placed us in a place to accomplish his purposes. And pilgrim today, are you a Christian? Are you in a Christian? sheep. If you're one of Christ sheep, then you are where you can do much good. I don't know where you are this morning, where you work all the time or where you go during the week. But believe me, if you're one of the saw of Christ's flock, if you're one of his sheep, you are where you can do that much good. And thus it was with this Egyptian. And so in verses 16 and 17, when he brought them, behold, they were eating and drinking and dancing because of the great spoil. He brings them up, he said, Look, I can give you a shortcut. I know where they're heading. I can help you out here. We don't have to go over that mountain range or through that valley. We can take a shortcut this way. We'll catch up with them. I know where they're headed. And when it catches up with them And they're the Amalkites are. They are partying. Whoa, they've just wiped out a bunch of Philistines, they've taken out a bunch of the Israelites, they've been but they've been in Judah and they've been in Caleb. They've just had a good old time with very little resistance. And it is party time. And they're eating and drinking and dancing and carrying on, even the guards, there's no sentinels out, there's no guards out, there's no one to worry about. They wonder they think they've killed and eradicated everybody. And so they're out there and they are careless, careless, careless, these Amalekites As many a country has been, and as many an unrepentant sinner has been. And these unrepentant sinners and non repentant countries that do ungodly things and ghastly things, when they say peace and safety, like Chamberlain in England When Hitler was about to roll over all of Europe, he was saying, peace and safety. That was Chamberlain of England. Sudden destruction came upon them 1 Thessalonians 5 and 3. And so we read here that David smote them from twilight on the evening of the next day. It was such a great slaughter. They got in the in the dark of night, they were able to slip into the dark of night and surprise them while they were dancing and drinking and so and eating. And they got in the started to slaughter in the evening of one day and it didn't finish. For twenty-four hours, David is slaughtering the Amalek But I saved a blessing for the end because it comes at the last verses in verses eighteen. And 19. It says here in verses 18 and 19, David recovered all. Alright? David recovered all of the Malachi had carried away. Nothing lacking. And then it repeats again in verse 19: David recovered all. Remember back in verse 8, God said you're going to get all it and you're going to recover all. And here's God's promise to David, which made David say, if I'm going to recover all, that means I'll catch uh we'll we will recover all our wives, all our children, all our goods. This is so good. But I want you to know something here. Did you know that God's word is even better than we can imagine? I mean, he says, David, you're going to recover all. All right, I'm going to recover all. All the wives, all the kids, I'm going to recover all. God's word is better than we can imagine. Because a close read of this, it says here David recovered all. Verse 16 through 18, even all taken from the Philistines. You see, when God told David, David, you recovered all, he thinks, oh, I'm going to give my wives and children back and all our goods. No, he said, You're going to recover all, David. What do you mean by all? Well, when he gets out and kills all the Malachi, he not only gets his children, his wives, and his good back, but He also gets all the spoil that had been captured by the Amalekites from the Philistines. So David not, he got more than he ever started out with. He says he will recover all. David recovered all the Amalaites had carried away. They hadn't just carried away David's stuff, they carried away the Philistine's stuff. And he recovered that too. When God gives you a promise, it is always better than you can imagine. So when Christ saw it, he that heareth the word and understandeth it Bringeth forth a hundredfold, I want you to know that in heaven we will proclaim in all eternity that we also recovered all. All nothing was lacking When God promises to forgive you for your sins, He means all your sins, every imaginable sin you can imagine. And you restore us to what Adam and Eve were on that first day in the garden. Sinless perfection in heaven. Heaven is a place Where nothing, nothing is lacking. You'll never feel like you gave up something. You'll find that you have more than you ever imagined that He had prepared for you Let's pray. Father, we thank you this day that you are a God that has compassion on us. the sinner. You are a God that has a love for your sheep. And though you go to prepare a place for us in heaven, in your father's house are many mansions, oh Lord, we we thank thee that we can't even begin to imagine. Eye is not seen, ear is not heard, nor is the end of the heart of man what you have prepared for us. But we know. We love your son. He has thought of everything, and because of that, we will lack nothing. And all of God's people said, Amen.