So where were we eight weeks ago? Anybody remember? Second Samuel, chapter seven Just to bring you up to speed, David had captured the city of Jerusalem Known now today as the city of God. He'd capture from the Jebusites. He was living in a very nice house lined with cedar And it dawned on him that the Ark of the Covenant, where God resided, was still out in a tent. And surely, why should a servant of God be living in a cedared house and God on the Ark of the Covenant residing in a tent or in a tabernacle? And David made some great and elaborate plans to build a temple in Jerusalem for God. But Nathan the prophet came and told him that he wasn't going to be allowed to do that. Quite a disappointment for David Prophecy said that when the temple was done, that Jehovah God himself would come to that temple. And it would be about a thousand years before Christ would enter into the temple, but David wanted to build the temple. He was a man after God's own heart. Why would God say no to his plans and his prayers? And so we pick up in verse 18, where David is disappointed to say the least, and he goes out to the tabernacle. Sits down before God and he begins to pray in verse 18 of chapter 7 of 2 Samuel. And then went David, King David, in and sat before the Lord. And he said, Who am I, O Lord God? And what is my house? That are the family of David, that thou hast brought me hitherto. Ye have made me the king. And this was yet a small thing in thy sight, O Lord God, but thou hast spoken also of thy servant's house for a great while to come. And he had promised that David and those of his family would sit on the throne for a great while to come. And so he's he said, what am I that you'd make me king? What am I that you would Place my family on the throne for a great while to come too. And is this the manner of man, O Lord God? Of course not. No man would be so good as you have been to me. Verse 20, and what can David say more unto thee? For thou, Lord God, knowest thy servant. For thy word's sake, and according to thy own heart, hast thou done all these great things To make thy servant know them. Wherefore thou art great, O Lord God, for there is none like thee, neither is there any God beside thee, according to all that we have heard with our ears. And what one nation in the earth is like thy people, even like Israel, whom God went to redeem for a people to himself, and to make him a name, and to do for you great things, and terrible or terrific for thy land. before thy people, which thou redeemest to thee from Egypt, from the nations and their gods. And thou wast confirmed to thyself, thy people Israel, to be a people unto thee forever. Wish I had time to talk about that this morning, that God has redeemed Israel to be his people forever. I know they're not walking with the Lord right now. I know that they're Many of them are blasphemers and they don't read their Bibles and they're not saved, but still God has set Israel up to be his people forever. And there are some that a remnant, a residue that lives in Israel today that that are his people. They will always be his people. Even in the year 2016, they are his people. And woe unto those that curse them. The Bible says, if you cannot bless Israel, do not curse them. They are his people. And then he continues here and he says, And thou art the Lord. And have become their God, that is of Israel. And now verse 25, O Lord God, the word that thou hast spoken concerning thy servant and concerning his house, establish it forever, and do as thou hast said. And let thy name be magnified forever, saying the Lord of hosts is the God over Israel. And let the house of thy servant David be established before thee. For thou, O Lord of hosts, God of Israel, hast revealed to thy servant, saying, I will build thee a house. And therefore hath thy servant found in his heart to pray this prayer. Unto thee. And now, O Lord God, thou art that God, and thy words be true, and thou hast promised this goodness unto thy servants. Therefore now let it please thee, to bless the house of thy servant, that it may continue forever before thee. For thou, O Lord God, hast spoken it. And with thy blessing, let the house of thy servant be blessed forever. I love what David points out here as he begins in verse 18. He comes before the Lord. He sits before the Lord. As he begins his prayer, he says, Who am I? What am I? I'm nobody important. Somebody disagreeing with David. David was the king of Israel. Isn't he somebody? Don't people feel sometimes like they are somebody special? But David, as the king of Israel, says, Who am I that you would bless me? David, the king of Israel, the man who slew Goliath The hero of countless military engagements with the Philistines, David, revered by practically every Israelite on the face of the earth and feared by every Philistine. Yet he comes before a holy God. And he knew he was, as he says in Psalm 22, 6, but a worm. Until you know who God, the God of the scriptures is, you'll never really come to understand that you are nothing. in God's sight. And if he blesses you, and if he saves you and he gives you eternity in heaven It's all because of the love of God in his heart, the God's heart, God is love. It's nothing in you, inerrately in you, that has caused God to turn you and say You're something special, I think I'll save you and bring you to heaven. You're something special, I think I'll cast my love upon you. If you can be the king and the killer of Goliath and a hero of the nation, and yet you should know before the face of God that you are. Nothing. You are but a worm that crawls through the dust. That should be the attitude of a man As he reads the scriptures and he comes before God, that he is nothing, and he must rely on God for everything. And that's not just the attitude of David, it's the attitude all through Scripture of those who love God. Abraham says in Genesis 18 and 27, I am but dust. And Moses says, Who am I that you should send me to the Pharaoh of Egypt? Who am I? And the Apostle Paul says, I am the least of the apostles, and I am chief of sinners, 1 Timothy 1 15. Do you grasp as you read the scripture that the men of God, the moral people, the godly people, the righteous people, the saved people, thought nothing of themselves and thought everything of God Almighty, the everlasting Father. Father. Pilgrim, we need and I would ask you this morning to consider the condition of your own soul. If suddenly you were before a thrice holy God, what would you say to him? I was pretty good. You take the good and the bad and you weigh it left and right, and and I you know, here's here's here's my good and here's my bad, and you know, you put them in a scale, Lord. Whoops. Consider seriously the condition of your soul this morning. If you were suddenly taken before a thrice holy God Who are you? Everyone here is a sinner. I'm a sinner. And we need to be saved Saved by the mercy of God, saved by the grace of God, saved through the shed blood of Christ on the cross, and then we become precious in his sight. Precious Messiah of the Lord is the death of his saints. We are not precious as sinners, but when we are saved of the blood of Christ, as he died on the cross for us, and we we claim that blood to cleanse us of our sins, then we become precious. In his sight. And yet still we know that we are but worms From dust we came, from dust we shall return. And the more we know about God, and the more we know about sin, the more we realize that We should be saying to God, who am I that you saved me? Who am I that you cared for me? Who am I that you sent your son to suffer for my My sins. So before the presence of a holy God, let me see if I can tweak your conscience a little bit with Hebrews 1031 for it declares, it is a fearful thing to fall in the hands of a living God. Now a healthy fear of God is good. And David had that. Worry to fear and love God with all her heart, her soul, her mind. Just as we fear and love our parents. We love them, but sometimes we we fear them. They can chasten us And that fear of God, that healthy fear of God, it will keep us from temptation and it will move us to pray for His mercy. Maybe there are some circumstances in your life that have really hurt. Maybe some circumstances in your life that have made you angry with God. Some circumstances in your life that have discouraged you from praying. David has plenty of reasons here to not go into the tabernacle and sit down before God and pray. He's been discouraged too. If you recall back in the previous chapters, he has lost his best friend Jonathan. Jonathan is dead. Jonathan's been killed in battle. Have you lost a good friend? Someone close to you? So you're mad at God? David had lost Jonathan And he comes home from war and there is his wife out in the streets publicly despising him and disrespecting him And he plan to build the temple and God says no, he's not answering his prayer. And it can just about discourage you when your loved ones are gone, and I suspect sometimes That we don't want to pray. Christ says that we ought always to pray, but it's difficult for us to pray if our friends are dying, our loved ones, and our marriage is failing, and our future plans are falling apart. How do we pray? But David did. But David did And it says we're to offer our prayers and our praise to God continually, regardless of what we're going through. If we really love the Lord, we won't be disappointed when He says no to our prayers We won't be disappointed when our marriages aren't going like we thought they would go. We won't be disappointed when when our loved ones, our mother, or father, or brother, or sister dies. We will still continue to pray. Paul says we're to pray always. And Christ said it as well in Luke 18:1. Men ought to always pray. And so David is here praying in the tabernacle, though you can't say he's had a stellar great year. What is my house, David says in verse 18, that thou hast brought me hither? Who am I that you've made me king and you promise that my children will also be kings and sit on the throne He says in verses 19 through 21, but for thy word's sake hast thou done all these great things. He's not just talking about for his word sake God has done all these great things for David. But God David says, But for thy word sake, God has done great things. And what were some of those great things? And why has he done these great things? He said for his word's sake he has done great things to make his servant know. Know what? To know the word It's one thing for God to spread his word out there for people to read it, but what can God do to get people to read his word? David says he does great things that makes us to know Like to know here he says he've done those great things to make thy servant to know them or to know his word. God would have us to know his word. He asked the average person out there. If he's a Christian, he says yes, and you say, well, name the first four books of the New Testament. Matthew, well, Matthew, Matthew, Matthew. Oh let me think. Peter? He must be in there somewhere. Do you know his word? God would have us to know his word and he's done great things That we might be drawn to his word and that we might know his word. And David says here that he has done great things to promote his word. What great things? Well, he says in verse 22 and 23 All the things that have heard with our ears, like Israel, he said, which was redeemed from Egypt. Wow. Now that was some great things that God did there, didn't he? I mean there was ten plagues in Egypt against the Pharaoh. There was a parting of the Red Sea. You know, the sea divided in Exodus 14. There was a manna that fell from heaven for 40 years to feed the people in Numbers 11. And for 40 years in the wilderness, some people don't realize this, but Deuteronomy 29, 5, for 40 years in the wilderness, their clothes never waxed old or their shoes. Wow. God has done great things. Why? For his word's sake. God has done great things that we might make us to know them, to know his words. And David read talks about Egypt And Israel being brought out of Egypt. Now David wasn't there when Moses was brought out of Egypt with the people. I mean that was like 500 years earlier, you know. He wasn't around when that took place But David believed the writings of Moses. He believed that they were inspired or God breathed. He believed the writings of Moses. He believed the miracles of Moses. He believed the great things that God had done, and they drew him. to God's words that he might believe them as well. You know, today we We people often say, why should we believe God's Word today? I mean, what reasons do we have to believe? Well, there's been some great things that God has done. That ought to draw us through his word. I mean, Christ fulfilled over a hundred Old Testament prophecies when he came and appeared in the New Testament. We can look at those Old Testament prophecies and we know they were written you know hundreds of years before Christ even came, where he'd be born in Bethlehem of the tribe of Judah. And you go all through the prophecies of Christ, he'd be a miracle worker. Over hundreds of prophecies fulfilled by Christ. That ought to get us to look at the Word of God. And it is documented that those prophecies were really written before the Lord Jesus Christ came. So we've got some some great things that should draw us to read his word. And then we hear all the time. People said I had cancer, or people said I was in an accident. They told me I wasn't going to live, and there was brain damage. And my family prayed for me, and here I am. And we see prayers answered People attest to that all the time. Doctors attest to that who aren't even Christians. And they'll attest to the fact that people who pray recover and do much, much better in the hospital than those that don't And so we have prayers. That's another great thing that we see happening even today. And it ought to draw us to the scriptures, to his word. These great things that happen are for his word's sake that we might believe. His words. And how about this one? God preserving his word Do you know how many times the Bible has been burned and cut and buried and people have tried to destroy it throughout all the ages for thousands of years? And it's still there. You know, we don't have uh any y you talk about Plato or Aristotle or Socrates, you know? And and they say, Well I read Socrates How do you know it's Socrates? Well, I got a copy right here. Well, where'd that copy come from? Well, it came another copy, another copy. How far back does it go? Oh, maybe 700 years after Socrates died. Well then how do you know it's his But we can we can track the New Testament back to within 40 years of the life of Christ. But Socrates, Aristotle, my goodness, you're off by hundreds of years. The same with Muhammad and the rise of the Quran. You know, you're talking a couple hundred years after the death of Muhammad before anybody wrote anything down. But the Word of God was preserved. No book, no writing has been so attacked and so many attempts made to destroy it and obliterate from all of society. And we still have it. These are the great things that God has done for his word's sake, that we might know them. He has preserved them. That's why David says, to make thy servant David to know them in verse 21. And to make us to know them, God has still preserved them, hasn't he? In fact, 1 Peter 125, don't believe me that God's preserved his word. Peter says it. The word of the Lord endureth forever. We still have it. Now there are some people who say we don't think we have God's word today. They're wrong. And there are some people who say, well, we have doubts That what we have here is is God's word. Okay, you have doubts. Let me tell you where doubts came from. The Garden of Eden, a serpent who said, Hath God said. That's where doubts come from. They come from the serpent. They come from Satan. Because Peter says God's word shall endure forever, and Satan says, Hath God said. Judgment is coming. The Lord Jesus Christ, who came once, is a miracle worker and led He'll lay down his life on a cross for He's coming as a judge. And he's going to look around and about him in this world, he's going to see who has kept his commandments Who has kept his law? Who has kept his word? And can the Lord come and judge us and condemn us and place us in hell for all eternity if we don't have his law? If we don't have his commandments, if we don't have his word I mean, that wouldn't be a very just judge. And so God has promised that his God-breed-inspired word, it would endure forever so that he can judge us if we don't keep his word. If we don't follow his word. He will return to judge those that don't. Revelation nineteen eleven, Revelation twenty, twelve and thirteen. And so David continues in Verse 25, and he says, And now, O Lord God, the word that thou hast spoken concerning thy servant and concerning the house of thy servant, establish it. Forever. And do as thou hast said. That's the title of my message this morning. Oh Lord, do as thou hast said. That ought to be our prayers too. Oh Lord, do as thou hast said. The problem is, most people don't know what God has said. No. So they're afraid to ask God to do as He has said. Or they may be willing to trust God and say, Well Lord, just do what He said, and but you have no idea of what God's going to do We have no idea what God's going to do unless you've read His Word. You have no idea what God's going to do unless His Word has endured until this day, unless we have God's word We can't say, well, I would like to say, God, do what thou has said, but I don't know what you have said. But we do know what he has said. He has preserved his word And David talks about God's word. David talks about God's word. God's declarations have stirred David's devotions. He's in the tabernacle on his knees before God. He is praying to God. Who am I, O Lord? And then he says, O Lord, do as thou hast said. The declarations of God have stirred David's devotions. And and he has promised David he'll sit on the throne and his family will sit on the throne, and there'll be some of the lines of uh the lineage of David that will sit on that throne forever, which you know is the son of David, a title for the Lord Jesus Christ when he comes back He will sit on that throne forever. And so he's ignited by God's promises. David's heart, he is pleading God's promises. He's making God's promises a part of his prayers. Boy, he is excited as he prays. He is stirred up here as he prays. People can sound stirred up in public prayers. They can wax eloquently in front of the congregation or before a body of people. But what are your private prayers like? David's here praying privately and his prayers are not cold or lukewarm. He is stirred in his devotions. He is ignited by the promises of God. Cold prayers are generally the result of doubt or ignorance of God's word and of God's promises. If you are familiar with God's word and you saw the things He's promised for you, you could get excited while you pray. Martin Luther. I mean, he's considered like the father of the Reformation. I mean, Martin Luther is you know, turn Germany upside down, Martin Luther. I mean uh that i i if there's I I don't know if there's anyone more revered throughout the whole Reformation than Martin Luther. And people talked about Luther preaching, you know what else they said about him? If you thought his preaching was good You ought to have heard him pray. It was a hundred times more dynamic, more forceful, more powerful, more moving to hear Luther pray. What are your prayers like? We need to read God's word If we do, we'll rest in his word, we'll lean on his word, and we'll plead the promises of God in our prayers in Christ's name as we're told to ask in his name. When things aren't going well in your life, look through the scriptures for the promises that God offers us. And when you read those promises, then in your prayers you can say, Oh Lord, do as thou hast said. I'm saying to you this morning, attach to your prayers the promises of God, and expect some of those promises. Let me give you some examples that aren't just written to the people who are praying these prayers in the Bible. When you read the Psalms of David and elsewhere, you say, Well, that's a promise to him, that's a promise to him. Listen, some of these promises are to you And when we're praying, we need to pray these promises. We need to plead these promises. We need to say, as we plead these promises, oh Lord, and for example, be merciful unto me according to thy word. Psalm 119 and verse 58. Is something going on in your life and you want God to be merciful unto you? Plead the promise. Be merciful unto me, O Lord, according to your word. Be merciful unto me. James 1 5, you can pray that one. If any lack wisdom, ask of God, and it shall be given him. George Washington Carver. I don't know if you even Many have heard of him. Famous, famous scientist. I guess we call him Afro American today or whatever. whatever but he was he was a scientist, he was a black man, didn't always have access to the the perks that many people had and yet he became a famous scientist I just and he he prayed one day for wisdom from God. He said, Oh Lord, reveal to me what you have hidden in the peanut. In a peanut I wish I could give you a list of things that the patents and the products and the productions that came out of George Washington Carver's prayers Our life would be so miserable without him having prayed to God, to ask God to give him, for he lacked wisdom. Well I'd like to see him on a dollar bill. Wow. So, we can pray the promises. Are you starving? Pray as Christ taught us. Pray for your daily bread. You can do that. Do you see evil abounding in the world all around you? Praise Christ taught you. Deliver us from evil. Pray the promises, friend. Plead the promises. Are you lacking in something in this world My God shall supply all your need by Christ Jesus. Philippians 4:19. Plead the promises, pray the promises. The Lord Jesus Christ met our greatest need, dying on the cross for our sins. Surely he will meet the lesser needs of our life. Listen as David writes in Psalm 39. While I was musing, or that is meditating on his word, A fire burned within me. And then I spake with my tongue. So while he was musing on the words, meditating on the words, reading the words, believing the words It burned in his heart and his tongue he began to speak and he began to pray. I don't know how you can pray a decent prayer if you're not reading the prayers of David and the Psalms, if you're not reading the Word of God. What ignites you? What stirs you? To pray a prayer that's not cold. And he says here in verse 26 and 27 of Sam, we read this morning, as David thought on the promises to him You know, he'd be the king and sit on the throne and and the promises to his household that they too would sit on the throne someday. And of the promises to Israel, they saw in God's word, he as as he read these things, he said thy servant found in his heart to pray this prayer unto thee. He had read the promises to him. He'd read the promise, or he'd heard the promises of God's word to him, to his family, to Israel. As he pondered these things, I found it in my heart to pray unto thee. You want a better prayer life? Read his word. In verse twenty eight, as he prayed, he said, Now, O Lord God, thy words be true. How does he know God's words are true? Unless He has them. And you can look at them and read them. Don't believe people tell you, we don't know if we got God's word or not today God's going to hold us accountable for his commandments, his laws, and his words. We have his word today. The only reason people doubt his word is they don't want to be held accountable. For his word. I didn't know, I didn't think it was his word. David says, Thy words be true. That's why the Lord Jesus Christ quoted the Old Testament all the time. Because he knew the words were true. He's the word incarnate. Thy words be true. So I ask you this morning, you got a Bible here, or you got a Bible at home, you got a Bible somewhere? Do you believe there are no miscalculations? No alterations? No imperfections in the Word of God? Because the word of God tells us that the holy men of old spake as they were moved by the Holy Spirit. This is a God-breathed, God-inspired book. It is trustworthy. In fact, we often use the word infallible. That is God breathed. So it's got to be infallible. God wouldn't breathe out lies. We often use the word inerrant. That is, it is true. It is true whether it's talking about the moon, the sun, the stars, astronomy, or science, it is true. It has no errors And I love the word plenary, which means it's complete. No one is taken from it or added to it, and it is complete. It needs nothing else added to it. What we believe about God's Word will affect the content of our prayers And where we're headed in eternity. Our eternal destiny And so David prays, Bless the house of thy servant. Do you know you can pray that too? If you're a disciple of Christ, if you're a servant of Christ, you can pray, oh Lord Bless the house of thy servant. Bless the house of the disciple of Christ. We can pray that. Bless the house of thy servant, that it may continue forever, that we may live forever Before thee. Not just live forever, but live forever before the Lord. Live forever before the Lord Jesus Christ. For thou, O Lord God, why should David even believe this? That he could live forever. For thou, Lord, O God, hast spoken it. You say, well, when did God say that? Well, let me make it real clear to you. Not only did David find it everywhere in Scripture. That he would live forever. In fact, David is fixated on living forever. You know that? If if you go back through this chapter seven, you'll find that David refers to the to ever forever He's talking about forever, all through chapter seven. Chapter thirteen he mentions about living forever. And chapter six chapter seven, verse thirteen, and then verse sixteen, and then verse twenty-four, and verse twenty-five, and verse twenty-six, and verse Twenty nine he mentions uh twice Seven times David is talking about forever and living forever and living before God forever. And what did the Lord Jesus Christ promise us Whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have what? Everlasting life. We would live forever before him. The Old Testament promises, the Old Testament saints, they would live forever. The New Testament promises, the New Testament saints, they will live forever. Do you believe in Christ? The Lord Jesus Christ? If not, pray for faith. To believe in the Lord Jesus Christ. To believe in Christ alone for salvation. And if you have a trouble praying that prayer, ask others to pray for you that you will believe in Christ that you might live forever. Let's pray. Father, we thank you this day for the testimony that we find in 2 Samuel, where even there it talks about living forever. The Old Testament saints, they believed in a paradise. They believed in a forever. They believed in a heaven for those who are servants of God. Oh Lord, today. May there not be one individual here That has not or will not at some time in their life commit themselves to be a servant of the Lord God, to be a servant, a disciple of the Lord Jesus Christ. May there come a day when all those gather here will also be gathered together at the banquet table in heaven. May we reflect upon the day that we we said, O Lord, make me a servant. A servant of Christ. We ask this in the name of our great God and Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ. Amen.