Open in your Bibles with me, please, this morning to the book of Jeremiah and the 35th chapter. Jeremiah 35, as we open God's word together this morning. I'm going to read all nineteen verses of the chapter. The story of the Rekobites. Jeremiah chapter 35 and beginning in verse 1. The word which came unto Jeremiah from the Lord In the days of Jehoiakim, the son of Joash, king of Judah. Go unto the house of the Rechobites and speak unto them And bring them into the house of the Lord, into one of the chambers, and give them wine to drink. Then I took Jehazaniah, the son of Jeremiah, and the son of Habazaniah, and his brethren, and all his sons, and the whole house of the Rechabites. And I brought them into the house of the Lord, unto the chamber of the sons of Hanan, and the son Igdala, a man of God. which was by the chamber of the princes, which was above the chamber of Messiah and the son Shalem, the keeper of the door And I set before the sons of the house of the Rekobites pots full of wine and cups, and said unto them, drink ye wine. But they said, We will not dr we will drink no wine, for Jonadab, the son of Rechab, our father, commanded us, saying ye shall drink no wine, neither shall neither ye nor your sons for ever. Neither shall ye build houses, nor sow seed, nor plant vineyard, nor have any. But all the days ye shall dwell in tents, that ye may live many days in the land wherein where ye are strangers. Thus have we obeyed the voice of Jonadab, the son of Rekab, our father, in all that he charged us, to drink no wine all our days, we or our wives or sons or daughter our daughters, nor to build houses for us to dwell in, neither have we vineyard, nor field, nor seed. But we have dwelt in tents and have obeyed and done according to all that Jonadab our father commanded us. But it came to pass when Nebuchadrezar, king of Babylon, came up into the land, we said, Come, let us go to Jerusalem. For fear of the army of the Chaldeans and for fear of the army of the Syrians, so we dwell at Jerusalem Then came the word of the Lord unto Jeremiah, saying, Thus saith the Lord God of hosts, the God of Israel, Go tell the men of Judah and the inhabitants of Jerusalem. Will ye not receive instruction to hearken to my voice, saith the Lord? The words of Jonadab, the son of Rechab, that he commanded his sons not to drink wine are performed. For unto this day they drink none, but obey their fathers' command, notwithstanding I have spoken unto you, rising early and speaking, but ye hearkened not unto me I have sent also unto you my servants, the prophets, rising early and sending them, saying, Return ye now, every man, from his evil way, and amend your doings, and go not after other gods to serve them. And ye shall dwell in the land which I have given to you and to your fathers. But ye have not inclined your ear, nor hearkened unto me. Because the sons of Jonadab, the son of Rechab, have performed the commandment of the Lord their father, which he commanded them But this people hath not hearkened unto me. Therefore saith the Lord God of hosts, the God of Israel, Behold, I will bring upon Judah and upon all the inhabitants of Jerusalem all the evil that I have pronounced against them, because I have spoken unto them but they have not heard, and I have called unto them, and they have not answered And Jeremiah said unto the house of the Rechabites, Thus saith the Lord of hosts, the God of Israel. Because ye have obeyed the command of Jonadab your father, and have kept all his precepts, and have done according to all that he commanded you Therefore, thus saith the Lord of hosts, the God of Israel, Jonadab, the son of Rechab, shall not want a man to stand before me. Forever. Let us pray. Gracious Father, as we look at this wonderful passage, which has so much to teach us and so much instruction. As we consider the example and testimony of the Rekabites who obeyed their father. And the ill example of Israel or of Judah, which would not obey the Heavenly Father. Oh Lord, may we take warning, may we take instruction, and Lord, may we be humble to submit to every ordinance of God. Bless thy truth to our hearts we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. Let's begin by considering who we're talking about here. Who are the Recobites? Well, we find therein the Second verse, go to the house of the Rekobites and speak unto them. So it's good to know who is being brought forth as this example. You understand that the Rechabites were not descendants of Abraham. They weren't of Abraham's family. They were not recipients of the covenant of God. In verse 7, we read this. Neither shall we ye build houses, nor sow seed, nor plant vineyards, nor have any this is their father talking to them, but all the days days ye shall dwell in tents, that ye may live many days in the land wherein ye be strangers. Strangers. That term strangers in scripture is very significant because strangers is not talking about the children of Abraham Strangers were those that were outside of the family of Abraham. So again, the question, who are the Rechabites? Where did they come from? Well, to give you the answer very briefly, the Rechobites were the descendants of Jethro Well, who was Jethro? Well, Jethro was the priest of Midian. Jethro was the father-in-law of Moses. You see, when Moses went out into the wilderness and married the daughter of the priest of Midian, his father-in-law Jethro was a worshiper of Jehovah. But he wasn't descendants of Abraham. He was outside of Abraham's family. And so these Rekabites that are held up here as an example to Judah They were not the descendants of Abraham, and yet they were worshipers of Jehovah. And not to go into all the references deeply, but let me give you some references if you want to study out out further. 1 Chronicles 2. 55 along with Judges 1. 16 And Judges 4. 11. That's 1 Chronicles 2. 55, Judges 1. 16, and Judges 4. 11. Give us the genealogy and the connection back to Jethro. If you want to study that further yourselves. But now turn with me to Numbers chapter 10. Numbers chapter 10, and here in the 10th chapter of Numbers, Moses asked his brother-in-law, Hobab, To join with Israel. And his brother says, No, we're going to be dwellers in the wilderness. And that's significant. Remember, these Rechabites are dwellers in the wilderness. So in Numbers 10, verse 29, if you have your place now. And Moses said unto Hobab, the son of Regal the Midianite. We have a different name there, don't we? Reguel the Midianite. This is Jethro. Jethro was not really his name. Jethro means his excellency. And so when we read of Jethro, who was the priest of Midian, His Excellency, but his name was Reguel His Excellency. So Moses said unto Hobab, the son of Reguel, the Midianite, Moses' father-in-law, We are journeying unto a place which the Lord said, I will give it you. Come thou with us, and we will do thee good, for the Lord has spoken good concerning Israel And he, that's Hobad, said unto him, I will not go, but I will depart into my own land and to my kindred. In other words, I'm going to stay here in this wilderness, where Moses had been dwelling. And Moses said to him, verse 31, and he said, Leave us not, I pray thee, for as much as thou knowest how we are encamped in the wilderness. And thou mayest be to us instead of eyes. Who was the eyes of Israel in the wilderness? Well, Jehovah was there in a pilly cloud or at pilly cloud cloud of pillar. I can't say it. Pillar of cloud! There we go. Cloud of Pillar. That one that don't put that's not a sound bite for the Gen Z. Cloud Cloud of Pilder. Pillar of Fire and a p and cloud by night. God was their eyes is the point. But Moses saying to to Hobabel, you be eyes for us in the wilderness And he says in verse 32, and he said, If thou go with us, yea, it shall be that what goodness the Lord shall do unto us, the same will he do unto thee. And so this is the origin of the Kenites or the sons of Rechab. They were dwellers in the wilderness, they were nomads, and their father had said to them, Don't build houses, live in tents. Don't drink wine. Don't even plant a vineyard to grow grapes for wine. Don't have any seed. You're to be a nomadic people. And so the Rechabites were worshipers of Jehovah, but they were outside of Israel. Well that's very significant because here Jehovah is going to hold them in the face of the covenant children. And say to Judah, look, they worship me and they obey their father, but you won't obey my voice. And so that's who they are. The second thing, the commandment. Look at verse 6 and 7 back in Jeremiah 35. What was the commandment given to them? But they said, We will drink no wine. For Jonadab, the son of Rechab, our father, commanded us, saying, Ye shall drink no wine Neither ye nor your sons forever, neither shall ye build houses, nor sow seed, nor plant vineyard, nor have any. But all the days ye shall dwell in tents, that ye may live long many days in the land wherein ye are strangers. How many years do you think there are between Hobab and this time in Jeremiah? The commentators give a range. About the shortest is at least 200 years. The higher end is probably 300 years. I would say probably somewhere just about in the middle, about 250 years For 250 years they've been obeying what their great great great great great great great grandfathers said. Now if you had someone who fought in the American Revolution Well that was not quite 250 years ago. We're coming up on 250 years in 2026. And yet they're still obeying this command. Think about the restrictions they lived under. Drink no wine. Well, today we talk about winos and drunkards, and today most Christians don't drink much, if at all. I'm I'm a teetotaler. Uh I got that from my father. That was my father's commandment, and I I I still obey it. But in that day, you didn't have a celebration without wine. The wine at a wedding was to them as the cake is to a wedding today. We don't have a wedding without a cake. You always have a wedding cake. And remember when they ran out of wine at a wedding in the marriage of Canaan, and it was a great disgrace To the host and to the bridegroom because they didn't have wine. And Mary comes to Jesus and says, do something here. They've run out of wine. It was an act of inhospitable to be inhospitable not to give wine to your guests when they came came to visit you. Wine was for festivals and celebration. It was a symbol of great joy. But for 250 years these people had not done it. Why? Well because he said so He said so. Wine was also used for medication. Paul told Timothy, Take a little wine for your stomach. So here out in the desert, if you've got a sour stomach, well, wine would help, but great-great-great-great-granddad said no. And so I'll have a sour stomach. The Nazarites were not even to eat raisins because it came from the fruit of the bond. And these were not Nazarites, but we read that they weren't even to have a vineyard or to plant it. They weren't even to get near the temptation to break the commandment that their father had given them But then not only weren't to drink wine, they weren't to have houses. Folks, I enjoy sleeping in a tent. Briefly. Briefly. Uh Wednesday night a week ago, uh two weeks ago, my brother and I uh camped out a night. We we enjoy doing that. And we both woke up as sore as we could be and agreed that two old men have no business out in the woods. And on Safari in Africa, I slept in an amazing tent. I mean this this tent On safari was incredible. They put carpets in there. I mean it was it was amazing, but it was a tent, and I wouldn't want to live there. Give me a house. But these have lived in tents. I enjoy living in the house that I grew up in. The house that my father built in nineteen fifty-seven. And after my grandparents died and the farm was for sale One Christmas morning I got the key to my grandparents' house and went in there on Christmas morning. The house was totally empty. I was the only one in the house. I walked through that house with bittersweet memories, remembering as a child sliding down those steps, and remembering when that house at Christmas was just packed to the gills, and all my cousins and my aunts and my brother my uncles and my grandparents that everybody was there and it was such a joyous memory of home. People didn't have a home place They never got to take their kids, show their kids the house where they grew up. They didn't have a house. They weren't to have fields or garden for farming. I've already mentioned they weren't even to have a vineyard because they weren't to have temptation. But folks, they were strangers. They had no national identity. When Nebuchadnezzar is coming in, they don't have an army to fight for them. They don't have anybody to defend them. They gotta run run to Jerusalem because they have no one to defend them. They have no national identity And think about the excuses they could have made. Well times have changed. You know, it's just not like it used to be. You know, the church used to say that was bad, but now the church doesn't care anymore. Well, you know, yeah, with my grandfather's day we didn't have the internet. Well back then when when Recab said That things were different, but we live in the modern world and we have to we have to get along in this world. Everybody's doing it. Well, these new translations, you know, they're more understandable. If we break the word of God down so people understand it, then they'll be saved. Well, faith doesn't come by hearing the way we express it, it comes by the Spirit of God speaking to hearts. But you see, they could have made all kinds of excuses to begin to fudge. on the commandment. You just don't understand what we're going through. But they kept the command of their father. Look at the temptation that was put before them, verses 4 and 5 of Jeremiah 35. And I brought them into the house of the Lord, into the chamber, this is verse four, into the chamber of the room of Hanan, the son of Igdal, the man of God sorry, Igdala, the man of God. I practice these names this week. Son of Igdalah, the man of God, which was by the chamber of the princes, which was above the chamber of Messiah, the son of Shulem. the keeper of the door, and I set before the sons of the house of the Rechabites pots full of wine and cups, and said unto them, Drink ye wine Notice where the temptation was presented to them. It says there, and I brought them into the house of the Lord. This temptation didn't come before them in the den of iniquity. This temptation didn't come before them out in the world somewhere. But rather, they were faced with the temptation to break their father's commandment in the house of the Lord. And folks, that's what a lot of Christians are facing today. Where once faithful churches have become the place of the source of temptation. My father ch faced that in a di generation past. When the old Methodist Episcopal South, the ME South, began to send Sunday school literature to the churches that was fudging on the virgin birth. And that there were leaders in the church. There were bishops that were saying that Christ was the child illegitimate child of a German what a of a Roman soldier. The temptation can come in the holy place. And here, the temptation comes in the house of the Lord. And look at verse 5. This is Jeremiah speaking, and I set before the sons of the house of the Rechabites pots full of wine and cups, and I said unto them, drink. Did they trust Jeremiah? Was Jeremiah someone that they would have trusted? Yeah. It was a respected religious leader that said, here's the wine, here's the cups. Drink it. Sometimes our temptation comes from people we might trust. But we still have to obey the command. We still have to keep the precepts. And so, I know it's something that here at Mission Bible Church we hold very dear, but there's pressure all around to begin to use corrupt scriptures. And a lot of preachers that we respect will begin to use corrupt scriptures There's a movement afoot within what used to be called Christian fundamentalism to say, well, you know, six-day creation isn't really that important. God may have done it over a long period of time and just called it days. But we stay with what the Bible says and it doesn't matter who says different, the Bible says it. Therefore we stay right here, regardless of what religious leader or what church organization may come along and say, Here's the wine, the cups, have a drink. We have to stand. And so the temptation came in the house of the Lord and from a respected man of God. Remember the old prophet? And the young man of God. There in 1 Kings 13, the young man of God was told that he was to enter the land and cry against it. He was not to stay, he was to eat no food, he was to drink no water, and he wasn't to leave by the way he came. And he obeyed, and the old prophet hears about it and says, Come, Come to my house. I'll feed you. I'll refresh you on your way. And the young man of God says, No, I have commandment. And the old man of God, the old prophet, lies to him and says, Well, I have a new vision. We have a new revelation. And so the young man of God yields and is killed by a lion in the way. We have to stand for the truth of God But at the same time, why did all this happen? Who told Jeremiah to set wine before the Rechabites? God did. God did. Why would God do that? Why is this temptation being placed before the Rekabites Does not Scripture say that God doesn't tempt us to evil? Well, certainly Scripture does say that. So do we have a problem here? Do we have a contradiction? Has God broken his word? The answer is very simple. God never tempts us to do evil. But God does test us. That's right. To strengthen us. To see what is in our heart, if we'll serve the Lord or no, as we read of Israel in the wilderness. For God declared to Israel, For this cause have I led thee these forty years in the wilderness, to see, to humble thee, to prove thee, to know what was in thy heart, whether thou wouldest keep his command or no, Deuteronomy 8, verse 2. Why did God tell Abraham to be a murderer? Why did God tell Abraham to kill his own child? Because God was putting Abraham to the test. Those of you that love tools know what proof steel is. Those of you that collect guns know the term too. It's case hardened. It has been tested in the fire. It has been proved, and it has been made better for the fire. And so God sometimes will put us through the fire that we might be case-hardened. You see, every trial that the believer faces, every time our faith and our obedience is put to the test, it is to make us better Was Job a righteous man? So much so that God pointed him out. God says the same, Have you beheld my own servant Job? You know, and if I were Job, I would have said, God, didn't just We're gonna have a problem here, God. Quiet, please. Don't don't tell anybody But God points out Job to Satan and says, look at him. So Job goes through all the trials, he loses his children, he loses all of his possessions, his own wife begins to ridicule him. But Job's testimony was this in Job 23, verse 8 through 10. Behold, I go forward, but he is not there. Do you ever feel like you're going forward and God's not there? Where where where are you? I thought this is the way you're leading me. Where are you? Behold, I go forward, but he is not there. Backwards! Okay, I'll go back where I came from. But I cannot perceive him. On the left hand, where doth he work? But I cannot behold him. He hideth himself on the right hand, that I cannot see him Job says, I went forward, God wasn't there, went back, it wasn't there, went left, went right, north, south, east, and west. I couldn't find him. Verse 10, but he knoweth the way that I take. Job says when I went forward, God knew about that. When I went back, God knew about that. When I went left, he knew where I was. When I went right, he knew For was But he knoweth the way that I take, when he hath tried me, I shall come forth as gold. Job says, when he hath tried me, when he hath put me through the fire, when the pot of wine and the cups have been right in front of me. When a beautiful house has stood beside my failing tent, when it seems like the whole church Is going in the wrong way, and I know that the Word of God says no, and yet they all say yes. When I've been obedient to the no. I'll come forth as gold. I will be improved by the test. Paul said In 2 Corinthians 4 verse 17, For our light affliction, which is but for a moment, worketh for us a far more exceeding weight of eternal glory Our light affliction which is for a moment worketh for us an eternal glory. Psalm 119, verse 67. Before I was afflicted I went astray, but now I have kept thy word Psalm 119, 71, it is good for me that I have been afflicted, that I might learn thy statutes. Oh, folks, I hate that verse. You know what I mean. It was good for me that I was afflicted, I might learn thy statutes. And forgive me, I shouldn't have said I hate that verse. You know, you know what I'm what I'm saying. We don't want to be afflicted. But folks, have you ever been afflicted and it didn't work out for good? All things work together for good to them that love the Lord, to them that are called according to his purpose. Doesn't he work all things for good? So Paul could say in Romans five, but we glory in tribulation also, knowing that tribulation worketh patience, and patience experience, and experience hope. And hope maketh not ashamed, because the love of God is shed abroad in our hearts by the Holy Ghost which He hath given us. No chast chastening, for the present seemeth joyous but grievous, but afterward it yield y afterwards it yieldeth a peaceable fruit of righteousness. Joseph said to his brothers, You meant this to me for evil, but God meant it for good. And so, the temptation. The fourth thing we consider is the obedience. In spite of all they obeyed, you understand that they obeyed their father, who's been dead for 250 years. I think most of us can testify at some time or another we did something that we knew our father would disapprove of, but he didn't see it. Their father couldn't see what they were doing. Their father could not praise them for obeying, nor could he condemn them for disobedience because he was dead. And he's been dead a long time. These folks weren't obeying with eye service. They were obeying the command of their father, even though he could not see or know what they were doing. Look at verse 8. Thus have we obeyed the voice of Jonadab. They've never heard that voice, folks. He's dead He's dead. We have obeyed the voice of Jonadab. Isn't that a beautiful picture of God's word? Yeah. And see, God has never spoken to me in an audible voice. But I obey his voice. Because his word has been passed on to me and preserved. They had the word of Jonadab. They knew what he said. They knew what he meant. And so they obeyed. We have obeyed the voice of Jonadab, son of Rechab, our father, in all that he hath charged us to drink no wine all the days of all the days, we our wives or our sons, nor our daughters. I know their marriage was a little bit different than ours. Uh the the marriages were arranged marriages, but can you imagine going to your wife, your fiance, or before she's your fiance, hey sweetie, will you marry me? By the way, we're gonna live in a tent. Forever. Yeah. Will you marry me? But we ain't gonna have a cake at the wedding. No no wine for us. Hope you don't like vegetables because we can't grow tomatoes. We are sons or daughters are wives. Verse ten But we have dwelt in tents and have obeyed and done according to all that Jonathan our father commanded us. to do. We've obeyed it all, every bit of it. They were obeying one who could not see and who could not reward. And yet Israel wouldn't obey a God who did see and could reward. You see the lesson that's being taught here. Rehab could not see what they're doing, but God did see. Look at verse 14 of chapter 35. The words of Jonadab the son of Rechab that he commanded his sons to drink wine are performed. For unto this day they drink none. Verse 16, because the sons of Jonadab, uh son uh son of Rechab have performed the commandment of their fathers, which he commanded them Verse 18. And Jeremiah said unto the house of the Rechabites, Thus saith the Lord, look who's speaking. God's talking here. Thus saith the Lord of hosts. the God of Israel, because ye have obeyed the commandment of Jonathan, your fathers, and have kept all his precepts, and have done according to all that he commanded you They've obeyed every pit. Even when it was the hardest time to obey, they still obeyed. Look back to verse 11. But it came to pass when Nebuchadrezar, king of Babylon, came up into the land. That we said, come, let us go to Jerusalem for fear of the army of the Chaldeans, for fear of the army of the Syrians, so we dwell at Jerusalem. Now, at first glance, this may appear to be a disobedience, because there to be in the wilderness, there to be in tents. Context. Nebuchadrezir. It's not Nebuchadnezzar here, but it's the same man. Nebuchadrezir is the way it's spelled here. Nebuchadrezar is coming to the land. They're strangers. They have no national identity. They can't call the National Guard to come help them. They can't call the SEALs to drop in from helicopters and deliver them. They have no defenses. And so you've got to remember too the timing. Um I'm not positive on this Because I couldn't research as much as I would like to. But it appears that the timing here is about 10 years-ish that they've been in Jerusalem. Not 250 years, not a long time. The invasion. Remember that Jeremiah is well in time when all kinds of invasions are coming. And so they've come into Jerusalem No. It says, but it came to pass when Nebuchadrezar, king of Babylon, came up into the land, that we said, Come, let us go to Jerusalem. Let us go to Jerusalem for fear of the army of the Chaldeans, for fear of the army of the Assyrians, so they dwelt at Jerusalem Do you remember when the merchants were coming on the Sabbath day and they said, no, you can't come in the Sabbath day? They locked the gates. What it appears that these Rekabites did is they have left the wilderness. They've come outside the city. If the if Nebuchadnezzar comes, they can run inside before the gates are closed. And when God says to Jeremiah, go get the Rechabites and bring them in, God knew where they were. God didn't say go search a couple hundred square miles of desert and see if you can find the Regabites. No, they were right outside the city. Go bring them in. And so even in a time when they had to protect themselves, they got to a place where they could run within the walls for safety, but they obeyed the command of God. And so in verse 18, Jehovah could say they've obeyed all the precepts and all the commands. The big ones and the little ones. They've obeyed in awe. What a glorious obedience we find from them. What is the application? Verses 12 through 17. Why does God include this story of some Gentiles in Scripture? Verse 12, then came the word of the Lord unto Jeremiah, saying, Thus saith the Lord of hosts, the God of Israel. Go tell the men of Judah and the inhabitants of Jerusalem, will ye not receive instruction or hearken unto my words, saith the Lord? The word of Jonadab, the son of Rechab, that he commanded his sons not to drink wine, are performed. For unto this day they drink none, but obey their fathers' commands. Notwithstanding, God says, I have spoken unto you, rising early and speaking, but ye have not hearkened unto me They obeyed an earthly father. You have disobeyed a heavenly father. I have sent also to you my servants, the prophets. Rising up early and said, I spoke with Brother Vincent earlier. That term rising up early I hadn't thought much about. These weren't lazy prophets. These weren't sleep-in kind of guys They were busy prophets. They were up early. They were diligent. They weren't slacking off. They finished their course and kept the faith. These were b busy prophets rising up early and sending them, saying, Return ye now, everyone, from his evil ways, amend your doings, and go not after other gods and serve them. And ye shall dwell in the land which I have given unto you. God says to the Israelites to Judah, obey me, and you'll dwell in the land that I have given you. Remember what Rechab said to his sins that you may live in the land where you're strangers. God says, they obeyed, you didn't obey. Their father said, You'll just be strangers there. I said, I'll give you the land. And still, you have not obeyed. Verse 15, I sent also you to my servants the prophets. rising up early and sending them, saying, Return ye now every man from his evil ways, and amend your doings, and go not after other gods to serve them. And ye shall dwell in the land which I have given you and to your fathers. But ye have not inclined your ear, nor hearkened unto me. Because the sons of Jonadad, the son of Rechab, have performed the command of their fathers, which he hath commanded them, but this people have not hearkened unto me. Therefore, thus saith the Lord, God of hosts, the God of Israel, behold, I will bring upon Judah and upon the inhabitants of Jerusalem all the evil that I have pronounced against them. That's the invasion of Nebuchadnezzar. All the evil that I have pronounced against them, because I have spoken unto them, but they have not heard, and I have called unto them. But they have not answered. The ox knoweth his owner, and the ass his master's crib, but Israel doth my people doth not consider What was the reward? What did God do for the Rekobites? Verse 18 again. And Jeremiah said unto the house of the Rechabites, Thus saith the Lord of hosts, the God of Israel, because you have obeyed the commandment of Jonadab your father, and kept all his precepts. and done according to all that he hath commanded you. Therefore, thus saith the Lord of hosts, the God of Israel, Jonadab, the son of Rechab, shall not want a man to stand before me forever. Because you have obeyed your family, not of Israel, Gentiles. Your family, not of the covenant that was given to Moses and to Israel, your family shall not want a man to stand before me. Doesn't that sound like the church hooks? Doesn't that sound like people that have been brought into the covenant of grace from outside? He doesn't say you're not gonna lack a man to fight wars. He doesn't say you're not gonna lack a man to be a to leave you a big inheritance He doesn't say you're not going to lack a man to carry on the family name. He says your family will always be worshipers of Jehovah. You'll have a godly heritage. Oh, maybe you don't have the blood of Abraham, but you're my child. Maybe you don't have the blood of Abraham, but you're of my people. Maybe you weren't blessed to receive the Ten Commandments on the mountain, but you've received them today. And you obey all the commandments of the Lord. For the Lord God is good for the Lord is good. His mercy is everlasting, and his truth endureth to all generation. Generations. So what do we learn from this? Well, first of all, God's concerned about the little things. It's easy to begin to give up on the little things. But God's concerned about the little things. Secondly, if we give up on the little things, our children will give up on the bigger things. You see, this had been passed on for 250 years. And if there had been a weak link in the chain, the chain would have broken long ago. Thirdly, there is no reward greater than the war reward of obedience. Hey Rigabites, if you obey me, I'll give you a big beautiful house. If you obey me, you can have a vineyard. If you obey me, how about a farm? If you obey me, you'll stand before me. What shall it profit a man if he gained the whole world and lose his own soul? And so, folks, there's no greater reward. Than the reward for obedience. And so God has included in His Holy Word this example of the Rekabites who obeyed their father who they had not seen when God's own people would not obey him. They obeyed their father who could not see what they were doing. But the eyes of the Lord are in every place, beholding the evil and the good. Let us stand for prayer. Gracious Father, help us to obey. Lord, we live in an evil generation. We live in a time when even the church and even religious leaders are enticing us to depart from the old doctrines of the faith, from that which you have commanded long ago Father, give us the grace to obey in the big things and the little. God, give us a godly heritage. Father, give us families that never lack a man that stands before Jehovah. Bless thy truth to our hearts this day. In Jesus' name. Amen.