Turn with me this morning to First Samuel chapter fourteen as we continue our pilgrimage through this book. First Samuel chapter fourteen we pick up if you recall from last week that Saul and his six hundred men are being threatened by a force of about sixty thousand Philistines. The odds aren't too good, about a thousand to one. Although the scripture says one man will chase a thousand. Saul's not so sure about that But there's one that is, that's his son Jonathan. And so we pick up on this battle which is about to commence, chapter 14, beginning at verse 15. And there was a trembling in the host, that is in the host of the Philistines, and in the field, and among all the people and the garrisons and the spoilers, they also trembled. So something was going down down in Mi'kmaq. There was a trembling And the great earthquake. So it was a very great trembling. And the watchman of Saul in Gibeah of Benjamin looked, and behold The multitude that is the multitude of the Philistines melted away, and they went on, beating down one another, or beating on one another. Then said Saul unto the people who were with him, Number now and see who is going from us And when they had numbered, behold, Jonathan, that's Saul's son, and his armor-bearer were not there. How could two people create such a commotion among the Philistines? Unless God be with him. Verse 18, and Saul said unto Ahiah, remember he's the high priest of Israel now, bring hither the ark of God, for the ark of God was at that time with the children of Israel And it came to pass while Saul talked with the priest, that is the Hei, that the noise that was in the host of the Philistines went on and increased And Saul said unto priests withdraw thy hand, and Saul and all the people who were with him assembled themselves, and they came to the battle, and behold, every man's sword was against his fellow. That is Every Philistine's sword was against another Philistine. They were fighting among themselves. And there was a great discomfiture. Moreover, the Hebrews that were the Philist that were with the Philistines before that time, and these were servants of the Philistines. which went up with him into the camp of the country round about. Even they turned to be with the Israelites. So we had servants among the Philistines. They were Israelite servants, but when the battle turned against the Philistines, the Israelite servants became Israelites all of a sudden. And they were with Saul and Jonathan, it says in verse 21, that last portion. Likewise all the men of Israel which had hid themselves in the Mount of Ephraim, when they heard that the Philistines fled, even they also followed hard after them in the battle. So all of a sudden everyone's jumping in and joining Jonathan, the armor bearer. So the Lord, verse 23, saved Israel that day, and the battle passed over unto Beth Haven. And the men of Israel were distressed that day. For Saul had adjured the people, saying, Cursed be the man that eateth any food until the evening, that I may be avenged on mine enemies. So none of the people tasted any food And all they of the land came to the wood, and there was honey upon the ground. And when the people were coming to the wood, behold, the honey dropped onto the ground from the trees. But no man put his hand to his mouth, for the people feared the oath or the curse of Saul. But Jonathan heard not when his father charged the people with the oath, wherefore he put forth the end of the rod that was in his hand, he dipped it in the honeycomb, put his hand to his mouth, and his eyes were enlightened, or he was refreshed by the honey he partook of. Then answered one of the people and said, Thy father straightly charged the people with an oath, saying, Curse be the man that eateth any food this day. And the people were faint because they had not. And said Jonathan, my father hath troubled the land. See, I pray you how my eyes have been enlightened because I tasted a little of this honey How much more if happily the people had eaten freely today of the spoil of their enemies which they found? For had there not been now a much greater slaughter among the Philistines So Jonathan disagrees with the king, his father, who said we couldn't eat until the battle was over. He said there would be nothing wrong with refreshing yourself a little bit, getting a little energy to continue the battle. My father was wrong So in verse 31, and they smote the Philistines that day from Mi'kmash to Ahalan, and the people were very faint. Well, they hadn't eaten And the people there flew upon the spoil. It says, and then the people flew upon the spoil. Verse 32 took sheep and oxen and calves And slew them on the ground. Now that's not the way an Israelite was to slew the cattle. They would tie them by their hind legs and they'd hang them up on a tree somewhere and they'd slit the throat and they bleed all the blood out of the animal. But here they didn't do that. They were too hungry. They were too faint to be hoisting animals up on an altar or tree somewhere. So they just killed the animal right there. The animal fell over on the ground. They just started eating them right there on the ground uh very very contrary to the practice of an Israelite. And the people flew upon this wool, took the sheep and oxen and calves, slew them on the ground, and the people to eat them with the blood. They didn't even bother to drain the blood out, cut the throat and drain the blood. Then they told Saul, saying, Behold, the people sin against the Lord in that they eat with the blood. And he said, Ye have transgressed. Roll a great stone onto me this day. That is, roll some stones up here, and let's make an altar and do this thing right. And Saul said, Disperse yourselves among the people, and say to them, Bring me hither every man his ox, every man his sheep, and slay with them here that is on the stones that are piled up for an altar, and eat and sin not against the Lord and eating with the blood And all the people brought every man his oxen with him that night and slew them there. It was night they could now eat. And Saul built an altar unto the Lord. The same was the first altar that he built So I think you got the gist of it. There's a battle. They go out into battle. People that were hiding and didn't want to fight came model holes in the ground. And and those who had capitulated and be and became friends of the Philistines, they were the servants of the Philistines When they saw the battle going against the Philistines, they joined in too. And Saul was so excited about killing every all the Philistines, he said, I don't want you to stop to eat, uh, don't drink out of your canteen, no nourishment at all, until the battle is over in the evening Well that was a foolish thing to do because you need some water for uh quenched thirst, you're chasing, you're running up and down mountains. But this is what he he said to the people, and he offered a curse, an oath against them that they did differently So we get back to verse 15, and just briefly here we find the Philistine soldiers. They were numerous, they were well equipped, they were fortified. uh well in place they're well entrenched and yet there was a trembling in the host of the Philistines and the earthquaked. Probably the earth also cracked and open up like a a mouth of the ground and swallow them up as it did in the days of Korah and all their goods as well. In numbers sixteen and thirty two we find out that God could set earthquakes They would crack open and the people would fall into cracks and then the cracks would close and it would swallow up people alive. And the interesting thing here is you read this is that this earthquake was amidst the Philistines. It wasn't amidst the Israelites As the Israelites had charged down before them, it was almost as though the earthquake went ahead of them and where the Israelites stepped, the ground was solid and even, it wasn't trembling, it wasn't quaking. In fact, by the time they would get there the ground was closing back up on a a large part of the host of the Philistines crushing them and killing them and they were in sheer panic and the Philistines were fleeing and what few men were still alive that they were tripping and falling in the cracks on the surface Chariots are falling over, horses are breaking loose, trampling the Philistines. The men are in a panic to get out of there. Rocks and boulders are rolling down on them, and they're trying to get out of there. And verse sixteen says, They beheld the multitude of the Philistines And they just melted away like snow on some hot sunny day. They went then it says they went on even beating down one another in verse sixteen. And in in verse twenty it describes us beating uh one another down. Every man's sword was against his fellow. And you can just imagine they are they're all they're in is the escape mode, the survival mode, this earthquake's horrendous and Chariots are flipping over and horses are running everywhere and men are falling into the cracks of the earth and being swallowed alive and they're they're they're just fleeing the area and any man anybody's in their way that it's like a Kmart blue light special, right? They get trampled They're trampling, they're cutting them away with the sword and and they're they're just they're killing each other. Just to get out of the way of the earthquake and what is happening and transpiring uh before them, trying to clear a path to escape. And that it reminds you of the days of of Gideon when he only had three hundred men they went down among the Midi Knights at night and they blew the trumpet and they took the torches out of the vessels. And it said the Midi Knights were so confused and they They saw these lights and they heard the the the shouting, the screaming of the sword of getting the sword of the Lord, and they pulled out the swords and they just started swinging in the darkness and they would hit somebody and that person would strike back and they began it says that the Midianites began hacking and chopping away at themselves. And they were more slain by their own swords than by Gideon and his three hundred men. And that's the confusion you got here in broad daylight this time. And what you've got here is a is a tremendous panic. In fact, it's a supernatural panic It's a panic that is brought on by God Himself. If you would try to envision a panic anything like this, you would think of the Pharaoh in the Red Sea. When the water started to collapse in on the Red Sea on the Pharaoh and his men, and how they said they tried to turn their chariots around and the wheels of the chariots were falling off. You read about that in Exodus And how the men of the Pharaoh must have been panicking, they're throwing down their swords or shields or spears. They're just trying to get their chariots spun around and out of there before. And that's a supernatural panic Or perhaps you can think of another supernatural panic when on the seventh day when Noah closes up the ark and it begins to rain and the people have never seen rain and the it says the the foundation of the deep are broken up and water starts coming up like these artesian wells flooding the ground and the people begin to panic. What's with what's this stuff falling out of the air? It's never rained before. And what's with these earthquakes or the foundations breaking up and they're beating on the outside of the ark and that is sheer panic. That's a supernatural panic Or perhaps you can think of another supernatural panic would be in the days of Sodom and Gomorrah as Lot and them were leaving and it began to rain down fire and brimstone and the people people. We don't hear much about them because they died so quickly, but there must have been sheer panic. So that's the kind of panic you've got going on here. God can God you know, God who knows how to make the heart tick, he knows how to make the heart tremble, doesn't he? I mean if he can build that heart to tick, he can make it to tremble. He can make it so you're afraid of your own shadow. He can make it so you you'll shake at the passing of a or a falling of a leaf And I know many of you have done that. You've been walking somewhere, you thought you were all by yourself in the woods, and a shadow crosses over in front of you, and you jump back scared to death that there's somebody in the woods with you, and maybe it's just a tree branch swaying and the shadow casts across it. God can make a His enemies afraid of their own shadow. God can make them afraid of a a snapping of a twig or a leaf falling before their face. He that makes the heart to tick knows how to make the heart tremble. So we face ourselves today, we're faced by enemies encroaching upon us all over the world, people that hate Christianity Christianity. We hear about the Hamas and the Hezbollah and the jihadists and and we hear about the ISIS and the ISIL and and we see feel like we're just encompassed round about by all this and how on earth are we ever going to overcome all of this? You know, our armies just aren't big enough, they're not spread. You know, what can we do? Well God has an answer for that too. It says that when the enemies of Christ cover the earth in the end times, what will he do? Revelation 16, 18. There was a great earthquake. So I'll tell the Lord's going to take care of him, the same way as he does here. There was a great earthquake in Revelation 16, 18 in the end times, such an earthquake as was not since men were upon the earth. Wow You know, we read about some tremendous earthquakes like this one here, but there's going to be one coming that's greater than ever there was since men was upon the earth. That's how he's going to take care of the enemies of Christ. God has no problem. Make making the enemies of Christ panic and tremble at a shadow. So now we read here that Saul he he sees things are going his way. Verses seventeen and eighteen. Saul he says, Uh see who's going from us? He said, This something's going on down there, and they said Jonathan and his armor bearer are not here And then Saul says to Ahijah, or Ahijah, bring the ark of God. We've got to see what God's will is for our life here. This is this is this is really unique and interesting what's going on down there. Maybe we should get in on this battle. And so Ahijah comes And uh Saul he he tells him to bring the Ark of God. Now if you can just go back a few chapters, do you remember when they had the Ark of God with them? in a battle with the Philistines and what happened? The Ark didn't help. The priests that were carrying the Ark were killed and the Ark of the Covenant was captured by the Philistines. Remember taking the temple of Dagon and the Dagon the the god would fall down and break his hands and his head would fall off the statue and they set the Dagon statue back up in the Philistine temple and the next morning they'd find it falling down broken to pieces Jesus again bowing before the Ark of the Covenant. But the fact is the Ark of the Covenant did not help Israel. They were defeated, they were run off, they were captured, they were killed And Saul just hasn't learned his lesson from history. Or maybe Saul just isn't paying enough attention to what's gone on before And that's what's happening to uh people all over this world today. They haven't read the Old Testament history. They haven't read the New Testament, which is history At this time. And if they did, they would realize what's going to happen to them if they don't follow the Lord Jesus Christ. What's going to happen to them if they don't follow God's commandments? What's going to happen to them if they go against the people of God, if they curse the people of God? There's so much that we do inappropriately because we don't know God's history. Or someone said we don't know God's We don't know his story. And Saul here has obviously forgotten that bringing the Ark of the Covenant like some sort of a celestial rabbit's foot is not what's going to work against the Philistines Or any of our enemies. And so here he is. He's telling Ahijah to bring the ark. He neglects the lesson of history. He thinks he can compensate for the lack of the fact that Samuel the prophet has abandoned Saul He says, I haven't got Samuel the prophet. He's not in my corner. He's not in my hip pocket. He's he's just not there for me anymore. So I'll bring the Ark of the Covenant. You know, may that a help. He he thinks he can replace a man of God with a piece of a material thing. And that that might be some some help some help for him, but it but it won't be. Does anyone here think does anyone here think that everyone who carries the Word of God, Bible or tracts Does anyone think that everyone that carries a Bible or tracks has Christ in their heart? They just don't. Some people carry it as a Maybe it'll stop a bullet in combat. A lot of guys did that. They put a New Testament over their heart and hope that a bullet would hit there and not kill them and and sometimes the bullet did hit there and uh and it didn't kill 'em. Uh we have stories of that in the Civil War and Vietnam. But you know you can be carrying a Bible or carrying Christian tracks just as Saul here once you carry the Ark of the Covenant. But he hasn't got the Lord Jesus Christ in his life. heart. And there are people out there that we trust, and there are people out there that we lean on and we rely on. And because we know they they they carry a Bible everywhere they go, they've got one in their car and they've always got one on them or in their lunchbox or something, we just think that they must have Jesus in their heart. And some of you may carry your Bible everywhere and you think you're saved. You think you have Christ in your heart. But time will tell, won't it? Like the the writer of that song in the hymn though. Prone to wander, Lord, I feel it. And he did. So he wrote a great hymn. And so maybe someone this morning here, you think you're saved, think about it again. Question your heart every day. Ask God to save you every day. He's asked God to save you a half a dozen times and you're still not sure, ask him. Tell him you don't want to be one prone to wander. Lord, I feel it. You don't ever want that to happen. Keep on praying and keep Keep on asking God to save your soul. Just carrying a Bible isn't sufficient. Saul's faith will turn out to be very superficial. In fact, it turns out very superficial here. They're up there and they see the Philistines melting away The battle seemed to be going in in his favor. Jonathan's down to the armor bearer, they're chasing him away, and Saul seemed to think things are looking pretty good. And it says verse 19, here's how superficial he is He asked for the high priest to come to bring the Ark of the Covenant. And Saul is talking with the priest, and he looked down, and the noise of the Philistines at verse 19 has increased. And Saul said on the priest, Now here's what happened. When the priest comes, he said to she says to the priest, put your hand inside the ether. And and he'll pull out his hand and uh they they think there was a color of a stone, black and white stone, they're not sure. And if he pulls out a white stone it means God is with us That's what they think was inside the Ethan, that the priest would stick his hand inside of So here's the priest here, he's got the Ark of the Covenant coming, he's telling the priest, he's instructing the peace the priest uh to find out whether God is with us or not But then in verse nineteen he says, While he was talking to the priest, he saw the Philistines the noise increase, and Saul said to the priest, Withdraw your hand. Forget about it. We don't need that. Things are going so good I don't have to hear from God. It's obvious God is with me. Just take your hand out and sit aside. We don't need the ark. We don't need you. We don't need your blessing. We don't need to hear from God. It it just feels good. It feels right. Let's go. That's how superficial is faith. That's so superficial it was. Don't bother asking God's will for your life. It's so obvious. You know, Herod might have thought, things are going great for me. I've killed all the babies out Bethlehem and outside of Bethlehem, there's no king of the Jews coming out of this crop of pea of babies. I got 'em all dead. He must have thought things are going pretty good for himself, didn't he? Or you look at Jeremiah. Jeremiah, he's he's got this high priest Pasher. And Pasher he's an apostate, but he but he's he's the top dog in Jerusalem, you know And he's talking to him and he says, Jeremiah says, This is terrible the way you are preaching the people. You're not giving the people the truth. You're not giving the whole council of God. And Pasha throws Jeremiah in the stocks. And then Pyrrha says, Boy, things are going pretty good. I got rid of Jeremiah. He's in the stocks. He can't go anywhere. He can't preach to people anymore. Things are really going well for me. And the next day he comes back to Jeremiah says, Well, now what do you got to say for yourself in the stocks And Jeremiah says, You are going into captivity, you and your family in a Babylon, and you and your family will all die You know, whoa. But he thought for a minute that things are going pretty good for him. How about Caiaphas? He's got Christ up at the cross, he's dying. Caiaphas thinks things are going pretty good for him. Things can be going very good for you, and it doesn't mean God is on your side Or God is with you, or God is blessing you. It just means sometimes that Satan is leaving you alone for a little while so that you'll fall deeper and deeper into some sin nature or sin problem that you have. So if anyone thinks that uh they are doing God's will, but they haven't really asked for God's will in their life or haven't looked for a Bible verse to lead them and instruct them, watch out. People are just no different today. Have you ever known someone in your that that uh when their life settled down, you know, they were they would come to church and they'd talk to you about the Bible, they'd read the tracts you were leaving somewhere, or they'd They would even carry tracks for a while, and they were going through some horrendous trials in their life, and all of a sudden the trials went away, things got pretty good, and then did you notice they stopped asking for prayer prayer because all the problems are gone. And they stopped talking about Christ at work or in your neighborhood or in your family, stopped talking about the scriptures, and they no longer attended church as regular because things are going pretty good and that's where Saul is here. Things are going pretty good. The Philistines are fleeing They're melting away like snow. This is wonderful. The high priest, I don't need your prayers. I don't need your your insight. I don't need your hand in the ephod to tell me what God wants me to do. Pilgrim, pilgrim, let me Let me just say to you this morning, your routine day-to-day experiences may turn catastrophic. tomorrow or this afternoon or an hour after you leave here. Things may just be going along so good that you don't need to pray and you don't have to come to church regular and you don't have to read your Bible every morning or every day. But I'm here to tell you. And the if you're one of God's people, they will to bring you back. To prayer and Bible reading. I'd say this morning, bring, begin each day with the Lord Jesus Christ. open the scriptures and look at them. I if I would ask for raised hands, but I won't, but I bet you nobody here ever skips breakfast, right? You don't skip breakfast. It's a it's a main at least you're taught breakfast is the most important meal of the day, right? You don't skip breakfast Well I'll tell you what, if you're not opening your day up, you know the Bible says that we're to seek him early while he may be found. Oh God, early will I seek thee. Psalm thirty 61 and 3. Those that seek me early shall find me. Proverbs 817. I would suggest you that you seek the Lord even before your breakfast. I would suggest you that even though breakfast is the most important meal of the day, if you're repressed for time Skip breakfast, but don't skip the scriptures as you start your day. Don't skip the scriptures. It's the most important meal, spiritual meal, spiritual manna. That you'll ever take and you need to start early in the day because Satan goeth about like a roaring lion. He's up very early He wanted to bypass you and leave you alone. Don't skip the scriptures. But that was Saul. He didn't need the scriptures. He didn't need the priest. He didn't need the Ark of the Covenant. He didn't need the blessings from God or the blessings from the priest Ahia. And so it was with Saul in verse 20, and all with him, they came to the battle without seeking the Lord. They came to the battle And it looks like it's going pretty good. The Hebrew servants of the Philistines, they see the Philistines running away, and here comes Saul with the six hundred men and Jonathan and his armor bearer, and the servants of the Philistines, they're they're Jews, they're Israelites, they say, hey, uh Switch sides we're on your side and they also start attacking the Philistines. And then you got the other Jews who are hiding in the mountains, hiding in the holes and and hiding in the woods and the forest. They see what's happening And they join in. They want to be a part of this victory rally, you know. And they all join in and they're all running down there. And none of them have sought the Lord. But things go smoothly. For quite some time. And things in our lives, things in people you know, their life is going smoothly, has been going smoothly for a long time. Maybe they prosper very well, and they don't know the Lord, they're not thanking the Lord, they're not looking in the Lord surrounding It just seems like things are going very, very well. And so what do people do? They stray from the Word of God, they stray from being with God's people, they straggle away from the church, they're become nothing Non-seekers are no longer interested in the things of God. And what happens to them? Well, look at Absalom. You know, Satan's out there. He is looking for the stray sheep. He's looking for the straggling sheep. He's looking for the sheep that aren't aren't seeking to be with the fold and seeking to be with the fellowship. And what happens to Absalom? He's out there running through the woods, charging around by himself, his hair gets caught in the trees, and and he is he is put to death. What happens to Lot's wife? She starts to straggle, she starts to look back, she starts to stray from her husband's side, doesn't she? And what happens to Lot's wife? What happens to Judas Iscariot? He's had a great company of disciples, apostles, and the Lord Jesus Christ, but he starts to straggle back. to stray a little bit, goes over with Tyapus and makes them an offer they can't refuse. And this is what happens when we start to stray away from God's word. When we get to straggle away from the fellowship, skipping church and so forth. Something's going to happen to you and it's not going to be pretty Now, unless you think that Saul won the day because of his son Jonathan's boldness, unless you think that Saul won the day because the servants of the Philistines turned on the Philistines. Unless you think that Saul won the day because he had six hundred loyal men, and unless you think that Saul won the day because all these other men were hiding in the holes and the pits in the woods, they all joined forces. Unless you think that Saul won the day Without seeking God's blessing, without seeking God's direction. Verse 23, what does it say? The Lord saved Israel that day. The Lord saved Israel that day. It wasn't anything on the part of Saul that accomplished it, or Jonathan, or anyone else. It was the Lord. Remember who did Saul start the earthquake? No Does Saul open up the earth? No. Does Saul see the earth swallow in the Philistines? Did he direct any of that? No. It is God that He's the Alpha Omega. He began this victory, he completes this victory. Saul had nothing to do with it. He was a minor instrument. The main ingredient for the salvation of Israel that day, God saved the day. Now to apply that to yourselves Are you saved this morning? Washed in the blood of Christ, born again. Christ is preeminent in your life. Christ is your All in all. You love the scriptures. You love the fellowship. You love the time that you set aside to read the Bible. I mean you are really saved. You want to share with other people You know, these are your goals in life. You're looking for an opportunity, an open door to talk to someone about your Savior. I mean, are you really saved? If you are really saved, how much of that credit do you give yourself? There's no credit given to Saul for this victory. It isn't Jonathan. It isn't the 600 men. God saved Israel that day. And if you're saved today, God saved you. You have nothing to do with your salvation. We read in Romans 9. 16, it's not of him that willeth, so it's not because you raised your hand, it's not because you signed a decision card, it's not of him that willeth It's not of him that runneth down the aisle towards the mourner's bench. You did not save yourself by doing something at all, some effort at all. It's all of the Lord. Jonah came to that conclusion in chapter 2 and verse 9 When he went out there preaching among the Nineveh. You read about Jonah. He doesn't want to go to the Nineveh. There are a bunch of Gentiles. He doesn't want to witness to them. He's on the boat There's a big storm. He's tossed off the boat. The fish swallows him. He gets barfed up on the shores near Nineveh. He goes to these people, these people who hated Israel and who Jonah hated. And God says, You give them the gospel. You give them the good news. You tell them what they need to hear. And can you imagine? He doesn't want to do it. He's been fleeing from God. He's like, okay, I'll do it. So everybody you need to repent of sin. This is what sin is And if you don't do this, you don't do that, and God's gonna get you. See, I don't think he was enthused at all. He wasn't vibrant, he wasn't he wasn't bolsterous He he he wasn't filled with them and vinegar. He wasn't excited about the Ninevehites getting saved. He didn't want him to get saved. It wasn't the messenger like Jonah. He didn't come in here, you know, preaching like uh uh some great uh uh Billy Sunday or something like that. He he he it wasn't in his heart to see these people get saved at all. But why did they get saved, these Ninevites? Because salvation is of the Lord. I think if we could have heard Jonah preaching that day, we'd have thought, boy, is this guy boring? He doesn't even seem to be into the message. He doesn't seem to be excited about his message. He's just laying it out there the wages of sin or death. We are all sinners. We need to be saved. But but they got saved because salvation is of the Lord I marvel sometimes when I when I hear people on on the radio or television, I think that their their message is flat, I think they're not excited, they're just laying it out there, and then they pan back, the guy's got five thousand people in the in the congregation It isn't the messenger. It isn't even how the message is written up and presented. It's the salvation Salvation is of the Lord. People say, why isn't this church growing? I hope it is spiritually, but you know what? Salvation is of the Lord And they they understood that. When the Ninevehes got saved, salvation was of the Lord. It's no different today. When the Ninevites get saved, the Moabites get saved, and the Sodomites get saved by repenting. It's because they repent of the Lord and because God puts repentance. in their heart. It's all of the Lord. Even their repenting is of the Lord. The Lord Jesus Christ, of course, is who we're talking about here. And to the only wise God, our Savior, be glory now and ever. Jude chapter 1 and verse 13. twenty five. The Lord saved Israel that day. The Lord Jesus Christ is the Savior of the world. Always has been in the days of the Ninevites, Moabites, and even today. It says here in verse 24 through 26 that the men of Israel were distressed that day, for Saul had cursed And he said that any man that eateth any food until evening, that I may be avenged of Miami's, they will be accursed. You know, the Bible says we're we're to bless and curse not Uh Saul wasn't following that scripture verse either. Saul's oath or his curse, he was telling his people, You are not to eat anything until the battle is over. You can eat when evening comes This was a rigorous thing to place upon his people. No wonder they were distressed here. This was a rigorous thing to put upon them. It excluded all refreshment that might energize them And uh what we find is you've got a body of people, yeah, they're a large body now. We got the servants who've turned against the Philistines, we've got all the men hiding in the mountains, they've with Saul, you've got his six hundred, you've got a large body of people here, but you know what's up? They're weak They're faint, they're tired, they haven't eaten. This battle's been going on all day. You begin to see that the only way they won was the ingredient was God, wasn't it? You can't win a battle with weak and exhausted and distressed people who are faint and famished. But it just shows that the ingredient of the victory is never anything that has to do with us Salvation is of the Lord. And you can go through many an occasion, think of uh uh Noah. He built this boat. Wow, wasn't it great what Noah did. Well you know something? It was all of the Lord because God told Noah what kind of wood to use. He told Noah what kind of dimensions to it He told Noah when he better start building it, and you know what? He went on for a hundred and some years building the ark, and he got it done just days before the flood. Talk about timing. Who's in control of the timing? God The salvation of Noah and his family. It wasn't because Noah built a boat and saved his family, but in in retrospect, actually, he's God who saved Noah and his family and brought the animals by two. Noah didn't go out and get them You look at you look closely at this the life of Noah. It's all of God that Noah was saved. It's all of God if you are saved this morning. You look at uh uh David going out to fight Goliath and you say, Well David, he was a great shot. He was a great shot with the sling. He killed a bear and he killed a charging lion. And he was it was that was all true. But you get out there just like any pitcher in baseball. Get a guy who's a twenty game winner two or three seasons in a row, he still can't throw a strike every time. He can't. Depends on the humidity. Depends on the moisture in his hand There's all kinds of things. It depends on the wind in the stadium. And the same with David. He goes out there and he says, God will give me the victory. David knew that God would give him the victory. He's got the five stones, he puts one to swing. Here comes Goliath Yeah, it's a big target, but the lift of the stone will be determined upon the humidity at that moment, the direction of wind at that time, and it all re and then where that stone hits it better hit in just the right spot. Not some place it just ticks him off, but some place it kills him dead. It was all of the Lord. That David saved Israel that day and took out Goliath. Yes, he threw the stone. Yes, he was good at the sling. But You look at the inner ingredients, it was all of God. Christ is out on the boat. They've been fishing all night. The disciples, they can't they can't find any fish. And the Lord says, throw the boat over here to the right We've been throwing the net or rather throw the net over here to the right. We've been throwing the net all night. We haven't caught anything. Christ says throw the net. They throw the net. Wow, this is really great. They throw it really well. They're good at tossing the net and they land it beautifully on the water and they pull it back the way they normally do, and it's just full of fish. Oh, well, are we proud of ourselves? Isn't this great? No. It's of the Lord. He told you where to throw the net And there was 360 places in a circle that you could have thrown that net. He told them the exact angle where to throw that net, and he told them at the exact moment when to throw it, or they wouldn't have caught anything It's always of the Lord. Anything we accomplish, any victory we have, our salvation, it is always of the Lord. God is always the main major total ingredient in our life. Christ is the main ingredient in our life, or we're not going to have any evil Eternal victories. Many victories at all. No victories at all. So in twenty seven through thirty Jonathan heard that the people were distressed. He heard the people were famished. He heard they were weak. He hears about the oath. He says, Well I dipped into the honey. I hadn't heard about the oath. Well boy, he said, You're gonna be cursed. Your father said, Amen that does that's a curse. Jonathan's rebukes his father to the regular s to the other soldiers. He's troubled the land. If the people of Eden there have been a greater slaughter among the Philistines. Jonathan makes a good point. If the people had refreshed themselves or charge on the Philistines, there probably would have been more strength, more energy, more speed. And you don't, you know, muzzle the oxen while he's treading out the corn, but Saul had ignored that verse too. He'd muzzled his men. They couldn't drink, they couldn't refresh themselves throughout the battle, and he was Very faint, very hungry, very weak. And they took the sheep and the oxen, the spoils of what they collected so far over the Philistines. And they were so tired. They knew they were supposed to take the the the oxen or the sheep, tie the rope around their ankles, hoist them up, cut the throat, let the blood run out Then cut the meat off and cook it. They knew that was a proper way to do it. That was the biblical way. That was the way an Israelite, a man of God, would prepare the food, but they were so faint. They couldn't hoist that animal They just cut that animal's throat and let it bleed on the ground and they started chopping them up and eating them almost raw. In fact, they were eating the blood, it says here They slew him on the ground and they told Saul, the people, they sin, they eat the blood. And he says, Roll the stones up and let's make an altar. Let's do this thing right. And so the people came that night, and then they started to slay the animals in the appropriate manner. I titled the message this morning, Obeying God Rather than Man. And what we had here is the people obeyed the man Saul. They obeyed his commandment not to eat until evening. For the people feared the oath or the curse of Samuel. But what I find so interesting here is they feared the man Samuel. They feared the king Samuel. They're going to do what he says. But they didn't fear God's command. They ate the blood. Isn't that bizarre? They fear what a man's law, or the ruler's law, the government's laws, but they they don't fear breaking God's laws. And that's what they did here And it was repeated many times. Genesis nine four The blood shall ye not eat, but they ate the blood. And again it says in Leviticus three seventeen, eat neither fat nor blood, but they did And Leviticus seven twenty-six eat no manner of blood. And then again, Leviticus seventeen twelve. No soul of you shall eat blood. Leviticus seventeen fourteen. Whosoever shall eat it shall be cut off. You don't have to eat the blood. Deuteronomy 12, 16, Deuteronomy 12, 23. He shall not eat the blood. Eat not the blood. It goes all to the scriptures. This were the commands of God. These are the laws of God They didn't mind breaking God's laws. They were just afraid they might break man's laws. People then and now still fear man's laws more than God's, don't they? We got it backwards when we're like that. We often obey, we ought to obey God rather than man, Acts chapter 5 and verse 29, and how often it is that we fear man's laws. more than God's laws. We buckle up, it's the law. Don't get caught without your seat that buckle. Buckle up. But they're not afraid to indulge in sodomy, are they? That's God's law. Or a polygamy. Did you know that's been legalized now in the state of Utah? That happened this week. The judge, the first judge is finally rude. Polygamy or bigamy is legal in the state of Utah Finally got a judge. We knew that was coming, didn't you? I mean you knew that. But see, we we don't fear God's laws. Buckle up, sodomy, bigamy, polygamy, that's God's laws. We're just like Saul and his armies, eating the blood. Supposed to cleave unto your wife. Singular, Genesis 2, verse 24. And Matthew 19, 5 says the same thing Another one is there's a law out in Montana. They the the bears out there, there's a certain time for a hunting license and and some of the bears like the grizzly They are an endangered species. And so the woman comes out of her backyard out there in Montana, I think it was Montana or Wyoming, and there's a young grizzly charging through the backyard. And the kids are in the backyard. You know what she does She shoots it. She kills the bear. But man's law said it's an endangered species and she got fined. Saved her children's lives. But the government the man's law was, well, she didn't care about man's law. Now if she had aborted her baby, that would have been okay. But she shot a bear that was going to kill her children, and she gets fined. We're so afraid of man's laws sometimes. Aren't we? We could go on. Don't get caught smuggling incandescent lights from North Carolina back to Maryland. It's against the wall. Incandescent lights are a no-no I wish I had more time to tell you about something shred. You got a samonter at the old man with mercury in it? Don't you throw that in the garbage can If you break it, you're supposed to call the government, they're gonna send out a hazmat. Yes they will, ask Lisa. They send out a hazmat team, you break your thermometer, and they're gonna take your rug, they're gonna take your robe, and they're gonna take your shoes, and anything else they think that the Mercury's filled on, and you'll never get them back. That's man's laws. We're so afraid of man's laws, but not God's laws. There is a way that seemeth right unto man, but the ends thereof are the ways of death. Proverbs 14 and 12. Oh, oh, oh, that our leaders Might set a biblical example today. As Saul actually did here in the last verse, verse 35, Saul built an altar. Wow That was good. But there's a but there. Saul built an altar. It was the first altar he built unto the Lord. Saul's been king for several years. What's taken him so long? He's not building a temple, you know, for the Levites. Just an altar. People have family altars even today in their own home Saul built an altar. The first he built on the Lord. Saul's not a young man. He's got a son named Jonathan who's in combat. He is not a young man. He has never built an altar to the Lord before. He finally in this age, we don't know what he was, 40 or 50 years old Finally, at that age, Saul builds his first altar of God. He makes his first credible public profession of faith in the Lord. Wow, that's a long time to wait. Pilgrim, have you made a public profession of your faith in Jesus? Christ. Have you done it? You're going to wait till you're as old as Saul? Have you made a public profession of your faith? A credible public profession. Oh, let me go further. I don't want a credible public profession. Was your profession genuine? Was it genuine? I didn't ask it Have you made a genuine profession of faith? Don't wait till you're as old as soul. It'll probably mean nothing by then Let's pray. Father, we thank you this day for the history. It's your his it's his story, God's story, and we we thank you for this history, Lord. It leads us and it guides us how we are to obey God rather than man. And that wasn't easy in Saul's day. He covered them with a curse But Lord, it isn't any easier today. We have the laws of man that are contradicting constantly with great consequences. Laws that go against the grain of the scriptures and against the Lord's Jesus Christ and His commands. Oh Lord, give us the courage to obey God today rather than man. And it's the name of your Son, our great God and Savior, we pray, Jesus Christ. Christ, Amen