Doing into Hebrews. And you know, I've often said that if I were stuck on a desert island and I had one book of the Bible to keep with me, which one would it be? And it would be the book of Hebrews You get the Old Testament and you get New Testament commentary on it. It's kind of a unique book out of all scripture that combines the two together and you're given some divinely inspired insights into what you're supposed to take away from it. Our text today comes to us from Hebrews 12. I'm going to read Hebrews 12, 18 to 21. Please follow along with me if you're able to. And then we'll get into our discussion question. Our passage is Hebrews 12, 18 to 21, where we read the following. For ye are not come unto the mouth that might be touched and that burned with fire, nor unto blackness and darkness, and tempest, and the sound of the trumpet, and the voice of words. Listen to all the ands. It's just a repetition of many things there. Which voice they that heard entreated, begged, beseeched, in fact it is the same word refused in verse 25. that the word should not be spoken to them any more for they could not endure that which was commanded. And if so much as a beast touched the mountain, it shall be stoned or thrust through with a dart, with a javelin, with an arrow. And so terrible was the sight that Moses said, I exceedingly fear and quake. One of my All-time favorite passage of scripture, and I'm trying to neck it down as best as I can. But our bonus question is this What's the scariest natural disaster that you have ever lived through? What was it like? We know from our pastor who's described his time through Hurricane Gilbert ripping the roof off the house. Others have had similar. A lady from Maryland says, natural disaster. There was an earthquake tremor in California in the 90s I was in an earthquake in California in the nineties. I felt somebody was shaking the bottom of my bed until I until a big jolt came through and just it jolted the entire house and then well that woke me up. Made you jump out of bed. The uh lady from North Carolina said, a hurricane in the Philippines. Flooding was so bad the river ran over the only road to the airport. Uh she had to catch a plane to her next computer installation for a Navy hospital in Okinawa. The locals steadied, walked, and pushed the van I was in to keep it from being swept away on the road. There had been six feet of rain, seventy-two inches of rain. That's that's wow that's that's crazy. Six inches is all it takes to take a car off the road A lady from Texas says, I'd guess that I'd have to say the fires. There's a firestorm that recently raged through some properties. Get going, make sure the quitter critters aren't sequestered, grab absolute essentials, get in the truck with an RV in tow, and don't look back. Uh realizing when it's over you may not have a home to come back to. Yeah, that would be pretty scary to have to leave in a quick panic. Another brother in Arizona, the scariest hurricane bell when it as a kid in Long Island, the wind was howling in a way it never heard before, and I'll dear old dad didn't cut down that large oak branch, and down it came But thankfully it did not give more than superficial damage to the house. The question about the bonus question was um Uh well I'll get to the bonus question in a moment. How about you? Scariest natural disaster you've been through. I've preempted yours because you've told it so many times. I've already known what it is. So that would be quite the venture to look up and you see open skies. Our brother Maggie in Jamaica is looking at right now. Scariest natural disaster you've ever lived through. I think um both of these weren't too bad as as uh some of those things you described, but Uh the the only one that I kind of experienced was the earthquake that was here. I don't know if it was two thousand eleven or whatnot, when just heard all the dishes in the cupboard start rattling and I was wondering what's going on out here Um, and that was a little minor earthquake. Um, but the other one was when I was driving with Yvonne to um Texas one time. And uh we just hit a rainstorm that was so intense, I don't know if it was thirty minutes, an hour, but you just couldn't really see five feet in front of the car and I was on the on the road at that time. So that was a a pretty frightening thing. Yeah, Texas can have those pop-up storms where, you know, the buckets from heaven are just pouring down. Yeah, I remember those. Those are pretty severe. Yeah Yes, Marissa. I'm not sure if it counts, but back in Cameroon there was uh this one time with lottery the night prior. And the day after my sister and I were going to school, so they let us out early for whatever reason. And our way back, there was this like mud, but it was actually quicksand. And We were just, you know, enjoying our lives, uh, you know, pounce to pounce no way, stepping around and we got really deep. So I got like halfway of my body was in hand. And by God's grace, some random man with a truck came by and just pulled us out because the Lord had planned for us. So praise the Lord. Yeah, that was a funny story now. Wow, wow, falling into quicksand and Anton's trucking service comes by and rescues you. I'm betting that was the name of the trucker that came by. I've actually been in several but don't remember being scared. I I've always just thought they were amazing. I remember the the blizzard of seventy eight, being out with my dad, you know, and in places two foot to five foot drifts and thinking it was all fun. Yeah. So we've certainly had our share. of natural disasters and seeing some things and I probably could have opened up to other things that would scare you. But uh the bonus question is how many ways are there to climb Mount Everest? and then to climb climb Mount K2. So uh you all did what I did, which is you go look it up on the internet to go figure out the ways because none of us have ever gone to the base camp of Mount Everest and tried to get up And if you look, it'll say there's 19 ways. I picked now Evers because I thought there was one way up, but there's not. There's 19 to 20 different ways depending on you know, which reckless uh climber you you count on. But then I ask it whi which mountain exists that there's only one way to get up, and that's K two. Now our brother in Arizona said, oh no, there's uh nine ways to climb that one. He's probably tried those eight or nine ways, so I'm not gonna second guess that with all the travel that he does. But uh that would be another interesting proposition, climbing a very fierce mountain. Well, as you might imagine, we're talking about mountains here. And we're at our fifth and final warning in the book of Hebrews. It goes through a number of ones that all seem to get with a larger and stronger and a deeper crescendo. There's a stronger warning to it. This one occurs in the book of Exodus. So turn to Exodus 19 because we're actually going to just simply read that account. It's summarized for you there In Hebrews 12. But the 19th chapter of Exodus gives the entire prelude. to the Ten Commandments. This is at Mount Sinai, the mount that Moses first saw, the burning bush where God appeared to him at Mount Horeb. It's known by Mount Horeb. It's known by Mount Sinai. And I'm going to be asking you as we read it, what are your observations about the account? And if you were there, what would your thoughts be? So for the moment, I kind of want you to, as we read it, we're not just going to go through the words. I want you to parachute yourself into that audience I want you to see yourself as a Jew. You've been wandering around the wilderness for a very short period of time. You've just gotten out of Egypt. Egypt's to the back, animals are with you, you're fleeing, and you've now come to this mountain. So you hadn't been there 40 years And you're there in the midst. And here's what you find. It says, In the third month, when the children of Israel were gone forth out of the land of Egypt, the same day they came into the wilderness of Sinai, for they were departed from Rephidim. And were come to the desert of Sinai, and had pitched in the wilderness, and there Israel camped before the mount. And Moses went up unto God And the Lord called unto him out of the mountain, saying, Thus shalt thou say to the house of Jacob, and tell the children of Israel, You have seen what I did unto the Egyptians. How I bare you on eagle's wings and brought you unto myself. Now therefore, if ye will obey my voice indeed, and keep my covenant, then ye shall be a peculiar treasure unto me, above all people, for all the earth is mine, and ye shall be unto me a kingdom of priests and a holy nation. These are the words which thou shalt speak unto the children of Israel. And Moses came and called for the elders of the people, and laid before their faces all these words which the Lord commanded him. And all the people answered together and said, All that the Lord has spoken, we will do. And Moses returned the words of the people unto the Lord. And the Lord said unto Moses, Lo, I come unto thee in a thick cloud, that the people may hear when I speak with thee and believe thee forever. And Moses told the words of the people unto the Lord The Lord said unto Moses, Go into the people and sanctify them today and tomorrow, and let them wash their clothes, and be ready against the third day. For the third day the Lord will come down in the sight of all the people upon Mount Sinai. And thou shalt set bounds unto the people round about, saying, take heed to yourselves that ye go not up unto the mount, or touch the border of it. Whosoever toucheth the mount shall surely be put to death. There shall not an hand touch it, but he shall surely be stoned or shot through. Whether it be beast or man, it shall not live when the trumpet soundeth long They shall come up to the mount. They referring to Moses and uh his uh small company And Moses went down from the mount unto the people and sanctified the people, and they washed their clothes. He said unto the people, Be ready against the third day, come not at your wives. It came to pass on the third day in the morning that there were thunders and lightnings and a thick cloud upon the mount. And the voice of the trumpet exceeding loud, so that all the people that was in the camp trembled. And Moses brought forth the people out of the camp to meet with God. And they stood at the nether part, the furthest part of the mount. And Mount Sinai was altogether on a smoke, because the Lord descended upon it in fire, and the smoke thereof ascended as the smoke of a furnace, and the whole mount quaked. And when the voice of the trumpet sounded long and waxed louder and louder, Moses spake, and God answered him by a voice. And the Lord came down upon Mount Sinai on the top of the mount. And the Lord called Moses up to the top of the mount, and Moses went up. And the Lord said unto Moses, Go down, charge the people, lest they break through unto the Lord to gaze, and many of them perish. And let the priests also, which come near to the Lord, sanctify themselves. Lest the Lord break forth upon them. And Moses said unto the Lord, The people cannot come up to Mount Sinai, for thou charged us, saying, Set bounds about the mount and sanctify it. And the Lord said unto him, Away! Get thee down, and thou shalt come up, thou and Aaron with thee. But let not the priests and the people break through to come up unto the Lord, lest he break forth upon them. So Moses went down unto the people and spake unto them. All right, you're not Moses, you're one of these people. What would your reaction be? What are your thoughts I would feel like I was in a bit of a fever dream, just when you take into context everything that happened already outside of Egypt and then the exits to the mouth and then just It would just feel very incredulous about it like what is going on. Like you're in a fever dream, yeah, I'm sure I've fallen into a fever. It's there's this is just too incredulous what's happening. Like all natural disasters. at the same time. Right. Yeah, you've got the thundering, you've got lightning, you've got an earthquake, it's on fire. You're beginning to wonder is this a volcano? I mean, yeah, all of it wrapped up at one time Some in our discussion mentioned just one of those, either rain or the like, and wow, it was intense. Any other thoughts? What would you what would your feeling, what would your sense be there? Penny, you were shaking your head kind of terrified I mean you've got all this natural disaster and then to add to it, you've got this supernatural sound of a trumpet that's getting louder and louder and louder, and nobody around you is making it I mean I don't know, I figured. Yeah, the supernatural sound of the trumpet blaring away and it is getting louder. It's getting louder. In the Greek and Hebrews it said the voice of the trumpet's the word echo So it's echoing in the mountain range, so you're getting the reverberation and it just continues to amplify. It just wow. Other thoughts, what would you Jeffrey, you're you've been in DC. You've sure seen some interesting things uh down there. Uh echoing a few protests that may uh might get near to this, but probably not. Yeah It would uh I would this is the first time they've even seen this period. So Yeah, I I think uh fear would be you know the primary emotion. Uh Why would uh they want to break through and try to get closer to to that, you know, um not I I'll be uh cowering behind some little rock, you know. Yeah, fear, terror. It would just be gripping. Joey, what do you think? What manner of God is this? Yeah. Yeah, what manner of God is this? They never saw anything like that in Egypt for sure You know, shaking mountains. This isn't no magic trick. This is no sleight of hand move. Yeah, what manner of God is this? Miss Saba, what do you think? You're standing out there and you're hearing all this going on I um I have well I don't have any comment with it. No comment for that. It would just be shut your mouth. You couldn't speak anything about it one way or the other. Uh it would just be too much. Skip ahead now to Exodus chapter 20 and verse 18 and 19 because this is the backside of what we covered in Hebrews. It says, all the people saw the thunderings and the lightnings and the noise of the trumpet and the mountains smoking. And when the people saw it, they removed and stood afar off. That was the Geoffrey maneuver. And they said unto Moses, Speak thou with us, and we will hear, but let not God speak with us. lest we die. Perhaps the thought going through their mind, I think evident from the text is that this keeps up, we're dead We're we're just hosts. And this is just speaking. This is just this is just God showing up and having a little talk. That's what this event is. From God's vantage point, this is not, as it were, a big deal. He's not having to flex to make this happen. He's not trying to do anything to display his great power per se. He just shows up He is that everlasting burning. He is that fire. And it's his voice that's coming. Well, I thought by way of comparison back in Hebrews, there's a number of things that are mentioned. And I want to compare and contrast that with two mountains. Because the next verse in Hebrews says, you're not common to the mount that might be touched. It doesn't even mention the name Sinai, it's pretty obvious which one it is, because he's writing to the Hebrews, and they would be very familiar with this text. He says, But you are come unto Mount Zion We're going to speak more about Mount Zion next week, but the comparison and the contrast is sharp and stark. So for instance, it says it cannot be touched. It's unapproachable. Anything that touches it dies. You remember God saying, go down, make sure they don't touch it. You know, he's flashing the warnings out. I've got warnings on the side of all electrical devices. Do not stick your toaster in the water. You might get electrocuted. You know, all these silly UL warnings they force engineers to put with very heavy tape on an electrical cord. But this was no kidding series. It's pretty obvious that I better not do this. In fact, I'm not even motivated to want to do this. And there's warnings given. It cannot be touched Interestingly enough, that word is unique in the Greek. It's not commonly used, it's used one other time when Jesus says to Thomas, touch me, handle me. And that's one big difference we see between Sinai, Mount Sinai, the law, the old covenant, Moses. And Mount Zion, Jesus, Grace, the new covenant, and that is, Jesus can be touched. And in fact, he's very approachable. You read, for instance, in uh in Luke 24, 39, he says, Behold my hands and my feet, that it is I myself, handle me and see, touch me. He invites people to come and touch him. There's no loud warnings 1 John 1 opens up with this, which says, that which was from the beginning, which we have heard, which we have seen with our eyes, which we have looked upon, and our hands have handled of the word of life He's not talking about just the book. He's talking about the word, the word incarnate. They touched him. They held him. He reached out and grabbed his hand. Save me, Lord, I'm sinking. He says, our hands have handled Jesus was very approachable. In fact, touching him often healed people. There was a woman who was in a midst of people. She had been ill for eighteen years or twelve years with an issue of blood, and she says, if I may but touched the hem of his garment. She came and pressed behind and said, If I may but touch his clothes, I shall be made whole. And indeed Jesus perceived, virtue went out and And so she knew that just touching him would be a solution. The uh the blackness and the darkness that is associated with it, all these clouds, it's it's on fire like a furnace, you know. You Think about the uh sixties and uh uh that era, the fifties when the coal factories were just belching out all kinds of unfiltered smoke and it was just Hayes. I remember the first time I went to Los Angeles. Uh this people would joke, yeah, we like to see our air. It was just an a uh a Just the the the darkness, the haze that was over it, uh sometimes wildfires would come through and you'd have all the smoke from the Santa Ana's blowing. It would just be a cloud. This was thick black heavy thick black smoke Like when a munitions uh round cooks off inside some depot for oil or something, you have the just this thick, thick cloud But now we have a true light. And in 1 John 2. 8, we read this: again, a new commandment I write unto you, which thing is true in him and in you, because the darkness is past And the true light now shineth. You see, much of the Old Testament was in signs and shadows and figures. Hebrews 10, 1, the law having a shadow of things to come and not the very image of them That was a characteristic of the Old Covenant. Very shadowy. It's very difficult to go, for instance, into the Old Testament and to look at Old Testament prophecy. And to say, ah, this is exactly what's going to happen. occur millennia later when the Messiah would arrive. It was very dark and shadowy, but now we have a true light. Jesus has come. He is fulfilled all of these things. He is the fulfillment of all and it it's we have a much clearer exposition. There is there there is these Tempestuous storms all about the mountain. It was just full of them. Somebody said that was, I think you said, all the natural disasters at once. Wow, what a re you know Pompeii was pretty bad, but that was just uh a volcano. Uh the Northridge earthquake in California in the 70s, that was the one I felt And I was uh several hundred miles away. Uh that destroyed part of Interstate 5, knocked out the bridges and transportation within California for a long time till they were repaired. This is all at once But Jesus, in fact, is calm in the storms. You read in Mark 4. 38. He was in the hinder part of the ship. He was asleep on a pillow. Which of you said you'd be asleep at Mount Sinai. Right? Who's sleeping there? Not happening. Right? And then the next verse it says, He arose and rebuked the wind and said unto the sea, Peace be still still And the wind ceased and there was a great calm. And they said, what manner of man is this? Same question you asked, they said of Jesus, what manner of man is this? You know, he brought peace to situations. When this God in the Old Testament, God the Father, shows up, it was A tremendous tempest blast. It was just tremendous storms. Upon the wicked he shall rain snares, fire and brimstone, horrible tempests. That's their lot. You have these trumpet blasts, they're mixed with unendurable voice of words. They can't handle it. You ever want to tell somebody, just shut up, shut up in your face, I don't want to hear it anymore. You know, just stop it. But It was blowing their eardrums out. They just couldn't handle it. It was just too hard. The trumpet going on and getting louder and it's echoing and just the sound pressure just But Jesus' voice is in fact easy to receive. And it was desirable to hear. So many times you read the New Testament, the common people heard him gladly. All the people were very attentive to hear him. Another place in Luke. And all the people came early in the morning to to him, in the temple, to hear him. The officers answered, Never man spake like this man. It was uh he spoke as one that had authority. He commanded the audience. The common people heard him gladly. It wasn't overwhelming, it was a desirable thing. It was one that later John uh when Jesus is comparing himself to John says, you know, it's like a very pleasant voice, but you don't listen to it and you're not paying attention. It was that pleasant voice And even its greatest servant, Moses, feared exceedingly and quaked. The Pharisees would say, well, we're Moses' disciples, but we don't know who this man is. Yet, even if the greatest servant Moses feared, he says, I exceedingly fear and quake. And we get that actually from Deuteronomy 9. 19, because later he's recounting the event. You didn't read about Moses there being fearful in Exodus 19, but later in Deuteronomy 9 we read this, I was afraid of the anger and hot displeasure of the Lord. So even he was fearful of the anger of God upon these people. Oh, lest this break out. He he acknowledged his fear. He was uh it was mega fearful. It was just uh Just off the charts. But our Lord Jesus faced the judgment of God in complete control. He faced Caiaphas in peace and silence. He had to be sworn to an oath to declare before God whether he be the Christ or not. Here the high priest and authority was demanding of him, thou art thou the Christ, and he says, thou hast said Before Pontius Pilate he witnessed a good testimony. It says that Pilate said unto him, Hearst thou not how many things they witnessed against thee? Listen to all these words that are coming He answered him never a word, insomuch the governor marveled. Jesus heard all kinds of accusations and difficult words that, you know, he's on sentence for a death penalty. These people were thinking I'm gonna die Jesus is facing a situation. He knows he's going to die. He's in complete control. He's very peaceful. He can handle this. This is not hard for him. Turn to Matthew 17 because I want to show you a little illustration of another mountain that the Lord encountered upon. And it kind of summarizes all of these things Because there was darkness at that mountain, but when Jesus goes, there's light. It's the Mount of Transfiguration. And we read in Matthew 17, beginning in verse 1, the following. After six days, Jesus takes Peter, James, and John his brother, and bringeth them up into a high mountain apart. and was transfigured before them. He changed. Just like these Jews went to Mount Sinai and there was a change. There was a change on the mountain, but here Jesus is transfigured, and it says this, his face did shine as the sun, and his raiment was as white as the light. And behold, there appeared unto them Moses and Elias talking with him. Well, here we have a mountain scene again. We have Moses and the mountain. Jesus is the source of light. But they're not afraid. They, in fact, are so pleased to be there that Peter says this in verse 4. Then answered Peter and said unto Jesus, Lord, it is good for us to be here. If thou wilt, let us make here three tabernacles, one for thee, one for Moses, and one for Elias. I mean, he wants to set up camp. This is great. We like being here Jesus just changed. He something miraculous just happened. Now I I I uh know that when I went to my wedding and uh my dear wife, bride to be, wife to be, shows up at the back doorsteps and the door's open. There she is. And white, very bright. It's like what a beautiful sight. Yes, I I I I want to be there. Just like um Anton's wedding. It was a stunning view, the the venue you picked where she picked it, I'm sure. Uh that the back she shows up and here's this you know, beautiful woman and bride. All brides are are just lovely, lovely, lovely first time brides are lovely, lovely. And um But this is a miracle. He changes. And verse 5, while he yet spake, behold, a bright cloud overshadowed them. So here we have a cloud covering them again. But this is a bright cloud. It's not a dark cloud, it's a bright cloud. And behold, a voice out of the cloud which said, This is my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased. Hear ye him. Well, that's an interesting statement. It's a different commandment. It's a different pointer. It's not saying to Moses, because he's there. It doesn't say, Moses, go tell the people at the base, don't come up. He doesn't say that. He says, This is my son, hear him. It's new direction. They're not afraid. He's that true light. There's a very different contrast here. And again, it's a what? It's a high mountain that he brought them up to And when the disciples heard it, they fell on their faces and were sore afraid. Yeah, a voice from heaven will knock you to your knees. This voice from heaven, they heard it. It's that same voice back in Mount Sinai. And Jesus came and what did he do? Look at this, and touch them. Jesus came and touched them. That same word before, don't touch here. Jesus touches them. It says, Arise, be not afraid. He knows their fears. He's there. And when they had lifted up their eyes, they saw no man save Jesus only. Very stunning contrast, and the point I think can be summarized in John 1. 17, for the law came by Moses, but grace and truth came by Jesus Christ You know, I have four general observations as I kind of wrap this up because I just want to summarize this old covenant in one sentence, really. the sentence you just read. That is the nature of the entire Old Covenant. The first is that the Old Covenant is dark and shadowy It just is. It has elements of light. There's a little bit of insight you can get here and there. The Apostle Paul says, we see through a glass darker, but then face to face. But the new covenant is very clear. It's clear to them with eyes to see. It's easily heard to them with ears to hear. 2 Corinthians 4 says, For God who commanded the light to shine out of darkness has shined in our hearts to give the light of the knowledge of the glory of God in the face of Jesus Christ. You've got to see Jesus Christ. The second point, the second general observation is this. Just like I asked this question about how many ways are there to approach Mount K2? Or Mount Ephras. I mean Joey, I'm not going to try either of those mounts in my lifetime. It's not on my bucket list, so don't buy me hiking boots. It's not going to happen. It's just not But approaching the God of the universe without Jesus Christ is suicide. It's suicide You're just you're asking for it because apart from Christ, God is wrath. In Christ, God is love. And so that's why when they're in that high mount with Christ Everything looks fine. It's bright, it's pleasant, it's wonderful, but the God of the Bible is a wrathful God He is angry against sin, and there's plenty of it in his universe. He's angry against rebellion, and there's plenty of it among the human race. He has a law, and his law is that which will condemn sinners to the utmost. However, If you're standing on burnt ground, if you're standing on one who has paid that penalty, who has obligated himself to your betterment, that one being of course Jesus Christ, God is love. He's obligated to love you He sees you with the righteousness of Christ. Glory be to God. And it's pleasant. It's well. It's peaceful. It's excellent. It's approachable. There's healing There's comfort, there's balm, there's everything desirable there. There's only one way to climb that mount, is what my point is. Only one way. All other ways are guaranteed death Number three. Once in Christ, our nature changes such that we can, in fact, approach unto everlasting fire. We must change. God never changes. Jesus Christ the same yesterday, today, and forever. Some will foolishly say, well, that was the God of the Old Testament. But the God of the New Testament is better. Mmm, I get what they're saying, but no, it's the same God. You've got to have a Savior Name Jesus, the second member of the Trinity, the God man, to be your covering, to be your propitiation, to be your atonement. But God hasn't changed. He still is that God of light. It says, in the new heaven and the new earth there's no more sun, for the glory of the Lamb is the sun. His brightness itself is the light. How can you approach to that unless you yourself are changed and are able to approach that? You have to have covering. There has to be a change. Last point I want to make is something that really needs to be said. Because anyone whose God does not fit this description is an idolater. Anyone whose God does not fit this description of Exodus 19 is an idolater. Oh, I don't believe in Jesus Christ, but He'll forgive my sin. You have a vain imagination in your head. Ah, there's no God. You die, poof, everything's gone. You don't know that you're made in the image of one, your creator, and he has expectations for you And he does have a universal law, and that's the standard by which he will judge and govern the universe, to include you at your death. Oh no, you don't just go poof into the ether. That's a lie of the devil. He's trying to drag as many people into hell with him as he can. If you don't if If that description doesn't fit your God, you're an idolater. If the illustration I've given many a time, imagine a man who's married to a woman named Nancy He's at a barber shop. He's sitting in a chair getting his hair cut. And the barber says, Yeah, I saw Nancy the other day at the uh grocery store. Oh yeah. Okay, uh she's probably out doing her shopping and says, Man, she's gained a lot of weight. She's that's why she's pushing two fifty, two seventy I don't think so. She dyed her hair purple and yellow and green. I don't think so. My wife's trim. Yeah, she's got all this strange gold jewelry. I was like, I don't know, pal. I think we're talking about two different Nancy's I think we got two different women in view here. There's a lot of people that talk about a Jesus, but they don't have a Jesus in the Bible. They talk about a God, but they don't have a God in the Bible. Some talk about Mary. They don't have the Mary of the Bible. They have a different Mary. They have a Mary whom they claim is sinless and has ever been a virgin. That's not the Mary of the Bible. Oh no. That's not her at all Idolatry is rampant in our land. Reinvention of terms and words and meaning is rampant in our land, and religion is not devoid from that. Lastly, as I conclude here You'll read language throughout the New Testament, particularly from the Apostle Paul, when he will say For the law of the spirit of life in Christ Jesus has set me free from the law of sin and death. When the Apostle Paul uses that phrase law in the New Testament, Galatians, uh Corinthians A lot of places he will use it, Romans especially. He does not mean by that every single thing that God has ever commanded. What he means by that is the old covenant. The Pharisees at one point said, this people who knoweth not the law, dot dot dot, meaning they don't know Moses' covenant He's talking about the old covenant. He's not talking about every commandment. There is the law of the liberty in Christ Jesus. Oh yes, that's the law that we're under Yes, we are under that the law of life. There are requirements God has for how his people are to live, but it's a very different covenant. It's a very different covenant. And we've been touching on that. So this is what I want you to consider in Hebrews twelve here. And next week we get into the other mount, Mount Zion, and we expand on that. So we'll close out there. Anton, could you pray for us? Father in heaven, Lord, we look to you. Thank you, Lord, for your promises and your word, even your examples and samples, O Lord. to your people that we can learn by them, O Lord. Indeed, O Lord, you're a a just God and we're a sinful people that are That have deserved intense punishment, intense uh destruction and wrath at thy hand. And yet, O Lord, how we praise you. Provided a better covenant even in Christ Jesus. Whosoever believes on him shall not perish but have everlasting life. O Lord, helpless. To believe, help us to grow in our grace and knowledge of our Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ. And please bless our upcoming time. And worship, O Lord, that it would be pleasing in your sight. We have all this in Christ.