Turn the microphone now. Start to first Samuel, chapter fourteen. Between the passage by which Jonathan sought to go onto the Philistines garrison, there was a sharp rock. It was it was quite a uh like a mountain actually. A sharp rock on the one side and a sharp rock on the other side, and the name of the one was Bozaz, and the name of the other was Sene. So he'd have to climb down the one mountain and then climb back up Up the other mountain. The forefront of the one was situated northward over against Mi'mash, and the other southward over against Gibeah. Come let us go over unto the garrison of these uncircumcised. It may be the Lord will work for us, for there is no restraint to the Lord, to save by many or by few. And his armor bearer said unto him, Do all that's in thy heart to turn thee. Behold, I am with thee according to thy heart. And then said Jonathan, Behold, we will pass over unto these men And we'll discover ourselves unto them. And you've got to realize that uh King Saul and his men would be guarding that path, that road between Mi'kmash and uh Gibeah, and the Philistines would be guarding guarding it. So for Jonathan to sneak out of the camp, he couldn't go down through this path and then up the path to the Philistines. Jonathan's security guard would have or rather King Saul's security guard would have caught him leaving the his men and the Philistines or caught him coming. So Jonathan, the armor bearer, they don't go down the pathway that leads to uh Mi'kmash. They go down this ridge of Hard rock mountainous area, and then they they get off that path and they go back up the other side into the camp of Philistine. So not detected by King Saul and his pen men, and not detected So John says that we will behold we'll pass over these men and we will discover ourselves onto them. And if they say thus unto us, Tarry until we come to you, then we will stand still in our place. He said, We're not going to go anywhere And we will not go up to them. But if they say, Come up unto us, then we will go up. For the Lord hath delivered them into our hand, and this shall be a sign unto us. That is, if they say, Come up to us He said, I'm looking for a sign whether we really should do this or not. And both of them discovered themselves under the garrison of the Philistines, and the Philistines said, Behold, the Hebrews come forth out of their holes where They've hid themselves. What a bunch of cowards. And the men of the garrison answered Jonathan, his armor bearer, and said, Come up to us. That's the exact words that Jonathan was waiting for For in verse 10. And we will show you a thing or two, or a thing. And Jonathan said unto his armor bearer, Come up after me, for the Lord hath delivered them into the hand of Israel. And Jonathan climbed upon his hands and upon his feet and his armor bearer after him, and they fell before Jonathan and his armor bearer slew after him. And the first loader which Jonathan and his armor bearer made was And there was trembling in the host and the field, and among all the people, the garrison, the spoilers They all trembled, and the earthquaked, and so it was a very great trembling. Look at this a little closer. I titled this message this morning, On His Knees. Jonathan, we read here, was the son of King Saul. The first introduction we have We have a Jonathan and this young man he had a an armor bearer and that's what soldiers did. They didn't dress for battle and then go crawling up a mountain. They didn't dress for battle and march that way. We see in the movies a lot like that, you know, for twenty miles or whatever. They had armor bearers and chariots that would carry the armor. And so he has this armor bearer with him. And he said, Let's book the Philistines, the Philistine garrison. Garrison, but he told not his father. Why wouldn't he tell his father? Would his father say, no, you can't go? It's a stupid idea. Why would he not tell his father? Discover a couple of reasons why he didn't tell his father. First, the relationship between Job and his father, it was not good. It was not good at all. Saul in verse 44 We just read forward to verse 44. We're going to find that Saul orders the death of his son Jonathan. That's what you call a dysfunctional family. Alright? We hear that term used a lot. This is a dysfunctional family. He orders the death of his own son, Jonathan, after getting the victory that we're about to read here. And then the second thing we learn about Jonathan is that Jonathan, though he doesn't have a good relations with his father, he has a fantastic relationship with his heavenly father. And Saul does not have a fantastic relationship with the Heavenly Father. So that's the two things we're going to learn as we go through For those who don't remember, Jonathan becomes the uh soulmate of King David. They become tighter and than uh than you could ever imagine until you start reading those chapters. But it says Saul on Benoit, his son is out attacking the Philistine garrison, then Saul is up there under pomegranate tree, and he's with the six hundred people and he carries with the the uh high priest a heah all right and uh we find is of the family of Eli and he's wearing the ephod so all things I Got this good luck charm with me. I got the high priest, I got the ephod. In fact, he's going to order him to bring the Ark of the Covenant. We know how well that turned out the last time he did that. Not well at all. So Samuel the prophet We read in this uh previous chapter, had left King Saul. Samuel the prophet has left King Saul. And so Saul, what does he do? He aligns himself with the priest of Elijah family. He aligns himself with a priest that God has left or that God has abandoned. I mean he just goes from from from bad to worse. When Samuel says I'm abandoning you, I can't I can't stay with you saw I don't believe you're ruining us a king should ruin our following God's word. He said, Wow, I don't even Samuel Prophet. I've got Eli's great-great-grandson. But they were all abandoned by God also Be not deceived. Evil communication corrupts good manners or good character. And this is the problem with Saul He surrounds himself with people that do not have a good character. And you might uh I hope not, but perhaps you or someone here is enjoying your time with those of questionable character. He said, I have a good time. They're funny. They're interesting. They're they're artistic. They're they're uh they're just they're they're they're a party Questionable character. Well, be not deceived. Evil communication, communing with people like that, it will corrupt your good character Here's how it works, alright? Think about Samson hanging around with Delilah. That didn't work out so good, did it? But she was entertaining, you know. And you can think about Abel Hanging out with his brother King. How did that work out? Not so good. Not so good at all for Abel, did it? Well, Ahi, he, you know, he maybe they've abandoned the preaching line of Eli, but Ahihai said, hey, look, King still wants to hear. I'm in the king's court. I mean, this is working out pretty good for me. Well, in eight chapters, we're going to find out how it worked out for this high priest, Ehi. All right? King Saul kills him. King Saul has him executed. In fact, King Saul is so irritated with the high priest Ahia that he not only has Ahia executed, he says, by the way Execute all his sheep, all his cattle, all his goats, all his wives, all his children. Execute everybody. So that's what it got Ahia, the high priest, to hanging out with someone like this soul. It didn't go very well, and if you were hanging out with corruptible characters, it won't go well for you either. all his cattle and all his kin. We read about that in 1 Samuel 22. Only one of his family ever escaped. So that just gives you an idea. Jonathan's hanging out with an armor bearer. We lost Loves the Lord, Jonathan loves the Lord, Saul, he's hanging out with people that are are abandoned by God, that God has cursed actually the whole family of Eli. And this is this is the story as we go into it. So the young man that that is the armor bearer, uh they said, Let us go. He's he's all excited. Jonathan has apparently uh talked with him and prayed with him and he's excited, and if we remember back a chapter or so, Jonathan And this armor bearer may have been the guy that went with him at that time, and he's ready to do it again. And so it says in verses four through six, the young man that bear And that's what uh the Philistines were. They were not circumcised, they did not have the mark of the covenant of God upon them. And uh I I can remember when I used to work in construction, while you hear some great filthy language, the way people talk and cuss and swear. And uh I remember I remember one time I called somebody an uncircumcised Philistine and he said, I don't know what that means, but I don't like it. How dare you tell me that? And I said, Well, okay, then you're a reprobate. Well, what's that mean? When I told him that. Like that either. So, but here in this with this idea of calling someone uncircumcised Philistine, we have it right here. The young man that bear the army said, Let's go around the garrison who was uncircumcised. They do not have the sign of the covenant in the reflection. They are strangers to God. They are strangers to God's covenant. They are God's enemies. If they're God's enemies, they're our enemies. Why should we fear God's enemies, right? I mean God doesn't like them, God doesn't love them, God's not going to protect them, He's not going to put a hedge around them. Why should we fear God's enemies? The arbor and God would have concluded So should we fear them that are the enemies today of the gospel of Jesus Christ? Should we really fear that? No. No, we should not Just as then, so it is now. There is no restraint to the Lord to save by many or by few. And this is what he says in verse 7. Let's go up. There's no restraint by God, to save by many or by few. We don't have to be afraid of the enemies of God. God has no limitations. He didn't have limitations then. He has no limitations today. Is my hand shortened at all? I cannot redeem you. God says in Isaiah fifty and verse two, we go all through the scriptures, and God says, My arms are not shortened, my my ears not full of wax, I am not weakened, neither are not days when I'm sleepy or often of the case I am always there. There are no restraints on God. Jonathan saw that his God save him, could save Israel. In fact, when you go through the Old Testament, God is often referred to as the Savior or the Redeemer. In the New Testament we know that Christ has always called the Redeemer The Savior or the Redeemer. They are one in the same. It's a triune Godhead. And so Jonathan saw the Lord as his Savior, as his personal Savior. Was not by his own strength. Jonathan knew that I can't take on this garrison by myself. I did take on one and I did wipe them out. But I know it that strength wasn't in me. That God has to do it. I I I realize this. He said and I also realize that that when God gives me a victory like he had at the other garrison and that God will give me a victory today, he said, I realize that God doesn't not because I merit anything good, but just because God is merciful, do we have some good outcomes? Rahab, the harlot, she didn't merit anything good. Matthew the tax collector, he didn't merit anything good. Saul the Pharisee, who became Paul the apostle, he didn't merit anything good. But God is merciful. And God is our Savior. And you know, if you've got problems today and you're struggling over something, I want you to know that God is the same yesterday, today, and forever. Jesus Christ, read in Hebrews. Christ is the same yesterday, today, and forever. If he was the Savior of Jonathan, then he is our Savior today, our Redeemer today. He can take care of us. Yes, he can And it doesn't take a lot of people to take care of God's people. We look at Israel today, surrounded Again, as they were here. Seemed like Israel through history is always being surrounded by multiples times more people than they have. And God always takes care of them Christ. The man says here that God can take care of us. Saved by many or by few. And what did the Lord Jesus Christ do? When Christ decided to save us and to save the world, what did he do? He sent out what? Massive numbers of people? He sent out a few. He just sent out out a few. It's a great commission. Go ye therefore and teach all nations, baptize them in the name of the Father, the Son, and the Holy Ghost. He sent out his disciples. He just had a few. How did that work out out for the Lord. Pretty good, didn't it? I mean we're first getting here today on Sunday morning. There were churches all over the world. I think it's something like 50,000 churches in America. I mean how did it work out for the Lord? He can save by few as he did in Jonathan's day and he still does today. Saves by few. The world as these Philistines here, the world They always seem to underestimate God's spirit-filled, fervent view. They always underestimate what the view can do if they're spirit-filled and they're fervent. They underestimate this Jonathan and his armor bearer coming up this crag, this sharp rock climbing up. And they had to, anyone to climb that, climb down and then climb back up the other rock, they should be exhausted. They should be tired. They should get to the top of the mountain and say, Well, let's just rest here for a while. Maybe in about fifteen or twenty minutes we'll get back up and then we'll discover ourselves. But they discover themselves as soon as they get to the top of the mountain, they make God they must Stood out there and shouted out to the Philistines in some manner and they whoa here's two guys must have come out of a hole somewhere. They've all been hiding like a bunch of cowards. I mean, they discovered themselves to them And so we find that they go up this mountain in verse 7. The armor bearer said, Behold, I am with thee. And as I said, the armor bearer's job was to carry the shield, to carry the breastplate, to carry the helmet. Maybe he didn't carry the sword, but you just couldn't carry all this stuff into battle. When you're climbing up this mountain, he needs the armor bearer to go with him to carry all these things. And that armor bearer he'd better be fearless because that armor bearer, you know, when he hands him the shield, what he hands him the uh his uh uh helmet and and his breastplate, I mean the battle's about to begin and there's no time And he best not run back because you know what else he's carrying? He's carrying the stones for your sling. And he maybe he's carrying your sling, and maybe he's carrying an extra javelin or two. He follows Jonathan into combat. You've got to select someone who's sticking closer to you than a brother. You gotta you've got an armor bearer was it was like when you see the military sometimes if there's a colonel out there riding around in the Jeep somewhere, he's got Got some sergeant or corporal some low lower level soldier who's driving the cheap. He's like the armor barrel. He's he's driving around and and you know the snipers are out there and the people and they want to take off and The guy with the shiny wings on his shoulder, you know, the the brass, the the officers. And you've got these men that follow. Follow the soldier. And they have to be fearless. And Jonathan was was a In other words, they have to bear all this burdensome weight, right? And is it not what Christ has taught us that we are to bear one another? Burdens and so fulfill the law of Christ, Galatians 6. 2. We are to bear one another's burdens. It it never changes, whether it's in the days of Jonah or in our day, our job is to come along Alongside of a brother and bear his burdens. We you say, well, he's he's the preacher, or he's the Sunday school teacher, he's the elder, he's the deacon. I mean, you know, I what am I? You're you're there to bear the burden We have burdens. And Jonathan was one like that. Now maybe this morning your life is pretty good. And sometimes you go through periods like that. say to me, you know, I'm starting to wonder whether I'm a Christian or not. Satan's not attacking me. There's nothing going wrong. My life is really good right now. I I just maybe I'm doing something wrong. I'm not doing the Bible enough. I'm not praying enough. I mean what is wrong with me? I mean let me There may be nothing wrong with you, but you know what? That means right now that you are free to bear someone's burden. That means you have time to do some things you didn't have before. You ought to be looking around for someone who is struggling if you're not struggling. Look for someone who's out there who is struggling, who maybe just needs a listening ear, someone out there that needs a helping hand, someone that could use a verse of Encouragement. If things are really going good for you, look for someone where the things aren't going so good for them. And of all the things you can do for them besides listen and to be there and to bear their burdens of them, give them Them a verse of encouragement. You can't do that any better than that. Look for a verse that will fit their situation and show it to them and read it to them and tell them to move them memorize it. I think that the armor bearer here, what he could have done, he could have given them Joshua twenty three ten, where it says to Josh, he could have said to Jonathan, you remember Joshua? You know chapter or they did month number chapter Back then, but he said he could have said to Jonathan, the armored bearer, hey, remember that verse in Jonathan, in Joshua 23? I says, where one man of you shall chase a thousand? Maybe today's the day, alright Maybe today one man will chase a thousand. And if he had caught it at the Jonathan, I think John the blood would just flow to his face and his arms and his chest and he'd be excited to hear someone quote a verse in the midst of turmoil about to begin. So if you think they're going real goodly this morning, be an armor bearer. And when the armor bearer agrees to go with Jonathan, I remember years ago and I won't go in the story, but I I I woke my wife up one morning and said, I've got a great idea, something we can do with the abortion place. This is I don't know you can think it's crazy. You're gonna think it's crazy, I told my this is what I want to do. And uh somebody knows Story, I dressed up like the angel of death and walked in an abortion clinic and whole clinic empty out in the streets. But uh and we left the Bible verse. You always give a Bible verse. And I and I I gave the the the reception there arose the Bible verse on it from Joel that said you've shed the blood of the innocent in our land and then I walked out and my wife said great idea let's do it So she she spent I don't know how many days making this long black death guard and they even had the skeleton mask that went around it and and walked in there and frightened them and emptied out the claim. Everybody's speaking on trampling over each other rainhouse. And we came out just as the police car was coming by and they saw everybody scattered like crazy and and then they saw me. I I stood out a little bit. And they arrested me. Now let me tell you what not to do. I said the police offer Sir, what, is there a dress code in Maryland? I can't dress like this. He said, what is this? Halloween? Get the car. Turned out he was a pro-liper. Is God good or what? Took us around the back of the mall after everything calmed down and talked to us. He was a real pro-liper That morning we forgot our driver's license, we forgot the registration of the car. I mean, we couldn't prove we didn't have our wallets or we couldn't prove who we were. And God gave us a man, an armor bearer He just lifted our burden and he just told us to go home. Didn't get a ticket, didn't get it, he released us. It was it was fantastic. But you know, this armor bearer must have really encouraged And when I told my wife I got this great idea that morning, she said, Oh, I think it's a great idea. Isn't it nice when someone thinks you have a great idea? That doesn't happen too often, does it? So you may want to think it's their idea, but when you come up Oh, that's not a good idea, you know. But I mean it's just this is the armor bearer. He thought it was a great idea. Let's go attack the garrison of the Philistines. And that that must have really encouraged Jonathan there Are you an encourager? Why? Who who is there anyone here who doesn't need an encourager? Yeah? Don't we all need an encourager? So he says, okay You're going with me? Here's the plan. Then we read about the plan in verses 8 through 10. We will discover ourselves unto the Philistines. If they say, Tarry until we come down to you, we will not go up to them. But if they say, Come up unto us Us, we'll go up for the Lord and deliver them into our hands. And this shall be a sign unto us. People sometimes say, I'm looking for a sign, I'm looking for a sign. And listen, right to look for a sign or not. Well I think we need to look for an open door. I think if we we pray about something and maybe we we get the counsel of some others we'll talk about it. Should we do this or not do this? And and we look For, you know, maybe a Bible verse that just quickens us and strikes our heart and says, Yep, oh this is a good idea. Look, even those Bible verse that talks to me about it. There's a number of things we can do to look for a sign. Great example In the Old Testament is Abraham. He wants a wife for Isaac. Do you remember how he found the wife Rebekah? He sends a servant up north to where he has some kin that live up there. He said, I don't want my I son Isaac to marry some Canaanite or Philistine or you know some uh Parasite or I want him to marry someone of our kin, of our blood. And so he sends his his servant way up north And uh he goes up there and he arrives in the in the vicinity where he knew that some of Abraham's uh relatives lived, and he's sitting around the well and he says, Lord, how do I do a job like this? I mean I mean if there People coming back for it to well that I start asking him, do you know Abraham? Anybody here know Abraham? You know, what do I do? And so the so the servant he's praying. He says, Oh Lord, he says, send me Isaac's wife Send her right to this well. And when I ask her, can you give me a drink of water? Because I don't have a pitcher. They're all pitching in the water, you know, pulling up the water out of the well. And I you know I just ask you for a drink of water Water and she says sure to a stranger. Now your parents have told you not to talk to strangers, right? But I want someone that's outgoing, that's warm, and and maybe she sees an opportunity to To touch me with the gospel or talk to me. A stranger. Strangers need to hear the gospel. I just want some young girl to come up to the well that would be that I that you will you'll give me a sign that this is to be the wife of Isaac. And along comes Rebecca. And he had said, and if I say I want a glass of water, sure. And you know what? Uh you got some camels here with you? Yes I do. He had ten camels. I don't know if she knew that. But he said, I And I'll give you water for your camels too. Do you know how much water a camel drinks? I mean, if they've been out walking around somewhere, they might only drink taking 10 gallons. If they're a little thirsty, they'll they'll drink twenty-five. And if they know they're they've been out in the desert for a long time, they can drink fifty gallons of water. Now I don't think She gave 50 gallons for each one of them. But let's just say she got 10 or 15 gallons. I mean, you're talking about 200 gallons, 250 gallons. Envision this young ladies. Some guy walks you in the mall and he says, Boy, I'm really thirsty. I can really He said, uh sure, I'll get you a soda. What else would you like? Could you move these two hundred gallon jugs? You got these one gallon jugs of water, could you take them off the shelf and move them down here to the other end of the mall for me Not the mall, but the other end of the store. I mean the gallon jug. She moves like two hundred gallons of water probably. So anyway, he's he's here comes Rebecca and he says, Excuse me, young lady, I'm really thirsty. water and she said, Well sure. Uh and he was praying, you know, this this would happen. And then he would a and then and then without asking she would just say, Hey, can you uh water uh uh would you have water your your camels Also. But here's the interesting thing about that story. Because he wants a sign, and he's he's sitting there by the well, and he says, I want her to say, I will give thy camels Drink also. Okay? And in Genesis twenty four, fifteen, and it says, And before he was done speaking or praying to God, here come You know, the prayers of a righteous man availh much. This is a saved man. Abraham's servant was a saved man. In fact, Abraham said to my son ever gets married, you will inherit everything. He was going to give everything he had to the servant. Talk about having prayers answered. And I know some of you here, you've had that happen. You've been praying about something you are just burdened by you praying today after day after day and you're praying about it and you're on your knees you're praying about it and you're not through praying yet and the phone rings or the doorbell rings and you go to the phone or the doorbell and your prayer has been answered. And you're just, I hadn't even finished yet. I didn't even get a chance to to say in Jesus' name. It was the answer before I think I know some of you I've been there, I know some of you have too. Isn't that a sign? Isn't that a sign? Wow. And this is what Jarathan laughed. He said they say, come up to us, come up to us, that'll be the sign. And they say that to him. And so they discover themselves and run Verse 11 and 12, out of the Philistines and the garrison says, Come up to us. And Jonathan said unto the ever bearer, The Lord have delivered them into our hands. This is the sign. I want you that God governs the humanity Oh, and when I say the universe, that means he governs down here on this planet too. God governs everything he has made, and he's made a lot. They haven't you know they haven't even found the other side of the universe yet They never will. Maybe they just turn around and go back and go the other direct. Maybe they're just going the wrong direction. Maybe maybe there's a wall out at the universe out on this end and they just all shoot in the wrong direction. Their God has made, they will never find all that God has made. God is all powerful, all-knowing, omnipotent, omniscient. He is everywhere. He is so massive and so So we have here this the God, he governs the universe. I know God does it. He keeps the moon in place, He keeps Jupiter over here. I mean God governs everything. He even governs the creature tongue. Why would God care about the tongue? Boy somebody should because we use a lot when we shouldn't, right? God even governs the tongue. I mean what if Rachel came up and said well how many camels you got? Are they little ones or big ones? I mean she just says sure I'll give what God governs the tongue. She says the exact words that he needs to hear. The tongue of these Philistines, they're not in on the plot. They don't want to help John, and they're not trying to encourage John. But God governs even the tongue of the heathen, and the Philistines say, Come up to us. Well, that's like a password. Like the sentry, you always wait for the secret password to let you come in. I mean he gives them the password. God even governs that little muscle between your mandibles and your maximum. He controls the And I said, all preachers, not just the tongue of the serpent in the garden, not just the tongue of Balaam's jackass. God governs all the tongues of all his creatures. Another great story is during the Passover, that night in Israel, when God said to send the angel, the destroyer will come, he'll kill the firstborn of all the Egyptians But he will not touch the holes of the Israelites, but the blood on the lintel. And he says, Can you imagine what you you just imagine what happens at night? Is at midnight it takes place, and mothers are waking up and their firstborn sons are And you can you you know y you can just imagine how how this was and the next door is the same And the people are out in the streets and they're you know looking up uh into the heavens because they they worship the stars, they worship the moon and and all these things, the Egyptians, and they're just waiting and carrying on and what are their dogs doing you know what dogs do when you when you get excited around the house I mean they're out barking they're running they don't know what's going on but they want to be a part of it they're out there barking and running around and you know what God says there he can controls the tongue of every creature. And he says there during the Passover night, he said that against the children of Israel shall not a dog move his tongue. There will not be one dog dog marking barking in the land of Beulah. Not one dog. You can hear dogs, and you know what happens if dogs bark? Block away, a dog hears a bark and they bark. And then that dog barks and other dog I mean when When dogs start barking, it just goes like pinballs ricocheting through a machine somewhere. They all start barking. And God says, let me tell you how controlled I am, how much I control the universe. When these people are dying in there, dogs are barking in Beulaland. Not the tongue of one dog will move his tongue that you may know that God makes a difference between Israel and the Egyptians. And do you not think today God still makes a difference between those Who are washed in the blood of Christ and those who are not. I don't know how you face today or tomorrow or the next day or your future if you're not washed in the blood of Christ. Because God makes a difference only Only between his blood-washed and blood-bought children and the rest of the world. He guards, he controls the tongue that the enemy It doesn't stop there. I can go on all day telling Caiaphas, the high priest, he hates Christ. And on the day that Christ is to be crucified or tried and crucified, Caiaphas comes out, he hates Christ, the last thing he'd want to do is say something that would be truth about Christ, that would edify Christ, that would glorify Christ. And so God controls the tongue of Caiaphas. And Caiaphas, the scripture says, He prophesied Prophesied that day, but he knoweth it not. Here's what Caiaphas said, because God controlled his tongue in John 11:50. He said of the Lord Jesus Christ, It is expedient for us that this one man die. For the people, that the whole nation not perish. Isn't that why Christ died? He died that all of us might not perish. Tyophus the high priestess that. Does God control the tongue of every creature? Is God in control of the whole universe? Is God in control of what you're going through right now? Whether you like it or not He is. And if you're bloodwashed, all things work for the good of them that love the Lord. You may not see the good of it right now, but you will someday. I always tell people When they lose a loved one, I don't know why it went down this way. I don't know why you lost it at the worst possible time in your life. But when you get to heaven, God will tell you why And they said, well, it better be a good one. I said, Oh, you will praise him from one end of heaven to the other, and you'll be shocked at what the reason was and what a good, good decision it was for him to take someone from you that you love. You'll be so so thankful and you will recognize he now controls the universe controls it for his glory in our judge. So Jonathan climbs up upon his hands And his knees. God's got control of the soldier. They say what they have to say. By the way, one thought in the tongue. God controls all the tongues. Has your tongue repented of its sins yet? Has your tongue confessed Christ as your Savior? God is in control of your tongue. If it hasn't, boy, you better start praying as he makes your tongue say those words. Oh Lord, forgive me for my sins. Oh Lord, cleanse me of the blood, of my sins of the blood. This is the kind of man Jonathan was. He was a saved man. His armor bearer is a saved man. They're telling me to make the confession of their sins. And so they climb up on their hands and their feet. They're on all fours. And I've I've been in some of these mountains over in California where you had to climb these mountains and you don't march up the mountain. You are on your your hands and your feet. These these mountains are at a almost a forty-five degree angle. You're slipping, you're slipping You're sliding back, you're grabbing the grass to pull yourself forward. You're you're really you're on your knees. And if you're on your knees and you're assaulting a mountain with the enemies up there with grenades and bullets and slings and spears and swords, you're not only on your knees, but as you're climbing up that mountain, you're saying, oh Lord, please may we survive today. Oh Lord, may the rockets not here. May the grenades not here. May there not be a booby trap behind And you are pro when you're on I don't know what m all men do in combat, but I know as you're walking towards the combat, everyone is it's it's quiet. You know, you you were out there when I was out in the rice paddies, Vietnam, you have two hundred men were walking down the roads and we're mind sweeping. And usually guys are carrying on, smoking a cigarette, laughing, talking, telling jokes. We're out there and we're going Down that road, two other guys, and you don't hear a word. Nobody says, Hey hi, Joe, haven't seen you in a while. You hear them praying. You hear guys praying. Oh God Please. We're looking for mines. Oh Lord, please. Not not. Oh, good. That was a good step. Oh Lord, no, please not. Oh, good. I didn't say oh this this was clean. That was clean. And you're walking over looking for mines and you're praying the whole time. Whether you're saved or not, you are praying You are on your knees, that nothing bad happens to you. Now when it starts when it all starts to hit the fan, the frame stops and you're just shooting and running and ducking and hiding and you're doing everything else. But I'm telling you, this is what Jonathan They are on their knees, and this is for hours. He's on his knees for hours. And you spend hours on your knees. God answers a prayer like that And they were on their knees, climbing up this mountain for several hours, on all fours, no doubt praying, and a victory follows. But there fell before Jonathan, the armor bearer. Sometimes you don't see us right away, but if you look at verse 13 and 14, there fell before Jonathan. Alright? And his The armor bearer slew after him about twenty men. So Jonathan's there, the armor bearer's right behind him. And the armor bearer, by the way, he's got your back. He's got the these extra pair of eyes. Jonathan, behind to the right, to the left, go behind you. He's he's got his back. And Jonathan is he's out there, he's swinging the sword, he'd slash the guy, the guy goes down, and Jonathan steps around him and goes to the next one. That guy may not be And it says the armor bearer came behind him and slew twenty. The armor bearer, he did the coup de gras, he finished them off so that none of them jumped back up and come back to horn Jonathan. That's the armor bearer's job to take care of the soldier he has been assigned to. He has his back. A friend he is that sticketh closer than a brother. Proverbs Verbs 18 and 24. How can we have such a friend? Would you like to have someone in this world a diver you're going to contact with you? He's got your back, he covers for you. Make sure the things that go on in your life They don't come back to haunt you. Wouldn't you love to have a friend like that? You do. Did you believe in the Lord Jesus Christ? What a friend we have in Jesus. We sing that song. Well, what a friend he is indeed. And he has our back. And he has our future. And so Paul writes, Thanks be Be to God, which giveth us the victory through Jesus Christ our Lord, 1 Corinthians 15. And thus not even the gates of hell shall prevail against us. Matthew 6 What a family. What an armor bearer. Protector, someone's got our back from here to eternity. Do you know the Lord Jesus Christ personally? And knowing him, do you love him? More than that, does he love you? This armor bearer loved Jonathan. You need someone that loves you through thick and thin It's right here, folks. The best friend you'll ever have, the Lord Jesus Christ. Let's pray. Father, we thank you this day. That through the examples of the Old Testament and we're supposed to read the Old Testament. I know we don't find Jesus' name mentioned much there, but he he would quote the Old Testament, he'd recite the Old Testament, he would accuse the Pharisees of Not knowing the scriptures of the Old Testament, so Lord, we must know them too. And we look through them and we find that there were those in it in the scriptures of the Old Testament that knew the Redeemer, knew the Savior, knew the God of comfort, the God of blessing, the God of mercy. Oh, we're blessed today to know his personal name is Jesus the Christ. Father, may each and everyone here today. Know him the way Jonathan knew his armor bearer. We ask this in Christ's name for our sake and for our salvation. Amen