We picking up this morning where we left off last week In which, although King David was not dead, one of his sons, Adonijah, declared himself the king of Israel, and declared that he was now reigning. And Nathan the prophet knew that this was contrary to David's earlier wishes, earlier declaration. And contrary to the word of God, for God had told David, and David had told Solomon and the prophet that Solomon was to be king So this was just so contrary to everything they were expecting. And so Nathan goes to talk to Bathsheba, David's wife, David's favorite wife. presumably probably his prettiest wife, albeit at this point, David's seven years old. She's probably at best fifty. And um he approaches her in verse 12, and we want to pick up there verse 12 to verse 30 as the prophet Nathan comes in. Now therefore come, we're in 1 Kings chapter 1 and verse 12. Verse 12, now therefore come, let me, I pray thee, give thee counsel that thou mayest save thine own life. And the life of my son Solomon. The prophet Nathan, and he's a prophet, believes that Bathsheba's life is in danger if Adonijah is ruling king, and so is Solomon. Go and get thee in unto King David, and say unto him, Didst not thou, my lord, O King, swear unto thy handmaid, saying, Assuredly, Solomon thy son shall reign after me And he shall sit upon my throne. Lost my place for a moment here. Behold, while thou yet talkest there with the king, Nathan says, I also will come in after thee. And confirm thy words. And Bathsheba went in unto the king, into the chamber, and the king was very old And Abishag the Shudamite ministered unto the king. Oh, I bet she liked that. And Bathsheba bowed and did obeisance on the king. And the king said, What wouldest thou And she said unto him, get rid of Abishag. No, she didn't say that. She had she probably felt that way, but you know, being replaced by the younger, newer model, you know. But she had something more important to deal with, and that was the saving of her own life And her son. She said unto him in verse 17, My Lord, thou swearest by the Lord thy God unto thy handmaid, saying, Assuredly, Solomon thy son shall reign after me. And he shall sit upon my throne. And now, behold, Adonijah reigneth. And now, my lord the king, thou knowest it not? And he hath slain oxen and fat cattle and sheep in abundance, hath called all the sons of the king, and Abiathar the priest, and Joab the captain of the host But Solomon thy servant had thee not called. So he called all the sons of David but one. He didn't call Solomon And thou, my Lord, verse 20, O King, the eyes of all Israel are upon thee, that thou shouldst tell them who shall sit on the throne of my Lord the King after him. Otherwise it shall come to pass when my Lord the King shall sleep with his fathers, that I and my son Solomon shall be counted offenders. And offenders are put to death by the new king, by the way. Verse 22, and lo while she yet talked with the king, Nathan also came in, as he told her he would. And they told the king, saying, Behold Nathan the prophet. And when he was come in before the king, he bowed himself before the king with his face to the ground. And Nathan said, My lord, O king, hast thou said, Adonijah shall reign after me? And he shall sit upon my throne, for he has gone down this day and has slain oxen and fat cattle and sheep in abundance And hath called all the king's sons and the captains of the host, and Abiathar the priest, and behold they eat and drink before him, and say, God save King Adrenijah. But me, even me thy servant, and Zadok the priest, and Beniah and Beniah the son of Jehoiada and thy servant Solomon hath he not called? Is this thing done by my Lord the King, and thou hast not showed it unto thy servant, who should sit on the throne, and my lord the king after him? And then King David answered and said, Call me Bathsheba. Call her back into the court. And she came, well, actually back into his bedchamber. And she came in the king's presence and stood before the king. And the king swore and said, As the Lord liveth, that hath redeemed my soul out of all distress. Even as I swear unto thee by the Lord God of Israel, saying, Assuredly, Solomon thy son, he's speaking to Bathsheba, shall reign after me, and he shall sit upon my throne in my stead Even so will I certainly do this day. And so in verse 12, Nathan comes in. And he says to Bathsheba, I pray thee that thou may save thine own life and the life of thy son Solomon. Nathan believes, he really believes that the prophet God may have revealed it to him that if Adani is king, he will execute Bathsheba. And he will execute Solomon. And maybe one of the reasons without even revelation from God is the fact that Joab is now a part of Adonijah's. uh royal court. He's brought in Joab. And Joab we if we remember back in 2 Samuel 327, he assassinated Abner, the captain of the host And then he assassinated Amasa in 2 Samuel 2010, the captain of the host of Israel. And then in first and and then later on he also assassinates Absalon, one of David's sons. So Joab is an assassin par excellence. He's done it three or four times And if you want to include Uriah there, he wasn't assassinated, but he was set up to die. That was Johab's hand in that too, as well So there's every reason to suspect that Johab has been brought on board to assassinate Bathsheba and Solomon. And probably when he's all done, knowing things will be done perfect These kings they'll assassinate all the other brothers and sisters of King David as well. And so he warns Bathsheba this. And he instructs her in verse 13, go on to King David and say, Didst not thou thy Lord, O King, swear on thy handmaid of Sheba's calling herself her handmaid? his handmaid, not his bride or his favorite wife. Solomon thy son shall reign after me. Didn't she swear that unto me that he shall sit upon the throne? Why doth Adonijah now reign While you're alive, you're not even dead, and he's taken over. Your body's not even cold and he has taken over. And it's contrary to your promise that Solomon would reign after you died And so we have here this battle going on with two people reigning over Israel. It's the same battle we all have today. Who reigns over you, pilgrim? Is it Christ the true King of Israel? Or contrary to Christ ruling over your life? Is it uh as you have promised probably many people make a promise Profession of faith, walk an house, sign a car, get baptized. They promise they want Christ to reign on their heart and rule over them, but so often it's the imposter Like Adonijah, the devil, the deceiver of souls that really reigns over many a professing Christian. And so I would ask you this morning to review your promise. promises as Bathsheba is asking David to review his promise. And who is going to reign over your heart? Who is going to reign? Is it the King of Israel, Jesus Christ? Or an impossible Now Nathan continues in verse 14 as he's speaking with Bathsheba. He says, Behold, while thou Bathsheba, he's speaking with Bathsheba, yet talk us with the king. You want to go in? I want you to go and tell the king what Adonijah is doing. He's in the sick bed, he's dying. He's he's distracted by fever, he's distracted by uh perspiring, he he's or he's cold and and he's not perspiring, but he's he's col Fold and he's shivering he's distracted by all this and he's trying to keep warm. He's probably distracted by Abishag, although it says he knew her not. All these distractions, he does not know what Adonijah has pulled off. And so she's supposed to go there and tell the king, and while she's telling the king, Nathan the prophet says, I'll come in and I'll add credence to what you've said in the mouth of two or three witnesses. A thing is established And we'll we'll see what happens here. I will confirm thy words. And the words he's going to confirm are actually the words of 1 Chronicles 22, 5 and 10. 5 through 10, where God came to David and then and spoke to David, and then in 1 Chronicles 22, if you look at it, 5 through 10. David goes to his young son Solomon and he says, You know, God has told me that you were to build a temple. I wanted to build a temple, but God said, I'm a bloody man, so you're going to build a temple when I die, and you're going to take over my throne, and you're going to sit and you're going to reign And so when he says, I'm going to come in and confirm your words, Bathsheba, her words are David's words, and David's words are actually holy scripture. They are the words from God that Nathan knew, that Bathsheba knew. And he wants to come in and confirm them with her. And so this is what he does. In fact, if you ever look at 1 Kings 2 and 15, you'll find out that it wasn't just that Solomon knew what God had Prophesied and told David. It's not just that David knew it. It's not just that Bathsheba knew it. It's not just that uh Nathan the prophet knew it and Abiathar uh the priest knew it. But we find that even Adonijah Who is now saying, I'm the king and I'm taking over, and that's the way it is. We find in 1 Kings 2, 15, if you looked ahead, that Agenijah admits, in fact, let's just look at that. 1 Kings chapter 2 and verse 15. And he says, and this is uh uh Adonijah speaking said, Thou knowest. He's talking to uh Uh to Bathsheba, thou knowest the kingdom was mine, he said. The kingdom was mine, and that all Israel set their faces on me. That's because he was killing sheep and cattle and and it was a great feast. They set their face on me that I should reign Howbeit the kingdom has turned about and has become my brothers, for it was his from the Lord. He always knew that. He is not only in rebellion against his father, he is in rebellion against the Word of God, and he knows it. And who wants someone reigning over you that's a rebellion against the Word of God? You don't want Satan ruling over you. He's in rebellion against the Word of God. You don't want someone in a high office ruling over you who's in rebellion against the Word of God, and yet sometimes that happens, Pilate and Herod and And that we've had presence of the same ill. So here we go. And he says, You go in there, and I'm going to come in right behind you and I'm going to express here what's going on. And how uh Solomon should be sitting on the throne And we find that Agenia's argument was about the same as the argument that Pilate gave. You know, Ageniah is not saying, hath God said? Ageniah's not doing that. Agenia knew what God had said, alright God has said Solomon's to sit on the throne. That's the way it's going to be. So Ed denied that he takes a different uh demonic position. By the way, hath God said, he says I think I can prevent God from pulling it off. God's not sovereign. If I want to be king, I think I can pull it off. So he's denying the sovereignty of God He's designing the power of God's word. He's denying the inerrancy of God's word. He's not going to stand by God's word. He doesn't believe God is sovereign because he's going to pull this thing off. It's kind of like what Pilate did and what Caiaphas did. The same attitude the chief priests had in the days of Christ, when they come to Pilate and they say to him, look, we want to guard on the tomb. Uh uh this this Christ, he says he's gonna rise in three days. And if he rises up, or if they steal his body, they'll say he's risen, Matthew 27, 64. And so it's the same attitude. We're not gonna say that God hasn't said this But we don't want God to pull it off. If if Christ is God come in the flesh, we don't want him to pull us off. And that's the same thing that Adonijah says. Yeah, God said I'm not supposed to be king, Solomon is, but I'm going to see that he doesn't pull it off. He's not sovereign. He can't do this. And the Pharisees and Chief priest, they said to Pilate the same thing. We don't want him to pull this off and look like he has risen from the dead. And so we find here uh Then verses 15 and 16, Bathsheba went into the king. And she bowed and she did obeisance as Nathan and her had planned. And the king said, What wouldest thou? And she said, My lord, thou swearest by the Lord thy God. unto thine handmaiden, saying, Solomon, thy son, shall reign after me, and he shall sit upon my throne. And now, behold, Adonizer reigneth, and now my lord the king, thou knowest it not David didn't know this stuff, as I said before, because he's he's lying there, he's shivering, he's cold, he's dying, he's old, he's distracted, he doesn't know these things. And you know something? Adonijah probably has got it figured out that he doesn't know it. He's distracted. Even if Abishak isn't distracting him, the chills are the dying, knowing he's gonna be an eternity shortly. He knows that he he knows that David probably doesn't know. And and Shiva admits that he doesn't know. And I think sometimes kids think, as long as mom and dad don't know, man, I can get away with murder, right? Well, let me tell you something. And and when I say kids, we were all kids. We all had parents at one time or another. So some of us older kids like myself, we know the times we thought we could get them by with murder and our parents just wouldn't know That the old ad is your mother had eyes in the back of your head. By the time you get to be about 25 or 30, you know that's not true. And so you even do even more things that you think mom and dad won't know And this is what was going on here. Ageniah, he says, ah, he's not going to know. And he doesn't know. And then Sheba comes and says, You don't know. And that's what happens. Children, do you really think your parents are ignorant of your sinful deeds forever? No. You get caught. You're gonna get caught. Uh I'm seventy years old. I can't tell you how many times I got caught. And and the older I got, the smarter I thought I was, and the less likely I thought I was gonna get caught. But boy I always got caught. I mean there'd be somebody in the neighborhood or somebody from church that would see me out doing something or somewhere. I just always got caught And it didn't stop me. I still kept on doing it. But you know, uh, children, I just want you to know don't be ignorant of your sinful deeds being hidden forever from your parents. They're gonna catch on. We find that Cain hated his brother Abel. Who'd have thunk? Who would have thought? I mean Adam and Eve, they got Cain, they got Abel, they got children, oh they're just they're not in the garden anymore, but things are pretty good and the boys are playing together well and and and and they don't know that Cain hates Abel. They have no idea. Until one day Abel doesn't show up, they can't find him. And it gets exposed, doesn't it? And written out in scripture that came had killed his brother. How about Aaron's sons, Nadab and Abihu? Wow. I mean they are serving the temple Lord They bring in the incense, they set the fire, make sure the altar is always burning. And then one day they they get a little lazy and and they bring in some strange fire. I don't know where they're supposed to get the fire from, but But they were just, uh, it's a shortcut, let's just do this. And they really didn't take the worship service serious. Now Aaron, the high priest of Israel, he had no idea that his kids didn't take the worship service seriously. He had chosen them out of the family to to to rule and to and to take care of the service. you know, the showbread and and make sure there was plenty of olive oil and in the candles. And I mean he he had no idea they didn't take the service serious. Maybe some here don't take the service serious But shhh, your parents think you take the service serious. How do you never know what's in your heart? They're not But Aaron's sons, Nadab and Abihu, God exposed them. And They were struck down dead as they were bringing in a strange fire in Leviticus chapter 10. And it's explained to Aaron. Don't even mourn for him. Don't even cry for him. They have not taken the worship service serious. Now some of you expose yourself pretty good when we say turn to first Kings chapter two, you don't even know your Bible. That's not taken the service serious. Maybe you don't bring a Bible to church. That's not taken the service serious. When we sing a song, uh you uh already look around, you know Yeah. Where's that cute guy sitting? Taking the service serious So uh they did not. Jacob, his father didn't know he was a deceiver and a liar. He came in and said he was Esau But it didn't take long for Esau to find out that he'd been lied to and deceived. I mean kids all the time think they can pull it off on their parents. How about Judas? He goes to the Lord Jesus Christ, who is the everlasting Father. So it is his Father, but it's his everlasting Father. Like if you think you can fool your father, I'm just telling you if you think you can fool your father, I know you can't fool the Heavenly Father, the thrice holy Father the everlasting father called Jesus Christ in Isaiah 9. 6. But Judas is scary thinks he can. And they're sitting there that night in the upper room. And he says, what are you doing to betray me? And you've read a story. And Thomas says, is it I? And Peter says, is it I? And Matt says, is it I? And Judas Iscariot says, is it I? Come on, Judas, you know it's you. And do you think that he fooled the Lord Jesus Christ, his everlasting Father? And as Christ went around the table, wow, they all say his eyes eye, and none of them have a clue. Oh, but Judas did. And he lied to his everlasting Heavenly Father, the Lord Jesus Christ. So we just let you know. Here's a lie goes to a whole list of children in the Bible who thought they could pull something over in their parents. You can't, you're going to get caught. Take I I'm just telling you, I got caught. I got caught speeding? They'd nail a copy of the ticket into the house. I thought my dad and mom wouldn't know. I just pay the ticket and that'd be it Some officer got smart and mailed a ticket copy to my parents. Wow. Got caught Mm. My dad set the speedometer one time or the odometer on the car. You don't know if he can do that. I don't think you can do it. Yeah, you can do that in cars today But there was one in the dash I didn't know about. So I told him I was just going into town for the evening at the movie theater. But I didn't. I went all the way around the lake and parked with my girlfriend out about 25 miles away around the lake watching the submarine races I don't know if you know what that is. If you're not, your parents know, and if your parents know they'd use that same term. Well my dad sex was the Dama the next day. It's got 36 miles on it. It's only four miles in the town to the movie theater. I got caught That's not the worst thing I did, but boy. They're all getting caught. Judas, he's he's caught here as well. And Scripture tells us in Matthew 26:22, or rather Ecclesiastes 10:20, curse not the king. Not even in your thoughts, for a bird of the air shall tell it. I mean somehow it's gonna get back. I remember my teacher, I don't know if she's a Christian or not, but I had done something. I said, I don't want to tell my mother. She'll beat me. She said, You go home and tell your mother. If you don't tell your mother Of course, I thought that was the teacher. Scripture tells us in Mark 4 and 22, there is nothing hid which shall not be manifested, neither anything kept from Christ. Nothing kept secret it says Matthew four twenty-two nothing hid, nothing kept secret from the NSA. No, I'm sorry, it's it's Matthew four twenty two, not from the NSA. sixteen. We're all going to be judged someday. If you got secrets and you're going to stand there, there's what we call the white throne judgment, man, they're going to go over all the stuff you've done. It'll be so embarrassing. Oh my goodness, it's all coming out. Listen to me Plead the blood of Christ. Ask God to forgive you. Because when Satan, the accuser, comes in and they say, oh, here's the next charge. Oh, I got a long list of charges. You hear me read about this. this Christian girl or Christian boy and and the Lord Jesus Christ says, excuse me, I'm his advocate. Those are all covered in the blood. Next case. Next bit of charges But if you're not saved, everything you've ever done that was sinned will be read out, and you'll be child- Oh boy, the embarrassing things that the blood of Christ covers. If you're serious about being saved, Boy, I'm telling you, the blushing is going to take place at the white throne judgment. Embarrassment. People hiding their eyes or faces, wanting to crawl under a rock. You don't want to be there. We should just love to have that covered in the blood. Well done, though Good and faithful servant, move on. Who's your next one you want to charge? What will happen when you die? Everything. Nothing is hidden. Nothing is kept secret. Though it is a shame even to speak of those things done in secret Ephesians 5, 12, and 13. Though there are things you've done that are ashamed to speak of in secret, the things you've thought, the things you've done, all things are made manifest. Oh my goodness, I don't want that in my life. Wow. I mean there might even be a video of it or something, or a DVD. I don't know But here, Adonijah has been exposed by Bathsheba. He's calling himself the king. He's out there, he's got a conglomerate of people together with him. Verses nineteen through twenty one, he has slain oxen, she says, and cattle and fat sheep in abundance. He's called all the sons of the king except for Solomon And Abiatha the priest, and Joad the captain of the host, but Solomon thy servant had he not called. Oh king, Bathsheba says The eyes of all Israel are upon thee, that thou shouldst tell them, Who shall sit on the throne of my Lord, the King, after you? Otherwise it shall come to pass when the Lord my king shall sleep with the fathers, that I and my son Solomon shall be counted offenders. Adonai's wicked wickedness. You can just imagine what he would do to us. We see sometimes An example of what happens to people if they are wicked, the things that they will do Scripture says, little children, Christ said, there's little children, forbid them not to come unto me. But if we do, what a wicked thing that is And Adonijah, he can do more wicked things than we can imagine. And we say, Well, I've never forbid a Jehovah's Hild to come unto me, because that's a wicked thing. It says a millstone should be hung around your neck and sh We tossed the ocean. I mean, there's wickedness in people we can't comprehend. Bathsheba comprehends the wickedness of Adonijah, and maybe some people sitting here this morning. He said, Well, I'm not that wicked. Have you prevented little children from coming onto the Lord Jesus Christ? then you are just as wicked as Adonijah. You're responsible for souls going into hell. Now you say, I never forbid anybody from coming out of Christ Well maybe you haven't forbidden someone from coming onto Christ, but and maybe I'm speaking now to the parents more than to the children here. Have you ever kept them so busy your children busy indulging their little sin natures with worldly things that the results were you raised an Adonijah. I mean we can do that. Oh I'm a good father, I'm a good mother, I take them camping, I take them fishing You know, I I take them to sporting events. Well, I'm the greatest father. I mean I got a Father of the Day plaque on my back wall that's been awarded to me by the Moose Lodge or the Oak Clubs or whatever But if you've kept them so busy indulging them in the worldly things, it may not be sin in themselves, but if you kept them so busy that they have not come to the Lord Jesus Christ, have not come to the house of God, then you have forbidden them to come unto him. him and you're just as guilty as the out and out forbidder. The results of a Christeless upbringing Where every man does that which is right in his own eyes, Judges seventeen six. That's what happens when you have a Christless upbringing, you begin to do whatever seems right in your own eyes. It leads to a life of Crime. Now, I can go through the scripture and show you some of this. Like Cain, talk about a life of crime. He killed his brother. I mean, we can go through and we can add all this, but but here in this day and age, let me just put it on you this way. If you are indulging your children, and he indulged Adonai, he said he never, in verse 6, he never at any time ever said no to him. Whatever he wanted. And when we do that Oh Dad, forget the can we have to go to church today? I want to go to that Baltimore Oriole game. It's the playoff. It's the pennant race. Can't we skip church? Sure, son. It's only secondary. I mean that's what you're saying. to your kids. That's what we got DVDs for. We record that stuff. You go home and catch it afterwards. Don't ever suggest DVDing the congregational service or it's okay. When we get home from the ballgame, I'll listen to Pastor Beardford's sermon. Fat chance that's gonna happen. I don't even listen to him. I can't stand my voice. And the mistakes I made. The results of a crisis upbringing, you can have a good upbringing. You can have mother of the year, father of the year. But if it's minus the Lord Jesus Christ in your life, you will end up in a life of crime. You will end up going to a psychotherapist. You'll end up in drug. Maybe not all of these things. I'm giving you the things that have happened in this church. Okay? I visit some of our people in jail. Don't tell me. I know it happened. These things I'm just talking about happen in this church, not in the whole world. You end up going to uh you have a life of crime, you end up going to a psychotherapist, you end up in being in drug rehab. alcoholic or drugs or something like that, you end up with devastating diseases. I read this week that 50% of all adults have sexually transmitted diseases. 50%! Wow, I didn't know it was that low. And I'm gonna tell you something, not within this church, but within this community and talking with other pastors Some that can't be fixed with penicillin. You're stuck with it for life. Oh, that's okay. You may never have children. No, that's okay. You may have your Find you're so uncomfortable with the disease that you'll never have intimacy with your spouse. Because he doesn't want the disease or she doesn't want it want the disease. Fifty percent. Now if you had a chance of winning the lottery at fifty percent, you'd think that was a pretty good odds But you think you can go out there in the world and live life like like a Philistine and 50% roll a dice and do it five or six times My brother was gay. He had HIV. And he had a long list of other stuff too. They couldn't get rid of. Boy, it was fun at Thanksgiving and Christmas time. Having to make sure he didn't use any he did sometimes, he'd use my razor He even used my toothbrush once, I think. He'd come over and dip the spoon into your ice cream Sunday and I said, I can have the rest of it. I don't want to eat it. Just A life of crime, psychotherapy, drug rehab, devastating diseases, traffic accidents, amazing medical expenses that will follow you. And like here with David, a miserable deathbed scene. Can you imagine David? He is sick. You ever been sick You ever felt miserable? You ever wanted to die? You've got chills or you're perspiring or sweating. The last thing you want is for someone to come in and say, Oh, guess what your son just did And guess what he's about to do? He's gonna kill you. I mean, right he's gonna kill me, he's gonna kill your favorite son. I mean, do you really want to hear that on your deathbed? Boy, I've seen some people under deathbed that family problems just start sweeping in on top of them because they the children were raised in a priceless atmosphere. atmosphere. As bad as life was, deathbed, I'm getting out of here, and then the knock knock on the door, and then starts potting the relatives and all the aggravation. It's horrible. There is a way that seemeth right unto man, but the end thereof are the ways of death, Proverbs 16 and 25 And here she says, Oh and by the way, he's not only sacrificing this and sacrificing that and he's and he's not only you know calling himself the king and and he's not only got Joab with him But I think he's planning the death of Solomon and myself, David. What can you do? And Can't you see I'm sick? I don't really want to be bothered by all this stuff. I mean you couldn't have come at the worst possible time, could you imagine? See, that's not what David says And yet it says in verse 22 and 25, while she yet talked to the king, Nathan the prophet comes in. Remember in the mouth of two or three, a thing is established. He bows himself before the king. He says, O king hast thou said I to Niger shall reign after you or and sit upon your throne? For he has slain oxen, cattle, and sheep in abundance, just what Bathsheba said, and call all the king's sons except Solomon And the captains of the host and Abbeathar the priest, and behold, they eat and drink before him, before Adonijah, and they say, God save King Adonijah. Well, truth be known, Adj and I he did need to be saved God saved Adonijah. He isn't king by a couple seconds. The first thing you're saying is, God save Adonijah. I'd have been insulted by that if I was Adonijah. You think when they say, God saved the queen, you I'd be insulted by that. Isn't she saved? He's he needs salvation. He's he's been made in God. Everyone made in God's image needs To be saved. Pilgrim, pilgrim, pilgrim. Has the gospel of Christ touched your heart and saved you? Does he reign over your heart? There's only one that should be reigning over your heart You say, some people say to me, I think I'm saved. I hope I'm saved. I hope I go to heaven. I think I'm going to heaven. It just runs chivers down my spine Because it's written in John, these things are written that you may know you have eternal life. Now I'm not saying there aren't people out here who don't know they have eternal life. They're still going to heaven. But my goodness, if you're in a Bible believing church, you ought to know. You ought to know. Maybe somebody does it and they're gonna be uh they're gonna get there, but I d I shudder to think when people say, you know, oh I think I am. Well uh let me ask you a question. Do you no longer look, think, do, and speak like the world? There should be some changes. You're still cussing and swearing under your breath There should be some changes in your life. Still drinking, getting smashed on the weekend, there should be some changes in your life This couldn't be said of Abiether. This couldn't be said of Joab and the others. There's something drastically wrong with this group, and I want you to see this. Let's just go back and read it again. He says that the captain of the host and Abbey Earth and the priest will they eat and drink before him and say, God save the king. They are in a festive mood. They are celebrating. They are drinking and they're eating. And they're in a festive mood. David's not dead. David is dying And they are in a festive mood, drinking and eating and carrying on and shouting, God save Idomai. They ought to be in the chamber with David weeping over the many, many decades and years of of times that they fought together. and and rescued one another and the laughter they had and the interchanging of of maybe uh weddings and marriages and birthday I mean what is wrong with this crew They're out there festive in a festive mood while David is dying in his chamber. Where are the tears? Where are the regrets? Where are the memories? This is a this is an apostate group. You wonder if they're saved. It shouldn't be. It should be God saved Adonijah and Joab and Abbey and the whole list on there. And the sons of David are there from his other wives. They're all celebrating he's almost dead. This festive occasion with abundance of food was probably drunkenness and gluttony There is a festive mood, and follow this. They have no thought of the dying king. of Israel. None whatsoever. And I'll tell you what, take away Good Friday and Resurrection Sunday, and how much thought do e Each and every one of us here have truly about the dying king of Israel, the crucified Christ. So once or twice a year that most people think about it. Don't they? Oh, it's it's coming up. Easter. I hate the term Easter. It's Good Friday. I hate the term Easter Sunday. It's Resurrection Sunday. And the people they go through the whole year and they all gotta go to church Oh, is it Christmas? No, it's Easter. Oh, yeah, yeah, I go twice. Very faithful. Very faithful. I mean, how much time do we give to thinking about the dying king of Israel, Christ the crucified one? How much time? This party here at Adonijah's, they give no thought to the dying king of Israel. And we put ourselves in the same camp if we don't give more thought To what Christ did on the cross. He didn't die for everyone. I mean, he died for whosoever will. And the whosoever wills are those that the Holy Spirit quickens and makes alive, and they call on his name. The dead in sin don't call on his name. But those who do, they're the whosoever wills. They have a will Verse 27 through verse 30. Or rather, Nathan the prophet continues. He said to David, Is this thing done by my Lord the King? Did you make him king, Adonijah? Then King David answered and said, Call me Bathsheba, get her back in the chamber room. And she came in and she stood before the king And the king swore, As the Lord liveth to redeem my soul out of all distress, assuredly Solomon my son shall reign after me, and he shall sit upon my throne in my stead Two things I want you to note here. First, how grateful David is for Christ deli as we should be for Christ delivering us from the physical and spiritual distresses of life Are you grateful for Christ delivering you? David is, he's on his deathbed, he's dying, and yet he has a grateful heart. Are you grateful for the physical and spiritual distresses that Christ Has delivered you from? Are you grateful even when your life is in the pits? Are you grateful even when your life is in the valley or in the deepest, darkest valley you've ever been in your life? Are you grateful for your salvation Are you grateful for the distress that he's brought you through, the physical calamities? Are you a grateful Christian this morning? You want to know if you're really saved or going to heaven? Are you grateful when you're in the pits? My wife and I often say when something's going on with somebody else in the church, we'll say, well, at least they're saved and they know it. The second thing I want you to note that David is nigh unto death. And though he's nigh unto death and we we can't imagine what you know you ever been in that cold or shivering, you're trying to get I mean all this is going on around him And he's nigh in a death, and yet he shows he shows here an enthusiasm and an interest in God's word being implemented and enforced because the word from God came that's Solomon will build the temple, and Solomon will sit on the throne, and Solomon will ruin, and on his deathbed, he he pretty much pops up and he says, that's not going to be that way. It's going to be the way it was said It's going to be what God has said that as the Lord liveth and redeemeth my soul, assuredly Solomon shall reign. David has a respect for God's word, even on his deathbed. We find him here that he has an enthusiasm and an interest in God's word being implemented and enforced. How many here have lost the enthusiasm for the Ten Commandments? How many here have lost their enthusiasm for the Beatitudes? How many here have lost their enthusiasm for the Lord's Prayer? And I know it's not the Lord's Prayer, but it's the instructions of how we are to pray. Thy kingdom come, thy will be done. Have we lost that enthusiasm for that? Hallowed be thy name! Have we lost our enthusiasm for that? Many make a profession that Christ will reign over their heart, but then they get distracted. by the cares of the world. I ask you again, pilgrim, has your enthusiasm for the words of Christ diminished? Because David's on his deathbed. Horrible situation. Going to kill Solomon. Going to kill Bathsheba. He's taken over the king. Finally kill all your children. And with all this coming on him, on his deathbed, he is still enthusiastic about the words of God. Wow. Do you have that enthusiasm? Oh Pastor's at it again. He's just beating the drum and having a good old time up here. No I love the word of God. I love what it's done to me and for me and my family. I know what it can do for you in every situation. I know it's the it is the cure all for all that ails your body, soul, and spirit. And some of you aren't going to learn that until you're fifty or sixty years old. old I guess. Where if you do not have that enthusiasm, I had that enthusiasm one time. Yeah it's kind of waned. It's kind of diminish. Oh dear God, if you're there if anyone's enthusiasm for his word is w is waned, you need a heart massage. You need a spiritual CPR. You know, you may even need a new heart. I'm not saying this to everyone, just those who've lost their enthusiasm for the word of Christ. This is your message this morning. Do you hear what I'm saying? Do you have ears to hear what I'm saying? Do you hear me? Jeremiah 31, 18, he calls out, he urges. Turn thou me, and I shall be turned. Pray that, pilgrim Or there's no hope. No hope. I want to get to heaven someday and see everyone. One of you there. I want this congregation to be up in heaven at the bank with peace. Someone here might disappoint you. But I pray not. Let's pray. Oh Lord, we thank you today that your word is so fantastic, so inerrant, infallible. Plenary, complete, uplifting, healing, gives us joy in the morning, gives us hope for all eternity. Oh Lord. We're so grateful. May each and everyone here be grateful for what Christ has done for us and what he's still preparing to do for us in heaven. And may not one soul here miss eternity. With Christ. We ask this in his precious name, our King, the King of Israel, the King of Kings, who does reign and rule, whether some like it or not. And old God's people said, Amen