The Reformation Sunday. We'll be taking a break from the book of Samuel, just to give you a heads up on that. But this morning we find ourselves back in 2 Samuel chapter 2. Verses 1 through 11. 2 Samuel chapter 2, verses 1 through 11, beginning at verse 1. It came to pass after this that David inquired of the Lord, saying, Shall I go up into any of the cities of Judah? And the Lord said unto him, Go up. And David said, Whither shall I go? And he said unto Hebron, just to re remind you, the the battle of Israel and the Philistines is over with. King Saul is dead. David has been running from Saul for a long time. Now that Saul is dead, his question is, do I go back to Judah? And where do I go back to Judah? And uh isn't it's now safe to go back to Judah, but where do you want me to go? Or maybe you want me to go somewhere else? And God says, go back to Judah, go back to Hebron. And verse 2, so David went up thither and his two wives also, Ahinoim the Jezreelites, and Abigail, Nabal's wife, the Carmelite. And his men that were with him did David bring up, every man with his household, and they dwelt in the cities of Hebron. And the men of Judah came, and there they anointed David king over those of Judah. And they told David, saying, That the men of Jabus Gilead were they that buried Saul. And David sent messengers unto the men of Jabus Gilead, and said unto them, Blessed be ye of the Lord, that ye have showed this kindness unto your Lord, even unto Saul, and have buried him. And now the Lord show kindness and truth unto you. And I also will requite or repay you for this kindness, he says to Saul, because you have done this thing. Therefore now let your hands be strengthened, and be ye valiant, for your master of Saul is dead. And also Kind of a P. S. here really. The house of Judah have anointed me king over them. But Abner, the son of Nur, captain of Saul's host, took Ishbasheth, the son of Saul, and brought him over to Manaha And made him king over Gilead. Now we've got two kings in Israel. And over the Asherites, so that's the tribe of Asher. And over Jezreel, and over Ephraim, that's the tribe of Ephraim, and over Benjamin, and over all Israel. And this Buseth, Saul's son, was forty years old when he began to reign over Over Israel, and he reigned two years. But the house of Judah followed David. And the time that David was king in Hebron over the house of Judah was seven years. And six months. In verse 1, David inquires of the Lord, Shall he go up to Judah? And the Lord said, Go. And then David says, Well, where do you want me to go? Whither should I go? And he said, Go to Hebron. David here is about 30 years old. He has been through the school of hard knocks. If you've been following us from chapter to chapter, especially through 1 Samuel, he's been through the school of hard knocks. He's been exiled, chased, persecuted uh attempted assassinations on his life, poverty, uh dangers at every turn. The king and the entire army of Israel have been trying to find him and hunt him out He's matured through all of that spiritually. It's been a good seminary for him. He's re he's been on his knees a lot in those years. And therefore He knew his destiny. Samuel had anointed him to be king. His brothers were witnesses to it. He knew what his destiny was after all of this, and maybe it kept him going through those hard trials. And yet he would not move out of Ziklag. 1 Samuel 31 tells us he'd gone back to Ziklag after his battle. Um and also after Saul's defeat against the Philistines, David going back to Ziklag. Remember it was a city burned cracking to the ground. There was not much left of it. But David is back in the burned city of Ziklag You wouldn't think it would take much to encourage them to head back up to Bethlehem. That's his home. Safe now. King Saul has been buried. But David sits there in the burned city. And at some point in time, we don't know how much time it was, he inquires of the Lord, should I leave Ziklag? I mean, you look around this burned-out city, there's nothing much left of it. And he knows his family is up in Bethlehem, it's up in Judah. It seems like a no-brainer. But David has been to the school of hard knock. David has been on his knees for a number of years, and David has learned one thing. You don't make any kind of a move without inquiring of God first, no matter how obvious the answer may be I remember Pastor there was a cartoon one time, a pastor, and he'd been offered a very, very uh uh nice church up north with lots of money, great salary, and he told his wife, honey I gotta pray about this. You go pack her bags. I mean he already made up his mind. And maybe you would think David already made up his mind here. It seems so obvious Go back to Judah. Go back to family. Go back to Bethlehem where his father and his brothers are. Go back where he'll be received like some sort of a hero. Just go. You don't need to inquire of God for this one But he would not do that without divine direction. And I I would hope this morning that matter what your decisions are in life, what you've got to do, where you gotta go, Make an inquiry of the Lord. Ask him to make it clear to you. Show it to you. This is what David does. And even though he knows he's to be king of Judah, King of Israel He's still down in the Philistine city of Ziklag saying, should I go back or not? Always inquire, no matter how obvious, or a serious error. Me follow. First Samuel 23, verses 6 and 9. And 1 Samuel 30 verses 7 and 8 implied to us that David did inquire of the Lord by asking Abathar. We see of Abathar rather the priest that he would often say to him, Bring hither the ephod, and we just mentioned those verses and Samuel 23 and again Samuel thirty, that I might inquire the Lord, bring the Ephi. The Ephi was a cloth type apron that was on the over the breast of the priest. We're not sure quite how it worked. Something he reached inside where there was the Urum and the Thuman and he would pull them out, whether they glowed or if one was black and one was white, we don't know. But somehow this got Hebiather, the high priest, in contact with God. Maybe God came down and audible spoke to him. We don't know. But we know that that's how David would make inquiries of the Lord. He'd bring in the high priest with the Ephod And they would pray, and maybe God directed them some verses. No one really knows. But he inquired of the high priest, bring me Ephod, that he might know the Lord's intentions for him. He wanted to hear from the Lord. He wanted to hear God's words tell him what he must do. We need to do the same thing today, and we can turn to the words of the Lord Jesus Christ. Now when you say the words of the Lord Jesus Christ, that's not just the red letter edition. You understand that, right? You're not just reading the The the red words, if you have a red letter edition where all the words of Jesus are. The Lord Jesus Christ is called the Word, the incarnate word, from Genesis and Revelation are the words of Christ. And when we need direction and we need to inquire of the Lord, we don't have a high priest to go to anymore. Christ is our high priest. After the order of Achilles deck. But he has left us his word. And we can go through here from Genesis to Revelation. And friend, I've I've been in A s a Christian now for over forty years. And we've gone to the scripture. From the day my wife and I got married, we said if we have a discussion or a disagreement, we go to the Bible and we'll find the answer. And until someone comes up with a Bible verse, we don't move, and that's what we've done all our life. And I have to tell you, after forty years, I haven't found anything that this didn't address in my life And you say, well, I I well I'm going to buy a new car or where I'm going to take this job or not. It's not, yes, it is. It's in here. And we need to look for it. Maybe you don't see it readily because you haven't been through your Bible that much, or you don't know your Bible that well, but the more you know your Bible, the more you're going to realize that if we inquire the Lord and go into His Word, He will Enlighten us as to what we should do. Turn to the words of the Lord Jesus Christ for direction. After all, didn't Christ say to us, follow me? Well, we follow Christ through the Word of God, don't we? Especially through Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John we're following Christ through all the gospels, and and elsewhere in the Bible we find Christ in it. Christ says, follow me in Matthew 419. It seems like if Christ says follow me, the only way he can follow Christ is know where he has been and know where he's going and know where he is. It's all in here. Christ says, follow me in Matthew 4. 19. I know that's only one time, but How many times do your parents have to tell you to do something sometimes? I'm not going to tell you three more times or two more. I'm only going to tell you twice. You hear that? Well the Lord Jesus Christ knew our That we were dust and we needed that too. So Christ says, follow me, Matthew 4 19. Follow me, Matthew 8-22. Follow me, Matthew 9-9. Follow me, M Matthew ten thirty-eight. Follow me Matthew sixteen twenty-four. Follow me nineteen twenty-one of Matthew And that's just the book of Matthew. Christ wants us to follow him. If you're going to inquire the Lord what you must do, follow Christ. He'll lead you, he'll show you through his word. What we should do in life. Lean not on thy own understanding. Heard that before David would not lean on his own understanding. Where should I go, Lord? He inquired, Lord. Should I go back to Judah or not? Where should I go to lean not on your own understanding? In all thy ways acknowledge him, and he will direct thy paths. Proverbs 3, verses 5 and 6. Wow. How does one find a good doctor? Is that in the Bible? Yes, it is. I'll show it to you in a second. How do you find a reliable car? How do you find a place to live? How do you find a place to work? How do you find a place to worship? Well, if you look in the scriptures, you decide there's some things that are that are very telling. First off, it says in Proverbs 11:14, and it's repeated. in Proverbs 24, 6. In a multitude of consulars there is safety. So if you are looking for a good doctor, go out and talk to some people who have had experience in the same realm that you're having a problem with. Gallbladder surgery? Talk to somebody who had a gallbladder surgery. Talk to them about the doctor they had. Talk to everyone you can find that's had gallbladder surgery. In the multitude of consuls there is Safety. In the days of Christ there was a woman that what? She had an issue of blood for twelve years, we read in Matthew 9. 20. She had an issue of blood for twelve years. It says she'd been to all kinds of doctors and physicians, they'd taken all her money, and they couldn't fix her So if you have an issue of blood in the days of the Lord Jesus Christ, what do you do? You talk to this woman and you get the list of all the doctors who couldn't help her and find one she hasn't been to yet As it turned out, she hadn't been to the great physician, the Lord Jesus Christ. But there's an example there for us, isn't there? In the multitude of counselors there is wisdom. We need to look at what is going on to find out In the scriptures, where we should go. Looking for a good church? Well, what do we do? Well, in the multitude of counselors, there is wisdom. And you look at the book of Revelation. Just in the very first chapters is a list of seven churches that are in existence. They've got pastors, they've got congregations, and it's all up there in Turkey. If you're living in Turkey, which of those churches should I go to? Look in the Bible, look in Revelation Chapters 1, 2, and 3. You know what you find out of those seven churches? Well, you don't want to go to the church of Sardis, all right? Hey, but the church of Smyrna is really good. They love the Lord. They're on fire And you do the same thing. When you're looking at church, you talk to people in the multitude of counselors of wisdom. Talk to people about their church. What do they like about their church? Where is their church located? You know, how you know what's your pastor like? In the multitude of counselors there is wisdom If David had let his emotions lead him, if David had let his feelings lead him, and had not inquired of the Lord, I have every reason to believe that David would have gone to Bethlehem. Why not? His mom and his dad and his brothers are there, and the people welcome him back. He's like a local hero. He's the king of Judah and he comes back. Oh, please come back to Bethlehem. We love you. We always loved you. Even when you're running away, we always loved you. You know that But God says go to Hebron. It's a whole list of people in the Bible that did not inquire of the Lord And and or or people if they hadn't inquired the Lord, what would have happened? Israel's out in the wilderness, and what do they say? They don't inquire of the Lord. They're tired of being in the wilderness. They want some meat. They're tired of the manna Oh, that we could go back to Egypt with those leaves and onions and garlic and yada yada. They could go on and on. They inquired the Lord. And if it was up to them with their emotions leading them, rather than Moses and the devotions leading them, they'd have ended up back in Egypt. Back in the kilns, back making bricks, because they didn't inquire of the Lord. But Moses did, and Moses stopped. How about Jonah? God even told Jonah what to do. But what does Jonah do? He's not going to inquire the Lord about, well, how about uh plan B or maybe to get somebody else? No, Jonah just, without inquiring the Lord, he heads off the Tarsus. Well God took care of that, didn't he? Prepared a fish for Jonah in a great storm. And how about Ruth? Her husband's dead. She's a Moabitist. Naomi says to her, I have no other sons for you. You might as well just go back to your people, Moab. I'm going back to Israel. Doesn't sound like Naomi inquired what Ruth should do. And if Ruth had not inquired what she should do of the Lord, she would have ended up back in Moab, never would have married Boaz, never would have been the line of the Lord Jesus Christ, the genealogy. I mean the things that happen when we think, well, that's a no-brainer, I'm going back to Moab. You know? That's a no-brainer. Let's go back to Egypt where there's leaves and onions. No matter how minuscule the question in your life is, we need to look at the scriptures and see if they will tell us what to do. If we let our emotions lead us Rather than our devotion to the Word of God. If we let emotion lead us rather than devotion to the Word of God, you know what you'll do? You'll go up and you'll buy that sports car, won't you? You'll go and you'll buy that motorcycle. You'll go out and you'll you'll buy that house built upon the sand, won't you? But if you looked in scripture, you don't want a house built upon the sand If you let your emotions lead you, you'll marry the wrong person. You'll seek out that great paying job selling baby parts. Hmm. That's a great paying job. Or you seek out that church that's noted for their entertainment. They're so entertaining. But you really want a church that's contending for the faith once delivered on the saints. It's Jude chapter 1 and verse 3. But if you're letting your emotions lead you, you want the church that's entertaining, not the one that's contending for the faith. In everything we're taught Philippians four six in everything and every every even the most obvious of things that you're looking for in Answer for in everything. Seek out the Lord. In everything by prayer and with thanksgiving. Let your request be made known unto God, and through the Lord Jesus Christ, He will enlighten you in His Word. you should do. Be not unequally yoked with unbelievers. Well that kind of takes care of who you get together to You're gonna start a business and you you find some guy who's got money or he's got brains or he's been doing this for a long time. He's not saved, you know Be not unika yoked with unbelievers, or the same in marriage. If it's all there, friends, the Bible answers every question you've ever had You just haven't inquired and then waited patiently on the Lord as you read. Well, if I got to find an answer to my problem, I start reading Genesis or I start reading Matthew. I think it might take me four days to get through that. Yeah, but what it will save you in aggravation for the rest of your life. So the choir of the Lord. And that's that is what what David did here. And what did God do? God said, go up to Judah. And he didn't say, Oh good, I'm going to Bethlehem. No, no, no, no. He said, okay, I'm going to go to Judah. But where in Judah? But I'm going to pack my bags for Bethlehem, right? God said, Hebron. Hebron Wow, that's up in a high mountain area. All right. I don't think it took David long to figure out why God wanted him to go to Hebron. Hebron, if you look at Joshua 21 and verse 13, it was the city of refuge. It was a fortified city. Well, if you want your king in the safe place, it's not Bethlehem. It's Hebron. It's a city of refuge. You remember someone accidentally their their axe head flew off, uh the axe wouldn't axe handle hit somebody in the head? It's an accident, but the guy dies the family could could come after you, take you to court, and have you put to death, even though it was an accident. But what you could do is you could flee the city of refuge, and the family would stop at the gates of the city of refuge, and the priest would come out, the high priest would say, You this is a this is a sanctuary city. Now that's a biblical sanctuary city, friend. And if he steps outside these gates and starts traps all around the place of Judah or Benjamin and you find him You can try him, you can have him put to death. But as long as he stays here, it's an accident, and we're not going to let his blood be shed for that accident. And that's what Hebrew was. There were six cities There were cities of refuge. And this is one of Hebrew on top of this mountain. It was a great place. It was a city of refuge. It was also Numbers 35 and 6, the city of the Levites. Wow. That's a good place for a king to go to have good godly influence on him. It was also noted it was a sacred place of the patriarchs. Abraham and Sarah were buried in Mamre. the cave in Hebron. Isaac and his wife Rebecca were buried there in Hebron. Jacob and Leah and Rachel were buried there in Hebron. So what we have at this location is a place that is just it's it's noted for its devotion and worship. Noteworthy for devotion and worship was Hebron. What a great place to go. Who would have thought of that? But but God, maybe. And so David had inquired. What a thing to learn here. We have two things out there talking to us all the time, you know, sometimes you feel a cartoon The little black devil on one shoulder and a little white angel on the other, trying to tell you the two opposing views. Well, we have two opposing views. It's our emotions that tell us to do one thing, and it's our devotions that tell us to do the other The two opposing views, which one do you listen to? Inquire the Lord. If you're devoted to the Word of God, you'll be led right. So David went, it says in verses two and three. He went and his men with him, and they dwelt in Hebron. And David's men, you know, they could have gone home as well. They they had homes, they had cities to go to, but they went They went, they didn't go home. Now that Saul was dead, they could have been free to go anywhere. But they followed David to Hebron. Paul's the apostle of Christ writes Be followers of me. Ye have us for an example. Paul talks about as a follower of Christ. Follow me, I'm following Christ. I'm a good example. Philippians 3. 17. And so here's David. He is such a good example that the men rather you know David can't go to Bethlehem, his home, but the men could have gone to their homes. But they followed David instead because he set such an example A devotion to God, devotion to his word. They wanted to follow him, even though it was Hebron and it wasn't their home. They wanted to follow him. And so I would just say to you this morning, pilgrims, should others follow you And when I say should others follow you, bearing in mind that our children are following their parents, and sometimes co-workers are following you. We have no idea the influence we might have on people But people are following you, and should they follow you, and and then when you have children, you think of this more often than not, do I want my children to follow me? into eternity. Because sometimes we may be a good parent but not a very good Christian. We may be a good parent but not very devoted to God. And so they can follow us in the baseball, they can follow us to our our favorite college or our school, uh they can follow us in in in Maybe do the same kind of work that dad does, you know, the same trade, become a doctor or whatever. But do you want them to follow you all the way into eternity? That's something to think about. These men were willing to follow David in his eternity. In fact, they knew that as the king there'd be lots of battles and war ahead, and they would be in the eternity, some of them at a very early pace in their life. So are you, pilgrim, one that people should follow? Paul said, I'm an example, follow me. Christ said, Follow me. And the men of Judah, they not only followed David, but they anointed him king. We read in verse 4. And why do you anoint him king? Because Because 1 Samuel 16, 12 and 13, the Word of God. They fought they anointed David King because they were Devoted to the Word of God as well. And the Word of God said that David was to be the king. They didn't just say, We love this guy, he led us in battle. Let's make him king. They weren't doing that. 1 Samuel 16, it says this Samuel, rise, anoint David. And Samuel anointed him in the midst of his brethren to be king. Alright? They knew he was to be king And they made him king. Not because they liked him, not because their emotions says, What a great guy, let's make him king. He killed Goliath. They didn't let their emotions lead 'em. They let the anointing of Samuel in the word of God that says he was to be king. That led them to an Anoint David. So this anointing, it was no one Among David's brother. And you know they had to talk about it. In fact, it was so well known that we find in 1 Samuel 24 that even King Saul admitted that David was to be anointed king, that David was to be the king. And King Saul says in 1 Samuel 24, 20 You remember when David was hiding in the cave and Saul goes to the cave and he goes in there for a nap and he comes out of the cave and David cut a piece of cloth out of his robe. And David comes out of the mouth of the cave and says, Saul, Saul, King Saul, look what I got in my hand. I could have killed him, but I didn't I am not your enemy. I don't want to kill you, Saul. I am your friend. Please stop chasing me. Please stop harassing me. And King Saul turns and he sees it and he says, Is that my son David? David, David, is that my son David Thou shalt surely be king, said Saul, in front of the entire army of Israel. Saul says, Thou shalt surely be king. The kingdom of Israel should be established in thine hand So everyone knew what God had done through Samuel. Now Samuel had anointed David to be king. Even King Saul knew it. His whole army knew it. So why did they anoint David? Again I say to you. It wasn't emotions, it was devoted and devotion to the word. Of God that said he should be king. Samuel, the mouthpiece of God, said he was to be king. The anointing of David as king demonstrates their devotion to the word of God. However, the majority of Israel wasn't supportive of David being king. They knew that he was supposed to be king. Samuel had said so. King Saul had said so. But they were supportive of the appointment of Ishbasheth. Ishbasheth was the only surviving son of King Saul. He had not gone to war. And that's why he survived. All the you know Jonathan was killed, all the brothers were killed. Isbersheth was the only one left alive, Saul's family. And so this Abner, he he wants him to be king, and he appoints him Uh Abner, who is a captain of the host of Israel, he was Saul's captain, his commanding officer, he appoints Isbersheth to be king, demonstrating that he is a total opposition Abner is in total opposition to the Word of God. The two opposing views. He's letting his emotions lead him. Abner, who is the king of the host of Israel, Abner who I mean Abner, who is the captain of the host of Israel, Adner, who was was running the armies, commanding the armies of Saul, he still wants to command the armies. He still wants to be in charge. He still wants to be some high mucking muck. He still wants to be important. And after all, he is the cousin of Saul And so he doesn't want to lose all of this. And so his emotions say to him, hey, and his ambitions, hey, you still want to be the commander of the Yeah, I want to still be Well then a point when a Saul the Saul's surviving son, the only one to king and he will make you the commander again and you'll still be in charge. And so here we got Abner letting his emotions and his ambitions run his life because he's not devoted. To the Word of God. And the underlining was that Abner had no devotion for the king of Israel. Let me say that again. Abner had no devotion for the king of Israel. Abner had no devotion for the king of the Jews. We get that problem today We got the point today. People could care less about the king of the Jews. People could care less about the king. And David was the king of the Jews, and Abra could have cared less. He had the opposing view, didn't he? Emotions are what's what are going to lead him. I don't care what the Word of God says. My emotions say uh abortion's okay. I don't care what the word of God says. My emotions say Gays can be married too. Do you see? That's the view of admiration. That's the view of people who let their emotions guide them. How can that be against gay marriage? Uh the gay lifestyle. My son and my daughter is gay. That's all emotion. We need to be led with a heart of devotion, devoted to God's word. And Abner was not, so he appoints the son of Saul to be the king of Israel. This opposing view, being opposed to the king of the Jews, we see it at Golgotha, don't we? They're at Golgotha at the cross where we find Mary. And John and some of the followers of Christ, they're there, and they're so devoted to the words of God, so devoted to the words of Christ, so devoted to Christ, they won't leave Golgotha. They're standing there and they love him. They love his word They're devoted to his word, devoted to him. Talk about devotion. They won't leave the cross at Golgotha. John has to drag Mary away from there But there were those there who said, ha, he saved others, let him save himself. If he be the king of the Jews. In fact, they said, tear down that sign, they said of Pilate, that says he's king of the Jews. He wasn't king of the Jews Two opposing views at Golgotha. Not much changes, does it? There is that worldly view that's all emotion And that worldly view, you'll note it down through history, it's constantly changing. It's never the same. The worldly view in the 1950s, my days. It's so different from the worldly view today. The worldly view is constantly changing. In fact, there are no absolutes. That's why it can constantly change. It's all emotions of the moment Christ taught in Matthew 22, 29, they do err not knowing the Scriptures, nor the power of God. And let me say that again, Matthew 22, 29. They do err not knowing the scriptures. And in the Greek we have a better concept that he reads that they do err not loving the scriptures to know as Adam knew Eve. And she brought forth the son. It's the love of the scriptures. They do err not knowing or not loving the scriptures. There is the biblical view. That is where God's word leads us Devoted to God's Word, we're led by God's Word. God's Word is absolute. God's Word is unchanging, just as God is on-changing. He's the same yesterday, today, and forever. So you have a worldview always changing, all in motion, or you have God's view that's devotion to his word, devoted to nevertheless what saith. the scriptures. And I know I quote that a lot. You say, oh boy, you should like to tag that verse. Nevertheless, what say at the scriptures? Galatians 4. 30. You know, sometimes it says, you know, you ought to be able to find something at least twice in the scripture because you know in the mouth of two of the witnesses. But he's always quote in that verse. Romans 4 3. Nevertheless Romans 4. 3, what saith the scriptures? That's twice. How many times do you have to be told by your parents to do something? Do they really want to tell you more than once or twice? Let the scriptures lead us. And so David, in verses 5 through 7, as we're moving on here, David, as he's now made king of the Jews, he wants to talk to them to Jabus Gilead, who buried Saul under a tree, hid his body. And so David sends to the men of Jabus Gil, he says, Blessed be ye for the Lord that you showed kindness unto Saul and you buried him. I will also requite, that word requite means I will repay you this kindness. It was a kindness that you took Jonathan's body. Remember they'd they'd beheaded the bodies, they hung them on the walls of Bashen, and they just desecrated their bodies and made a mockery of their bodies. and let the vultures come in on them. It was a mess. And and the men of Jabus Gilead. They ran up there in the in the night, crossing the Jordan River, going through camp after camp, avoiding the Philistine camps. The Philistines had taken over this whole area They were in enemy territory and they're slipping through enemy territory up to the mount of of Bashan and they take the bides off the walls, hoping nobody would see them, and then they carry the bides of Saul and Jonathan and the br the brothers down back. It's a it's like a twenty-mile round trip. through occupied Philistine territory after a major battle. And David says, wow. And I don't know how much David was thinking about burying Saul, but he was the king of Israel. He deserved a decent burial But certainly he thought of Jonathan, and he brought Jonathan's body back too. And so he says, The Lord show kindness on you, and I will repay you in kindness also. But be valiant. Boy, he said, the Philistines aren't going to like what you pulled off. You better be valiant. And I want you to know I'm there for you too. I'm only the king of Judah. But I'm a king of Judah. And I'm there for you. Though you're not a part of the tribe of Judah. What a display of affection the people in Jabus Gilead had given to Jonathan and his brothers and sisters. the soul. That's why David says, be valiant, be valiant. You're going to irritate the Philistines what you've done, but I'm there for you. And you think about irritating someone. Remember the story in Luke 7 and 38? When the woman comes in the room where Christ is, she breaks the ointment over his feet, she begins to cry and wipes, washes his feet with her tears. and and wipes his feet down uh with her hair. And when you read about that, there was Christ was in the house of a Pharisee. His name is Simon, and it said that Simon was He was just not happy with what this woman was doing. This love she was showing for Christ, kissing his feet, washing his feet with her hair, washing with her tears, anointing his feet. And you you read that in Luke seven thirty-eight. He is not a happy camper. He is irritated. We find the same story with the children In Jerusalem. They said the children are shouting, Hosanna, Hosanna, Hosanna. It's talking about the children, not even the adults, which I'm sure we're doing the same, but the children thought, Hosanna, Hosanna. And the priests said they were agitated. They wanted these children to shut up. I mean do you realize how the love of the king of Israel irritates people in the days of Christ? He's the king They they thought he's Hosanna, the son of David. He's come back to be king of Israel. And and they they're showing a love for the king as they wash his feet with their hair and their tears and they anoint the feet and they kiss But this love for Christ, this love for the King of Israel, it was not appreciated in the year 30 AD. And the more you show a love for the Lord Jesus Christ today, the more you are going to agitate people So even Nicodemus and Joseph of Arimathe, remember They come to Pilate, they want the body of Christ. What do you want the body of Christ for? Well, he's dead and we want to bury him in a nice tomb, in a sepulchre, in a garden tomb. We want to show honor to this man. And that's Pharisees. The Pharisees were in hot, happy I am sure at the honor bestowed upon the Lord Jesus Christ. Oh, and they knew about it because they had the tomb sealed, remember? They knew about it. And they were not happy to won their own Joseph Arabathea, a Pharisee. Nicodemus, a ruler of Israel. Both spiritual leaders and it irritated them. Boy, the affection. We think love and affection towards someone wouldn't irritate someone. I mean we're just you're loving somebody. Christ did show his love in the temple and he yielded a man whose arm was was withered, whose hand was withered. On the Sabbath, and boy, they were irritated. He was showing love. This man, a man has been crippled for years, and he shows him love on the Sabbath, and the Pharisees are mad at him. Showing love to another So do you show love and affection to others? And it might irritate some people, but I'll tell you what, if you show love to the Lord Jesus Christ, especially to Christ. That will irritate the world. That will irritate the worldly view of other people. That will irritate those who's letting emotion lead them. They'll be irritated by those Who showed devotion for the king of Israel, as they were when his feet were washed, as they were when they buried him, as they were when they shouted Huzzah. It's no different today. If you think it's an accident or it's just a quirk what's going on in our Congress and our Senate and all around the world How the churches are being burned over in the Middle East, how Christians are being put to death, slaughtered, raped, tortured, run out of their homes? And it's coming to a city near you. America's no different. It's happening in Germany, where the Holocaust took place. Never thought you'd see that again. It's happening in England. It's happening in France. People being murdered just because they're Christians. I mean, pretty soon we're going to hear about somebody walking on some college campus in Oregon and asking if you're a Christian and then blowing you away. I mean that's probably going to happen one of these days, right? Or at Columbine, the girl Rachel, still remember her first name. Oh, do you still believe in Jesus as your personal Savior? And Rachel said, yes, I do. And they shot her neck. You don't think it's coming to America? It's here. You show a love of the Lord Jesus Christ, and those of the worldly view, they've got your number. And they're watching for maybe the opportunity to turn you in So, do you show it a special kindness for the Lord Jesus Christ? An abundance of love for the King of the Jews is still not appreciated by most of this world. So David says to Jabus Gilead, boy, what a kindness you showed. I'd like to return that kindness in any way I can. And David was reaching out to people. They were the most loyal followers of Saul of all the tribes of Israel, all twelve tribes. Nobody sent some brave young men to the Philistine territory at night to find Saul's body, extrapolate it off the wall, and Jonathan's and then go back through the field. I mean there was no one more devoted to the king of Israel at that time than the people of Jabah's Gilead. And David said It's just the kindness that's unparalleled. So David is is reaching out to them. If I can reach the people most devoted to Saul I can reach anybody in Israel. If I can reach them, most devoted to Saul, I can see the day when I will be king not just of Judah, but of Israel, as God has promised. How successful do you think David was? We're in chapter 2. How successful was he? Would you like to know? Well that's nineteen chapters away. But he was successful. David acquired from Jabus Gilead the body of Saul and Jonathan. hidden under a tree, so the Philistines couldn't find it, dig it up, and desecrate it again. He acquired the body of Saul and Jonathan, and he took him back and he buried Saul and Jonathan in the tomb of his father Kish. Jabus, Gilead, the people of that city, they trusted David. They learned to love David. That was a hard family to turn, to Javus Gilates, the most devoted people saw, but he did it. And you know how he did it? You got someone you're struggling with, family, friends, neighbor? The way David did it? He made the first move. He made the first move. Isn't that what Jacob did? He's been separated from his brother Esau. For twenty, thirty years, and he's coming back here and Esau's coming. Oh my goodness, Esau's coming. He's gonna kill me, he's gonna kill my wife, he's gonna kill my children. And so what does Jacob do? He sends out two hundred goats, two hundred sheep, and uh forget how many camels and He's got all kinds of gifts ahead. He made the first move. And Esau threw his arm drawn. And the relationship. How about Joseph? How many decades was that? What his brothers had done to him, and they finally come to Egypt and and they're starving and they're famishing. And what does David or what does Joseph do? He gives them corn. Well, he gave corn to everybody that came and needed it. He sold them corn. But he doesn't charge them for corn. They find their money in their bags with the corn on their way home. Joseph has made the first move of reconciliation. And Abigail, not too recently studying that, how her husband, Nabel the fool, and what he'd done to David, and David's coming down with Stix her men to destroy the whole household, her, Abigail, uh, everyone, the servants, naval, everything killed everybody. What does Abigail do? She loads up uh a a jackass with with bread and and and raisins and and uh wine and and sheep and she makes the first move. It's amazing what you can do in a relationship if you're willing to be the one to make the first move Isn't that what the Lord Jesus Christ did in heaven? Though he was rich. Ephesians 3 8 says unsearchable riches? I mean the Lord Jesus Christ was rich. If you could take every planet and make it gold and every star and make them diamonds And if you owned all of that, you'd be a pulper compared to Christ. Christ's unsearchable riches. We can search the riches of Donald Trump. We'll come to a conclusion of how much he's worth, right? But the riches of Christ were unsearchable, and though he was rich, we read in 2 Corinthians 8. 9, yet for your sakes he became poor, and he came down from heaven, John 3. 13. Wow He made the first move. He loved us. And he knew everything about us. He knew every sin we'd ever committed. Against him, against others, and sins he would still commit even after he came down and forgave you. Wow. The love of God. He made the first move. You got a problem with somebody out there? Make the first move. It may not be pretty I know some of you have made the first move and maybe you brought them a uh some soup, chicken noodle soup. Uh maybe you sent them a birthday card and they sent it back ripped up Well, then make the second move. Don't give up on people. Aren't you glad the Lord Jesus Christ didn't give up on you? Hmm. Now that doesn't mean everybody's reachable. And you may run into one of those two. Abner certainly wasn't reachable. Verses 8 through 11, the son of Ner, Captain of Saul's host He takes Abisheth, or Ishbishheth rather, the son of Saul, makes him king over all Israel and over David. We read in verses eight through eleven Saul's only surviving son. Do you know why he was the only surviving son? Because he didn't go to war. And you know what most commentators believe is the reason he didn't go to war? Because he wasn't fit to go to war. He was either out of shape or just not uh he just wasn't a man's man. He wasn't a fight for his country So here's a guy who's not fit to go to war and admir makes him king of Israel? A man not fit to go to war Abner is in rebellion against the Word of God. Even Saul said that David should be king. The anointing of Samuel said that David should be king. The word of God said that David should be king. But here is Abner totally in opposition to the Word of God. He's got that worldview. He's being led by his emotions. And Infosheth is no different. He also knows that David's to be king and not him. And so you got both these men, both these men, in rebellion against the Word of God. 1 Samuel 15, 28. And Ishbasheth had to know this. It was said about his father, and it was a verse, a prophetic verse from Samuel about Ishbisheth. And it said, This: The Lord hath rent the kingdom of Israel from thee. And given it to a neighbor. None of your sons will be king. Not Jonathan, not Ishbeth, none of them are to be king. None of them. And so Ishbazeth and Abner are both in total opposition to the word of God. They just, their emotions are leading them. Their ambitions are leading them. There's no devotion to the Word of God here. It is a serious sin. Let me say it again. It is a serious sin to know God's revealed will For your life. There's God's revealed will for your life right here. Genesis through Revelation. It is a serious sin to know God's revealed will for your life and to do the opposite. To do otherwise. Because your emotions tell you God wouldn't send anybody to hell. Your emotions tell you God would wink at some of this. But if you're into your Bible doing your devotions, you know that God will send somebody to hell. And He doesn't wake at sin. It's a serious sin to know God's revealed will and to do otherwise. Ishbasseth isn't fit to govern because he doesn't uphold the word of God. You understand that He isn't fit to be king because he doesn't uphold the word of God. And I'll say this to you, there isn't a man in this world that is fit to govern if he doesn't uphold the word of God. No one's fit to govern. I know there's plenty of them governing in this country and other countries, and they do not uphold the word of God, and they are not fit to uphold the word of God Pilate wasn't fit. Herod wasn't fit. Caiaphas wasn't fit. And sadly, many Professed followers of Christ, vote for those who don't uphold the Word of God. And I think everyone here, myself included we've done it We think, well, maybe we just get a guy who's conservative, maybe just get a guy who's Republican, maybe we just get a guy that is fundamentally uh uh he he he likes the Constitution. But does he love the Lord? And we've all done it, haven't we? We let our emotions lead us. I'm telling you that a man who does not uphold the word of God isn't fit to govern this nation or any nation. Think about that as the elections come up. Of all those men on the list, who seems to uphold the Word of God? Christ said a corrupt tree cannot bring forth good fruit. A corrupt tree, Matthew 7. 18, cannot bring forth good fruit. Hence, electing the corrupt and expecting good fruit is not a biblical view. Say it again. Electing the corrupt and expecting good fruit is not a biblical view. Think about that come November a year from now Let's pray. Father, we thank you this day for the examples in Scripture. Even today, as we wonder, well, what would God have us to do? Who would God have us to vote for? Does the scripture tell us? Well the scripture tells us that someone that upholds the word of God, that should cut the list down pretty quick. That should almost make it easy for us all to conclude out of a list of ten or twelve or twenty. So Lord, yes, the scriptures, inquire of the Lord, inquire through the Word of God what you would have us to do in every aspect of our life. life. There's two views out there, but only one honors God, honors his word. And may we begin to lean on it more than we ever had before in these last days. And it's in Christ's name we pray. Amen