Finally made our way through the eleventh chapter. I'm going to read the opening two verses and then I'm going to get to our questions. So we read this in Hebrews twelve, the first two verses Wherefore, could also be rendered therefore, wherefore seeing we also are compassed about with so great a cloud of witnesses Let us lay aside every weight and the sin which doth so easily beset us, and let us run with patience the race that is set before us. looking unto Jesus, the author and finisher of our faith, who, for the joy that was set before him, endured the cross, despising the shame, and is set down at the right hand of the throne of God. Marvelous alliteration in there and really is a wonderful piece of Greek uh prose as well as a uh uh I forget the technique's name to convince somebody, but it's a wonderful apology of the of the Christian faith. Alright, my discussion question. So it has to do with uh surroundings, and notably people. So think of a situation where um you know uh the the people that you have around you I'm I'm really thinking about you know your company or whatnot. What effect Does their presence have? Now to give you an idea of kind of where I'm going with that, imagine a dignitary that's visiting a foreign nation. Like you're a dignitary, you're going to go to a foreign nation. Or you're an athlete competing in a stadium and there's you know people in the crowds, or or a soldier coming home after his combat tour of duty. Does What difference does the receiving audience make? What difference does your own company make to you You uh you so some that somebody gives you? You are given more things that you want. Uh a nicer limousine, uh uh higher person meeting you. Okay, so you get you get you get a little bit more from it because of their presence. Alright, what else what are some other ideas? The reception when we get back. Like when we got back from Kuwait and Iraq, the news media was there, um the people were there, family members were there, the community was there, so it was an awesome reception. And it felt good. Yeah. Yeah, that's a great example. That's right. I'd forgotten you had had uh some some I was thinking Pastor Keith when I thought about the returning from tour of duty and Of course the reception for those returning from combat out of Vietnam wasn't too grand. But for Kuwait we had a much better better reception. So you said it made you feel great? Yeah, the new media with a new article in the paper We we did a little ray thing. So it was nice. It was nice. Yeah. It was very nice. That's good. Good to hear. Uh think about say a foreign uh a dignitary visiting a foreign nation And the receiving audience that that dignitary has. What does that do or say for that foreign dignitary Have you ever seen a foreign dignitary from Lebanon come to America? Has Lebanon ever sent dignitaries here to America? All the time? What's it like when they come here? It's it's just uh uh you feel good that uh there's somebody represented you. Mm-hmm. Yeah, when a head of state visits, typically there is a you know, honorable receiving audience for it I remember when the Queen and Philip visited Jamaica and it was the big news and um the streets lined everywhere they were. I waved at the Queen but she didn't see me. Um but Philip waved at me But uh but uh any anyway, um you know it wa it was a royal welcome, you know, as I say, wrote out the red carpet. Yeah. Um of course she is the she was the technical head of state of Jamaica because it's Commonwealth. Okay. Yeah. Okay. So here's a bonus question. You know, one of the happiest places that I have found in life to go to. And it's pretty consistent. is when I'm in the waiting area at the airport. People are coming off the plane. Nowadays you can't wait by the gate. You have to be out kind of near the baggage area. And there's families there holding their kids and mom is there and it's always such a joy to see these joyous reunions, you know, and they're also happy. People are happy when they're coming off of a plane and they go and they find their family. Uh i it it really is just a happy thing. But what would you think of the man who upon his return home from the airport seemingly ignores his waiting family and goes straight to a cab I think she's luck he's lucky that she even came to the airport. He's luck sh he's lucky that she even came. That's right. Well now that's uh that's interesting. Let me explore that a bit there. So uh We think there is a divorce in the family. Oh, okay. We think there's some strange tensions going on there. Yeah, what's with the division? Yeah, I think you're right. When I was in high school I'd been on a trip with some friends and um one of the parents was dropping me off at our house and I jokingly said, Well, I guess I'll go check on my car and then say hi to my mom. Of course it was a joke, but they all got it because you know, th I've always been a car guy. So But that's what you're talking about. You know, somebody who has a higher priority for the insignificant than for family. Yeah, right, right. So yeah, would you say that our company matters in terms of how you view things in life? Well keep that thought it keep that thought in mind as we explore this. We've got four parts I'm going to cover. I'm splitting these two verses in half each, so there's four little parts The first is our great cloud of witnesses. We're going to talk about every weight and these sin. We're going to look at running the race with patience and then this last part, looking into Jesus. Um the first is this great cloud of witnesses. I love that language, you know. Um a compass has four points, north, south, east, west. We all understand that. But The connection is to the entire previous chapter, and in the 11th chapter we have 19 individuals and three separate groups of people, the elders, those who crossed the Red Sea, the prophets. They are all listed as witnesses that compass us, that surround us, and it's a cloud of witnesses. You you look up in the sky, the clouds are not just in one part. They're kind of all over Unless there's a front coming through where there's a defined boundary. But in general, you look they're up, they're bright, they're white, puffy. Uh of course unless there's rain coming. But just stick with the analogy for the moment. This cloud of witnesses And the 11th chapter is now focused on this one view. Having spent all this time digging this heavy foundation, digging up these notable and obscure people from the Old Testament They're called to be our witnesses, our receiving company, if you will. These Old Testament saints, it says they compass us, they surround us, not as literal angels, right? We we don't have that per se. I don't believe so personally. I think what we do find is that they are witnessing to us out of many different stations of life. You've got the obscure figure of Jephthah. How many of you had ever even heard of Jephthah before we did a study on him a few weeks ago? I mean, I had almost forgotten who he was. You also have a notable King David. You have his great-grandmother Uh Rahat, who was a Gentile harlot from a Moabite place, you know, a very obscure, very different outside of the Judaic tradition, outside of their religious tradition and heritage. You have mighty leaders like Moses. You have his lowly slave parents. How many of you even remember the name of his parents? They're noted there, just not even by name. And uh they were uh Amram and Jochebed was an A of his parents. You have Abel, the first descendant of the first humans You have the first boat builder, Noah, to Isaac, the first born of Abraham. All points in different areas of life and walks of life that we can find close identification, I think, with at least some of them. And so we find that the righteous which shall compass me about, we are brought into this. At all points of the compass of human existence, history has been shaped and defined by great men and women of faith. There have always been some significant advancements in humanity brought about because of a Christian. First example that comes to my mind, and it may not be a great one in your book, but boy, if you ever have to go to a doctor, it's a fantastic one. It's called the MRI machine. The MRI was invented by a Christian man and he uh painstakingly went through the process to determine a way to place you in a large magnetic field and so without any intrusion into your body other than just harmless magnetism. they can determine a great amount about soft tissue in your body. It's one the one of the marvels of uh medical miracle engineering, frankly, uh that we have in our day. Isaac Newton was a bold Christian man. Most of Isaac Newton's writings are more about theology, and in particular he was very excited about prophecy. He wrote more about that than he did with all of his tremendous uh observations of the uh planetary bodies and how they move and his principles of physics and like So, you know, this analogy of the great cloud of witnesses, you know, this was written to Jews, Hebrews, scattered abroad, but they're in a Greco-Roman culture. To date, we still have the Roman stadiums. If you go to the Coliseums in Rome, etc. , I'm sure you've been probably Three. You were probably there when they laid those first stones down. You were right. We watched how they did it. And you know directed Oh good. She was fighting the lions. So you think of a Roman stadium and you've got these spectators surrounding the contestants, and what are they doing? They're cheering on their guy. They're cheering on their team. And we are in a similar struggle as they I think heaven in a way does observe some of what's going on down here, and I say that on the testimony of the passage of Scripture where Jesus says, I say unto you, that there is joy in heaven Over one sinner that repents, than over ninety and nine righteous men which need no repentance. There is joy in heaven. As it were, they're like, yes, another one, yes And so that is our cloud. Those clouds are up above. They're they're not a fog of witnesses. They're a a cloud of witnesses. They they witness to us. Well We have their record of success and it cheers us on. Uh we can see that uh their sins didn't keep them away. Uh your righteousness will keep you from God, not your sins. You've got to have Christ's righteousness in that alone. And so as you know, kind of an application, you know, as believers, we need to be in the physical company of other believers Only other saints will encourage you in the faith. Only other saints are going to be able to empathize with the the trials, the struggles you go through. And when we gather, we should take heed to speak positively and encouragingly I think that's part of that cloud of witnesses. So then we get to this curious phrase, every weight and the sin which doth so easily beset us. Over the years, to be perfectly honest. I've uh puzzled about this passage. It's commonly taught that uh believers have besetting sins. I'm sure you've heard that, besetting sins. There's some one sin or something that people really wrestle with, and it's very difficult to get over. But I think that there are two distinct Categories here, two, I want to I want to say groups, but I don't mean people. There's the weights, which are hindrances and obstacles, every weight. Lay aside every weight, so there's that one group, and and then it says the sin. It doesn't say sin's plural, it says the sin. And I believe in the context, that one sin is that sin of unbelief. That is a tremendously gutting sin. That's what Hebrews is leading up to is faith, and faith in particular, faith aimed at Christ. You know, we read in that tenth chapter near the end in 30 1038 and 9. Now the just shall live by faith, but if any man draw back, my soul shall have no pleasure in him. We are not of them who draw back, but of them that believe to the saving of the soul. So the the sin has a feature. It besets us so easily. What's really interesting about that word beset The alliteration is spectacular in here. The metaphors are wonderful. It skillfully compasses us. This sin that easily besets us is the sin that skillfully compasses us. We have a great compass, a great cloud of witnesses, but there is one sin, unbelief. That so easily compasses us, it skillfully is used in the hand of the devil to draw you away The famous Christian author wrote of a dialogue between the devil and his minions. And he's got these stupid minions who are fumbling around in the job. And they're trying to pull this one Christian away. And so the devil tells his minion, well, go set up a a stand outside of his shop and make everything appear very normal. Just add a bunch of normalcy in his life. Make everything look. We don't want him thinking about spiritual things. Put all kinds of physical, earthly things calm things, a little bit of good news, uh a little girl selling uh scalp cookies or something. Just make everything appear very normal. We don't want this thought of religion in his head. Please get that out of it And I think that captures this concept here of that easily besetting sin, that unbelief that that surrounds us, that so easily wants to draw us away from faith in Christ. God in the scriptures can't be relied upon. That's what the Lord wants you to buy into. But we have a great cloud of witnesses. You know, this imagery and this Greek word choice appears to correlate to an athlete who is only going to wear garments that are suitable for his event. Some may watch football. You'll notice the football players are basically kind of in tights uh other athletes in the ring, you know, they they don't go in. They may come in with the robe and their former belts and uh trophies and and so forth. Um bull riders will get on. They've got their helmet and they've got the chest so when the bull steps on it doesn't go all the way through. Um they wear clothing appropriate for that event And so this is the the concept here. It's that you lay these things aside. Peter picks up on this in 1 Peter 1. He says, wherefore gird up the loins of your mind. Don't have these long flowing roads. You have to gird it up so that you can run. And it's talking about a mental race. It's talking about staying with the topic Gird up the loins of your mind. Be sober. Hope to the end for the grace that is brought unto you at the revelation of Jesus Christ. It's not only ideas that can hinder you, it's people. People can hinder you. And again, this is what I got into this company. And I was glad Lisa brought up her positive reception from her return to Kuwait, that there was a a very wonderful uh event, others like Pastor Keith and and I don't know particularly I don't I I don't recall him saying that but I do remember seeing on the news all the the horrible treatment our boys received coming back from Vietnam And the media lies that my dad had heard that, oh, they're all in great shape and watching these guys limping off and some being wheeled off and I mean it was they were in rough, rough shape as they had come out of some of these horrible prisons and and abuse a period of time. The company mattered. The company mattered and and so it is with Christians. You can get into a company of people that are dragging you down, that can depress you, that can discourage you The apostle wrote this to the Galatians. He said, You did run well, who did hinder you? They started off in a good race, but somebody came in and just was thumbs down and and and dragging them down and a different path. Penny mentioned this morning a quote here from Charlie Kirk. It said you will be the average of the five people you spend the most time with. There's a lot of truth that. Yeah. The five kids we spend the most time with, you will be the average in there. So your company does matter. It really does matter. It really does matter. By the way, that company It doesn't have to be physical. It could be whatever news station you've got blaring throughout the house all day long or blasting in your car. It could be whatever you're scrolling through in your feed is curated over time. It can be A variety of things these days. We have lots of ways for that human voice and face to pound into our ears. What is it that's pounding into your ears all the time? Is it that great cloud of witnesses Or is it this skillfully compassed set of normalcy designed to promote unbelief? Don't even think about religious things. Don't. . You can do this. You can fix this on your own. You don't need the God of the Bible. All these things that drag you away from it. The apostle continues here. Or the penman for Hebrews continues, let us run the race with patience. Just running the race. That kind of confirms this athletic metaphor that's that's going on in here about laying aside these weights So the Apostle Paul wrote this, and I'd like you to turn there. It's in 1 Corinthians 9, because there's a few verses in there that I want to highlight, and then I've got a question coming up for you so that I'm not being quite the monologue. uh which I can drone on and you've just had your breakfast if you're comfortable and uh pass out on me in your seats. Uh first Corinthians nine twenty-four The famous section of Scripture, 1 Corinthians 9. 24, after the book of Romans and after the book of Acts, we read in 1 Corinthians 9. 24, he writes this, he says, Know ye not. That they which run in a race, run all, but one receives the prize. So run, in other words, run in this fashion, in this manner, that ye may obtain And every man that strives for the mastery is temperate. He's temperate in all things. This is the same idea of girding up the loins of your mind. putting aside these these things that can beset us, uh the the the every weight. Notice the preparations that God the Holy Spirit points out. I'm going to skip over the next sentence in verse 25 because I'm going to come back to that. We'll start in verse 20 twenty-six. Paul says, I therefore so run. Now notice all these key words, not as uncertainly. He's not uncertain about how he's running. He's running with some certainty So fight I, not as one that's that's beating the air. He's not just throwing wild swings just to for show. He's just not uh this this isn't a game of show. He wants the blows to land. But I keep under my body. That means he keeps it down, he guards it. He rules over it There was a man once that was hired into our proposal center to write the management volume. He had been a former uh uh football player for some team in Houston, professional team. Huge fellow, uh, really filled out a suit, you know, his arms were bigger than my thighs, and we, you know, joked that we were really bringing Marissa's laughing is like, Yeah, that's pretty hilarious, Vince. It was it was ridiculous, I'm telling you. The guy had telephone poles for arms. It was insane. Um And uh and you know, he would have this lunch with just, you know, like twelve shrimp, you know, or a little bit of the I mean he was just very very conscientious about the protein loading and the I mean it was practically counting the value of every shrimp. I mean he was just really I've never seen anybody so detailed and I'm over here with you know Angela's you know pile of my lube on the rice and the chicken and the garlic sauce and the yogurt Side of hummus, I'm just enjoying it immensely and he's got it. What you got for lunch over there, pal? Look at what I got. But he's got a purpose in mind. He's restraining his appetite. On purpose, he's keeping under his body. And Paul continues in 1 Corinthians 9. He says, and he brings it into subjection. He's controlled over himself. And that's interesting, and it's a great analogy. No, Paul is not advocating you to get into sports per se. That's not the point here. He's using a parallel that we all understand He says he brings it into subjection, lest by any means when I have preached to others, now he surfaces out of the analogy to tell you what he's talking about. When I preach to others, I myself should not be a castaway And so his race was the gift and the mission and the job that God assigned him as a Christian, as a believer in Jesus Christ. His race was the task that God had given to him. Every believer has a task. They do have a mission. God gives them a purpose. And so, Christian, what are you doing To subject your body, to keep it in restraint, to be focused on whatever your mission is. And I remember as an unbeliever thinking, wow, Christian, what a boring life that's going to be. And you're going to sit down and chant all day long. Yeah yeah have a candle lit in some corner and I mean I thought it was just the most boring oh no. Oh no Child of God has real life, no kidding life, his great understanding of all things. He's not confused. He really understands. He can go into scriptures, even in a time of discouragement and discover, wow, I can actually hear from the God of the Bible. He can talk to me There's a race that's set before each one of us. A race that is common to all, but folks, it's specific to you. It's a common struggle, but it's very custom fit just for you. It is your race. The Apostle Paul says this, I have fought a good fight. I have finished my course. He didn't finish your course. He said I finished my course. I have kept the faith. Now, I want to explore this because I never considered this until I sat down to study it. Consider that phrase, let us run with patience. I would expect the sentence to say, let us run with strength. Let us run with speed. He wants to run. with patience. Patience is kind of a s Mrs. Ross is patient. She's careful, slow. I would expect to say run with agility. Run with skill. But it doesn't say that. It says run with patience. Why would those two be paired together? What are your thoughts on that? Well we'll call it to the next phrase, next sentence is God is going to give you what you need to run out grace No need trying to outrun him or you know it's not your strength or agility is what God gives you to make the uh rate to he's gonna give you what you need to Right. He'll give you what you need to win. So it doesn't list those things. That's a good insight, and and I've got a verse of scripture that'll uh help you with that. Go to Ecclesiastes 9-11. Be be prepared to look at that for just a moment. I want to get back, and that's good I want to get to the patience part. Why run with patience? We don't tend to think of running with patience. Because if we're impatient for the prize, we may quit the race. Okay. I mean we see what's we want that that's the end. It's just like reading a book. You know, you've got to get through chapter three before you get to chapter ten. But if you quit you know, I want to read that, you know, y you if you get impatient, you're more likely to quit the race. Okay, that's good. I want to draw that thread out some more. That's excellent. Right. You have to have an eye to prize. You have to hope that you're going to get to it, and so you keep on. What are the different kind of races that are out there? Um, well what I thought about it I was thinking about it's about endurance, it's not about speed, it's not uh a four by four or a hundred dash meter, it's uh the marijuana most Bingo. That's the word I was looking for. We're not in a sprint. This isn't a sprint. This isn't a run to the aisle and accept Jesus and you're done. It's not that sprint. This is a lifelong deal. And that's why it's called a race. Every single human being has to run their race. And the goal line is your death. That's the terminal point of the race. And you've got to cross that line in faith. I love what Solomon says in Ecclesiastes 9. 11 because this is so instructive. He was the wisest man that God gave us. And he wrote this, I returned and saw under the sun that the race is not to the swift Nor the battle to the strong, neither yet bread to the wise, nor yet riches to men of understanding. You would think those would be associated, right? The race to the swift person, he's the fast guy Solomon says that that's not always the case. Nor yet favor to men of skill, but time and chance happeneth to them all. Some people are brilliant. You know, I I pay a lot of attention to the financial markets these days because I have to make my living now out of what I've done with my retirement, and if I manage it correctly, it'll actually last me a while longer. And if I screw it up, it won't And there have been some money managers that have just been tremendously effective. Warren Buffett, Ray Gallio, a fellow named Bogle. And they seem to have a formula that has worked well for them. Well, others have used their formula as well, and it hasn't worked out well for them. And according to Solomon, time and chance happeneth to them all. It just so happens that God allowed this individual to have it. Yes, he had skill, he had wisdom. My point, however, in this is that all who are unsaved run with their works. They are in their race. They're in their life. And they are running by their wisdom, by their skill, by their strength, by their understanding. But folks, they have the wrong goal. What good is it to run a race if you're not even heading down the right goal line? Sometimes there's these funny clips. of a football player who catches uh and intercepts the ball and gets hit and he's spun around and he runs the wrong direction. He puts the ball over the his own goal line and gives the other team the point because he got confused as to which end of the stadium was the goal line. Um This is what the world does. And I go back to 1 Corinthians 9, that second sentence. This is one of the few verses in the Bible 1 Corinthians 9. 25 that have two sentences and one verse. He says, they do it, the world does these things to obtain a corruptible crown. Folks, he's not talking about a laurel leaf crown. Oh yeah, that fades away. They're talking about riches, houses, lands. Have you ever heard of famous men they get they're very powerful and very wealthy and very influential and they get a quote unquote trophy wife Someone that the world thinks is really beautiful and whatever attributes they want. Or he's got this uh all these wonderful cars or Bentley or whatever. You know, that's their crown. God says that's a corruptible crowd. It's corruptible. We are pursuing an incorruptible crowd, one that never fades away. You see, the world is in this right race, they don't have the right goal. Brother Bernie used to tell me this. He says, when you climb the corporate ladder and you get to the top, you find out the ladder was leaning on the wrong building. I think there's a lot of wisdom to that. Where are you investing your time in? Where are you investing your energy? And what makes us think we can succeed in this race? Well, Jeffrey read ahead and it's God gives us what we need. You know, the Apostle Paul said in Philippians 3. 14, I press toward the mark for the prize of the high calling of God in Christ Jesus. I press toward the mark. Well, it shouldn't be any surprise to us who our mark is, because the next part of the verse says this, we look unto Jesus. The Lord of glory himself is our mark, he is our goal. You know, practical tip, this works in marriage as well. If the husband is trying to become conformed to the image of Christ, doing what the scripture says he ought to be doing as a good husband, and the wife is doing the same thing Christ is here. They're two sinners. They're close, but they're not that close at first. But as they go closer to Christ, that triangle comes together together more and more and more. And there's a greater closeness between the two of them. I think it's a very good analogy, a very practical one. Looking unto Jesus. It helps in all areas of life. He's got two critical roles. He's the author, and he's the finisher of our faith. And this is where the eloquence comes in of this. He's the author, the sense is he's the prince. He's the leader. He's the chief. It's not like he hasn't run this race too. It's not like he can't be touched with the difficulties that we have faced. He has run it too. He's the author You know, he wrote our book. He gave us our faith. He designed our course. We read in Psalm 139, Thine eyes did see my substance In thy book all my members were written. When God was designing a Joey in the womb, as he's looking at all the members, he's writing it out. He's got a book. He's designing it. And he's got a course specific for this young man. And it says, For by grace you say through faith, not not of yourselves, the gift of God. God gives that gift of faith. He's designed that as well. He's given you a course that says he knows our frame. He remembers that we're dust. What he has to endure, I couldn't handle. What I have to go through, perhaps some of you might not be able to handle God knows our particular race that we're in because he's designed us for it. He has set us in that course. Paul says, I finished my course. It's custom fit to you and yet it's a common. There's no temptation taking you except such as is common unto man. You know, the timing of when the difficulty arrives and under what circumstances will vary, but it's kind of common. We do face common things. He's that author of it, and he's also the finisher, and this is the beauty, it's that word perfect. He's the perfecter of it. That answers to the last verse of the previous chapter, that they without us should not be made Perfect. Well how are they going to be made perfect? By Jesus, who is the perfecter. He's the perfecter. He's the one that does it. Our pastor often uses the phrase, the Lord will perfect that which concerneth me. And I like that. That's Psalm 138 and verse 8. I love these two other verses, and then we'll close with this last part here as I have a little bit of time left. Jeremiah in giving the New Covenant promise back in the Old Testament writes in Jeremiah 32, 38. They shall be my people, and I will be their God, and I will give them dot dot dot one way. It's interesting. All believers have one common way, and we know who and what that way is the Lord Jesus. We look unto him. Isn't that amazing? It's a custom fit set of trials for each of us, our own little private marathon, which for some may be short and intense, others may be long and drawn out. And yet there's a commonality to it because we're all looking unto Jesus. He is that way, and we follow his lead. The Lord Jesus says in Philippians 1. 6, through the Apostle Paul, he which hath begun a good work in you will perform it until the day of Jesus Christ. That's your hope. The world isn't going to tell you this. They're not going to cheer you on. They're not going to encourage you to godly habits and to godly ways. And you want a tip on how to get there? You want a little tip? A little pro tip? I like the pro tips. You ever look up YouTube how to fix a washer or dryer? They put a little pro tip in there. Tip the machine this way because when you open this, if you don't, all the water is going to slosh out on your floor. Ah, good pro tip. I like that. Saves me work and time Here's a little pro tip that God gives to us, looking unto Jesus for the joy set before him. How did Jesus survive a nightmare scenario? His race had to go to the cross and he knew it. I don't know what tomorrow is going to bring. Sufficient unto the day is the evil thereof. And yet here, as the God man Fully human, fully capable of hunger, of being tired and weary, of being frustrated, fully capable of being angry, he looked around upon them with anger At times, the full range of human emotions. He cried at a funeral. It's okay to cry at a funeral. It's a celebration of life, and they're getting happy. Jesus went, he was crying because death is an enemy. I'm not saying we shouldn't celebrate their life, but just understand what I'm saying. It's okay to cry at a funeral. Jesus did all these things. But for the joy that was set before him That he would be set down at the right hand of the throne of God. That's what kept him going forward. And that was to your point. Keep your eye on the goal. What are you going for? What are you aiming for? Folks, this this this joy set before him, I'm here to tell you, is also set before you. You actually get the same reward. Because in 2 Timothy 2, we're told, if we suffer, we shall also reign with him. R-E-I-G-N, reign. That's a position of rule. That's a position of authority. 1 Corinthians 6 says, don't you know that the saints shall judge the world? We're part of the judging process. I don't know how that works out. But it says the saints shall judge the world. It says in Revelation 22, 4 and 5, they shall see his face, and they shall reign forever and ever. Right now you're witnessing and observing a lot of atrocities and things that are just wrong in this world. Can anybody list a few things wrong with this world? I'm sure my ears would get overwhelmed and it would chew up all of my time and then some Do you get frustrated? These people do X, Y, and Z, and they seem to be getting away with it. But you remember it, and you're going to live forever. And if they don't become saved, they will appear before you and God Himself with the sheep set on his right hand. Right hand's a good position. You want to be on the right hand of God. That's a really good position to be in. And the saints are judging the world. And I can't wait till a few particular individuals come in front of me. I'm going to say, that individual for sure ain't one of yours, Lord. I can bear witness to that. Deal with this individual. Now I'm not, this is not a cunningly devised myth or fable. This is reality who for the joy that was set before him. It was set before him, and he is set on the right hand of the throne of God. And so take comfort, take courage. Yes, God's involved in your lifelong marathon. He qualified you, he's given you a cheering audience. And when you cross this goal line in faith, you have a tremendous reward. You're as a king over an eternal kingdom. What's not to like about that? Well, I hope that encourages your struggle in Okay. Um I've started a lot of projects I never finished. Um I I've built the whole frame of a vote in Jamaica and never got any further. Um, you know, certain a lot of us have given up on a on the jigsaw puzzle even. Um and I've read several books about finishing projects because I tend to be a starter and not a finisher And the best piece of advice that I've ever read on that is that you have to do something every day, even if it seems insignificant. You know, if you're restoring an old car, all you do is walk out in the garage today and look at it and think what needs to be done next. And it's the same way in the Christian life. You know, if you go a week without tending to your walk with the Lord That week will become a month and a year and it'll become a forgotten project. And I think that comes into running with patience. Yes. You know, just keep day by day It's n it's not it's not something that we do for a while and then we set it aside and come back to it when something else happens. But it's a daily And it's okay to take a vacation and whatnot, but you can't ever take a vacation and and abandon the faith. You can't run out and live like a pagan. Can't run off to Vegas as my least favorite place as well. I I mentioned a friend of mine who's currently in the hospital fighting cancer and um I wasn't aware if I was talking to him on Tuesday, that he and another brother that I know very well have just become spiritual partners And they check up on each other on the scripture reading and just to make sure that they're both continuing on. Yeah, continue in this marathon. Antonio, can you close us in prayer? Father in heaven, we uh thank you for your word, Lord. You've preserved it to us, Lord, and what a great uh uh comfort and exhortation it is to uh believers. Pray that you would help us. Indeed. There's nothing the flesh can do. Flesh profits, nothing. Pray that you would even work your spirit upon us. Continue to run this uh race with patience. Or uh we don't seek a corruptible crown as the world does, but an incorruptible one. In our Lord Jesus Christ, please continue working upon us, conform us to the image of Christ, and pray that even in the in the service today, in the worship, Christ would be honored. Lord, we ask all these things in Christ's name. Amen. Amen.