All right, good morning everyone. It's good to be back again. Good to be back in Hebrews after two reruns of some prior messages. Uh turn in your Bibles to Hebrews chapter 13. Hebrews 13 and verse 6. Hebrews 13, 6, we had begun in verse 5. about letting our conversation be without covetousness, without avarice, without greed. And then there's a reason given and an explanation in verse 6, for which I did not have adequate time to cover. And I'm glad I had a delay to think about it more. We read this, so that we may boldly say, the Lord is my helper, and I will not fear what man shall do unto me. To my shame, I admit, when I read that I thought helper, well okay, everybody needs help. And uh but I I trust that by the end of today you'll see what a what a tremendous jewel of a passage that really is. The Lord is my helper. The Lord is our helper. So the discussion question is this, you know, if we think about that word help, and I think that's what perhaps blunts the immediate impact of this verse to us. What comes to your mind when you think about health? Some businesses, for instance, offer the services of a handyman. Employees are viewed as helpers uh to any organization. You've got in-home health aids that help their charges, their individuals, the infirm, the elderly. And there's other examples. So my question to you is this, what do you believe are the various roles of a helper? What are their roles? Somebody opens the door. Getting us somebody that's gonna help get us through tough times. Someone's gonna assist us getting through tough times. Yeah, absolutely. That's a good one A helper typically has to have a better view of the problem than the individual who needs help. Ah, okay. So the qualification of a helper is someone who has a better view of your problem and they are in a position to assist. Objectivity. Objectivity, yes, all right. Online we had a couple, one from a uh dear family in uh PG County, physician's assistant. Contractors can be helpers. They know more about how to repair your home. An executive assistant, a teacher's aide. Uh those are all very good examples. We also had one where our our uh brethren uh uh Arizona described it this way, the various roles of a helper are to enable someone to do something they should do but cannot do, ordinarily or otherwise. Helper can give needed or timely information, do light, medium, or heavy lifting work. Organize, encourage, give sound advice, prod imprompt, save that person from themselves, etc. So those are good roles of a helper Our sister in Carolina put out this one. Gophers! That's a good helper. A gopher, someone who can go get something and bring it back. Yeah, we like the gophers, that's for sure. So there's uh there's various ways of course in which we can think about how God has perhaps helped us in time past. Then I have a bonus question, which might strike you as a little odd. If a house caught fire Because nobody inside called 911 and the house burnt to the ground, whose fault is it? The homeowner or 911? The homeowner. If your house catches on fire, burns to the ground, whose fault is it? Is it 911 or the homeowner? Obviously the homeowner. You'd say, why didn't you call? Why didn't you call? Well, our verse, and I'll just jump right to my punchline, is uh it says, the Lord is my helper You know, our passage reminds us at first, the first readers, the Hebrews of old, of the various ways that God's role is seen as a helper. So we're going to turn to two passages in the Old Testament which put a bunch of those roles and packages them together in one verse. So let's go to Starting with Deuteronomy chapter 33 and verse 29. Deuteronomy 33 and verse 29, we're going to look at God's various roles as a helper. Let's take a look at that. You'll forgive me as I still have a bit of coughing and clearing. Deuteronomy 33. 29 says this, Happy art thou, O Israel. Who is like unto thee, O people, saved by the Lord? And notice all the synonyms given here. The shield of thy health. A shield is very useful in battle. Certainly in the old days, you had arrows coming. Who is the sword of thy excellency? You know, a sword is also useful in battle. That's an offensive weapon. Thine enemies shall be found liars unto thee, and thou shalt tread upon their high places. This is Moses' encouragement to the people prior to going into the land of Canaan and Then you read in Psalm 18. Turn to Psalm 18 now. Psalm 18. And the first three verses of that eighteenth Psalm, Psalm eighteen, where we read this. I will love thee, O Lord, my strength. So here it's he's called our strength. Our strength. He's strong, strong on our behalf. The Lord is my rock. Uh we're not talking about a pebble. We're talking about something that you can put an entire house on. Uh skyscrapers try to go down to get bed rock. They want to be on something sturdy that can support a tremendous amount of load. The Lord is my rock. And my fortress. Fortresses can be surrounded, but it's very, very difficult to penetrate in. It's a place of isolated safety. And my deliverer, one that pulls you out of harm's way. My God, my strength, in whom I will trust, my buttler, the horn of my salvation. Horn is often used in Scripture as a figure of power. It's used of the authoritative rulers. They have horns. Sometimes Daniel depicts goats with notable horns. It's talking about their authority, their strength, their power. He's the horn of my salvation. And my high tower. In a high tower, you can get up and you can survey. You can see a long ways off what difficulties might lie ahead and how to prevent them. I will call upon the Lord who is worthy to be praised, so shall I say be saved from mine enemies. These are abundant throughout the Old Testament. You can find many places, particularly in the Psalms, referring to God in his various roles as our helper. And what's interesting is that our penman to the Hebrews here doesn't use the common evangelical phrase, you know, He is your God, God is your Savior. Or the Lord is our Savior. He doesn't use that phrase. He uses a phrase which to us seems to kind of downplay it. The Lord is my helper. That doesn't exclude salvation, but it encompasses a whole much more within it. But what in fact I find is interesting, and this is what got me excited, is that that word helper, this is the only time in the Bible this word is found This is a unique Greek word. It is found one other time as a verb in the same book of Hebrews. And he's referred to as the one who can succor us. He is able to succor them, to help, to aid, to give comfort in time of need. It's the word boethas, and it's a joint compound word. I find it fascinating. It means to run to the cry. To run to the cry. Now You mothers will know exactly what this is. You have a child, you hear kids playing in the other room, and there's a little bit of a whining and wailing because one of the kids stole the other one's toys. That's not the cry we're talking about We're talking about when the child stubs his toe and gets hurt, or the other brother bites him in the belly and he's got a bleeding wound. It's that cry. That deep inhale, that loud, long exhale, that's run to the cry The Lord is my Boethas. We could say it this way, and I was trying to think, is there another synonym that really brings out the sense of that word? Helper. Is there another English term that that brings it out? And I couldn't think of one, but I thought of this. The Lord is my 911. He's your 911 call. He he's not there because, you know, sometimes you pray and it seems like he's not answering. It seems like nothing's going on. But boy, when you mean business with God. And you're down on your knees and you're earnestly pleading with tears and effectual crying. Yeah, there are some times when he may even pause on that. But More often than not, I find when I mean business with God, he answers speedily. You know, think of some examples in the Old Testament. Psalm 34, 6 says this, this poor man cried cried, and the Lord heard him and saved him out of all his troubles. That's the sense of this word oethus, run to the cry. He runs to the cry. Can you can you think of some people in the Old Testament who cried to the Lord and were rescued? Can you think of any examples? Well, one of the kings that he wanted some more years for him, but I don't remember his name. Yeah, very good. That's a good example. Um I think it was Hezekiah who was ill and diseased, and he prayed to the Lord earnestly, and God sent him a prophet to say, you'll be healed of this disease, and he turned the dial of the clock back 15 years. 15 degrees indicating he gave 15 more years. Yeah, that was the cry that was answered of the Lord. Other examples. of Lord of Elijah when the um widow's son died. And um, you know, Lord, how can this possibly happen that she's been such a blessing? Yes, Elijah cried to the Lord in that dire situation and saved that poor woman's son. Good. Those are two good examples that uh I didn't have in my notes. I've got others here. I just want to see what your thoughts were. in the temple weeping before the Lord for her son. And then she comes back and says, um what I was just looking at, for this child I pray. And the Lord has given me. She was so earnestly crying with tears to the Lord that Eli thought, well, this woman must be drunk. She's just overwhelmed with grief and she's really pouring out her soul to the Lord. Yeah, very good. Those are two great examples. Other examples of when someone cried to the Lord and he heard and he rescued and he delivered I think I said uh Samson when he grabbed the uh two pillars. Indeed, Samson, as he's there, he's blinded. It's just one more time, give me my strength back that I may be avenged of my eyes. And it says that he killed more in his death than in his life. Samson's a marvelous example of that as well. Crying out to the Lord, this one time, please. And God was pleased to answer that. He was pleased to answer that. What about Jonah in the belly of the whale? He says, I cried unto the Lord from the belly of the whale, and he hurt him and the fish vomited him out on dry land later. There is an interesting account. In 1 Chronicles chapter 5 and verse 20, 1 Chronicles 5, 20, let's look at a couple of Old Testament examples, which I think were interesting, of the Lord is my helper. And I'm intentionally going to the Old Testament. Because our epistle to the Hebrews is indeed written to the Jews. They would be familiar with this concept of Boethas, our one who runs to the cry. 1 Chronicles 5 and verse 20, we have an interesting account where we've got in verse 18, it says the sons of Reuben. The Gadites, half the tribe of Manasseh, valiant men. I'm reading 1 Chronicles 5, 18. Men able to bear buckler and sword. And to shoot with the bow, skillful in war. 440,703 score went out to war. They made war with the Hagarites, with Jetur, the Fish, and Nodab And they were helped against them. And the Hagerites were delivered into their hand, and all that were with them for They cried to God in the battle, and he was entreated of them because they put their trust in him. Surely in time of battle that would be an urgent cry for an immediate need, and God was pleased to answer that. He was their boethos, one who ran to the cry because they trusted in him. You cry out to one to whom you trust will answer the call and can do something about it. Here's another interesting account in the book of Ezra. Go to Ezra chapter 8 in verse 22 Ezra chapter eight and verse twenty two book of Ezra. We find this. Well, Ezra's jumping around my Bible. I don't know why I can't put my finger on it. Ezra 822. Well you will forgive your servant for not having it placemarked. Well, I'm just gonna have to cheat here. This is ridiculous. You're turning with a band-aid, I'm turning with uh broken memory. So before Nehemiah, that's where I'm looking at. Ezra 822, we read this. Ezra is saying That uh this is he's trying to take the people's journey to Jerusalem, on a journey to Jerusalem, and he says, uh, I was ashamed to require of the king a band of soldiers and horsemen to help us against the enemy in the way because we had spoken unto the king Saying, the hand of our God is upon all them for good that seek him, but his power and his wrath is against all that forsake him. So what's the context? Ezra is Going to take everybody, a number of people to Jerusalem to help rebuild the city. And the king says, Do you want some help? He says, oh no. Stands are pulled before the king. Pretty impressive. No, our God will deliver us. He'll take care of us And he begins on the journey then. Well maybe uh maybe I should have asked for a police escort. Maybe that would have been a good idea. He's like, well, I don't want to go ask for that now because I asked I told him the Lord would take care of us Verse 23, so we fasted and besought our God for this, and he was entreated of us. Ezra didn't want to be ashamed of saying, well, Lord, I knew we stood up bold for you, but yeah, we had to ask for a police force. No, he says Lord, we we thanked on your name to rescue us. Your name is at stake here. Please help us on this journey, God. was pleased to answer her cry. I think of uh maybe Daniel's three friends. You know, we don't read explicitly of anything. But knowing they were praying individuals, I'm quite sure they were crying out to the Lord before they're facing a furnace that is ridiculously hot and ca has enormous power and ability to to kill them. I'm quite sure they were heard of the Lord, and indeed what a marvelous way he delivered them. Uh the you think of the thief on the cross He had been mocking Jesus, and then at the end, when he stops mocking and he's reproving the other one, he then turns to the Lord and says, Lord, remember me. when you come into your kingdom. That was a cry. Lord, remember me. It's a plea. There's nothing to offer, nothing to bring. Turn to Luke 187. You'll see that our Boethas Our run to the cry Savior is the same in the Old Testament as he is to us today. Luke 18, 7. He's answering the parable about the unjust judge, and he says in verse 7, as he's explaining that parable And shall not, I mean Luke 18, 7, and shall not God judge his own elect? Shall not God avenge his own elect? Which cry day and night unto him. That's a different word, but it's the same principle here. Which cry day and night unto him, though he bear long with them. I tell you, he will avenge them. Speedily He's our 911. He will avenge them speedily. It's a marvelous verse. And so I hope you appreciate our boethas. He's our run to the cry. When you mean business with God, we have that. He is our helper. We can in fact cry to him. We have somebody to whom we can turn You know, why do you suppose there are times when we maybe cry out to the Lord, but he doesn't answer right away? Why might that be? Rick. Uh I kind of think of the stories in the Bible the people that had to wait a long time on the road, such as Daniel, like he knew he's even became when he was young, but it was about fifteen years until he actually sat on the phone. So I always think that while we're in this he was in suffering There's something that God's trying to show us in that season. Yeah. Perhaps the one I think you're thinking of might be David who had been anointed king. Yeah. Daniel eventually did serve in the king's court, and so he's still a relevant example of patience Yeah, I think too, back to my example I gave where a mother with children and she hears her kids playing in the other room and one of them cries out and makes noise, but she hears it, she knows, this isn't that serious. Do you think our God is able to see all the circumstances around us and can hear some of our cries and say, yeah, I hear you, but it's not serious? Can we be whiners before the Lord? I mean we're to take everything to the Lord. But I I just can't help but to think our God is a good God. He's a loving God. He's a purposeful God. All that he does is on purpose. And it's for the whole But and it may be for a season that you need to learn and experience a touch of pain so that later on when you're tempted with something greater you'll remember the pain and say, no, I'm not gonna Do that stupid thing or worry about that again because I saw the end of it. God'll get me out of it. And there may be times where you go for a long way in life before you really get an answer. Sometimes you may never, and it may be until eternity when you finally see. The big picture. A a good coach on any team pushes the team beyond their comfort. You have to run further than you think you can run. That's a good analogy uh of of of a team and a coach. Um one um fellow I work with was a a coach with uh high schoolers or uh or or junior high, some small group of kids and he had a phrase uh that he would use in the proposal center, you know, are you injured or are you hurt? If you're injured, keep going. Get get back in there. I mean are you if you're hurt, get in there. But if you're injured, you had a broken elbow, so yeah, then we could talk about it. Are you injured or are you hurt? And the Lord is our bow with us, Penny. He's not our genius. It's not that we cry out to him to control him and give us everything we desire. It's to to trust in him. That's a good analogy. He's not our genie. Right? He's not a little magic talisman we pull out of the back pocket and wave around and things disappear. That's that's not faith, really. Jeffrey, well to build upon what Penny just said and what you just commented, uh we we uh Uh not only through patience, we also are forced to examine our faith to if if God says we're in his hand and we're safe Do we really, you know well we're tested to so that we can see ourselves, do we really believe that? It is an exercise, it's oftentimes an exercise to learn how to develop those faith muscles. Think of a child learning how to ride a bicycle, you know, in a park. Uh you got the training wheels at first and they're having fun. Then the wheels come off and now it gets wobbly. Things have changed. What happened? Now it gets wobbly and they may fall down once or twice. Get back in the saddle, try it again And there may be some whimpering, some crying, some help, hold me, this, that. But your purpose is not to let the kid fall down. That's not your purpose, though you may allow it. But I think of God dealing with us that way and it kind of continues on. He's a good father. He knows what he's doing. Absolutely. And for the unbeliever who only may be given lip service to him being a good father will look for another father. Right. Right that they think is going to be real Right. Yeah. The Lord is our helper, uh Boethas. Very good. We go to the next part of of the phrase. So I will And I will not fear what man shall do unto me. This is our usual word for fear, is phobia. I'll not have a phobia, I'll not be gripped, I'll not be seized in terror. So what circumstances do you think in your life I'm just, this is a an open question to consider here as we're pivoting away from helper to fear, because he says he will not fear. Well, what are some circumstances that perhaps can grip you with fear I can maybe seize you, uh terrify you, and open the aperture wide. It may be something which you might not normally see yourself in, but boy, if I were in that situation, oh, that would grip me pretty hard. What are some situations that could seize you up with terror? put it into a situation where I think I might lose my job or I think someone's invading my home. Like those are two kind of common ones that are like, ooh, if this thing went down, I don't know what the next steps would be, you know, I'm worried about provision for my family and all of that. Yeah, when there's a direct threat to the home entity and uh direct threat uh to uh your job, your source of revenue, yeah that can be that can really be a sucker punch. Having been through the the former, thankfully not the latter, that can certainly hit you. serious health issues, not just for ourselves, but especially for our family. Our children, our grandchildren, just out there. And we have no control over Yeah, very, very serious health issues can certainly grab somebody uh when you see that boy there's I I see what's happening here, uh the doctors are not offering a lot of hope and Yeah, that can be very terrifying. That can be very hard. It's very general, but fear of the unknown. You know, when we've been down the path, we kinda know what to expect, but something's totally unnavigable. Yeah, something very, very unusual. the fear of wanting to do a big purchase by buying a house but not not really knowing how it's gonna go. Am I gonna buy this and it drops by thirty percent and I lose my job and now I have to pay a mortal too. Yeah, that can be very serious. In fact, uh I know a young lady who uh works as a customer service representative for a bank Recently spoke with a man on the phone who was pleading for extra time and some way to help because he was a hundred and twenty days delinquent on a home improvement loan. It had been take give given over to collections and of course The collateral for that home improvement loan is the house. And if he doesn't have the money wherewithal to pay, he'd not been in communication with the bank on how to maybe renegotiate terms to get back up on his feet. He's looking at a loss of his home and that a mighty big loss, a wash sale just to cover pennies on the dollar for what could be, yeah, that would be pretty terrifying. That would be a pretty mighty big loss For me I I cannot imagine uh if the draft came up and uh my son was shipped off in the battle. Uh that would be that would be pretty gripping. You know, it's like my son, my only son, no, I he's gonna go sent to be where to fight for who. What interests do we have over there? Well yeah, why? Yeah. Uh that would be that that would be pretty gripping. I think I would give myself a lot of Botox shots and try to change my voice and show up instead. I'm ready to go. Uh sorry, but you look a little older than eighteen or twenty-one Yeah. Turn to Psalm 56. Because because the Lord is our Boethas, He is our helper. a rock, a fortress, a high tower. We read in Psalm 56, David often used language. That expressed his trust in the Lord against some quite terrifying situations. Here he's been anointed king, but he finds himself in a cave. He finds himself being hunted down by his best friend's father, who currently was the king. You read in Psalm fifty six, verse one Verse 1, be merciful unto me, O God, for man would swallow me up. He fighting daily oppresses me. Mine enemies would daily swallow me up, for they may be many that fight against me, O thou most high. What time I am afraid I will trust in thee. Excuse me We continue through verse 6. In God I will praise his word. In God I have put my trust. I will not fear what flesh can do unto me. This is almost a direct quote we find in Hebrews. And it stands in the middle of this little triangle here. Look as we come down to the back side of it. It says verse 5, every day they rest. It's the root word for wrestle. They rest my words. All their thoughts are against me for evil. David was dealing with fake news even in his day. They take what he says and they twist it. Twisting words is nothing new. This is common. This is just how men operate who are without God and without hope in this world. He continues verse 6. They gathered themselves together. Yep, we see that today. Mobs with twisted words They hide themselves. You can't find these people. They slip away into the shadows. They're not a nation-state. They don't all have a uniform on. They mark my steps when they wait for my soul. They're tracking. See, this is nothing new under the sun. You're reading the front page headlines right here Keep going. Shall they escape by iniquity? In thine anger, cast down the people, O God This is David's cry to the Lord. It's okay to cry to God for vengeance. It's not okay for you to take vengeance for yourself. You know, you see also again that they jump ahead to verse 11 when he says, again, in God have I put my trust. I will not be afraid. I will not be afraid what man can do unto me Yes, we see many things in our day, just as David saw in his, that is a daily battle against the righteous, against the truth. It is an ongoing activity and it's been ongoing since the Garden. It's manifested itself as early as Cain who slew his brother Abel and on down forward because they know not God and they fear not God So this is nothing new. The Lord is our helper, therefore I will not fear what man shall do unto me. I think that the best example I can think of in the Old Testament, and I'll close with this and one more, is in Daniel chapter 3 and verse 16. Daniel chapter 3 and verse 16. That one I can find. I couldn't find Ezra, I don't know why. Daniel 3, 16. Ezra's before Nehemiah, so. Remember that. Daniel 316. And this is Daniel's three friends. And I've just always been so impressed at their answer. Because if this is an embodiment of that business, I'll not be afraid what man will do unto me. This is a dynamite example. I put it as exhibit A. We read here Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego answered and said to the king, O Nebuchadnezzar. They're speaking to a king. This is not, you know, separation of powers. The king is the judge, the jury, and the executioner. He's got it all. He says, O Nebuchadnezzar, we are not careful. We're not full of care. We're not anxious. We're not worried. We're not careful to answer thee in this matter, this matter of falling down before this golden image at the sound of the music. If it be so, our God, whom we serve, is able to deliver us From the burning fiery furnace. And he will deliver us out of thine hand, O King. Bold statement. Number one, God is able. I think all believers trust and understand that God is able to deliver. Is he not? God can heal people in an instant, and he has, and we have a lot of examples of that. That's one reason his fame spread throughout the land of Galilee. But they continue because they acknowledge something. They acknowledge God's will. And they say in verse 18, but if not But if not, meaning if God doesn't deliver us, be it known unto thee, O King, that we will not serve thy gods. Nor worship the golden image which thou hast set up. Job said, boldly, though he slay me, yet will I trust him. I will not fear what man can do unto me. Why would they make such a statement like that? What practical reason can be found for someone to make that kind of a statement? What's th what's in their thought processes? What what are they thinking? Heaven is next. Yeah, they're looking a little bit further beyond that that there is the here and now, but my God lives forever. And he's called me, and he's redeemed me, and I have a new soul. I have life eternal. What you do here, I'm not worried about. There's something beyond. That's the hope. That's the trust in the Lord. The trust that what God has said, He will carry through. That's the thief on the cross. Lord, remember me when you come into your kingdom. And Jesus informed him, verily I say unto thee, this day you'll be with me in paradise. This day Turn now to the book of Luke, chapter 12, and this will be our closing passage. Because Jesus as much says the same and teaches the same because he's the same God in the Old Testament. Luke twelve and verse four, we read this. Luke chapter twelve and verse four, he says this. And I say unto you, my friends, be not afraid of them. That could, that might, no, them that kill the body. You know, we have brothers and sisters in the Muslim world, in the Arab world, who this is not A fantasy. This is reality. There are those that name the name of Jesus in the most simple, basic way, or just wear a cross, or just have a picture of a crucifix on a book And they'll face and pay the ultimate penalty, maybe from the very hands of their family. This is not a fantasy to them. And Jesus says, be not afraid of them to kill the body, and after that have no more that they can do. But I will forewarn you, whom you shall fear. Fear him, which after he hath killed hath power to cast into hell. Yea, I say unto you, fear him. You know, this is the hope of the believer. We do face fears, and sometimes we have to face them soberly. There's two things we might have to deal with Physical pain in the flesh now, an eternal pain, without any escape whatsoever in the future. And this is what Jesus is teaching, and this is what the Old Testament teaches Philippians 1 28 says, Then nothing terrified by your adversaries, which is to them an evident token of perdition, but to you of salvation and that of God. Sometimes fearful things come because it's a filtering process, as you mentioned, Jeffrey, the false converts, the false sons and pales in the n in the pale. The false brethren in the midst. A difficult situation comes. What are they going to do? If they're terrified, they have no trust. They run, they flee. That's an evident token to them of perdition They can't handle this. The proof is those who stand in the face of it and they're not afraid, regardless of what the outcome might be, like Daniel's friends say. Because the Lord is that helper. He is our hope, our shield, our future. And he is able to deliver. And many times he does. So I have three applications as I have a few minutes left here. Three applications is that. Number one, it pleases the Lord our God to remain in the business of being a divine helper. You know, he he he didn't have to do that. He he could have saved us, spared us, given us a message, taken off. You know, don't bother sending the Holy Spirit, not necessary He's promised it. He always makes good in his promises. Doesn't have to inform us of anything. But he's pleased to do that. He's pleased to remain in that role as our helper. And that's one of his roles here. Please avail yourselves of it. Don't give it up. Prayer is such a vital thing. It is a lifeline. Prayer is our words to God, and He's pleased oftentimes to hear it. And I've always been amazed at the times when God speedily answers prayers. You know, Anton, getting back to your illustration about losing your job and how are you going to pay for things and uh you know when I was laid off uh I was fortunately in a position at the time and move been with the company long enough to have six months of salary given to me, which was a fair chunk. Uncle Sam took twenty percent out the gate, so I only saw eighty percent of it Um but uh I thought well this will last and I had other interviews lined up and then they fell through and then sequestration hit and all defense contractors stopped hiring and it was fifteen long months The 14th month I had exactly one month's left of cheese left in the bank. And I stood out in that lawn and prayed to God, Lord, I have no idea how I'm going to pay for this mortgage. I have no idea how it's going to come through. I'll tell you what. You got the house. It's yours. I deed it to you. Now it's your problem to figure out how to pay for it. Because I don't know how to do it. Well, I lost the house on that deal. The very last day that my last dollar disappeared. is the first day that my new paycheck from the job I then got, which was totally off the radar, came. Just amazing how the last plank was there and the next plank was raised And so he got the house. Cobram gave me sixty days. Yeah, yeah. He does that. Second application is when you really mean business with God and when the chips are down and you face an impossible end, as a Christian, as a Christian, you're not without hope. You're not without hope. Press the button called emergency prayer and cry out mightily to God and watch him. Yea, even expect him to deliver. The Lord is, not could be, is our helper. And the third point is this: fear not man in whose nostrils is the breath of life Fear not, man. The angry blind creature is no match for our ageless benevolent Creator. And so that is our passage here, and I didn't want to do it short shrift last time. I I pray that was a good reminder for things perhaps you already know and uh encourage you to the uh to the continuation in this strange sojourn we call life on this side of eternity. Anton, could you close us in prayer, please? Father in heaven, thank you, O Lord, that you Given us the helper in yourself. Lord is our help that we have one to turn to in our many times of afflictions, the fears, the uh all these things, whether they're serious or not, we're able to cast all our cares upon you, the one that you care for us. And we have the blessed promises of the scriptures. uh of how you'll be there for your people, how none will be able to to to pluck the believers out of your hand. That's right. And we thank you Lord even for that promise that When we walk through the fire, we won't be burned. When we pass through the water, be with us. Please, Lord. Continue to guide us, help us to trust in thee. We ask it all in Christ's name. Amen.