The uh book of Hebrews, and we're in our twenty-eighth verse of the twelfth chapter. I'm going to take a single passage today, and even that uh from that sentence a single phrase. Here we read this in Hebrews 12 and verse 28 it says, Wherefore we receiving a kingdom which cannot be moved, let us have grace. Whereby we may serve God acceptably, with reverence, and with godly Fear. For our God is a consuming fire. What a spectacular consideration that we have here And in fact, I was so caught up in this entire introductory clause that I just couldn't get beyond it. Wherefore we receiving a kingdom which cannot be moved. Now my discussion question today was concerning George Washington. that he dearly loved Mount Vernon. Those of you who know American history, colonial era, what do you think were those attractive features which made it so? Uh some online people responded by indicating that uh one of the things was that it was, you know, his home. He had spent a lot of time building it and overseeing its construction. It had Uh he was a big gardener. He was one of the first to try to experiment with different seed types and crop rotation and the like. And he also uh very much enjoyed uh all of his uh interactions. He had a great deal of interaction with number of different people that came through the place and so he was a a big host. He hosted quite a few people uh on a just almost a daily basis. He just enjoyed that immensely. And I can say as one who's had a home-based ministry for my for as long as my wife and I have been married over uh close to thirty years, that it is a delightful thing And others of you here are shaking your heads in agreement that pretty much that answered everything And I had a bonus question that if, and this is kind of off the wall but it's intentional, if Moldavia went to war with Romania, would you care? Why or why not? Those of you struggling with your geography lessons will remember that south of Ukraine is Romania and Moldavia, and at least they're border at some We don't have as it were a dog in that fight. It's not something that we would particularly care about per se. And because we would say, well, it's not our country. We don't have any interests there And that's kind of our lead-in to our passage here in Hebrews 12 28. Well, I've got kind of a simple outline because I'm focusing on this business about receiving a kingdom. I was really fascinated with that idea of receiving a kingdom. And so I want to explore that some. I've got three points. How do we get this kingdom? What are the features of this kingdom and how some lose this kingdom? How do we get this kingdom? The passage says that we are receiving a kingdom which cannot be moved. In the context, it strikes us as somewhat unusual because lo and behold, uh it's been talking about a better high priest, it's been talking about we have no continuing city here, we seek one to come But then you get to the covenantal change, I would say the the the promotion or the full embodiment of the covenant And then it says, we're receiving a kingdom, Ake Morning. Kingdom is a big deal. How do we get this kingdom? Well I would submit to you first you get the kingdom as a little child by conversion In Matthew 18, 3, the Lord Jesus speaking to his disciples said, Except you be converted and become as little children, You shall in no wise enter into the kingdom of God. You have to be born again. You have to have a new birth. They are born of God. And therefore, as is true for most nations today The place in which you're born, that is your nativity. That's your citizenship. If you're a child of God, you have a new citizenship, you're in the kingdom of heaven. How do we get this kingdom? We receive it. We receiving a kingdom which cannot be moved. That's an interesting word. It's not the normal word for receive. It's got a little stronger sense to it The receiving is intentional. It's intentional. But it's more than just intentional. It also implies some kind of a relationship. So let's look at this. For instance, in Matthew 1. 20, as the angel came to Joseph, who was afraid, about this business that he discovered of Mary's pregnancy, said, Joseph, thou son of David, fear not to take, that's our word, receive, fear not to take Mary, thy wife. In John 14, 3, the Lord Jesus said, If I go and prepare a place for you, I will come again and receive you unto myself. That's not a casual reception, that is an expectation. That implies a relationship. It's a work in progress. We're receiving a kingdom. We can't say we have received it just yet. It's in progress. Now You'll see this concept in subsequent verses that we look at. Now again, just to be clear, justification is instant. The new birth is instant. Justification is a forensic term that says, or a judicial term that says you have been uh criminally declared innocent, you're acquitted of charges. The charges have been dismissed and dropped, another has paid that price. Glorification comes later, and that's when we receive that kingdom in its full measure. That's when we enter into the joy and the glory of our Lord. So I'm not talking about progressional justification. That's a teaching out there. It goes by several names. It goes by Federal Vision, the new th The new perspective on Paul, you'll find that kind of language out there as well. That's all heresy, and Dr. Elliott has a lot of information about that on his website, Teaching a Word. How do we get this kingdom? By conversion we receive it, and it's by grace. It's by grace. Don't read Hebrews 12, 28, and 9 in a backwards order. It doesn't say, when you serve God acceptably with reverence and godly fear and have grace, then you receive a kingdom which cannot be removed. This is how the Roman Catholics would teach it. They would put the works aspect first followed by the salvation aspect. Oh no no no no this is an opposite thing. The child of God is a new creature. He's alive. He's living and because of that he's going to live a different life. But he needs some guidelines And that's what the scripture gives him. Guidance. He's a justified individual, but he may not be yet sanctified. Positionally in Christ, yes, he's been made holy by virtue of his relationship to God, spirit dwelling in him, the relationship to the covenant, but he's got to wash away iniquity with the washing of the water by the word. That's how we get this kingdom. But let's talk about the kingdom now itself. And this is the part that I got excited about this week and why I really couldn't do the whole sentence. Because when we start looking at the features of this kingdom, it becomes really I I just was really struck and I'll I'll I'll get to my dynamite s scripture find of the week uh here in a bit. What are the features of this kingdom? You know when people look for a new car, uh they go to Edmunds or Cars dot com or some site where they can just evaluate I want an SUV and I wanted a certain features to it. And you can compare and contrast and you can look at those. Some of them just stand out to you. They they have all the features you're interested in This is not just a new city, folks. We're not looking for a rebuild set of things that can be shaken. things that an earthquake or war can take out. We're not trying to rebuild that. It's not a new tabernacle. It's not in fact even a a better high priest, one that's just tall, handsome, you know, qualified, you know, somebody looks like Anton. You know, we're not looking for that. We're looking for, we're looking for something totally, a whole kingdom. The first of all we find, and if you want to follow along in your bulletin on the section between the confession and the announcements, there's my fill-in-blanks if you'd like to take notes, if you're a note-taker, we find first that it's a spiritual kingdom. It's a spiritual kingdom. Now, don't make spiritual to be, you know, in our sense metaphysical. It's just kind of this thing that's out there, you don't go, oh no. Spiritual realm is very real, asked the Assyrian army as they lost 185,000 men. Jesus said in answer to the Pharisees in Luke chapter 17 and verses 20 and 21 And it's an interesting one to look at. Luke 17 and verse 20. In that passage we find this. When he was demanded of the Pharisees when the kingdom of God should come. So they knew there was a kingdom coming. They were interested in it. They wanted to know something about it. He answered and said, The kingdom of God cometh not with observation. These two eyeballs We're not going to detect the coming, the motion, the growth of the kingdom of God. Oh my, why is that? And he says, neither shall they say, lo here or lo there. They're not going to be saying, oh look, it's over here. This Nigerian prince, he set it up. They have a red heifer ready to go in Jerusalem. Oh no, no, no, that's not it. He says, For behold, the kingdom of God is within you. It's within you. It's a spiritual kingdom. If there's been a new birth, a new life, you have the earnest, the deposit, the down payment of God the Holy Spirit in you. God Himself is that kingdom, of course. 1 Corinthians 15, 50 says this, this I say, brethren, that flesh and blood cannot inherit the kingdom of God. Neither does corruption inherit incorruption. You're not going to find the kingdom of God consisting of flesh and blood. That's what we know here and now. So it's a spiritual kingdom. And that's just a sampling of the verses that I picked up. You know, if I were to ask you the question, what's the difference between you and the animals, you'd probably have to say, well, uh We're made in the image of God. Uh we we seem to have a conscience. We seem to be able to communicate. Yeah, you're a spiritual being. Right? That outer shell I see is really not you Uh someday someone's gonna lay you down in a seven-foot pine box and all will come around and mourn and look. That's not you in that box. That's the shell. You are not there. You, as a Christian, live forever. If you're an unbeliever You'll have a continued existence, but it won't be a very pleasant one. There's a difference. Only humans truly are spiritual beings. The spirit of the beast, Solomon says in Ecclesiastes, goeth downward to the earth, and the spirit of man returns toward to God who gave it. Second point, another feature about this kingdom. It's a spiritual kingdom. It's also ruled. You can't have a kingdom without a king. And it's ruled by the eternal king of kings. Turn to John 18. I just love this discourse, this interchange, this dialogue that Jesus has with Pontius Pilate. History records that Pontius Pilate was not a nice guy. He was not a politician. He was an iron-fisted ruler and an iron-fisted dictator. His solution was, did we hit him with a hammer? Good, hit him again and hit him harder. That was his approach to things in life. He was not there to try to appease anybody. He was there to enforce peace You know, the beatings will continue until morale improves. That was Pontius Pilate. But he got owned when Christ showed up. He's trying to trick him. He's trying to catch him because the Jews want to kill him And the Jews can't do it. And the only way that they can find way to kill Jesus, so the Romans would execute him, would be some Roman crime. Well, let's talk about being a uh a treasonous overthrower. And so Pilate asks him a question, and Jesus answered in John 18. Pilate asked him, Are you a king then? Oh no, that comes up later. Jesus answered, My kingdom is not of this world. John 18, 36. If my kingdom were of this world Then would my servants fight that I should not be delivered to the Jews? They're aligned with Jesus. Jesus doesn't have servants that are indifferent to him. They will fight for him, tooth and nail. But now is my kingdom not from hence. That's a very instructive statement. Number one, Jesus declares he's a king. Number two, he declares he has a kingdom. Number three, he says he has servants in it. And number four, his kingdom ain't from here. It's not in this world. Pilate therefore said unto him, Art thou a king then? Jesus answered, Thou sayest, I am a king. To this end was I born, and for this cause came I into the world, that I should bear witness unto the truth. Everyone so the truth heareth my voice. That's probably the most insightful statement, I think, in all of Scriptures, with Jesus' opinion of what is the kingdom of God. Other features of this kingdom, we see it's a spiritual kingdom. It's ruled by the eternal king of kings, and it's an unmovable and eternal kingdom. It's an unmovable and eternal kingdom. It c Not be moved The forces of heaven can't move it. Turn now to Daniel chapter 7. Daniel chapter 7 and verse 13. Daniel is a fascinating character when it comes to prophecy. And I don't intend to Expound on all the riches of what is going on in this vision that this young prince of Judah Is experiencing in the land of his captivity in Babylon. There's much in here. Much that has left biblical minimalists spinning because if what he says actually came to pass concerning the kings that rose up in the precise fashion that he identified and who would conquer who and when and so forth They would have to declare him a prophet, and so they try to push off Daniel's prophecy and much of his visions to far past the Babylonian captivity. But this is not so. It very much can be shown to be in that time period, and there's a lot of evidence internal and external to that that proves it. Well, I want to focus, however, on the kingdom and the features of this kingdom because he does reference it in a shadowy way, and it's Daniel 7, 13 and 14. In this vision, Daniel writes this. I saw in the night visions, and behold, one like the Son of Man. Well, we know who that is, came with the clouds of heaven. Behold, he cometh with clouds. Another evidence of who we're talking about. And came to the ancient of days, that's capitalized. I think we know who that's talking about. And they brought him near before him. And there was given him a dominion and glory and a kingdom. All that the Father has given me shall come to me. See, we are elements of that kingdom. That all people, nations, and languages shall serve him. God is going to have a people out of every tribe, kindred, tongue, and race. We think that would include us. His dominion is an everlasting dominion which shall not pass away. Can that which God has made anew and Through the new birth, can that be destroyed? Can somebody pluck you out of God the Father's hands? Is it possible that that which God has made can be destroyed? It's not If God's hand's in it, it's not going to be destroyed. His spiritual kingdom. And it says, his kingdom that which shall not be destroyed. Skip down a little further to verse 27. He says, and the kingdom and the dominion and the greatness of the kingdom under the whole heaven shall be given to the people of the saints of the Most High. I know who that is. It's not the alleged 144,000 that the Jehovah's Witnesses and the Seventh-day Adventists seem to think that they've written uh uh written down, captured somewhere. One of those two cults has this crazy idea. Uh it's not the uh uh these dead um carcasses rotting away in various Orthodox or Catholic places. It's not these post-exonerated heretics that have been declared wonderful and great by the uh head of the heretics of that particular denomination. That's not the saint. If you're a child of God, you're a saint. You are a saint by definition It says, it will be given to the people of the saints of the Most High, whose kingdom is an everlasting kingdom, and all dominions shall serve and obey Him. I don't know fully what it looks like when we receive that kingdom in its fullness. It as it were is still in progress being born again, being built up one brick at a time, still being assembled together. That's the features of this kingdom. And I would probably say that many of you before you arrived here today knew that. Probably understand that. I think I have a reasonably spiritually sensitized audience. But I was struck anew. Sometimes Brother Bernie said there's a lot of meat in the milk. And sometimes you read, I read over things too quickly. And there's just verses that you just go, wow, that's kind of interesting. And I'll share that verse with you today. Turn to Matthew 9. 35. Matthew 9. 35. I wasn't doing a real complex search. I was just looking for that word kingdom. It's all throughout the book of Matthew. Matthew speaks extensively about kingdom. Kingdom. And oh by the way, there's no difference between the term kingdom of God and kingdom of heaven. They are interchangeable. They are to be used the same. I have a book on my shelf from a former pastor of Irving Bible Church, Dr. Hussain. which makes much ado by trying to distinguish those two. To say kingdom of God is one thing, kingdom of heaven is another. Heaven's up there, God's down here, which is difficult to reconcile with certain passages. Matthew 9. 35a, we read this. Now I've just got an excerpt in here, but I want you to pay close attention to this connection to the gospel. And Jesus went about all the cities and villages, teaching in their synagogues and preaching the gospel of the kingdom. In healing every sickness and every disease among the people. Did you catch that? He is preaching the gospel of the kingdom. He doesn't say preaching the gospel of God's grace, though that would be true. He doesn't say preaching the gospel of the new covenant, that would be true. He didn't say preaching the gospel of fill in the blank many of the theologically connected, doctrinally sound positions we know and understand the New Testament teaches, particularly from the book of Hebrews. Here he calls it the gospel of the kingdom. The gospel of the kingdom of God. I find that fascinating. And it's not there only. Go to chapter 10 and verse 7. When he sends out the disciples, his twelve. He tells them in Matthew 10, 7, as you go preach. Okay, fellas, I'm going to commission you to go preach. What are they supposed to be preaching? They were to say this: the kingdom of heaven is at hand. The very first evangelical assignment that these fellows were sent on was to talk about the kingdom of heaven. I find that fascinating. I think the connection is astounding Turn now to Matthew 13 and verse 38. This is the the uh I'm sorry, Matthew 13, 19. We're going to get to 38 in just a moment. Matthew 13, 19. In the very first parable, the parable of the sower Jesus describes this. When anyone hears the word of the what? The kingdom. You know, I guess I've read that for years and says if anyone hears the word of the Lord or the Word of God or and that's true But he calls it the word of the kingdom and understands it not. Why is I find that fascinating? Well, let me put it to you this way the question. Can people hold differing views? of the features of the nature of the kingdom of God and still have the gospel right Now, I'm not talking about end-time teaching. I'm not talking about that. I'm talking about the features and the nature of the kingdom of God. Can they have different ideas about that and still have the gospel right? What are your thoughts? I'm not sure. I would have to say that I'll want to say no But I'll also question about what those differences are. But there is something about being saved by works, I think That is a very big difference of the nature of the gospels. So I'm I I I'm I'm not sure. That's a pretty wise answer actually, yeah. I would say uh people can perhaps rightly differ on the things that are not revealed. Like uh what will the what will the new flesh actually look like Um but as far as what is revealed that uh there can't be a difference there. As far as how long is eternity. Oh well it's actually just a long one hundred years, and then you actually end up dying anyway. Yeah. That that that's um something where it impacts the gospel if you're understanding of the kingdom. Yeah, absolutely. Good point. question that wouldn't like just like this. How will we find the changes? That does get to the essence of the question. Can there be multiple definitions of the kingdom of God and somebody still have the gospel right? I'm not talking eschatology I'm not gonna touch it. How many gospels are there? How many kingdoms are there? One kingdom. There's one kingdom. Jesus sent his disciples to preach the gospel of the kingdom. Not a kingdom. The kingdom. Does Jesus know what he's ruling over? Absolutely. Do you see where the impact of that statement in Matthew 9. 35, you went about preaching the gospel of the kingdom of God? I think that we still might have somewhere in our minds some understanding, or I shall I say misunderstanding, of what the kingdom of God really is and encompasses and entails. I think the answer ought to be unequivocally no. There can't be two kingdoms. Either it's eternal and unshakable and immovable or it's not. It's either within you or it's not. Either God the Holy Spirit is dwelling in it or it's not. He's not in two kingdoms because a kingdom divided against itself can't stand. There's great unanimity in the kingdom of God Do you see where I'm going with this? That's why Matthew 9. 35 is so penetrating, so powerfully impactful. It's the gospel of the kingdom of God. This is what they went and preached. They didn't have two different messages. Again, I'm not talking end-time theology. I'm not talking about those who would hold, well, we do believe that there may be a season that that uh there's a there's a uh a a millennia here, uh uh what I would call the the um uh the the classic oh what's the term I'm looking for can't uh it's not the dispensationalist, but it's the uh what's the term, Pastor? Uh uh the other uh millennial view. Pre-mill. No, it's not pre-mill. It's um I can my mind's drawing a blank. Um but it's one that uh was held as early as the second century. But I am talking about the nature. The nature, the features, the the the main the things that are clearly revealed, that aspect of it. the kingdom of God with the physical location of heaven. The city built four square is not the kingdom of God. It is a physical location. where the saints will dwell for all eternity. Whereas the kingdom of God um is not something we can see or put our hands on. Yeah, yeah. So I put that there to to illustrate to you that there is actually a pretty tight connection between the gospel message and this kingdom. There's a connection there. And it's not a trivial thing. I if if Jesus connects it and in fact he starts off in fact in the opening book of Mark it says uh uh there's the he he basically has the same starting message, this is just the top of my head Mark 1. 15, the time is fulfilled. The kingdom of God is at hand. Repent ye and believe the gospel. So there's very much a tight association, a tight connection between the kingdom of God, the gospel, and Jesus Christ, because the king knows what he's ruling over. The last feature I want to point out here about this kingdom. It is a spiritual one. It's ruled by the eternal King of Kings. It's an unmovable and eternal kingdom. The gospel message is about this kingdom. And this is the part that's nice. It's filled with all the right people. It's filled with all the right people. You know, um If you were to contemplate where do I want to live someday if I Made a lot of money, started a business, happened to strike it rich, somebody bought me out, turned over all my patents to somebody else. I'm sitting on, I don't know, Joey, name your figure. Two million dollars. Two million dollars. Oh up at two billion dollars. You were very successful. You could live anywhere you wanted to on this earth. And people would probably think of different places where they could go. They're looking for certain features. But you can't Change your neighbors. You can't fix your neighbors. All countries have neighboring countries. They have other there's there's no guaranteed resting place here. But the kingdom of heaven is filled with all the right people Look at Matthew 5. 3. We're going to keep going a little bit through Matthew because again, as I mentioned, it speaks often about the kingdom. Right in the very Opening portion of that classic Sermon on the Mount, the Lord Jesus says in Matthew 5, 3, Blessed are the poor in spirit for what? For theirs. It's the kingdom of heaven. If you're poor in spirit, poor over your sins, grieved at what you've done, this is the start of salvation. This is the very initial part. Repent and believe. Repentance means Seeing what you've done, this is a disaster. I've got to turn around and go the other way. Jesus says, You're blessed. As your eyes have been opened to see that yes, you were going the wrong direction. Yours is the kingdom of heaven. Look at verse 10 of Matthew 5. Blessed are they which are persecuted for righteousness' sake, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. You read about this on foreign mission fields, you read about it on any mission field, home mission fields as well. It happens to individuals among families in certain countries. They're persecuted for righteousness' sake. They claim a righteousness by faith, not of their own. Faith in what? Faith in not a A dogma, not an idea, but in a person, Jesus Christ. And because of that, even to wear a cross and crucifix around their neck can get them kicked out of their family and in some places killed, quote unquote, honorably. You read in Matthew 7. 21 a page over, and I remember when I first came across this verse, because it was a real slap in my face. Not everyone that saith unto me, Lord, Lord, Jesus reports, shall enter into the kingdom of heaven There's a lot of people that say Jesus is Lord. There's a lot of people that say, Lo, you've taught in our streets. And we've Eaten in your presence. We've been around. We've had an association. Yes, there are many. And Jesus says, not everyone that says that is in fact going to enter the kingdom of God. Turn now to also Matthew 13, 38, because there are in fact, at the end of the day, two spiritual kingdoms that are in view. with two spiritual kings over them. In this wonderful parable of the wheat and the tares In Matthew 13, 38, Jesus reports this, the field is the world. The good seed are the children of the kingdom. The good seed. You see, the children of the kingdom are called of God good seed. Good seed. I've heard it said of some of in my father and grandmother's community and time period they would speak of an individual who married so and so they say well yeah they're they're bad seed they they just had a uh a taint to them. There just wasn't uh a good upbringing or or or whatever. They just were uh not acceptable But here the good seed are the children of the kingdom. But the tares are the children of the wicked one. There's your two kingdoms The kingdom of the Lord Jesus Christ and the Kingdom of the Evil One. He sows his seeds too. He has lots of useful idiots He's so successful he even gets them to think that he doesn't exist. He's a deceiver from the beginning, and a liar and a murderer. And he's the father of lies. He's the fountain of it. And then we read in verse 41 that the Son of Man shall send forth his angels, and they shall gather out of his kingdom all things that offend, and them which do iniquity. And as verse 43a, then shall the righteous shine forth as the sun in the kingdom of their father. You know. There are those that somehow infiltrate this kingdom. Yes, it's within you. But here on this earth we mingle. It's called a corporate church. It's called the world. The field is the world. We we interact with people. We get into a job, we have to have a relationship with our co-workers. Not your best friend forever relationship, but a Working relationship, a business relationship. You do them right. You've been hired, you're on the clock to do certain tasks. You're responsible for those things. And so You behave as a Christian, serving the Lord in that relationship. Invite them to church. Invite them to listen to certain things. Hand them attract. You're not being paid to evangelize, but you can certainly do that at break time and appropriate points of time which are not being construed as robbing your employer. But there are some that will lose this kingdom as we operate. They think they're in the kingdom, but they're not. How do they lose it? No, I'm not talking about falling from grace. If somebody loses their inheritance, so to speak, from the kingdom of heavens because they were never saved to begin with. Well who are these people? How do some lose this kingdom? Well who are these individuals? Or some of them are those who get its benefits without its citizenship. I think we understand this quite well in America. We get incense of those who are here illegally. They are not citizens, and yet they are taking from your paycheck, your paycheck, and your social security And they are using it for themselves. They never had anybody who fought for the cause of America. They never had anybody who was devoted to it. They have no sworn allegiance to it They are don't want to claim to be under their laws. They want to wave their flag from Mexico or whatever. We understand being incensed about that. Those who get benefits without its citizenship. You know what? That happens in a spiritual realm too. This happens spiritually. Some have the trappings of religion, and they have a form of godliness, the scripture says. They have a form of godliness, which is a scary thought. But there's no heart change. The old Puritans had a term for this, and I heard a sermon from Dr. Peter Masters recently about this, that about 150 years ago there was a deep concern At the Metropolitan Tabernacle Church, where the likes of John Gill and Spurgeon preached. They were worried about nominal Christians. Nominal Christians. Nominal, nomos, meaning you name a word, they testified. But that's all it was in name only. It's like trying to hire the person who has a certificate, but no experience. He can pass the test, but he can't plumb a pipe. He can't weld. He can't whatever Look at Matthew chapter 21 and verse 42. Because there's nothing new under the sun in the scriptures speak about nominal Christians without using that term. That's our handle for it. But the problem of nominal Christians is nothing new and it dates back to the time of the Jews and is altogether relevant in our section here of Hebrews. In Matthew 21, verse 42, Jesus is speaking to some people. He's speaking to um let me find who he's talking to. I believe he's speaking either to the Jews that had gathered or the Pharisees. Verse 23, the chief priests and elders of the people. This is who he's speaking to in the temple. He drops a bomb on them in forty-two, and Jesus saith unto them, Did you never read in the scriptures the stone? Which the builders rejected, speaking of himself, the same has become the head of the corner. This is the Lord's doing, and it is marvelous in our eyes It's got to be marvelous in your eyes. Therefore I say unto you, the kingdom of God shall be taken from you, and given to a nation, bringing forth the fruits thereof. I think this is a very good verse that Adds some weight to what Pastor mentioned, which is some people conflate the kingdom of God with a physical building. Here Jesus is saying that king is going to be taken from you and given to a nation Bearing fruits. That nation would be Gentiles. That would be a whole other realm of people. But notice he says it's going to be taken from Philippians 3. 20 says this And I'm reading from the Young's Literal Translation because it actually uses the word that's rendered here. It says, our citizenship is in heaven. King James says or conversation. But the Greek word is a word that is the root for our word politics or polity. Uh citizenship is the very accurate rendition of it. It has to do with your association to a city and to a country. Our citizenship is in heaven. But theirs is not. They don't have the birth certificate. We do, and it's not going to get lost or burnt because it's stored in heaven's treasures. How else do some lose this kingdom? Well, they get benefits without having being a citizen. And maybe they're from a good family. Either a good Jewish family, as the audience, the first audience of the book of Hebrews was written to, could be from a good religious family Grandma was religious. Grandpa was religious. You can be blessed to be born of that. But God only has children. He doesn't have grandchildren. But they are from a good family, but from the first birth only, just physically being born into it. There's blessings with that, to be sure. There are tremendous benefits. These uh young ones born into a Christian home have an association and a relationship to it. They are called holy by the Apostle Paul in 1 Corinthians 7. Else were your children unclean, but now are they holy. There is a relationship they have. They've been sanctified by the believing spouse. Even one saved individual in the house is a tremendous blessing. God's presence is there. Like the fellow that had the Ark of the Covenant in his house for a season. His house was blessed while that Ark was there back in the Old Testament in the book of Samuel But this is best illustrated in the book of John, chapter 8. And I'd like you to turn there. This will be our last passage we turn to in John 8 and verse 37. John 8, 37, Jesus is having a discussion with a bunch of Jews You're arguing with it. And in John eight thirty-seven You might want to skip back to verse 33 just briefly. Because they say to Jesus, we be Abraham's seed. And were never in bondage to any man. Well, some would say, well, they were stupid. They they were in bondage to the Romans right then. No, they knew their history. They knew what was going on. They're talking that's spiritual They believed that they were never in spiritual bondage. They had a different plan of salvation than everybody else does. They say, we are Abraham's seed. That's all I want to focus on. But then skip to verse 37, where Jesus says, I know I know that ye are Abraham's seed, but you seek to kill me because my word has no place in you. Well you know no murderer has eternal life. But notice that Jesus acknowledges, I know your Abraham's seed. Ah, but skip ahead two verses In verse 39, they answered and said unto him, Abraham is our father. Jesus saith unto them, if ye were Abraham's children. Then you would do the works of Abraham. Isn't that interesting? In one verse he says, I know you're Abraham's seed. I know you're born of the flesh after a descendant of a man named Abraham. I know you can trace your lineage. You have a good lineage. You've got a good family history. You can trace it back. Some of you can. I think that's phenomenal. That's really interesting. I'm struggling with that a bit in my family just because of the nature of how things came about. But then Jesus goes on to say, well if you were Abraham's children, what's he talking about? Ah. He's talking about those who are children of faith, those who believed. God. Those who believed that stone which the builders have set These are the individuals of which Romans 2 speaks about, not those who were circumcised in the flesh. After the letter, but in heart, whose in the spirit and whose praise and honor is of is of God, not of man, they had to be born again. You know, Matthew 8. 11 is the last passage I'll read, just have you consider for a moment as we're thinking about this kingdom. I say unto you that many shall come from the east and the west. And shall sit down with Abraham and Isaac and Jacob in the kingdom of heaven, but the children of the kingdom. Wow! The way Jesus uses that word is very interesting. Shall be cast out into outer darkness. There shall be weeping and gnashing of teeth. Oh, they think they're in the kingdom. They think they're there. These are the individuals who take away from the words of the book of life. Jesus says, I'll take their name out of the book of life. In Revelation 22, 19, that's a sharp warning. These are those that don't believe Christ. Oh, he's not the Messiah, he can't possibly be. These are those that are, no, we the church is a parenthesis. We're looking for the real deal called a new temple in Jerusalem. That's not this message. Jesus is not teaching reconstruction. He's talking a new kingdom that's everlasting and will know no end. And that's your kingdom. It's our kingdom. We're intimately part of that. You realize you're an eternal creature? I told mom the other day, I said, uh, she asked me, are you going to miss me? I said, no, I'm not going to miss you, I said, because you're I'm always going to be with you. I'll always be there. And I will, whether in death or in life. Because we're both born of the Spirit of God. There's not there'll be a a a brief separation, a brief pause, very brief, if my whole life is a hand breadth. And and I'm at the fourth finger and she's at the fifth? What diff what distance what what distance is that? I don't even know if there's a measure for that. Very brief. You're an eternal creature. So my challenge questions to you are this: Do you primarily consider yourself a citizen of the country of your birth or of the kingdom of heaven? What is your primary association? Someone asked me or someone stated years ago, are you an engineer who happens to be a Christian, or are you a Christian who happens to be an engineer? That's an interesting and important nuance. The second is this, when people encounter you. When they come into your presence, when they interact and speak with you. Do they encounter someone who appears as a child of heaven? Or do they appear as someone who's a child of hell like themselves, tossed to and fro with every wind that blows about? What is our association? What is our our identification? You know, sometimes you can be so wrapped up in work that your job becomes your identification. And you become very proud of that. And there are some people who have done some admirable things. But the Lord Jesus has excelled all of that. Above and beyond. He's made something that will never be destroyed, and you're blessed to be a part of that. And so that's your meditation for the day. Kingdom of God. Just a fascinating thought and how that's connected to the gospel. Anton, could you close us in prayer? Father in heaven, thank you for bringing us your word. What what uh rich uh promises there are to your people. What an uh amazing thing. We have a kingdom that won't be ruined. An everlasting kingdom. It's hard for us to comprehend all the things that we see with the eye do perish in due time. Oh Lord, you have the kingdom that has no one. That's your nature is. Please help us to Take hold on that kingdom. Take hold of Christ. Continue working in us, conform to his image and the Lord. Yeah, help us to be ready for every every uh trial, every labor, O Lord, knowing that the time here is short. Lord, we ask all this in Christ's name. Amen. Amen. Take it.