Today and I'm struck anew with the fact that this is an epistle written to Jews And that poses a problem for us because we don't have really an innate sense of the things that were very common, very well understood in the Jewish society. So this is written to them. This is a group of people, if you recall, who thought of the Messiah as one who would be a political savior. Get us out of whoever is ruling over us at the time, which for them was the Romans He's gonna overthrow it. Let's make him a king. It's not why he came. It wasn't his purpose. He had a different kingdom in mind. He's told Pilate, My kingdom is not of this world. If my kingdom were of this world, then would my servants fight. But now is my kingdom not. From hence. So let's look then at this, and I'm going to try to immerse us into a little bit of Hebrew and Jewish thought from the Old Testament because this is just not something that innately resonates with us when I mention certain terms. It's not going to resonate with us as it might with a Jew. So let's first of all get our passage in front of us now. So let's turn to Hebrews 2, 17 and 18. I trust, I think I put it in your bulletin inserts. And we should be able to read it. Maybe Gabriel can pull it up on screen. Hebrews two, seventeen and eighteen. Wherefore In all things, it behooved him. This old English word means he ought to. He ought to. It ought to have been done this way. It behooved him to be made like unto his brethren That, there's a purpose, anytime you see that, it's a purpose statement, that he might be a merciful to us and faithful to God, high priest, in things pertaining to God to make reconciliation for the sins of the people. For in that heath himself hath suffered being tempted, being tried, being tested, he is able to succor, to help, to aid them that are tempted. So this is our passage. Now this would really be a huge punchline to the Hebrews, and I'm going to try to illustrate that. Part of the downside of the way I've been doing this study is I'm going so slow is that we lose sight of some of the context. And that first word where for drags in everything that's been laid out. Before. It says, in light of all these things we've discussed, it behooved him to be made like unto his brethren that he might be a faithful and merciful high priest. Well, what is the wherefore, therefore? Why was it a right thing that he ought to be made like us? Why was it right? Well, the context talks about his accomplishments. And you can look in your Bible if you wish. Open to Hebrews 2. We're just going to do a little quick scan back. Or you can follow along. He he was a suffering servant. He tasted death for every man in verse 9. We talked a little bit about the atonement. He himself took part of flesh and blood That through death, so it talks about his death, partaking of flesh and blood. He came on the cross. We we know these things, verse fourteen He is holy. He is sanctified. It says that he that sanctifieth, that is Jesus and God, and they who are sanctified are all of one. We're united in his holiness, in that sanctifying purpose He's an adopting father. He brought many sons into glory. He spoke about I and the children, verse 10, verse 13. He's an adopting father. That implies an inheritance. That implies an inheritance when you're brought into the family. He is a leader. It speaks about the captain of their salvation. He was a victorious and is a victorious conqueror. He destroyed death, verse 14. Verse 15. He delivered them who through fear of death were all their lifetime subject to bondage. And that's one that really caught my attention. That is a fascinating phrase. I didn't develop it this particular aspect when we talked about verse 14 The commentators are a little confused, and now I think I understand why. Maybe I'm totally off, because I don't want to say that I'm smarter than commentators. But They're debating who is the them. They who, through fear of death, were their lifetime subject to bond uh uh the uh da-da-da-da-da-da. 15 them who through fear of death were all their lifetime subject. Who's the them? And the commentators are kind of all over the map. Is it us? Is it certain Old Testament people? Is it and and I think Gentile commentators don't get it if you look at it from a Jewish perspective, if I may be so bold as to assert that. But I'm going to get back to that phrase towards the end of today's study, because frankly that was the aha moment for me in this study. was connecting that with him being a merciful and faithful high priest. Well anyway, when you consider all that he has done, suffering servant, atonement, holy, he's a captain, he's a leader, a conqueror What are the results? Well, we declare him, we sing praises unto him, we trust him. That's the result. So there's the fruit. There's the great difficulty that he sowed through his life in this world, and then there's the fruit that came from it, so that we would praise him, declare him, and trust him. And you know, folks, let's not miss the simple point here. He became like us that we might become like him. There's a purpose to all that. He's not down here just To try to impress us. This isn't some magic show. Here, try to do a trick that you can't figure out. No, that's not what he's here to do. He became like us, that we might become like him. Well, I want to spend some time now in verse 17, that latter part, that he might be a faithful and merciful high priest in things pertaining to God to make reconciliation for the sins of the people. I'm going to talk about reconciliation, and then we're going to spend the bulk of the time talking and exploring this idea of the high priest. Reconciliation. Now that word happens to have the same cognate, the same root sense and meaning of the word propitiation. It's also rendered mercy or merciful. There is a difference between expiation and propitiation That word propitiation is in the King James Bible, rightfully so. It shows up in 1 John 2, and you know this passage. He is the propitiation uh uh for us, not only not us only, but also for the sins of the whole world. 1 John 4 10, He loved us and sent His Son to be the propitiation for our sins. He's a propitiation And I am on this drumbeat. I am going to footstop this point every time I get to it. Because modern translations tend to not use the word propitiation. They use the word expiation. What is the difference? You might say, well, both are confusing. We don't use it in our modern English vernacular, but it is kind of a technical term and a legal term. You already sense the differences in that prefix, pro versus X. Pro kind of means forward. If you're a professional, you're somebody pretty far advanced in what you're doing. uh as opposed to ex uh if you're an expatriate you no longer live in the country, you're out of the country, you've you know you're not in that nation anymore. But what's the distinction here for what Christ has done on the cross for us? Well, Christ's death brought a propitiation. His death was propitiatory. That means that he truly made a full reconciliation, a full reconciliation between God and all whom Christ represented. He favorably disposes the offended toward the offender, favorably disposes them. Imagine If Heaven had a post office with a cork board next to it and the FBI's top 10 wanted list posted there, with their faces. You know, they used to do that, right? Some of you might remember the post office that where they had these things. Top ten. If you've seen these people, let us know Well, I'm here to inform you that on Heaven's Corkboard, Heaven doesn't have a corkboard, in Heaven's post office, Heaven doesn't have a post office, but if it did, your picture would be on that corkboard We have violated seriously, heavily, tremendously, the law of God. Well, I'm not bad as so-and-so. That's not the point. You're not as good as God And you have broken every commandment of God in omission or d or uh in deeds of commission or deeds of omission. We need to embrace that, we need to think of that, we need to recognize that insofar as our standing before heaven is concerned, that is our starting point as a result of the fall and our subsequent lives. What's going to fully reconcile a top 10 criminal to the FBI? You know, I recently read a story where a daughter was there with her father on his deathbed. And the man is in his 70s. And on his deathbed, he confesses to his daughter, whom he has raised from birth. He says, by the way, honey, before I die, I have to tell you something. My name is not such and such It's actually so-and-so. And I'm a fugitive from the FBI. I really don't want to go to my grave without this being disclosed. She thought it was a dad's joke, you know, a a f a strange way of uh making humor at his most serious hour. Come to find out, he's not kidding He stole a quarter of a million dollars from a bank in Pittsburgh and they never found him. He'd worked at the bank. Security was low. He developed a second identity, alternate identity, led a new upstanding life Nobody ever found him. She said there were little clues where he didn't want to go to France, because that would require a passport and looking things up, and he didn't want to do certain things that, you know, she thought, no, that's strange. Oh well, he just doesn't want to do such and such. But found out he was a wanted criminal. He was able to hide it. What is it that's going to fully reconcile us to God? He was able to hide from the law of the land and pretend to be someone else. Can you hide from God and pretend to be someone else? That trick isn't going to work. Can you take on a different name? Well, not going to work either. What's going to fully reconcile you to God, nothing less than propitiation, and that's what Christ death does. It fully pays for the sins, expiation, but the propitiatory axe aspect is that God is now very favorable toward you, not merely placated, he's favorable to you. He's willing to adopt you into his family. What kind of a sacrifice would that be? What kind of a sweet smelling you ever notice that term in the Old Testament? A sweet smelling sacrifice. You know, if I burn certain things in the woods, certain animals maybe that Gabriel kills, we burn the carcass. It doesn't really smell that. But the death of Christ and his atonement in the nostrils of God was a sweet, sweet smelling sacrifice. It's extraordinary. And it placates him completely so that he says, yes. He wants to wrap the arms around the one and says, yes, we're fully. fully reconciled. Your sins and iniquities will I remember no more. Gone as far as the east is from the west, he promises never to bring them up again. When you do something, you sin in this life. Something bad happens. It must be God's punishment because of my sins Not to pay for them. Not to you don't need to go to the Mass to have Christ sacrificed again on your behalf. No, no, no. Once he suffered Once he doesn't need to keep being re-sacrificed again and again. It's fully paid for. God is satisfied. Anything that happens to us now falls through the hands of a loving and merciful God to conform us to the image of his Son That's the purpose. Maybe you need to be taught, nah, that's not really helpful for you, but it's not payment for your sin. He does not deal with us after our iniquities. He doesn't reward us for the depth of the deeds that are required. The Old Testament priests at best delivered an expiation. So when they sacrificed bulls The blood of goats and calves. At best, it was an expiation. It made them right with the nation of Israel again. That's all it did. Leviticus 8, we read You don't have to turn there. Leviticus 8. 15. He slew it. Moses took the blood. He purified the altar. He poured the blood at the bottom of the altar. He sanctified it to make reconciliation upon it. It's a sign. You're not clean until I see the blood. It's a reminder. 2 Chronicles 29. the he-goats for the sin offering before the king and the congregation. They laid their hands upon them. Laying the hands is a very Old Testament fundamental principle. When you lay the hands on something, what you're what are you doing? You're transferring it. You know, Angela and I watched a cooking show last night. It wasn't a show, it was a nine minute video on how to make chicken legs differently and it was some German cook and it was quite tasty looking, had some interesting things. And so Ansel's watching as he's Preparing the chicken legs and slicing them up, saying down. And then he takes his hand, unclean, and he grabs the spice bottle. And Angela freaked out. Oh great, there's a salmon salmonella contamination there to your spice bottle. Why are you doing that He laid his hands on this other thing and it contaminated it. So it was in the Old Testament with the priests. When they laid their hands on this beast, it's contaminating the beast with the sins of the people It's imputing them to them. He literally didn't say, okay, everybody touch me. Okay, now I'm going to touch the land. He didn't do that, right? But it's a sign, it's a symbol. It's recognizing that there is an imputation. So the concept of imputation is one of the first principles that the Oracle's God. We're going to read about that later in Hebrews, the laying on of hands. It's imputation. Our sins were imputed to Christ. He didn't physically change into a deeply, dreadfully sinful man because his body lay in the tomb. Saw no corruption, we read in the book of Acts that Peter preached, and came forth from the grave without corruption. He saw no sin. His innate nature didn't change But he who knew no sin became sin for us, insofar as heaven was concerned, contaminated. Contaminated So this is the Old Testament concept of imputation of reconciliation. The priests would then kill these sin offerings, and they made reconciliation with their blood upon the altar to make an atonement for all Israel But it was an atonement for all Israel. It was an atonement for the Gentiles. It said, all Israel. That's who the atonement for. The atonement was always for a specific people. You had to have a priest. What good's an atonement if you don't have an priest laying his hands on the sin offering? God Almighty laid his hands on Jesus Christ That he might atone for all Israel. And we learned from Romans 2 that not all Israel is Israel, but that there's actually some Gentiles in that mix. He's not a Jew who was one circumcised outwardly, but one circumcised inwardly, in not in the flesh, but in the spirit. whose uh praise is of God, not of men. And so yes, atonement was always for a specific people. They for whom the priest laid his hands upon, transferred those sins, and bless my soul, Joe, those sins are gone. Actually this is part of the prayer meeting challenge I've worked on for a few weeks, but the Old Testament was always a covering. The New Testament is a true cleansing. Oh good point. Yes. At best it was a covering The blood of bulls and goats cannot fully pay for sense. Yes, that's all it was. It was sweeping it under the rug. Christ's offering, however, we read, delivered far greater benefits. This was foretold in the Old Testament. Daniel 9, 24, 70 weeks are determined to finish the transgression. Finish, Jeffrey. To make an end of sins. And to make reconciliation for iniquity, and to bring in everlasting righteousness. Jesus Christ did that on the cross. made an end of sins. Insofar as our sins are concerned, terminated, done. They're gone. Insofar as God's concerned, you have everlasting righteousness Oh, but you're such a hypocrite. You know what your answer to that is? Until you find- you'll find plenty of fault with me, and you probably don't even know the half of it. I can tell you a whole lot more problems. But until you find fault with Jesus Christ, you don't have a thing on me, because it's his righteousness I have. So you find fault with him, and then you found fault with my righteousness because my righteousness is not mine own. It's his It's imputed as a transfer. Romans 5. 10. For if when we were enemies we were reconciled to God by the death of his son. We're reconciled. There's a complete reconciliation. Some of you maybe have family members or friends. You've got pictures hanging in your house, and you see these people and you go, oh, yeah, we don't talk to them anymore. Those were happy times, but not now. I have a lot of those pictures, sadly. I'm almost tired of taking pictures. Almost don't want to take pictures. Because when I do take pictures, invariably they end up on the oh yeah, no, we don't want to keep that picture anymore. These people did us dirty. These people ratted us, and these people were a huge problem. But there was a happy time Can you imagine? We were reconciled to God. God took that picture from the bottom of a do-not-look pile and said, yes, this is going on my desk right there This brings a smile to my face. He looks upon us graciously, favorably. That's what reconciliation is. That's a reconciliation I can use. And that's what Christ gives us. Well now we're going to talk about the high priest, that he might be a merciful and faithful high priest. I'm telling you, Hebrews is a very unique book. This is the one book among all books of Scripture that alludes to Jesus Christ as the priest. When you go through Romans, the Apostle to the Gentile focuses on the law He's focusing on the law. He talks about faith. There's propitiation through faith in his blood. Romans 3. He writes an entire chapter about faith, Romans 4. He talks about being reconciled by the death of Christ, Romans 5. He explores Christ's death and the ramifications, Romans 6. He explores the role of the law in death. Romans chapter 7, the role of the Spirit of God that dwelleth in you. Romans chapter 8. Nowhere in those chapters does he really talk about the priesthood of Christ. And you know what? That really wouldn't make sense to a Gentile audience. Who were the priests back in Gentile in Roman days? To a Roman, if you talked about a priest to a Roman, to a Hellenized Roman, who would that be? Who were some of the priests that the Romans had? Know your history? Priests of Jupiter? Priests of Apollo? Right? If you were privileged to be a city that found favor in Rome's eyes, they might set up a temple, a temple for Apollos, perhaps And then that meant everybody had to come, offer a pinch of incense. Of course they were required to drop off a temple tax along the way. It was a big revenue maker. It was almost as good as putting up a new speedlight camera in DC, right? Gonna be a couple of million bucks of revenue from that You were privileged to have that, right? To have a God. And Rome had plenty of gods, and Christians were accused of being atheists because they didn't believe in Rome's gods. How times have changed So you wouldn't talk about a priest to a gentile because that wouldn't make sense that wouldn't make sense. It would convey the wrong impression. It would twist your mind. But to a Jew, you would. Because to a Jew, who was who were the priests? What do you know about the priests? What would a Jew know about the priests? Anybody? Priests made daily sacrifices. Okay, they made daily sacrifices? What else did priests do that the Jews knew about? describe their life or their lot. Yeah. Yeah they they were set apart. They were not part of the common society. They were very much set apart, okay. Where's the tribe of the priests? Which tribe was that? Levi. Tribe of Levi, and what part of the land did they have any land? What was their land? Yeah, cities. Cities of refuge. Different cities? But no no property owned by their family. Yeah, there wasn't like the tribe of Asher with a dedicated piece or the tribe of Judah. The Levites were scattered among the people. And we read about that, and that's what we're going to spend a little time looking at, because there was the priests. And then there was the priest of the priest, the high priest. But let's start to understand the priests to begin with. So let's, for instance, consider. In fact, I'll read this. It's just five verses, but we're going to turn to Leviticus 21. The priests, we're going to find out, were highly respected individuals. Highly respected. They were honorable men, and their honor was to be retained. They would do nothing profane, which means common. They had a very special job For instance, even their dress was unusual in Exodus twenty-eight when God is administering the first covenant of Mount Sinai, he's going to describe this office of a priest. He says, you take unto thee Aaron, thy brother, and his sons with him. This is Moses and Aaron. That's this Aaron we're talking about, the Aaronic line, the Aaronic priesthood. From among the children of Israel that he may minister to me in the priest's office. So it was an office, it was a function. It doesn't mean a desk and a cubicle and a computer. It means he had a a job. Thou shalt make holy garments for Aaron thy brother for glory and for beauty. Yea, glorious, beautiful dress Speak unto all them that are wise-hearted to make Aaron's garments to consecrate him. The finest clothiers among the children of Israel were commissioned for making his clothing. You ever had a Brooks brother suit? They're very nice. You ever have a Nordstrom's Easy Care shirt? I'm telling you, they're very nice. They're very expensive. Probably about $200-250 these days, but in my opinion, worth every penny. They're excellent shirts He had the best clothing, the best, the best clothiers that were there. You're going to make a breastplate and an ephod. And a robe. And a broidered coat. He had a suit. Jacket on, basically. A miter. A crown on his head. The only ones that wore crowns were the priests. Kings didn't wear crowns. Priests did. So when you read about crowns in the New Testament, in the context of the Jewish setting, think priest, not king. The priests had the crowns And a girdle, and they shall make holy garments. These were not average common articles of clothing. And they shall take gold and blue and purple and scarlet and fine linen. Now, Mrs. Ross is probably the only one in our midst that I know that might have an article of clothing that has gold woven into it. I'm sure she found something in a bazaar somewhere in uh Lower Slobovistan or some strange place in the world that she's visited and found this thing for sale and hauled it back over here. Countries like Lebanon, gifts of gold, a little more common America we tend to not wear gold clothing. That's just kind of Russia, yes, they're all into the gaudiness, right? They like Well, this is what the priest had. His clothing had gold on it, and this was being commissioned to the children of Israel who just came out of Egypt, and they're going to wander in the desert. He says, you take gold, and you make it for the priest's clothing This dude looked sharp. He was a sharp-dressed man, and what do you do when you come in the presence of somebody who is very sharply dressed? What does that do to you? Yeah, you look at them, respect, other way around. What if you go into a setting and you're sharply dressed? How does that make you feel? You feel pretty good. Confidence. No, I'm not talking to you right now. I didn't ask Siri a question. You didn't impress Siri with my question. All right. Sharp dressed individuals, even to this day, commands respect, makes them feel confident Right, the worst thing you want to do is go to a business meeting in your underdress. I don't feel like wearing a tie today. You better wear a tie because it's easy to take off rather than find one that matches your your clothes This is a sharp-dressed individual. Go to Leviticus 21. Not only was he dressed sharply, but he had restrictions in terms of what he could or couldn't do. Turn to Leviticus 21. We're going to take a trip Beginning in verse 1, we're going to go through the first eight verses. And I cut this really short. You can read all of Leviticus 21. To see more of this individual's unique lifestyle. But beginning in verse 1, we said, the Lord said unto Moses, Speak unto the priests, the sons of Aaron. He's going to give them some instruction. He says, there shall be none defiled for the dead among his people. This man can't touch a dead body. He is not part of the cleanup crew. Verse 6, they shall be holy unto their God, and not profane, not make common the name of their God. They're not going to be involved in common work. For the offerings of the Lord made by fire and so forth, verse the end of the verse, they shall be holy. How are they going to be holy? Verse seven. They shall not take a wife that is a whore. Not going to marry some sleazy gal with a tramp stamp. Not going to happen. Or profane, not a common average gal. Not going to do that. Neither shall they take a woman put away or divorced from her husband. Not going to marry such a one. For he is holy unto his God. Thou shalt sanctify him, therefore, for he offereth the bread of thy God. He shall be holy unto thee. For I am the Lord which sanctify you. I am holy. Alright, that's interesting So we find that all the priests were holy and sanctified because of a thrice holy God that sanctifies us. He is a representative of God among the people. You sanctify him because I, the Lord my God, am he that sanctifies you. Again, God is multiplying his shadows, his types, his figures. He is painting with a living picture What the gospel is about, who God is, what his character is, what redemption is. All of these concepts are being laid out in how the priests operate All the priests were holy, but there's one connection. What is this connection, therefore, now to our passage back in Hebrews that he might be a faithful and merciful high priest to us? What is the connection to wherefore it behooved him to be made like unto us that he might be a faithful and merciful high priest? Okay, we see that he's special. We agree Christ is special We didn't read much about death, but we did see this verse back in Hebrews that talked about delivering them who through fear of death were their lifetime subject to bondage. And I think that is the connection. Turn with me now to the book of Numbers. Joe mentioned this earlier about cities of refuge. Let's explore that in the book of Numbers and chapter thirty-five excuse me, chapter thirty-five. Numbers thirty-five Gives a curious, some would say odd or strange rule that had to be observed among the children of Israel. In Numbers 35, We read in verse 2, command the children of Israel that they give unto the Levites of the inheritance of their possessions cities to dwell in, so they didn't have their own parcel of land, their big uh tribal boundary region, you know, all the boundaries that were called out in the book of Numbers and Deuteronomy. No, no, no, that's not there. They were scattered among the people. Give them cities. And there's some distances that are given. And then it says in verse nine The Lord spake unto uh Moses. Oh, actually I have to go back to verse six, and the cities which ye shall give unto the Levites, there shall be six cities for refuge, which you shall appoint. for the manslayer. This is the concept of the city of refuge. There were six of these things. It turns out there were three west of the Jordan River and there were three east of the Jordan River They were to be set up so that access was easy. You didn't put a bunch of rocks in the way. You didn't make a path through the mountains there. You had to make it plain. Open, sign, city of refuge. This way it was to be quick access to it. And we're going to see why for in a moment here. In verse 9, it says, Why are they appointed? Verse 11. Then you shall appoint you cities to be cities of refuge for you that the slayer, somebody who killed somebody else, may flee thither. He can flee there, which killeth any persons unawares. And they shall be unto you cities of refuge from the Avenger. The Avenger is the one whose kin, whose son, whose wife was killed, and they want to exact revengeance upon them. Alright? The killer flees to the city of refuge. Alright, now what happens? Verse 15, these cities are refuge for the children of Israel and for the stranger. Some Egyptian comes through, kills somebody. It's for him too. And for the sojourner amongst them, for every one that killeth any person unawares may flee thither Then we read in verse 16 that there are rules to determine if this is third-degree murder or not. He flees to the city of refuge. He is to stay there until the congregation can meet with the elders to weigh this case out. Basically the city is a holding tank. It's a prison cell And he's to stay in that city, typically a walled city. He's to remain in there. And here's the rules. Verse 16, if he smited him with an instrument of iron. So that he die is a murderer, surely be put to death. Verse 17. Smite him with throwing a stone, wherewith he may die. He is a murderer, be put to death. Smite him with a hand weapon of wood at a big knobby club. He dies. He's a murderer, surely put to death. The revenger of blood himself shall slay the murderer. When he meets him, he shall slay him. So there were rules for what constituted capital punishment. It was intentional, willful death of an individual. However, in verse 21 to 23, you had rules of what we would call involuntary manslaughter. It was A very bad outcome, but it wasn't intentional. So for instance, verse 21, enemy smite him with his hand, did he die? He that smote him shall be put to death. He's a murderer But, verse 22, if he thrust him suddenly without enmity, without hatred, cast upon him anything without laying of weight. He just happened to be clearing out rocks from the top of his cliff and didn't know that some guy was down there or rock hit him in the head and killed him. I killed somebody. That's involuntary. He had no interaction before. We have accommodations for that in our laws today. Nonetheless, his punishment was this In verse 25, that uh verse 24, the congregation shall judge between the slayer and the revenger of blood according to these judgments. Depending on the outcome, the congregation shall deliver the slayer out of the hand of the revenger of blood, and the congregation shall restore him to the city of his refuge whether he was fled. Alright, so it turns out It was involuntary manslaughter, okay? You stay in this city. You can't go back to where you're from. You must stay in this city. Oh, but I want to go home and get my stuff. Well, if you do, and you're caught walking abroad, if the revenger of blood finds you, he can kill you and no harm will come to him. So here we have a man, and oh by the way, if he's convicted guilty of murder, then they hand him to the revenger. of of blood and he's killed at the hands of the one who's most interested. The law doesn't take him out. If it was my son that was killed, I would kill the man that killed my son. I would have that satisfaction. And the law permitted that. Now If the slayer leaves the city, verse 26, and the revenger of blood find him, he can kill him, and he's not guilty of his blood. Verse 35. Well, the uh 35, uh 30, chapter 35, verse 30. Well, I'm a wealthy man, and I killed somebody, I'm gonna pay my way out of this. Nope. Verse 30 says this, Whosoever killeth any person shall not be put to death. But it says 31, moreover, ye shall take no satisfaction. It's the word ransom. You cannot take a ransom for this man's life. He's guilty of death, he'll surely be put to death. Verse 32, he'll take no satisfaction, no ransom for him that has fled. to a city of refuge, that he should come again to dwell in the land. If you're a murderer, you can't pay your way out. If you're guilty of involuntary manslaughter, you can't pay your way out. There's one way you get out if you're involuntary manslaughter. If you're a murderer, you're going to die. But involuntary manslaughter, you did it unawares, there's one way you get out. 32 until the death of the high priest. When the high priest dies The slayer of blood can come out of the city. He can return to his inheritance. Now think for a moment, if you were a slayer of blood, clearing rocks from your land. You hit some guy in the head over the side of the cliff. You didn't mean it. They met. You were just at home trying to clean things up before wintertime and now you're stuck in a city of refuge What's it feel like? How would you feel in that city of refuge Prisoned. Hmm? Prisoned. Imprisoned? You feel like you're in a prison? Maybe you want to try to get out. What would you feel like if thoughts of wanting to get out came into your mind? Because they're surely going to come into your mind. You might be killed. You're afraid of death. How long are you afraid of death? All your life If I slip out of this city, because I want to get out, I may get killed. They were their lifetime. Subject to bondage because of fear of death. He could not leave the city of refuge because he was afraid to die. If the Revenger of Blood found him, he would die and there would be no recompense. There would be no fault with the Revenger of Blood, and I'm quite sure The revenger of blood, that angry father, told plenty of people, This is the man that did it, and here's the city of refuge in it. If you happen to see him, let me know. Hold him for me. I'll pay you money, and then I'll come take care of him. We'll fix his wagon. But when the high priest died, he could go home. How often did that happen? You imagine, Jeffrey, they just appointed a new high priest. He's young and got lots of years on him. He's not stumbling up the stairs. He's not shaking hands with invisible people. He's old. He's young. He's gonna last a while. Yeah. He's he he can be there. How long does it happen? It's a rare thing. So do you see how this would have such a great impact to a Jew? Oh, Jesus Christ is my high priest, and I have been subject to the bondage of death all of my life, but he died. I am free to return to my inheritance. All that I lost in Adam, I'm free to go back to that And then sound. Isn't that a glorious connection? The death alone of the high priest would register with a Jew because they understood what that meant. Oh, when the high priest dies, look out City of refuge doors are flinging open. All kinds of people are coming out. The Jews understood that. They knew that. They knew what happened. They knew what that meant. That there was going to be a release. It was a nationally instituted thing, and it was a rare thing. It was a rare thing to be observed. And the man could go back, and after all these years, all the changes that occurred, he's reunited if he's still alive So do you see how this is such a tremendous book for the Jewish audience, how they would appreciate the death of the high priest? And do you see the picture it paints for you and I? The Apostle Paul says he was a blasphemer injurious, but I did it ignorantly. He was unawares of the horrible evil. And so did you and I, as Gentiles. We were ignorant of the law of God. And the things we did were in ignorance. We were just ignorant. Even to this day, we're still ignorant of the things that we have done, contrary to the Word of God. But bless my soul, I'm freed from my refuge, my city of refuge, I'm freed from. I can return to my inheritance. And so in verse 18 it says it concludes back in Hebrews chapter 2 that we have a compassionate Savior. He himself suffered being tempted. He is able to succor, to aid, to help them that are tempted. Jesus can empathize with us far more than we recognize He is the greater Solomon. And this is the dynamite scripture reference I found as a cross-reference to it. It's in your handout. It's in 1 Kings 4 in verse 29. Jesus said, Lo, one greater than Solomon is here in the temple, meaning himself. And it says that God gave Solomon. The physical Solomon, the son of physical son of David, wisdom and understanding exceeding much, and largeness of heart, even That's the sand that is on the seashore. Solomon had a very big heart because he had a deep understanding, and he wasn't quickly offended by things. People, brethren, men and brethren, when you have a good understanding of Scripture of who you are and what God declares of all that is transpired of our nature of Christ's nature, it gives a it ought to give a depth of heart So that we likewise can have compassion on the ignorant and them that are out of the way. In fact, the Apostle Paul does say that, that we ought to empathize. 2 Corinthians 5, 18 and 19. I'll close with this All things are of God who hath reconciled us to Himself by Jesus Christ and hath given to us the ministry of reconciliation. We have that ministry. To wit, to know, here's how we know that, God was in Christ, reconciling the world unto himself, not imputing their trespasses unto them, and hath committed unto us The word the word of reconciliation. We can tell people there's reconciliation. There's one thing you can't do in heaven. You know what that is? You can't evangelize. That's only done on this side of eternity. And so may we redeem the time now and have compassion upon them that are ignorant and out of the way. Amen. Anton, would you close us in prayer, please? Yeah. Let's pray. Father in heaven, Lord, we look to you and we praise you, O Lord, that you sent your Son. to be our great high priest, the compassionate one. Oh Lord, we pray that you would conform us more and more to his image. Lord, help us to be faithful even in this uh ministry of reconciliation and uh how grateful we are to be delivered from this bondage of the fear of death. indeed we have life eternal to look forward to because of the death of your son. We pray, Lord, that indeed we'll be faithful in delivering this message. And please, Lord, help us in um the uh upcoming service, Lord, to worship you in spirit and in truth. And Lord, we uh ask all these things in Christ's name. Amen. Amen.