Turn in your Bibles with me this morning to the book of 2 Peter and chapter 3. We began last week. uh in 2 Peter 3 and I had intended to preach one message from that chapter and it became very clear early on in my preparation a few weeks ago that we could not uh even begin to consider this chapter in one week. So last week we had the introduction, and this week we're going to get into actu the actual outline from this chapter. So turn with me to 2 Peter chapter 3. I'm going to read all 18 verses by way of introduction to the chapter so we can get an understanding of what the chapter says. And then we're going to actually begin our study at verse number 11. 2 Peter chapter 3 and verse 1. This second epistle, beloved, I now write unto you, in both which I stir up your pure mind by way of remembrance. That ye may be mindful of the words which were spoken before by the holy prophets, and the commandment of us, the apostles, of our Lord and Savior. Knowing this first that there shall come in the last days scoffers, walking after their own lust, and saying, Where is the promise of his coming? For since the fathers fell asleep, all things continue as they were from the beginning of the creation. For this they willingly are ignorant of that by the word of God the heavens were of old, and the earth standing out of the water and in the water, whereby the world that then was, being overflowed with water, perished But the heavens and the earth which now are, which are now, by the same word are kept in store, reserved unto fire against the day of judgment and perdition of ungodly men. But beloved, be not ignorant of this one thing, that one day is with the Lord as a thousand years, and a thousand years as one day The Lord is not slack concerning his promise, as some men count slackness, but is long-suffering to usward, not willing that any should perish, but that all should come to repentance. But the day of the Lord will come as a thief in the night, in the which the heaven shall pass away with great noise, and the elements shall melt with fervent heat, and the earth also, and the works that are therein shall be burned up. Seeing then that all these things shall be dissolved, what manner of persons ought ye to be? in all holy conversation and godliness, looking for, and hasten unto the day of God, wherein the heavens being on fire shall be dissolved, and the elements shall melt with fervent heat Nevertheless, we, according to the promise of God, look for a new heaven and a new earth wherein dwelleth righteousness. Wherefore, beloved, seeing that ye look for such things, be diligent that ye may be found of him in peace, without spot, blameless. And count that the long-suffering of our Lord is salvation, even as our brother Paul, according to the wisdom given unto him, hath written unto you. As also in all his epistles, speaking in them of things, of these things, which in which are some things hard to be understood Which they that are unlearned and unstable rest as they do also other scriptures under their own destruction. Ye therefore, beloved, seeing that ye know these things before, beware, lest ye also, being led away with the air of the wicked, fall from your own steadfastness. But grow in grace, and in the knowledge of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ, to Him be glory, both now and forever. Amen Let us bow again in prayer as we open God's Word. Heavenly Father, our great God, the ruler of the universe, we thank you for this holy book. We thank you for the Word of God. Now we pray that your Holy Spirit would teach us and guide us and instruct us as we consider today. In Jesus' name. Amen. Brother Vince mentioned in Sunday school this morning that he was going to give a thirty second review of last week. And uh I'm going to try to do the same. We're going to review last week very, very quickly. Particularly those of you watching online, I would recommend you to uh view our Sunday school. It's uh on Holding Fast and it's also on our own church website. Um it amazes me week after week how for the Vincent's Sunday school lessons and the message just are hand in glove and one augments the other and uh overlaps in some ways that's always a blessing But very quickly to review, we find there in the first verse of this chapter, chapter three of Second Peter, that Peter says he wrote both of these epistles, both first Peter and Second Peter to stir up your pure minds by way of remembrance. There are things we need to remember. And he makes reference there in verse two to the words of the Old Testament, the words of the prophets, and the words of the New Testament, the words spoken by the apostles of our Lord. And he warns there in verse 3 that there will come scoffers in the last day. And what we saw last week was that they scoff at the Word of God, for this they are willingly ignorant of. They scoff at the promise of God, where is the promise of his coming? They scoff at the work of God. by the world, Word of God, the heavens which were of old, and the earth standing of water. They mock creation, they mock God's preservation, they mock it all. And finally we saw last week that they scoff at the judgment of God. For they say, since the fathers fell asleep, all things continue as they are, and that's not true. God judged the world with a flood We concluded last week by looking at verses 9 and 10, where we find that the Lord is not slack concerning his promise, as some men count slackness. But it's long suffering to usward, not willing that any should perish, but that all should come to repentance. And this verse has been grossly misapplied in our day that that uh particular is often portrayed as a God standing in heaven wringing his hands, who's going to be saved? And he's not willing that anybody should perish, but most of the world is perishing anyway. Now that is not the God of the Bible, and it's not the God of heaven. The true God's will is never for for I can't speak this morning, sorry. Thwarted. The true God's will is never thwarted by the acts of man. Right And if we look at the context of this book, we saw last week over and over again, he's speaking to the beloved. 1 Peter, he's speaking to the saints scattered abroad. God is not willing that any should perish, but he's long-suffering to usward, not outward, but usward. God is long-suffering to the elect, not willing that any of the elect should perish, but that all the elect should come to repentance. And so the the verse I've shared with you before that brought my heart to this truth, having grown up In many ways, misinterpreting this verse was that ver great verse in John six where Christ declares, All that the Father giveth to me Shall come to me, and him that cometh to me I will in no wise cast out. If a man dies and goes to hell, It is impossible that he was given to Christ by the Father. For Christ declares that all that the Father giveth to me shall come to me. And then Christ declares, No man can come unto me except the Father which has sent me, draw him. And so we saw last week from this ninth verse that God is not slack concerning his promise. All that the Father giveth to me shall come to me. He's not slack concerning that promise, but he's long-suffering. And the reason that Christ has not yet returned It's because the elect, though redeemed before the foundation of the world, though that redemption accomplished on the cross, yet they have not been drawn by the Father to the Son. And I mentioned in prayer this morning that glorious text where Saul was on his way to Damascus. To bind the Christians, to persecute the church. And a great light shone from heaven And he cried out, Lord, what would you have me to do? Saul, Saul, it is hard for thee to kick against the bricks. Why has Christ not yet returned? Because his elect are still waiting to be saved. That's right And so we read there in verse ten that the day of the uh day of the Lord will come as a thief in the night, that is when men aren't expecting it. Christ will return and he will take us to be his own Well that brings us up. I didn't quite do it in thirty seconds, but that brings us up to verse eleven. And verse eleven is actually the verse that we were heading towards last week, and it was just impossible to n to do this all in one message. Verse eleven of Second Peter chapter three, seeing then that the all these things shall be dissolved What manner of persons ought you to be in all holy conversation and godliness? God destroyed the world once with a flood. He promised he would never destroy the earth with a flood again, but he'd also promised he would someday destroy it with fire. He would purge it with fire. And he has not yet returned, because he is waiting, he is tarrying, he is long suffering on behalf of his own elect. But as we, the elect of God, live in this world, knowing it's all going to be dissolved, knowing judgment is coming. What manner of persons ought we to be in all holy conversation and godliness? What kind of people should we be? What should be the manner of life of the elect? What should be our behavior? And the first thing we find there. is that we, the people of God, should be a people of holy conversation. Now in our modern use of English, when we think of conversation, we think about talking with people. And yes, certainly, our communication, man to man, woman to woman, should be a holy conversation But that's not exactly what Peter was saying here. Rather, this word conversation is not just the words that we speak, but it's a reference to our whole manner of life Are you a man of good character? No man is of good character apart from Christ. Are you a man that is honest? No man is an honest man apart from Christ. Are you a dependable employee? Well, no man can be a dependable employee apart from Christ. You see, the ploughing of the wicked is sin. The child of God, as he waits for Christ to come as a thief in the night As he waits for the salvation of all God's elect, he is to live in a holy, godly conversation. And if you flip back to the book of 1 Peter, just a few pages back, in chapter 1, of course, 2 Peter follows on to 1 Peter in the first verse of this last chapter of 2 Peter. Peter references both books. Turn back to 1 Peter chapter 1, and I want to read there from verse 13 to 16. So the first epistle of Peter, chapter 1, and verse 13, wherefore gird up the loins of your minds. Be sober and hope to the end for the grace that is brought unto you at the revelation of Jesus Christ. You see the unity of these passages. He's talking about the return of Christ Gird up the loins of your mind and hope to the end. And of course we know in that day they would wear long robe-like garments, and you couldn't run very well in that. You had to gird it up. You had to tie it up if you were going to be moving quickly. Well gird up the loins of your mind, all the distractions, the unholy things of this world, and hope to the end. Verse 14 is obedient children Not bashing yourself according to the former lust and your ignorance. You know what? When Saul became Paul, he never persecuted another Christian. No, he didn't. As Christ said to the woman at the well, go and sin no more. There was a transformation when there was a regeneration. And so we're not to fashion ourselves according to the uh uh former lust in ignorance. And remember what we're seeing there in chapter three of 2 Peter, of these things they are willingly ignorant of The world is willfully ignorant of the righteousness of God, but the child of God has been given an understanding. And so we're not to live in the former lust that we're in our ignorance Verse 15, but as he which hath called you is holy, so be ye holy in all manner of conversation. There's our word. Because it's written, be holy, for I am holy. Where does it say, be holy, for I am holy? Well, three times in the book of Leviticus Be ye holy, for I am holy. What do we see there in our introduction? That in verse three of chapter three, or verse two of chapter three of Second Peter Peter makes reference to the holy prophets and the commands of the apostles that all fits together. And so coming back here to this third chapter of 2 Peter. We are to be a people characterized by a holy conversation. Our lives are to befit the gospel. Our lives are to be that which was which becometh godliness. And Peter says this again in in chapter two of first Peter. You don't need to turn there, but uh he says we have our conversation honestly among the Gentiles. And so we are to be a people characterized by godliness. Remember what we read about Lot? Turn back to chapter two of 2 Peter. Probably the same page. You may not even have to turn a page. We're in chapter 3. 2 Peter chapter 2, verses 7 and 8. Probably across one page from where you are. 2 Peter 2, verse 7. God delivered just Lot vexed with the filthy There's our word. Filthy conversation of the wicked. Okay, Lot was dwelling in Sodom. Sodom was characterized by wickedness and iniquity. When the angels came to deliver Sodom. The men of Sodom wanted their wicked desires on them. And Lot lived in Sodom, and he was vexed with the filthy conversation around him. That righteous man, verse eight, dwelling among them in seeing and hearing, vexed his righteous soul from day to day with their unlawful deeds. And so, back to our question, what kind of people, what manner of people are the elect to be as we wait for the return of Christ? We're to be people of a holy conversation And we need to daily protect our holy conversation because in seeing and hearing the wickedness of the ungodly conversation around us, we vex our righteous souls. And so part of our conversation is blinders. Part of our holy conversation is shutting out the things of the world. And shudding away, turning away, fleeing also youthful lust, turning from those things which will vex our righteous soul. And so first of all, we should be a people of holy conversation. But then continuing there in verse 11 of chapter 3 of 2 Peter. Saying then that all these things shall be dissolved, what manner of persons ought we to be in all holy conversation and godliness? And that word godliness I've separated from holy conversation, though there's certainly a lot of overlap between them, but we're to be a people that are characterized by true godliness and piety. Again, look back to chapter 1 of 2 Peter. This is in the same book. If I say 2 Peter and mean 1 Peter, forgive me, but this one is in 2 Peter. 2 Peter chapter 1 and the second and third verses of this book. 2 Peter 1 verse 2. Grace and peace be multiplied unto you. through the knowledge of God and our Savior the and knowledge of God and of Jesus our Lord, according as his divine power hath given unto us all things that pertain to life and godliness through the knowledge of Him that had called us to grace and glory. Peter began this book by saying that God has given to us all things that pertain to life. And godliness. Now, what is godliness? Well, we hear that term thrown around different times. Oh, that's such a godly person. And many times what is referred to as godliness is nothing more than pride and show Many times what is referred to as godliness is a whited sepulchre that inside is filled with dead man's bones. You see, we can all put on a nice front. We can all put on a great show and let the world see what we want the world to see. And shall we say it? Let the church see what we want the church to see. Man looketh where? On the outward appearance, but God looketh on the heart. And so if we're to be a people that are characterized by true godliness, we've got to realize from the start that doesn't have anything to do with the outward appearance. True godliness is in the heart. And out of the abundance of the heart, the mouth speaketh. And the whited sepulchre eventually is gonna let it slip, right? Eventually what is inside is gonna come outside. But as the children of God, as the elect of God, waiting for this return of Christ, we're to be people of true godliness. And so, what is this true godliness? Well, continuing there, if you're with me in chapter 1 of 2 Peter, verses 2 and 3, let me read those two verses again. Grace and peace be multiplied unto you through the knowledge of God, there's the first element of that true godliness, the knowledge of God and our Savior Jesus Christ, according to his di uh according as his divine power Hath given unto us all things that pertain to life and godliness. In other words, we have the equipment. We have the tools. And so it's narrowing down here. It must be something that's accessible. Okay? He's given to us all things that pertain to life and godliness. Through the knowledge, that word knowledge there again is very important. Through the knowledge of him that has called you to glory and to virtue. And so True godliness is conformity to the law of God and conformity to the will of God. And both are found right here. That's right. And it's given to us. It's here. Did you ever try to put something together without reading the instruction manual? Don't raise your hand. I think we probably all have. And and more than that, uh some of us I'm sure have seen some of those Chinese instructions that obviously the person that wrote the instructions didn't really speak English. You know. Folks, it's right here and it's not in Chinese. It's given to us. He's given us all things that pertain to life and godliness. True godliness is conformity to the law of God and conformity to the will of God. Now, what is the contrast to that? Well, Paul said, be not conform to this world. To be transformed by the renewing of your mind. And so the law of God, the commands of God, we have them right here. We have the rule book for the Christian life. It's been given to us. Blessed is the man that walketh not in the counsel of the ungodly, nor standeth in the way of sinners, nor sitteth in the seat of the scornpole, but what? His delight is in the law of the Lord. And then it's lawless, he meditate day and night. You see, if I'm going to live waiting for the return of God in true godliness, I'm going to live according to this book. I'm going to live according to this law. It is going to be my standard, not what my friends say, not what society says is good. We know our society calls good evil and evil good. We know in our society that there's all kinds of iniquity and filth and smut, that the world now is saying okay is okay. But God's word hasn't changed. God's law has not been adjusted to meet our society. Rather, our society must be adjusted to meet our law God's law. But more than that, my life must be adjusted to meet God's law. You see, if I'm to wait for the coming of Christ in godliness, then I wait for the coming of Christ according to God's law. But not only is godliness conformity to the law of God, it's conformity to the will of God. And we find that in Scripture as well. In Psalm 143, verse 10, Teach me thy will. For thou art my God. Thy spirit is good. Lead me into the land of uprightness. Oh Lord, your will is good. Your will is right. You see, God's will is often contrary to our own. Do you think Joseph really wanted to be sold into Egypt? You meant this to me for evil, but God meant it for good. You think Daniel wanted to go to Babylon? No. But you see, if Daniel hadn't gone to go gone to Babylon, there wouldn't have been the hungry mouths of lions stopped. Do you think Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego wanted to go into a fiery furnace? And I prefer Hanani, Meshach, and Azariah, their true names. But Christ was with them in the furnace, and it was God's will for them to be there. True godliness is submission to God's will. Folks, this is hard. Life has thrown me a lot of knocks I didn't like. And I'm sure that every one of you can repeat that same testimony. I don't think I'm unique in that. And yet, true godliness is submission to the will of God. As for God, his way is perfect, the word of the Lord is tried, he's a buckler to all those that trust in him. And so the psalmist said again in Psalm 40 and verse 8, I delight to do thy will, O God. Yea, thy law is within my heart. Ah, may I truly be able to pray that, Lord. May I truly be able to say, Lord, your law is in my heart rather than my own will. pushing aside God's law because I don't like God's way. The child of God is to be waiting for the return of Christ. In a godly conversation and in true godly piety. By way of transition, you don't need a term, but let me read to you As we go into our third point, I'll read from Titus chapter two, verse eleven through fourteen. For the grace of God that bringeth salvation hath appeared unto all men, and again that's not all men as in the whole world, but Jew, Gentile alike to all men, teaching us that denying ungodliness and worldly lust We should live soberly, righteously, and godly in this present world. That's what we're talking about, our conversation in this world, looking for the bla that blessed hope and the glorious appearing. Of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. Thirdly, how are we to live in this world waiting for the return of Christ? We live in anticipation. Look at verses twelve and thirteen of Second Peter chapter three. Looking for and hastening unto the coming of the day of God, wherein the heavens being on fire shall be dissolved, and the elements shall melt with fervent heat. Nevertheless, according to his promise, we look for a new heaven and a new earth wherein dwelleth righteousness. We live in a holy manner of life, we live in godliness, and we live in anticipation. Could he come today? Oh, I sure hope so. I think most of us have been in some degree disturbed by the burning of police cars and defund the police and the riots and things we've seen in the streets. We're still in the middle of an election count that causes all kinds of turmoil in our world. We see all kinds of things around us. What's the solution? Oh, my candidate wins, that's the solution. That doesn't fix anything, folks. Doesn't fix a thing The solution is the return of Christ. That's right. The solution is Lord, get me out of here. Even so come Lord Jesus. We're to live in anticipation. We anticipate the return of Christ. Revelation 22, behold, I come quickly. 1 Thessalonians 4. The Lord Himself shall descend from heaven with a shout. We live in anticipation of his coming. And you know what? When we when the child of God, when the elect of God occupying till he comes, living in this world, truly lives in anticipation we'll worry less about what's going on around us. Doesn't mean we don't vote. Doesn't mean we don't lock our doors at night. Doesn't mean that we're not a part of our society in those ways And yet we're waiting. We live in anticipation of the coming of the day of Christ. But there's more than just living in anticipation. Look what it says there in verse 12. Looking for And hastening unto. That's kind of easy to skip past, isn't it? We're looking for his coming. We're hasting to it. In other words, we're not just waiting for it to come to us. We're I want to go to it. That's an even so come Lord Jesus attitude, isn't it? That's an attitude that lays not up treasure on earth. Okay? Certainly we need a car. Certainly we need a house. Certainly we need clothes. We we We work for the things we need, and God supplies all of our needs, but these things aren't really what matters. Our view is an eternal view. We're hastening for that day. Even so come, Lord Jesus. I remember as a child Before I understood these things, being concerned that the Lord may come back before Christmas. Because I really wanted something. In a g you know a child's misunderstanding. But for the child of God may we Live in an anticipation that's not just, oh, I hope he comes, but rather hasting for his coming. Hungry for it. Yearning for it. We live in anticipation of the return of Christ. But also we live in anticipation of the destruction of evil. And this is where it really gets into a Beautiful crossover from what Brother Vince was mentioning in Sunday school. And I'd really recommend that you, if you weren't here for Sunday school, it's it's on Holding Fast and it's on our church website. Listen to the Sunday school lesson. Three times in this chapter, look at verse 7 of 2 Peter 3. But the heaven and the earth Which now are the same are kept in store, reserved unto fire against the day of judgment and perdition of ungodly men We live in anticipation of the day when God's going to wipe it clean. You know, I I've never bombed an abortion clinic and I would never bomb an abortion clinic, but God's going to bomb them. There'll be a firebomb on the abortion clinics. It won't come from man's hand, it'll come from God. Look at verse ten But the day of the Lord will come as a thief in the night in which the heavens shall pass away with great noise. Bang! And the elements shall melt with fervent heat. And the earth also, and the works that are therein shall be burned up. Ah, God destroyed it with a flood once. But God will destroy it with a fire next time. We live in anticipation of that. Look at verse 12. Looking for, and hastening unto the coming of the day of God, in which the e the heavens being on fire shall be dissolved, and the elements shall melt with fervent heat. We live in anticipation of the coming of Christ. We live in anticipation of the destruction of evil. But aren't you glad it's not all that? It's not just looking for the destruction of evil. We live in anticipation of something far better. Look at verse 13. Nevertheless, according to his promise, look, or nevertheless, we, according to his promise, look for a new heaven and a new earth wherein dwelleth righteousness. We live in anticipation of the return of Christ, and Christ's return will bring with it the destruction of evil, but we live in anticipation of a new heaven and a new earth wherein dwelleth righteousness. We look for the day when the Garden of Eden will be ours. We look for the day when things will be as God created them to be. Before there was a fall, before there was a curse, when the lion shall lay down with the lamb. And when we will no longer live by the sweat of our brow and the earth will not bring forth thorns, the day when the bee will not sting and the adder will not strike. We live in anticipation of God restoring everything. A kingdom wherein dwelleth righteousness. And so we, the people of God, should be a people living. in anticipation. Fourth, as we the elect, as we the people of God wait for the chill return of Christ, we should be a people that live in diligence. Anybody hear lazy? Anybody hear a liar? I'll admit it folks, I by nature am lazy. I I would much rather put off to tomorrow what should be done today. But we as the children of God should not be a lazy people. And certainly that applies to our Labor on this earth. But what we're talking about here is diligence speaks diligence spiritually We should be a spiritually diligent people. Look at verse 14 and following of 2 Peter 3 Wherefore, beloved, seeing that ye look for such things, ye look for the new heaven and the new earth, ye look for the return of Christ, you look for the destruction of evil, seeing ye look for such things, be diligent. That ye may be found of him in peace, without spot, blameless And accounting that the long suffering of our Lord is salvation. Remember when we saw there in verse nine while he tarries, the long suffering God is not um Slackness, some account slackness, but it's long suffering to us word. The long suffering of our Lord is salvation, even as also our brother Paul, according to the wisdom given to him, has written unto you. We should be a people living in diligence. Turn with me again to First Peter. Still in the book of 2 Peter, but the first chapter, over two or three pages, two or three leaves in your Bible. 2 Peter chapter 1 and verse 5. In many ways, this third chapter of 2 Peter is Peter's conclusion of the two books. He's summing everything up. 2 Peter chapter 1, verse 5. And besides this, giving all diligence. Ah, there it is, isn't it? There's the same thing he's saying in chapter 3. Besides this, giving all diligence, add to your faith virtue. and do virtue knowledge and to knowledge temperance and to temperance patience and the patience godliness and the godliness brotherly kindness and the brotherly kindness charity For if these things be in you and abound, they make that ye should neither be barren nor unfruitful in the knowledge of our Lord Jesus Christ. But he that lacketh these things is blind. And cannot see afar off, and hath forgotten that he was purged from his old sins. Wherefore, the rather brethren Give diligence to make your calling and election sure, for if ye do these things ye shall never fall, for so an entrance shall be ministered unto you abundantly into the everlasting kingdom. We're to be give diligence, verse 14, to be found of him in peace. What does it mean to be found of him in peace? Well, certainly we should have peace with men and peace with our brethren. But I believe the real emphasis of that peace there is peace with God. Found of him in peace. Jesus Christ is our peace. The chastisement of our peace was upon him. You see, we see there in verse in chapter one that those that don't have that temperance and patience and got uh all those things mentioned there, they've forgotten that they were purged from their own sin. You see the elect child of God and sometimes forget that he's the elect child of God. The elect child of God can become so at ease with the concept that he had did nothing to be saved that his salvation becomes casual. That his salvation becomes every day ordinary. When you buy a new car, it doesn't stay shiny on its own. You've got to wash it. I enjoy plants, and I have who knows how many plants in my office. But I can't let them go without water. They don't grow if I don't provide them light. They will die rather quickly. You see, we did nothing to be saved. We did nothing to bring ourselves into this blessing. And no man can pluck us out of the Father's hand. But that doesn't give us the right to say, oh well, God's going to do it all. Right. Yeah. I'm safe, that's all I need. Oh, the child of God is to be diligent. We're to give all diligence to make our calling and election sure. We're to be diligent to be found of him in peace. We're to be diligent to be Excuse me, that's not a COVID call, if I promise you. We're to give diligence not to be found with spots. I pulled a tie off my rack Monday and threw it in the trash because it had a big spot on it. A billion. I don't know if it was eggs or what, but it was a big one. This one doesn't have a spot on it because I examined it before I put it on. Silly illustration, but brethren, may we every day say the Lord may come back today. I live in anticipation of his coming, and I want to be found of him in peace. Peace between my soul and God. When I kept silence, my bones raxed old with their roaring day by day. Oh, when he come today and I be ashamed of what I'm doing? Would he come today and I be ashamed of what I'm saying? Would he come today and I be ashamed, but oh may I be diligent in my soul that when he comes I have perfect peace. We sing the old song, Nothing Between My Soul and My Savior. Oh, may I be diligent to be found in him without spot. Not dirtied up by this world, not splattered with the filth around me. But without spot. And again in chapter 1 and verse 1. This is sorry, I did it again. 1 Peter this time. Back to 1 Peter and chapter 1. 1 Peter chapter 1 and verse 18 For as much as ye know that ye redeem not redeem with corruptible things as silver and gold from your vain conversation received by tradition of your fathers, but with the precious blood of Christ as a lamb without blemish and without spot. The spotless, blemishless Lamb of God died for your sins. Oh How grievous it is to the spirit when we allow our lies to become spotted with this world. Because the blood that was shed for our cleansing was of the spotless, limitless Lamb I like to buy clothing for my wife. If I bought her a new dress and she immediately put it on and went out and worked in the garden in it and got it all dirty and filthy. I wouldn't think she liked the gift. I wouldn't think she appreciated the thought that went into it. But that's what we do, isn't it? The Lamb of God shed his precious, spotless blood. And we take the robe of righteousness and spot it up with the world. Oh. The child of God should live in diligence. diligence daily over our soul that we may be found in Him without spot. Paul said to the Corinthians in 1 Corinthians 1 and verses 6 and 8, even as the testimony of Christ was confirmed in you. So that ye came behind in no gift, waiting for the coming of our Lord Jesus, who shall confirm you to the end, that ye may be blameless in the day of our Lord Jesus Christ. He'll confirm us to the end, and we will be blameless. We're blameless because Christ has taken our iniquity on him But that doesn't mean we should continue in sin, does it? Rather, we should be spotless Number five. As we the elect wait for the return of Christ, we should be a people who live in caution. Be careful. Look out. We should live cautiously. Look at verse 17 of 2 Peter 3. Second Peter chapter three, the chapter we're considering in verse seventeen. Ye therefore, beloved, seeing ye know these things before, beware. There's your caution. Beware, lest ye also being led away with the air of the wicked, fall from your own steadfastness. Remember what Paul began, or Paul, excuse me, Peter began this chapter with In the Latter-day Scoffers are going to come, verse 3. And we said last week, beware of the scoffers, don't let the scoffers draw you away. You see the scoffers the scoffers scoff at the Word of God, the promise of God, the work of God, and the judgment of God. And so now when Paul Peter gets down, let's say it begins, Peter gets down to this verse, he tells us to beware. To look out, lest we fall from our own steadfastness. Lest, like Lot, we vex our righteous soul. With the ungodliness of this world. We must ever be on guard. Go with me again to 1 Peter and chapter 5. And as soon as you turn there, you'll see where we're going. 1 Peter chapter 5, verse 8, be sober. Be vigilant. There's your caution. Because your adversary the devil is a roaring lion, and my father would ever read that verse, he'd always put a little bit of roar in it. Your adversary the devil is a roaring lion. walketh about, seeking who may devour whom resist steadfast in the faith. There's your caution. Resist steadfast in the faith, knowing that the same afflictions were accomplished in your brethren that are in the world Proverbs four twenty-three Keep your heart with all diligence, for out of it are the issues of life Be careful, Christian. Your adversary, the devil, is a roaring lion. We've had the warning that in the latter days scoppers would come. If you are involved in any way in secular education, you are bombarded with the lie of evolution. And they will scoff at your belief in the Bible. If you tell an unbeliever, judgment's coming, the Lord's returning They will scoff at you because they scoff at his promise. If you state that you believe the word of God from cover to cover. And my father used to say he believed the cover because it says Holy Bible and that's what it is. You'll be scoffed at. And again, Brother Vence mentioned this in Sunday school this morning. That it is popular in our day to say that the Old Testament is not relevant. That the Old Testament isn't for us today. No. All Scripture is given by inspiration of God, and all Scripture is profitable. It is profitable for you today, it profits. And remember we we said last week that we live according to the law of God, Old Testament and New Testament. That's in verse two and three of our chapter. And so the child of God is to live in cot in caution. Paul said he kept his body under and brought it into subjection. And then finally, the last thing we would see from this chapter is that as we wait for the coming of the Lord, we're to be a people that are growing in the knowledge of our Lord. Look at verse 17. We're back in 2 Peter chapter 3. 2 Peter chapter 3 and verse 18. But grow in grace and in the knowledge of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. To whom be glory, both now and forever. Isn't that interesting? He's talking about the coming of Christ. And we're talking about what our behavior, our manner of life should be waiting for the coming of Christ. To him be glory. Right now. How is he glorified today? He's glorified in the church. He's glorified as people. He's glorified by the manner in which we occupy till he comes, both now and forever. Seeing then that all these things shall be dissolved What manner of persons ought we to be? Christ is coming. I hope he comes before the amen of this service. But oh, may the children of God be ready. Let us stand for prayer.