We are in Hebrews chapter 12, and I'm going to read verses 7 through 11, which will be our text for today. Hebrews chapter 12 and verse 7 through 11. We read the following. If ye endure chastening, God dealeth with you as with sons. For what son is he whom the Father chasteneth not? But if ye be without chastisement, whereof all are partakers, then are ye bastards and not sons Furthermore, we have had fathers of our flesh which corrected us, and we gave them reverence. Shall we not much rather be in subjection unto the Father of spirits and live? For they verily for a few days chastened us after their own pleasure, but he for our prophet, that we might be partakers of his holiness. Now no chastening for the present seemeth to be joyous, but grievous. Nevertheless, afterward it yieldeth the peaceable fruit of righteousness unto them which are exercised thereby. Thus ends the reading of that portion of the Word of God. I decided to take this entire piece in one big chunk because it all was a common topic and I didn't want to belabor it too much. It just hangs together and it seemed right to speak it together. Our discussion question for the morning had some answers from our online viewers. And the question is this: if and when a young woman considers a man as a potential husband How will she know if he will make a good father to her children? Now just looking at that narrow aspect of a good father to the children. There's other concerns a young lady may have as to whether he'll be a good husband, but I'm focusing on the father to the children. What should she look for and what are some red flags to avoid? One brother writes this. Does he do what he says he will? Is he thoroughly honest? Is he sober-minded about life and the world and sinful society? Can he keep his emotions under check? And does he have self-control? Yeah, that's a pretty good one. That's a pretty good one. Does he have a track record with job and work, including a good work ethic that shows he can be a good provider? There were many other things. He pointed to Titus 2, 6 and 7. Very good to bring scripture in. Red flags. I like the red flags here. An addiction to television. And letting the world in. You know, I pay to take the garbage out. Some people just pay to pipe it right into their living room. Uh it's called the television set. Neglect of the Word of God in prayer, a lack of discipline in your personal life, such as staying up too late, a lack of separation from sinful society, inviting the society and the devil into your home. Another uh Uh lady wrote this to look for. Is he a Christian and believes the Bible is an errand? How does he relate to his mother? His level of patience. Boy, that's a good one. Patience. What are his thoughts about parenting? A few red flags, a man that does not understand responsibility to work for a living and care for his family, no desire for the things of God. Tendency to be unteachable, unwilling to go to church when he's able. Boy, that's a really good one right there. Unwilling to go to church when he is able. Yeah. and close association with unsavory friends. Those are some very good ones, and I give our online people uh online people. Not offline. Um a shot first. What are your thoughts? What should she look for for a man to be a good father? Any thoughts? think they covered it pretty well. Were there any in there that stood out to you that you thought you'd like to put stomp as well? You mean the red flags? Sure, either's that. Well f first of all Like I said about Right in fur pursuit that they're Christian first. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And they're not keep on moving. Yes. Yeah. Mm-hmm. This this was touched on in one of the um things, how does he relate to his mother? Um you know my mom always said, you know A man will relate to his children in the same way he related to his father. That father-son relationship will reflect the mother, and a man will re will treat his wife is reflected in his relation with his mother. In other words, if if if if a man had a good relationship with his mother, he will treat his wife well. If he had a good relationship with his father, he would treat his wife well. children well. Interesting. I hadn't heard that. I've heard the one about the the mother. How he treats his mother. Yeah, absolutely. How am I doing, Mom? Am I good? All right. She's smiling, so that's all right. Well, that was just some thoughts to deal with here as we tackle this topic, which I've labeled dealing with sons. You know, there's a constant repetition in this section of Scripture, even as far back as verse 5, with this word son, son, son, verse 5, you've forgotten the exhortation which speaks unto you as children, my son. Verse 6, the Lord scourges every son whom he receives. Verse 7, God deals with you as sons, for what son is he? Uh if you're without chastisement, then are you bastards and not sons. There's this big emphasis on sons So many times in these short few verses that this is a point that is being very readily drilled in. You know, I want to ask another question How do you know God is active in your life? Go ahead. Go ahead, Nathan. How do you know God is active in your life? interacting within your heart. I mean, you're singing there's hymns during the day or you're reading scripture or Sure, reading scripture, uh singing with melody and grace. Yeah, just this As you go through the day. As you go through the day, patience. The ability to be patient through the day, as opposed to flying off a handle like the old men. Nothing to conclusions. How do you know, Joey, God is active in your life? Patience would have been mine, yeah. Long suffering is good for it. Yeah, the fruit of long suffering. You see some fruit, yeah, that's called the fruit of the spirit. You had a thought? Um pretty much what Beverly was saying, uh his spirit bears witness with our spirit. Yes, his spirit bears witness with our spirit. You know we are Lisa. Oh I'm sorry, Lisa. Yes. The new lady in the back. No, I was just gonna say you just want to pray. want to commute. You just want to, you don't. It's just a want, whereas it wasn't there before Those are really good answers, and I appreciate those because they're all kind of pointing to the fruit of the Spirit. Our passage though is actually, and those are right answers. I'm not going to refute those. They're good But there's another way you can know God's active in your life, and that's you're being chastisement and your life is a disaster for the moment. That there's actually wrong and bad and tough things going on. That's another way you can know that God is active in your life. And I think that's why this is a good lesson today to look at those things because I hope it expands and magnifies the sovereignty of God over your life and the world around you. Maybe Bring it up another level as we as we think about going through life. You know, the psalmist said in Psalm 73, and in your bulletin, I did reinsert the study notes for today so that you could at least follow along in the scriptures. Psalm 73, 14, that great psalm where the psalmist is just bemoaning all of the disasters that he faces uh in his life. He says, all day long I have been plagued. I'm chastened every morning. That's kind of a lengthy And then he concludes in 23, nevertheless I'm continually with thee, thou hast held me by my right hand. So he was able in the house of God, as he received instruction, to realize that yes, even the daily chastisements, the daily plagues, the aches, the woes, all the things that we bring up one Wednesday prayer meeting and the ones we don't bring up are evidence of God being active in your life. Do you think of it that way? We tend to not think of that. The devil's plaguing me. Boy, he's getting a hold of me now. No, the devil ain't got a hold of you. Greater is he that is in you than he that's in the world. So my point is, this is not bad luck. That's your first fill-in-the-blank. This is not bad luck. God is dealing with you as a son. That's what our text is talking about. He's dealing with you as a son. Now, this is not a constant activity, but when a young child is in the house of their parents and they are under discipline, They're not beating them every day, but it should be expected that there will be some guidance and course correction throughout the day and throughout the week. For instance, let's look at Proverbs because Proverbs starts off with much of the same kind of hearkening to that word son as you find here in Hebrews 12. He's dealing with you as a son. If you're not a partaker of chastisement, you're a bastard, not a son. Proverbs 1, the opening passage of Proverbs, Solomon starts off, my son. He says, my son, many times throughout Proverbs. The first three chapters is the bulk of that time where that phrase is found. It's found 23 times in the book of Proverbs. If you look at Proverbs 22, 15, it says, foolishness is bound in the heart of a child. All little children don't come forth naturally good. There's not good oozing out of them. Oh yes, there's no such thing as an ugly baby. They're all wonderful, cute, and lovely. They are. They're just adorable. But that's because man looks on the outward appearance, God looks on the heart They're vipers and diapers. Mommy and daddy rattlesnakes bring forth baby rattlesnakes. In the heart, the heart is dark. It's ignorant. It doesn't know the things of God. John the Baptist leaped in the womb at the voice of Jesus. They can hear. And they can react. And here it says, foolishness is bound in the heart of a child, but the rod of correction shall drive it far from him. I just get a kick at it when kids are just silly and foolish. We all do. But that can't be the pattern of their life. That can't be what they're rewarded for. I'm not against kids playing, don't get me wrong And I'm not even against being able to laugh with the children and have fun. That's a blessing of the Lord. But there comes a point when they're just being foolish. And you know what I'm talking about. A child that wants to just wag his head and just talk over everybody else and kind of mocking people in a social setting. And he's just constantly doing it, and it's no longer cute. He's just being foolish. Well that can get fixed. Angela reminds me of a time when we were out at a restaurant having uh uh dinner back when we could go out and and eat and would that uh woman was having a bear of a time with one of her little kids and he just wasn't listening to her and we just kinda leaned over and to her and said, Lady, that ain't nothing a SWAT can't fix. You bring the the the Board of Education to the seat of knowledge, you'd be surprised how quick there'd be a correction. Proverbs 23 says this, with hold Proverbs 23, 13 Withhold not correction from the child, for if thou beatest him with the rod, he shall not die. Thou shalt beat him with the rod and shalt deliver his soul from hell. No, you don't pull out a one-by-one fence picket and start wailing on the child so that you break a bone or leave a serious bruise. That's not what we're talking about. We're not talking about violence to the child I believe a grape-sized rod are sold at Home Depot by way of a uh uh 48-inch long eighth-inch dowel rod. You can cut it in three sixteen inch lengths, they're perfect lengths. And made it out of white pine. Don't get oak. You don't need to get that. And if you swap them a little too hard, the stick will break right off in your hand when you know you're being too hard. It's kind of a built-in pressure relief And don't stop, it says. You're not gonna kill him. It it you're gonna deliver his soul from hell. Because left to his own way, it's bad news. Proverbs 29, 15, the rod and reproof give wisdom But a child left to himself bringeth his mother to shame. And boy, have I seen that as well. Children that are constantly spoiled. Um we'll get to the point when mother or dad are not giving them what they want, then they'll rise up and strike their parent. They'll hit them because they're not giving me what I want. So bring the parent to shame And they can make excuses for the child, but the blame goes with the parent. They have not disciplined the child effectively. They've not said no and meant it. And sadly, I thank too much of our youth today that are running amok committing crimes at the age of 11 and 12 Uh there was this notorious case in Baltimore where a bunch of uh pre-teenagers, eleven through thirteen, uh beat up and and killed, I think. I don't know if they killed them or not, but they really laid some old fellow about seventy years old down in the gutter. They just beat him up. How is it that you have a m a a gang of thugs like that running around doing at such an early age? Well, I tell you why. It's because the rod and reproof have uh been withheld from them along with the wisdom that comes with it. You know, witness the children and the grandchildren of the Dr. Spock generation, that's your other fill-in-the-blank, Dr. Spock Anybody heard of him? You heard of Dr. Spock? You know what he's famous for, right? He promoted a new way of child rearing in his book, Baby and Child Care. And one of the classic statements he made is there in there is that you can never make a child good by getting him. Don't do that You know, you need to to cuddle them and hug with them more. That's great. You you should cuddle and hug your kids. Uh you need to play with them more. Yes, you should spend time with them. Get on the ground and roll with them. You know, you really can't spank them until you know that they know you love them But after he saw the effects of his permissiveness on the society in 1960, he wrote that book in 1948 His second edition allowed for very occasional SWATs. He began to realize, oh, I think we do need to return it. But by that point, the damage had been done. The damage had been done. And witness it now. You know, don't don't touch me. You can't touch me. You know, and they just mouth off and say whatever they want to. Biblically speaking The scripture says in Proverbs 13, 24, He that spareth his rod hateth his son. You hate your child if you do not bring the rod to them. It's a form of hatred. But he that loves him chastens him betimes. Old English word means early. You get him early. You get him early. And it it bears fruit so quickly. It really does. Uh I can remember as a very young boy sitting down on the couch in the living room, rubbing my backside, and the bright thought entered into my mind, you know If I just quit screwing up, I won't get swats. That was a revelation, Jeffrey. It was like ding, a light bulb moment. You know, Dad's belt might just stay on his belt hook in his closet if I quit messing up. And you know what? It worked. If I quit that nonsense And that came to me early as one of my earliest memories. It finally dawned on me. Wow, there's actually a correlation here. You know, actually, when we're on this topic of hate You've heard in the news probably this word hate speech. Oh, they're guilty of hate speech. Well biblically you want to know what hate speech is? Turn to the book of 1 Samuel 2. I've got it in your handout if you can't find 1 Samuel 2 But I'm just going to walk you through a couple of passages that talk about how Eli dealt with his sons. Because he's a good example in 1 Samuel 2 and verse 27. The chapter opens with it says there k th the verse rather starts that says there came a man of God A prophet, somebody who was a godly man who came to Eli. Now you jump to verse 29, where the prophet's message from God Records this. He says, Wherefore, why do you honor thy sons above me? You honor your sons above me. What does that mean? How is it that he honored his sons above the Lord? Well, you get to chapter 3 and verse 11. The Lord, it says, said to Samuel, verse 13, now, for I told him that I will judge his house forever. This is God speaking about Eli. For the iniquity which he knows, because his sons made themselves vile, and he restrained them not. You know it's a blessing of God when he stops us in our madness. It's a blessing of God when he stops us from doing something foolish. It's a blessing of God sometimes when We get delayed on the road by a wreck in an accident. Oh, I was trying to be there early and on time. That can be a blessing of the Lord's as well. You need to slow it up right now You need to slow it up because there's something ahead you're not aware of. You know, God's watch care over us includes to, yes, chastisement for sin, but it also includes an instruction, an improvement to greater moral values, to producing the fruit of the Spirit. When you read through Colossians 3, it starts off with You know, mortify therefore these, uh, adultery, fornication, uncleanness, all these gross sins, and then it moves on to, you know, put on bowels of meekness and tender mercies, this production of fruit I got a blueberry patch in the backyard. There's something I have to do every spring if I want more fruit. Anybody take a guess what that might be? Pruning. And you have to prune some of the older branches, some of the more mature branches, some of the things you think are the strongest. so that which is weak can be strengthened. It's interesting. It's a spiritual experience that almost leads me to tears every year that I'm pruning. Because pruning blueberry bushes is just something else. I love that bush. I don't hate it. I planted it there for me. I'm seeking fruit. That's what I want. I want fruit. I don't want timber. I don't want lumber. I'm not interested in that. I'm going to care for it. And this branch that I'm cutting is not to hurt the bush. That's not my purpose. I want some more good stuff to grow back. And glory be to God, it does work. In 1 Kings 1, there's another fellow who did not receive instruction as a youth. It's 1 Kings 1 and verse 5. This is Adonijah. one of David's sons, the son of Hagith who exalted himself. I think he's one of David's sons. I could be wrong here, my apologies. I I forget Adonijah, the son of Hagith, exalted himself, verse 6, and we as we read this account, his father had not displeased him at any time in saying, why have you done so? And he also was a very goodly man. You ever seen a very permissive parent before? The child's making a wreck, either in the restaurant or in the shopping store that you're at, and they're just unrestrained, they're just out of control, and the parents there, they won't even say anything. They they won't even tug to pull them back. It's just getting away and it just starts to get underneath your skin and you kind of want to see You know, if that child slips around the corner and mom's over there, I can probably get a good thumbnail on the side of that boy's ears for a little while and straighten him out. It just gets under my skin. It just annoys you. This child needs discipline. And some parents will just, they're too tender, they can't do it. Well, you get an Adonijah. He exalts himself, and frankly, by the end of the account, Adonijah is dead. He's dead! And this is what happens. They bring their mother to shame. Undisciplined bastards, the scripture says, cannot enter into the congregation of the righteous. In Deuteronomy 23, too, a bastard shall not enter into the congregation of the Lord, even to his tenth generation. He cannot enter into the congregation of the Lord. A master is one who's not from a legitimate parent. It's the son of the concubine, if you will, the son of the harlot, not entering in. And so I would observe and make the point here that fatherly correction can and should extend even into later years. Even when young adults says God through Solomon continues to instruct us. And so this is something where you can the rod is not what I'm talking about, right? You don't spank a 23-year-old, but you can speak to them. The thing you're doing is not good. You can at least warn them, hey, this is not good behavior. You're now an adult. These are the kind of things you need to do. You can still speak to them. You still have that right to be able to speak to them as an adult with tenderly loved so that they know you don't hate them. Uh but if you've been admonishing them all along, when you come to them, they'll know. It's it's you know, I need to listen. I need to pay attention here. Well, we're going to turn our attention away from the bastards to God's legitimate sons. And back in our context here in verses 9 through 11, we have a comparison between two different fathers. We have the fathers of our flesh, and we have the father of spirits. By the way, that's a little doctrinal point against what is known as the doctrine of traditionism. Yes, Mary gave the body of Jesus, but from whence came his soul Uh was it half from Mary and half from God? You know, what what's the origin of the soul? Here it says the Father of Spirits. He's the one that sends the Spirit. Soul and spirit many a time are used interchangeably in scriptures And so here it says, we've had fathers of our flesh which corrected us. We gave them reverence. How shall we not much rather be in subjection to the father of spirits and live. The first thing I'd like to notice here in this section is the comparison between our earthly fathers and your heavenly father. When your earthly father corrects you, Jeffrey, what tends to be our response? Ow. Ow! That hurt. Don't want to do that again It's interesting because the word used here is reverence. I know Pastor knows this because typically the word used in the New Testament for reverence is the Greek word phobia. We've brought that word over into English. That's not the word here. It's not phobia. It's a different word. It's entrepo. It's like entrepo. Never heard of that one. And the concept there It relates to converting pain into respect. To convert pain into respect. Maybe you've come up against an adversary in the field of battle And you were bad mouthing them in the camp until you saw how they operated. It's like, well, we gotta respect our enemy here. There's no kid around. We gotta come with our A game and with our A tools here. We can't This is not the J team. This is not the JV team. This is serious. To convert pain into respect. That's the sense here of our fathers. We gave them reverence. We had that response at least. And the admonition and the example then is, how shall we not much rather be in subjection? How shall we not submit ourselves that phrase subjection. It's the same word used in Colossians 3. 18, wives submit yourselves. That's a voluntary thing Children are to obey, wiser to submit. They volunteer. Children are to be under obedience, not optional. Wiser to submit themselves. If of course the husband is doing his part to love his wife, she will lovingly submit. And if the woman is lovingly submitting, it's very easy for the husband to love her very dearly and to cherish her because there's no other woman that really will. Just as the spiritual son is to submit to the father, the bride of Christ submits to Christ. It's a different metaphor going on here We're dealing with the submission of the Son to the Father, just bringing himself under and to heed his advice and his corrections. In verse 10, we're then given the reason. Why did they do these things? I know why my dad did it because I annoyed the daylights out of it. I just annoyed him. I just re I would do things. It was like, this boy is so far out of line, this is ridiculous. I got one whipping. Thankfully I haven't remembered many of them, but I got one whipping that I'll never forget I'm not encouraging this approach. This is one where he probably did it in anger, but that's okay. I forgive him. Lovely guy. He's in heaven. I was on a rocking chair turned around with my knees in the seat, my feet hanging off the edge, looking over the back, and I was rocking. I had a stick in my hand and my sister was on the other side. As I rocked forward, I would beat her So I was just kind of had a rhythm going, you know, I had this rock, beat, rock, beat. I thought this was great. I didn't have to put much effort into it. This was kind of effortless. Until I felt his hand yank me off that chair. He'd been pruning rose bushes in the backyard. And he took one of those rose. He had his leather gloves on, took one of them about a 16-inch long uh thorny uh stem of a rose bush and went wailing on the backside I couldn't sit down for three days. It was very painful. It was a clear, loud message. Don't do this. It says in Scripture that they did this after his their own pleasure. It's an interesting Greek sense, the sense of his opinion. You know, every house has their own rules I think that's the wisdom of God where he gives that freedom and that flexibility to these are the rules in this house. They have to accommodate what's there. The rules in your house can't match the rules in my house or likely won't match. There's overlap as Christians. But you have to take into account the nature and the type and the age and all of that's going on in there before you can really lay down your own set of rules Elders are those who rule well. That's in fact an early testing ground for somebody who's going to lead in the church. It says in 1 Timothy 3, speaking of the qualifications for one who is to be a ruler It says, one that ruleth well his own house, having his children in subjection with all gravity. They willingly submitted themselves to him, with gravity no less. There's a gravitas, there's a seriousness they have, there's a deep respect. And it says, if a man know not, here's the reason why you ought to pick such a one. If a man know not how to rule his own house How shall he take care of the church of God? This plain text of Scripture here, and I'm going to go off on a little tangent for a moment. This plain text of scripture is the most ignored when it comes to selecting a pastor or a leader in the church. It is consistently ignored in my experience. Who do we pick? Well, a man that's successful in business, of course. He's got a big bank account. He's got a lot of great suits. He's tall and handsome. That's the guy we ought to pick. Oh, the eloquent one, the one that speaks very well. The handsome one, get a load of this. This fellow we read about Adonijah, I didn't Conclude with the last part of verse 6. His father had not displeased him at any time, saying, Why hast thou done so? And he also was a very goodly man that were goodly handsome. Handsome. Let's pick somebody that's that's uh that's young and charismatic and dresses like Gen Z and he'll resonate with that congregation. Doesn't even have kids Or they'll pick a woman. Nothing wrong with women. I like women. I married one. They're great. I commend it. But there's roles that God has. Women can do things that men can't do. Men can do things and are assigned tasks. That women are not a sign. It's ripture. That's just how God sets it up. It's a picture of Christ in the church. Now it's been faithful over a few things. I'll make thee Lord over many. Excellent commentary. Right. If he can't take care of his own household. Now I'm not saying all of his children have to be believers. I've heard that extreme extent as well. God's not going to lay the responsibility of conversion, a heart work only God can do, upon that man. But they can be subject to him. They can be subject to authority. They can still be that. That ought to be found. And that's what you want in the house of God. He has to be able to so operate among them that they willingly submit themselves to his guidance. And then it says why God the Father, the Father of spirits, chastens us. He says he does it for our profit. I've already talked about the blueberries out, and it's one of my favorite metaphors. Notice this for our profit. You know what the key word is there? Our. It doesn't say your It's our. You know, I'll be honest, there are times when chastisement will come upon me. I'll have to view it as chastisement. I think, well Yeah, I I I knew I should have paid for that extra bag of coffee they gave me for free at Harris Theater. I know I'm all this is coming. It may have nothing to do with that whatsoever It may have to do with you need to go through some affliction so that some brothers and sisters in church can learn to pray for you. You may need to be going through something because there's others in the body of Christ that need to learn how to support and rally around you. Flash alert, Christian, it's not all about you. It's all about him and his bride. And he's bringing that whole group together. And he may afflict one part to motivate the other to do something. He may cause one part to rejoice, to give aid and comfort to that which is not. That's an exercise of the grace of God as well. Are you ready to help and support when there's needs around you? It's not all just about you. It says he's doing it for our profit. Boy, that's a big word right there. Our. It's not your. our prophet. God has the whole household in mind. I know when we were with little ones in our house. As soon as they could pick up a fork and they could reach the drawer on the step stool, their job was to put away the forks and spoons from the dishwasher. As they became a little more capable with their hands, well then they could put away the butter knives. Mommy and daddy would do the sharp knives, so they wouldn't drop it on their baby brother's toe and we'd have to rush to the hospital. Give them a job. Give them something to do. Missing time. Missing tail. Right. And so God does these things for our profit. He is bringing us into this. Notice here that the sense of bringing together is the word. Think reconciliation. You know, there's a right- there's an alienation we have from God, but there's also an alienation we have from each other. Our sins and the sins of others kind of are mutually unattractive. They kind of push us away. And as we're brought closer to the Savior, We're reconciled to one another, we're reconciled to him. We're coming closer to what our long home will look like. First Corinthians eleven says this. This is very instructive in verse thirty-two. It says, When we are judged We are chastened of the Lord. We're chastened of the Lord. That we should not be condemned with the world. You know, it's a blessing of God to be to figure it out early that hey this is something that's got to change in my life. I really need to bear fruit in this area, that we would not be condemned with the world. The grace of God has appeared. Titus 2. 11, for the grace of God that bringeth salvation hath appeared to all men, teaching us that denying ungodliness and worldly lust we should live soberly, righteously, and godly. In this present evil, wicked, corrupt, dark, bankrupt world. Yeah, that's the Vince Cluth version, but you know what I mean by this present evil world. You know what's interesting about that verse? That word teaching is our same word chasten. Chastening is a teaching tool. It's instructive. It's for our profit. What's the range? How long is this going to go on? I'm glad I got done with the Swats at age. I don't know. When did Dad quit beating on my backside, Mom? By what age was I Too long ago. About twenty-three or so. Yeah, he probably should have been beating on me until then as foolish as I was. Mm-mm Well it says in verse 10 that they did it for, quote, a few days. A few days. You know, Proverbs 19, 18, and boy, this is a good one here that comes to my mind a lot It says, chasten thy son while there is hope. Let not thy soul spare for his crying. That phrase, while there is hope. implies something. Somebody tell me what that implies. Well they're still impressionable. Well they'll be Steve and learn from While they're still impressionable. Before they can hit you back. Before they can hit you back and it hurts. While there is still hope. Before it's too late. Before it's too late. Because there will come a time when, oh, but that the rod would work. And it won't. You can There there are some children you can just beat with a rod endlessly and no effect. Absolutely no effect And that's a sad thing that a time does come when the rod and the days of correction are gone. And it will come. It does come. I've seen it. You know, at that point The mold is set, the clay is hard, it's in the shape that it's in, and if those thorns hadn't been cut off, that thorn will probably keep growing. That's just how that works You know, how does the Father of Spirits do it for us? Our fathers after the flesh for a few days. Now, it's not explicitly indicated, but there's a couple of things in this passage that do make us believe. that it's our whole life. It talks about uh to them that are exercised thereby. And it says that they might live, be subjected to the Father of Spirits, and live. The implication is that it is your whole life. That there will be various chastisements your whole life Now, Acts 14. 22, I think, teaches this as well. It says, confirming the souls of the disciples and exhorting them to continue in the faith That we must through much tribulation enter into the kingdom of God. We must. It's just kind of part of the program. Now, does that mean that there is non-stop affliction every day Well, for some people who suffer with grievous diseases, yeah, it can go on for it can drag on for a long season. You know, thank God there are periods of abatement. Thank God for those seasons when there is rest and peace. You rejoice in that. We read of Israel's kings, they would do wickedly. God would send a deliverer in the book of Judges, and then you'd read, and the land had rest, had peace for 20 years for 40 years. That's a good long stretch. That's nice. God may give you a decade of great peace. Use it wisely. Don't be lifted up Don't think and become proud and arrogant because I'm now so obedient and righteous. Don't start bearing the wrong kind of fruit. Just thank God every day Thank you, Lord, for this day of peace. Thank you, Lord, for this rest. Thank you, Lord, for this good season. Thank you for those good seasons. What's the result of all these things? We've looked at the response. the subjection, the reasons for our profit, the range of your whole life, and what is the result. Well, for the fathers of our flesh, it's a delightful son. It's a delightful son. Proverbs 29, 17. Correct thy son, and he shall give thee rest. Yea, he shall give delight unto thy soul. It is a delightful thing to be able to converse with your son about the things of Scripture, to hear good input, verses of Scripture you haven't thought of that he thinks of, for him to just listen and sit back in a contentious conversation to see how he handles it and to hear a good good response and a measured response, a thoughtful, respectful response. It's a delight to hear. It's truly a delight. Oh, but what a grief. When he's in the company of fools. What a grief. What a grief. And you've done what you can. I'm I there are parents who have done what they could and they just have a an Esau in their midst and That's part of the chastisement of the Lord as well. But this is the fathers of the flesh, but the fathers spirits, now talking about the spiritual aspect God doesn't have any bastards in his necks. He has blood-bought, born-again sons and daughters of God. And what does it result in? It says the peaceable fruit of righteousness. When I was young and unsaved, the word I didn't like was holiness. I didn't like that word. That just didn't sound fun. It just it's a holy doesn't sit around all day, light a candle like a you know orthodox priest or something. I thought disaster. I had no clue what holiness really was Holiness is cleanness. It's staying away from things that are filthy, that defile you, that are just a joke and ridiculous. Jesus Christ, it says in Titus 2. 14 who gave himself for us that he might redeem us from all iniquity and purify unto himself a peculiar people, zealous of good works. The children of God want to help the people of God. They want to forward the cause of worship in his name. They want to forward the cause of evangelism. They want to support these things. And so I want to conclude with a few points here I believe this teaching, if I'm on track with this and I believe I am, I believe this teaching really magnifies the sovereignty of God in their lives. That he can so control all the evil things in this world around you, yea, even the good, but he's doing it for your profit. For your good. All things are yours, the Apostle Paul says, whether things present or things to come. Those are tools that God are using with you in mind. You read the news about what this leader is doing and what that leader is doing. Oh, that's just what man thinks. You know how AI sometimes hallucinates? Yeah, the news is hallucinating because they leave God out of the equation It's like a weatherman trying to forecast things while ignoring the upper winds. The upper winds control the main weather patterns. And if you ignore the upper wind, the Holy Spirit, you're missing who the main driver is Scripture tells you who it is. It's God Himself and His purpose. It's for you and your prophet. And that's That's a great comfort to know that whatever happens to you absolutely, positively had to pass through his permissive hand of and his will first Second thing is this, and I do this as a little bit of a pastoral concern. There are some who have not had a good father, they've had an abusive father. And it is very difficult for them to hear this sort of thing. Their concept of a good father is twisted and warped because of what their earthly father has done That is sin on his part. That is a wickedness for which he will have to pay, except God save him and have mercy upon him. It reflects poorly on God the Father who is the best. God the Father tenderly considers all unique situations. And there's a psalm that says, if my father and mother forsake me, the Lord will take me up. And I would encourage you to come to the good Father of the Spirits and find healing and comfort for your soul. Can I expand on that for just a second? Please do. Deuteronomy 23 has caused a lot of people a lot of grief because of the a bastard trying to enter into the congregation for tenth generation. And I had a good friend who was born in illegitimacy and it really bothered him. Can I be saved? Yeah. You know um My own father was in the same situation. My grandmother was ten years older than my grandfather. She was a school teacher and We'll just leave it there. Um yeah, my father was a greatly used minister of the Lord. Yes. Um so that what that was referring to and a actually the next the verse I was just looking at the context I'm thinking. So it talks about a eunuch. Well, Daniel and the Hebrew children were made eunuchs, but they were in the congregation. It was referring to the priesthood in the And not something that you know a lot of us ten generations who knows what our grandparents were. Thank you for clarifying that and I really should amend my notes to clarify that. Uh yeah, what I had in my mind didn't come out of my mouth. When I'm speaking of a b bastard, I'm talking about a spiritual bastard. Right. I'm looking at it from a spiritual context, somebody who has um climbed in up the wall some other way. They they they're into the household of faith, but it's not through being born again. They're just some other way. That is a spiritual bastard. Physical Yeah, no, that is an Old Testament sign-shadow type of figure relevant to the priesthood at the time, uh, but not uh to be carried forward in the new, literally. Thank you for that clarification. Yes, absolutely. Absolutely. Absolutely. Well thank you. First, could you close it? Absolutely. My gracious Father, Lord, we thank you for the depth of thy word. Oh Lord. If we had a hundred lifetimes to study it, we would never comprehend it all. And Lord, passage after passage can speak new truth to our hearts. Lord, not that there is a new truth there But your spirit awakens our spirits to new truth. Just as we were saying in the introduction, that your spirit bears witness with our spirit. And Lord, that indeed is an evidence to us of our own Spiritual health, Lord, that we can read a passage we've read so many times before and new blessings will be reaped to the soul. We thank you for that. Lord, I thank you for Mabrella's teaching. Lord, I pray that we would not be forgetful hearers. May we not simply listen to the Sunday school lesson on Sunday and then not contemplate it. But Lord, may we take these things and look at the notes again and meditate further throughout the week, Lord, for the teaching, blessing, and admonition of our souls. Father, we thank you for bringing us together. We thank you for the privilege of worshiping together in this place today. Lord, may your Holy Spirit indeed Visit with us afresh and anew, Lord, that we might perceive thy truth. The Holy Spirit is the one who guides us into all truth and testifies of Christ in the Word. May that ministry be evident in our hearts today. In Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Amen.