Thank you. Lord, that as we will see from your word today, you have power over the storms of our lives, over the storm of the sea. We thank you for that. Father, bless our assembling here today Lord, we thank you that we do not of necessity pray that you would meet with us. For Lord, you have promised that where two or three are gathered in your name There you are in the midst. And Lord, you're faithful to your promises. You never fail in those. And so, Lord, if this morning we fail to recognize your presence among us It is only for the coldness and hardness of our own hearts. And so, Father, we pray that you would open our eyes to thy truth, that you would open our hearts to thy word That you would break down the calluses of our conscience, O God, that we might be smitten by the Spirit of God. that we might be convicted of our failure to walk in righteousness, that we might be convicted of our lack of study of thy word. That we might find our prayerness, prayerlessness to be repugnant to our soul. And Father, this morning, we pray that we be refreshed by thy truth. strengthened by thy might, and made more like Christ day by day. Father, help and bless us Lord, it is our human failing and our human condition that it is so easy for these sinful minds and cold hearts to wander to contemplate anything but the truth of Jesus Christ. But Father, today as we gather for worship both here and those that worship with us online May the bird of the air, who is pictured as one who would steal away the seed that is sown in the heart, may the bird of the air be driven from us. May thy spirit drive that distraction far from our hearts, that we might worship Christ and Christ alone. That we might think on his glory, that we might behold his mighty majesty. And Lord, may you improve us by thy grace this day. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Our call to worship this morning is from the third chapter of Lamentation, and starting in verse twenty-one. This I recall to my mind. Therefore have I hoped. It is of the Lord's mercies that we are not consumed, because his compassions fail not. They are new every morning. Great is thy faithfulness. Well, we turn to our opening song in our blue songbook today, Jesus What a Friend for Sinners, number 432, in your blue songbook. Jesus, what a friend for sinners. 432 is our opening tune. And we will sing all five stanzas. Jesus was a friend for sinners, Jesus. Of my soul friends may tell me both or tell me in my save. Alleluja wada nok, man. Let me hide myself in here. My strength, my ministry was saved, Jesus will be wrong. And my God is ready, my God, my soul called Jesus was like God and keep her spirit. Well this guy for me for takes me in my mind's my pride. Aleluya wata save, Aleluya Wanda, stay beautiful. For them all and I pride, we have planting me for given this time. Let me try Avelo Ya beluya walk. Saving helping God be to be. Amen. At least we see Brother Anton, if you would, or is the confessional reading. Good morning. Good morning. Please turn to the back of your bulletin. This morning we're looking at the 19th article of the Belgic Confession, and this is just the first part of it Article nineteen part A, which is regarding the union and distinction of the two natures in the person of Christ. Today. Christian, and what do you believe? We believe that by this conception, the person of the Son is inseparably united and connected with the human nature. So that they are not two sons of God, nor two persons, but two natures united in one single person Yet that each nature names its own distinct properties, as then the divine nature has always remained uncreated, without beginning of days or end of life. Feeling heaven and earth, so also had the human nature not lost its properties, but remained a creature. Having the beginning of days, being a finite nature, and retaining all the properties of a real body. And though he have, by his resurrection, given immortality to the same, nevertheless he hath not changed the reality of his human nature. For as much as our salvation and resurrection also depend on the reality of his body. This article makes a very good distinction. Christ has two natures, it's not two persons, it's not two different gods that were joined. This is one person, Jesus Christ, and yet we see, as he makes his appearance on the earth, he has two natures. He is truly God, and yet at the same time truly man. He has the divine nature which shares and has all those same properties that God does himself. He's eternal, he's omnipotent, he knows all things, he's able to do all things He has that within him. There's God that's dwelling within him. And yet at the same time he has the human nature. He has the properties of a regular person. He was created at a certain point in history. We celebrate uh the birth of Christ, typically December twenty-fifth. We don't know if that's the actual day, but There was truly a day, uh, right around 2000 and what are we at now? Twenty-five years ago. when Christ really was born. He had a a time when he was born. That was his human nature, that his human uh uh uh human nature was was brought forth and we were able to see him. Men could see him. He had the same human properties just like all others do. He was able to sweat, he was able to bleed, he had to eat, and so on. You see all these things. He had a real human body And yet we s read as well regarding the Son of God, that divine nature. We see that his eternality, even from John 1 and verse 1, in the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God. And the word was God. That's referring to the Son of God there that was with his father God himself, and he was there from the beginning. So that's why Christ could testify that before Abraham was, I am, he was truly there. He's always there from the beginning, that divine nature. And regarding his human nature, we read of in John 1 verse 14, that same chapter, we read about that word. It says, And the Word was made flesh and dwelt among us, and we beheld his glory, the glory as of the only begotten of the Father, full of grace and truth. So we see that word, that eternal word, was made flesh. And that term made in Greek is ginami, which means became or it put on flesh. That word which is eternal, that was always with God, that is God, it it at a certain point in time put on flesh. That's what happened at the incarnation. That's what happens when you see Jesus Christ being revealed on the earth There was truly a divine and human nature dwelling in that flesh. And there are important implications as the article points out. that Christ has to have both a human nature um and a divine, but specifically I'll look at the human nature in uh application of your salvation as well as the resurrection of your body. It was needful for him to have a human body in life. to exchange his righteousness for our sin. We read in the scriptures in 2 Corinthians 5. 21 it says, For he hath made him to be sin for us. Who knew no sin? That's Jesus Christ. He knew no sin. That we might be made the righteousness of God in him. And so Christ had to have an actual human body, real human properties, so he could be the one that bears our sin. God doesn't bear sin, but the God man could. He put on our sin, and for the believers we put on his perfect righteousness that he had. We were made the righteousness of God in him And also it was needful for him to have a human body for the resurrection of our human bodies, of our bodies that will be resurrected once again. In 1 Corinthians 15 we read that, for since by man came death, by man came also the resurrection of the dead. The resurrection of the dead comes about because there was a man that achieved that. It was the first Adam that achieved death upon all men's bodies. That was Adam, that first Adam And then Jesus Christ comes, and it's through him, through that man, says, by man came also the resurrection of the dead. That's through Christ. He had to have an actual human body to achieve that salvation for all of men. It says, for as in Adam all die, even so in Christ shall all be made alive. That is, all that are in Christ will have eternal life. And so in his resurrection, uh We see that Christ's human body itself was resurrected. That human body that He in dwelt, that that we see at the Incarnation, that body itself was resurrected. It was now a glorious body uh a body that could last eternally, but yet it was the body that was resurrected. And we read of that after the resurrection in Luke 24, when Christ appears to his disciples in the flesh. He says, Behold, my hands and my feet, that it is I myself. Handle me and see, for a spirit hath not flesh and bones. as ye see me have. And so he appears and that same body says, Yes, this is the one that was crucified. You can see it's these same hands that were pierced, these same feet that were pierced. You see that he was able to resurrect the body. And that gives you and I hope that we as well will have a resurrection of our body. But praise be to God, it's a different one. It's a glorious body, not one that's full of the ailments we have now. We see in Philippians 3. 21 it says that Christ shall change our vile body, that it may be fashioned like unto his glorious body. So yeah, we'll be putting away the old flesh, but we'll still have a resurrection of the body itself into a glorious body. like one that uh Christ has. What a marvelous doctrine this is. That Christ, the God man, came to reconcile sinners and save us, both body and soul together. Thank you. Yes, Amen. As in Adam all died, even so in Christ shall all be made alive. We go down in the first all, and come up in the second. Well, let us go to prayer at this time. Gracious Father, we know not what to pray for as we ought. But the Spirit maketh intercession for us with groanings which cannot be uttered. And Father, we thank you that your Spirit does indeed Not inspire our prayers. That word is misused so often in modern religion. The inspiration is finished But Lord, your Spirit does guide the hearts of your people in prayer and brings to our hearts and minds scriptures. And Lord, we We try faithfully to preach to pray the scriptures back to our God. Father, this morning, we do thank you Lord, for that interceding that is made on our behalf in prayer by the Holy Spirit and before the throne by Jesus Christ. Father, we do pray this morning for those that are are mourning, to the for those that have suffered loss. uh two families in our congregation that have recently in the last week suffered a loss one having a brother pass and the other having a sister pass. And Lord we pray your comfort upon them Father, we have a yet recent widow in our midst. And Lord, we pray that you would strengthen and comfort her day by day And Lord, we have other widows in our midst that have been now a very long season without their help meet in this earth. And Father, we thank you that Christ is a friend that sticketh closer than a brother. And Lord, may they know that sweet and deep fellowship, O Lord, with thee. Father, we lift up the needs of the sick before you. Father, we are not informing you of their needs, for they are well known to be. And Lord, it is not the first we have prayed for these needs. Oh, yes, yes, Lord, we have prayed with importunity. We have been as the one knocking at midnight. And Lord, our faith is not diminished by the delay in answer. For Father, we know that you are able to heal if it be in thy will. And yet, Father, we know that these bodies are in a dying state. But these bodies, because of the per the curse of sin, will perish. And we we recite with Job, though after my body, the skin, worms destroy my body, yet in my flesh shall I see God, and not another. And so, Father, we rejoice that these bodies with so much pain and suffering and sorrow are not our final state of existence. Lord, we look for a heavenly body made like unto the body of Christ. And Lord, we thank you for the confessional reading that was read in our ear ears this morning and then expounded to us. And Lord, what indeed comfort it does give us that as an Adam we will die. But as in Christ, we are raised to the newness of life. And in this we rejoice. Father, we pray for the spiritual condition of our congregation. It is easy to become complacent. It is easy to let other things begin to intrude on our time of prayer, to intrude on our time of Bible reading. To intrude on our very attendance at the time of worship. And Lord, as we've already prayed this morning, it is easy to sit in a worship service and hear absolutely nothing, although the words being spoken are the very words of Scripture. For Father, we we dwell under the infirmities of the flesh. And Father, we pray often that you would lengthen the cords of our tent and that you would add to our numbers. But Father, far more important it is that we be growing in grace and in the knowledge of the Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. Far more important it is that we be a congregation that today is further along in sanctification than we were last week, and than we were a year ago. And that we are further along in our knowledge of thee, in our understanding of Scripture, and our hunger for more of it. Than we've ever been. For Father, to be further from Thee today than we were yesterday is indeed to be backslidden. And so, Father, make us a congregation that truly hungers and thirst after righteousness. Yea, even more than our daily food. May we grow in grace. Father, we pray, Lord, for the supply of your people. And thank you, Lord, that we have seen again and again you multiply a cruise of oil in a barrel of meat. Maybe not in that dramatic and miraculous form. And yet, Father, when you sent Christ, when you sent out the disciples without purse and script, they lacked nothing. And you promise that we will not lack. And so, Father, meet the needs of your people, provide for them the employment and the situations and the circumstances that are needed. Cause small retirement pensions to be multiplied again and again that your people's needs may be met. Father, we do pray this morning for our nation. We hear disturbing things in the news. It seems like the uh wicked of this world are Teaming up and raging and telling lies about our president, a man lord that we do not believe is a child of God, and yet a man that we do believe was placed in that office by divine providence. And so, Father, our prayer first of all is, Oh God, save his soul. And our prayer secondly, Lord, is give him wisdom to rule thy people aright. For your people have often had great benefit under wicked kings. And O Lord, we find that at times your people have had great persecution under kings who were supposed to be godly. And so Father, we pray, O Lord, that you would give us good, godly leadership. And Father, that you may protect our leaders from the wicked one and from wicked men, O God. Father, we rejoice in Mission Bible Church Lord, what a wonder that though most of us are here together in Maryland, yet we are gathered this morning in Texas. We are gathered this morning in Wisconsin. We are gathered today in Arizona. We are gathered today in North Carolina. We are gathered in places we know not of. And Father, we thank you for that truth of thy word that the Lord gave the word, and great was the company of them that published it. And so, Father, may you publish your word. May you protect Mission Bible Church from us, from our own carnal natures. And Father, may you use us for your glory. No Lord, the root and heart of our prayer is this even so come, Lord Jesus. Oh Father, how glorious it would be if this were the last service of Mission Bible Church, and yet this were indeed the first service of Mission Bible Church in glory. That we might worship you together before the throne. That our worship may not end at lunchtime, but that our worship may continue throughout all eternity. Even so come, Lord Jesus, in Jesus' name. Amen. Please turn to Psalm twenty-three in your Bibles for a responsive reading. Once you found Psalm twenty-three in your Bibles, please rise. This is a blessed, well-known psalm of our shepherd and his provision for his sheep. Psalm 23, a psalm of David. The Lord is my shepherd. I shall not want. He maketh me to lie down in green pastures. He leadeth me to side still waters. He restoreth my soul. He leadeth me in the paths of righteousness for his name's sake. Yea, though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I will fear no evil For thou art with me, thy rod and thy staff, they comfort me. Thou preparest a table before me in the presence of mine enemies. Thou anointest my head with oil, my cup runneth over, and altogether Surely goodness and mercy shall follow me all the days of my life And I will dwell in the house of the Lord forever. May the Lord add a rich blessing to the reading and hearing of this holy word. Our sermon psalm today comes from our blue songbook, The Trinity, number 107, which does have a nice collection. of adaptations of the psalms number 107 in the Blue Trinity Hymnal Lord our Lord, thy glorious name. Alive with too. Trust you'll pick it up quickly. We sing all three stanzas and the Amen. Lord Lord, thy glorious name, for thy wondress was proclaimed in the hem with radiant sight. Evermore thy glory shines in and let's thou dost ordain that and vengeance to restrain this means. Hold will I will mighty enemy fruit Moon and started shining light. Rightly tell their makers mine when I wander There I know how we what is the should be What then is better by me? Right, so tell me, Brown with the side, with the wind and crowd me stand. For the creatures of I had all limbs of action yield in the sea and air and field for our Lord thy glorious name, all thy wondrous words proclaim, thy name of matchless word, exhale. Thank you, please. See your Bibles with you this morning to Mark chapter four The fourth chapter of the Gospel is recorded for us by Mark, and I'm going to read verses 35 through 41 of Mark chapter 4. This is the account of Christ and the disciples on the s the sea, when Christ stills the sea. It's also found in Matthew chapter eight and Luke chapter eight as well. But we're reading from Mark chapter four, starting in verse thirty-five. And the same day, when the even was come, he saith unto them, Let us pass over unto the other side. And when they had sent away the multitude, they took him even as he was in the ship. And there arose, and there were also with him other little ships And there arose a great storm of wind, and the waves beat into the ship, so that it was now full. And he was in the hinder part of the ship, asleep on a pillow. And they awake him And say unto him, Master, carest thou not that we perish? And he arose And rebuked the wind, and said unto the seas, Peace be still. And the wind ceased, and there was a great calm. And he said unto them, Why are ye so fearful? How is it that ye have no faith? And they feared exceedingly, and said one to another, What manner of man is this? But even the wind and the sea obey him. What a spell for prayer Father, now bless thy word and thy truth to our hearts. Lord, grant utterance in the reading of thy scripture and the expounding thereof. Lord, overcome the weaknesses of human mind and human tongue, that thy word may go forth clearly That thy word may go forth anointed by thy spirit, and that thy people might be blessed, convicted, and edified. And Lord, we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Oftentimes these most familiar passages of Scripture hold some of the greatest blessings for us. And there's an old saying, familiarity breeds contempt. And we don't approach the Word of God with contempt, but there are times when we approach it with a degree of familiarity. I've read that before. And so we read through it quickly. Or oh I know that story. I I remember the the flannograph and the pictures from when I was three years old and it was told in Sunday school And yet, folks, all scripture is given by inspiration of God and is profitable. And oftentimes these most familiar passages can be the most profitable. If we'll just sit back and listen, if we'll just allow the Spirit of God to be the interpreter of the Word of God to our hearts. And so this morning I would just like to take this account and dissect it. Get into some of the minutiae of what is taking place. And see what the Lord of God may teach your hearts today. We read there in verse 35, and the same day when even was come. He saith unto his disciples, let us pass over to the other side. That's not insignificant, folks. The same day when even was come, what is taking place? Well look up to verse 1 in the chapter. In verse 1 of chapter 4, and he began to uh to teach by the sea, and they were granted unto him a great multitude, so they entered into a ship and sat in the sea, and the whole multitude was by the sea on the land. And he taught them many things by parables. And said unto them in his doctrine, behold, hearken, behold, there went forth a sower. And then down to verse 21, And he saith unto them, Is a candle brought to be put under a verse bushel? And then verse twenty six, and he said, So is the kingdom of God is if a man cast seed into the ground. And then verse 31, it is like a grain of mustard seed, which when it is grow sown in the earth. Folks, he began at mourning. And there was such a great crowd, a multitude, that they were mobbing around him. And if you've ever seen a picture of a great s speech from the president. There's always a bit of space put between him and the platform so he doesn't get mobbed. And so there's this big crowd that has come, a multitude that has come to hear Christ, and it is so great that Jesus actually gets into a boat and pushes out a bit from shore so he can have a bit of space between him and the people and they can hear. The same day of the evening. And so when Christ is getting into this ship, he is indeed ready for sleep. In fact, it says there in verse 36 And when he had sent away the multitude, they took him even as he was. He hasn't had supper. He hasn't had rest. He hasn't had a break all day. Now we were talking about the humanity of Christ in our confessional reading this morning, and here is a glorious example of the humanity of Christ, that he was indeed man, and he was very fatigued. And if you notice there, it he says, let us pass over to the other side. But then in verse 36, and there were also with him other little ships. He still can't get away, folks. In our modern vernacular we say the phone kept ringing. He has tried to get away, he's tried to get a break, but there's emails coming in and the phone's ringing in our modern The ships are following him. The mob is still coming with him. He's very tired. He's had a long day of preaching. And he is ready for sleep. And it is no wonder. For indeed the word became flesh. He knew every ache and pain of our body. He knew a dry throat from preaching all day. He knew hunger from not eating. He was worn out and tired. After his temptation in the wilderness, after 40 days and 40 nights of fasting, he was after a hunger. He knew what it was to be man. In John Mark chapter 6, just two chapters over from here, and verse 31 and verse 32 we find, and he said unto them, Come ye yourselves apart into a desert place and rest awhile. For there were many coming and going, and they had no leisure so much as to eat. And they departed into a desert place by ship privately. These mobs that were coming were coming in such numbers. They didn't have time to rest, they didn't even have time to eat. And Christ there, just two chapters over says to the disciples Come yourselves apart and rest a while. You've got to take a break. My father used to say, come yourselves apart and rest before you come apart. And it's true. If these bodies do not receive sufficient rest, my wife will tell you, if I don't get enough sleep, I'm not fun to be around. Because these bodies, Christ was no different. Nor were the disciples. You've heard me say many times before that I had another missionary friend in Jamaica very close to us and we were scuba diving buddies and we always said if we ever got a boat we'd name it Mark 631. Come to yourselves apart and rest a while. Rest is necessary to our human condition. It is no wonder that Jesus Christ was asleep in the boat. But folks, it is an unbelievable wonder that Jesus Christ was asleep in the boat. It's no wonder that his human body slipped. But what a great wonder! That he who spoke the world's into existence was in a human body that slept Oh folks, it is an unspeakable wonder. This wonder that Jesus Christ is asleep in the boat, I would commend to you, is as marvelous as the very incarnation. It is as marvelous as the fact that he was born in a manger in Bethlehem and now he's sleeping on a pillow in a boat. The word became flesh So they take him as he is. But then in verse 35 also, he saith unto them, let us pass over Unto the other side. And folks, there's great marvel and much to be learned there. You see Jesus Christ knew a storm was coming. The disciples didn't know it. Jesus could have said to the disciples, hey guys, let's wait until the morning. He could have said, fellas, it's probably not a good night to be on the sea. He could have said, you know, those skies don't look very good. It's getting kind of dark. Maybe we ought to wait till tomorrow morning. He knew about the storm, but he took the disciples into the storm anyway. Folks, God knows what's going to happen to me tomorrow. He knows every trial that I will face tomorrow and next week and next month and next year But we find that he chooses to take the disciples into the trial rather than around it. Now you remember that when the children of Israel were going through the wilderness, it says he led them not by one way, because if they saw war, they would go back to Egypt. You see, God will take us into the middle of a storm, but he will never take us into a storm that will destroy our faith. He may take us into a storm, but he will never take us into a catastrophic storm. He said, guys, let's get in the boat and go to the other side. He knew all about it Known unto God are all his works from the foundation of the world. The Lord knoweth how to deliver the godly out of temptation. He knew how to keep the disciples out of this storm in which they would ask, don't you care? But for their spiritual education, he chose to take them into the storm. But not only did Jesus know that a storm was coming, He knew that their journey would be successful. He doesn't say let's go halfway over and drown. He says let's get in the boat and go the other side. The disciples didn't know the storm would be successful. In fact, the disciples in the middle of the storm thought it was going to be very unsuccessful. Lord, don't you care that we perish? Were the disciples perishing? Well, we'll talk about that a little bit later on in the message. But Jesus Christ knew the storm was coming, and he knew he would carry them through the storm, but the disciples did not know. The title of our message this morning is The Savior Still Still Storm Z. You see God is faithful with the temptation to make a way of escape. The way of escape in this instance was peace be still. He still the storm But God will not leave us into a storm that he will not bring us through. And so he knew the journey would be successful. When thou passest through the waters, I will be with thee, and through the river river they shall not overflow thee. But not only did Jesus know the storm is coming, And know the journey would be successful. Jesus knew what was on the other side. And more specifically, Jesus knew who was on the other side. Look over to Mark chapter 5, verses 1 and 2. That's the next chapter. Our last verse there was verse 41, which is the end of the chapter. But if you go to verse chapter 5, verse 1, and they came over to the other side of the sea into the country of the Gatarenes And when they were come out of the ship, immediately there met him out of the tombs a man with an unclean spirit And verse 6, but when Jesus saw afar off, he ran, or when he saw Jesus afar off, he ran and worshipped him and cried with a loud voice and said, What have I to do with thee, Jesus? Thou son of the most high God, I adjure thee by God, that thou torment me not. Verse eight. For he said unto him, Come out of the man, thou unclean spirit Jesus knew that one of his elect children, who had during that storm when Christ was on the sea, one of his elect children was on the other side of the Gadderenes. And he was tormented and possessed by a devil. Folks, this demoniac or the Gadarenes had a bigger problem than the disciples. And the very storm may have been Satan's attempt to keep Jesus from reaching that one lost sheep that he is seeking. The Son of Man has come to seek and to save that which is lost. The disciples did not know what Jesus was doing, but he was on a missionary journey. The disciples did not know why they were facing such an overwhelming problem. But God had a purpose in their problem, and the purpose was there's a man over there that needs to be saved, and Jesus Christ came to seeker to save that which is lost, and Jesus declared, All the Father give it to me shall come to me, and this one was waiting to come. He sees Jesus and he knows who he is. And he runs and he worships him. But folks, it took a storm on a sea. For that man to be saved. Jesus knew there was a storm coming. Jesus knew he would take the disciples through the storm. But Jesus also knew what was on the other side of the storm. Folks, are you facing an overwhelming storm today? Is there a problem in your life that is just keeping you awake at night? That is grinding you to the bone? That is taking the skin off your knuckles? And even more so, taking the skin off your knees because you prayed and prayed and prayed about it. And you're overwhelmed, God, why don't you care, God, about what I'm going through? Yet God has something on the other side of that trial that the disciples never imagined. But Jesus knew the end from the beginning. He knew both sides of the sea. And he knew what was in the middle of the sea as well He knew the lost sheep. Remember when Christ said in John 1. 48, Nathaniel, when thou wast under the fig tree, I saw thee. And in Luke 19, verse 5, Zacchaeus make haste and come down, for today I must abide in thy house. In Acts 26, 14, Saul, Saul, why persecutest thou me? It is hard for thee to kick against the pricks. And see, Jesus Christ saw my soul before the foundation of the world. And he determined to go through an unimaginable trial of the cross to save me. Verse 37. And there arose a great storm of wind, and the waves beat into the ship, so that it was now full. Folks, the Christian life is not without storms. You've heard that before. But I'll say it again. The Christian life is not without storms. There are problems. There are trials. And sometimes I believe that the elect children of God have more trials than the rest of the world because Satan isn't concerned about those that he has in his hand. He's concerned about those that are in the Father's hand. And so oftentimes believers have more trials than the rest. Because Satan is a roaring lion seeking who may devour. We read in Matthew 5, 45, for he maketh the sun to rise on the evil and on the good. He sendeth rain upon the just and the unjust. Wise man that built his house on the rock and the foolish man that built his house on the sand, what is the commonality in that story? The rains came. And the storm beat on both their houses. You see, just because your house is on the rock doesn't mean you're not going to have a storm. What it does mean is that your house is going to stand the storm Because Christ is with you. The disciples, Peter and John in particular, went about confirming the souls of the disciples and exhorting them to continue in the faith. And that through much tribulation they enter into the kingdom of God, Acts 14, verse 22. Yea, and all that live godly in Christ Jesus shall suffer persecution. And so first of all in verse 37, the Christian life is not without storms. But secondly, from a human standpoint, the danger was very real. And I touched on this a bit earlier. The danger from their standpoint was very, very real. If you look at the verse, it says, the waves beat not on the ship, but into the ship, so that it, the ship, was now full. You ever bailed a boat? Ever been in a boat and start bailing and you realize the water is coming in faster than you can bail it out? The danger is real. In the Matthew passage, in Matthew 8. 24, behold, there arose a great tempest in the sea, insomuch that the ship was covered with the waves. The waves were breaking over the ship, but he was asleep. And in the Luke passage, Luke 8, 23, and as they sailed he fell asleep, and there came down a storm of wind on the lake, and they were filled with water, and were in jeopardy. That's how Luke puts it. They were in jeopardy. Folks, the storm was very real, and the storm was very deadly. You know, it's interesting. that we read that other little ships, other little boats accompanied with them, they're up in verse 36-37, that there are other little boats with them. We never read anything about the other little boats making it to the other store, sure. And it is it is quite possible that some of those other little boats that left one side with them never made it to the still of the storm. And never made it to the other side. Folks, the jeopardy was very real. And many a Christian has become a martyr. This world and the prince of this world has killed many a believer. But we're not to fear them that can kill the body. And do no more. Rather fear the one who's asleep in the boat who can cast both body and soul into hell. Folks, the jeopardy was very real. Folks, I'm not trying to belittle your problems, and I'm certainly not look ready to belittle mine, because my problems are big. The problems we face are big. We used to sing a little chorus with the kids in Jamaica with Christ in the vessel. I could smile at the storm, smile at the storm, smile at the storm. With Christ in the vessel I can smile at the storm as we go sailing on. But folks, these disciples weren't smiling. And rare is the believer who truly smiles at the storm. The Jeopardy, the Jeopardy was very, very real. In fact In Job's words, Job said in Job 15, verse 13, verse 15, Though he slay me. Yet will I trust him. Things were looking pretty bad. This is going to kill me. Have you ever said that? This is going to kill me. This this situation, this circumstance is going to kill me. I told my mom after we'd been in Jamaica for about ten years, I said, Mom, this this life This place is going to take at least ten years off my life. And I still hold to that. That it just chews you up and beats you to pieces. The waves just keep coming over your boat till the time the boat's full. And the human response so often is, don't you even care? Where is now my God? When all this is going on We read for our responsive reading, Psalm 23, and I said in the introduction that we become so familiar with the passage that we just gloss over and don't pay attention. Folks, I I I saw something in Psalm twenty-three this week I'd never seen before. As I was thinking about the call to worship, actually I not the call to worship, the response of reading, actually I I turned to Psalm 23, verse 4, and that's when I decided to use it for a responsive reading this morning. Yea, though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I will fear no evil, for thou art with me. Thy rod and thy comfort shall rod and thy staff shall comfort me. Folks, I have misread that verse my entire life It says nothing about not fearing death. It says, yea, that I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I will fear No evil. You see, the believers often fear death. We will do everything we can to protect this body. To protect this life that we have. And folks, the verse doesn't say, I'll not fear death. It says I won't fear evil. Because I know what's beyond death. And I know who restrains evil. I know who said to Satan, you can touch Job's wealth, but you can't take his life. I will not fear evil, but as long as I live in this body, I'll fear death. Because death is very real. We don't want to die. These disciples didn't want to die. Pastor Lord, Master, don't you care that we perish? Verse thirty-eight. And he that is Jesus was in the hinder part of the ship, asleep on a pillow And they awake him and say unto him, Master, carest thou not that we perish? And again, we have an amazing demonstration of the dual nature of Christ. that he was fully God, fully deity, and yet he was fully human. He is asleep on a pillow. And we can't help but think of Jacob who piled up stones for a pillow. Doesn't sound very comfortable. And in fact, uh Christ had told them That foxes have holes, and the birds of the air air have nests, but the Son of Man hath not where to lay his head. And you know where we find that? We find that in Matthew chapter 8, verse 20, and in Matthew chapter 8, verse 23. we have the spilling of the sea. And so Christ has just told the disciples in Matthew 8's account that foxes have holes, birds have nests, but I don't have a place to lay my head And then three verses later in Matthew's account, his head's on a pillow in a rocking boat. He didn't have a bed and a pillow. He didn't have a comfortable place to sleep. He's sleeping in the back part of the boat on their way to the demoniac of the Gatarenes. But he is sleeping. He is sleeping. We read in Proverbs or Psalm 121, verse 3 and 4: He that keepeth Israel will not slumber Behold, he that keepeth Israel shall neither slumber nor sleep. And yet wonder of wonders, the God of heaven Now in human form, the second person of the Trinity is asleep in a rocking boat. Ah, God the Father was still watching over that boat. And that boat could not sink because Christ had to be crucified, not drowned. And folks, glory awaits the child of God as well. And so he is asleep. It's a demonstration, his sleeping is a demonstration of his complete trust in the will and watch care of the Father. Jesus is demonstrating that he was not afraid. Jesus is teaching his disciples to trust in God even when all seems hopeless. How hopeless our storms can seem. But Jesus Christ is demonstrating the trust in God. And they awake him and say unto him, Master, carest thou not that we perish? You see, these disciples are as tired as Jesus is. These disciples are as hungry as Jesus is. These disciples are looking at the storm. The difference is Jesus is looking at the Father. He said, I must be about my father's business. So I've come to do the will of him that sent me. The disciples are tired and hungry. And when we're tired and hungry, it's easy for our faith to start to waver. And the disciples are tired and hungry in a storm. And so the response is not to rebuke the fatigue or to rebuke the hunger, but rather to rebuke the savage. And folks, how guilty we are of the same. We begin to look at the circumstances and forget who controls the circumstances. What they're saying first of all is do no do you not hear? Do you not hear us In fact, that word great there in our text, Mark 4, verse 37, and there arose a great storm of wind. That word is also translated loud, a loud storm of wind. Don't you hear? It is the same word that Christ used, we read of Christ on the cross, when he cried with a loud voice, a great voice. Don't you hear the storm? I am going through this terrible problem and the world is roaring around me. Jesus, do you not hear what I'm hearing? Do you hear what they're saying about me? Do you hear the lies Do you hear the roaring of the wind that is tearing at my soul? God, don't you hear? Of course He does. They're saying, Don't you know? Car us not that we perish. Are you unaware of this storm? Don't you know what I'm going through? Jesus Master, don't you know what's happening? Don't you know the depth of my trial? Don't you know how bad my situation has gotten? Don't you know the perils that I am facing? And again, there in the Matthew passage it says, insomuch as the ship was covered with the sea. Don't you know? Don't you feel I guarantee you there wasn't a dry disciple in the boat. And so Christ would have been as wet as they were. Amen. Don't you feel this? Don't you feel these waves that are coming over the ship? Don't you feel the ship is now full? We have not a high priest which cannot be touched with the feelings of our infirmity. I'm tired, I'm hungry, I'm wet, and I'm cold. Master, don't you care? But he was touched with the same. Don't you feel what I am going through? Master, don't you care? Carest thou not There was one that no one cared for. And that one was Christ Himself. In Psalm 142 and verse 4, foreshadowing Christ, I looked on my right hand, and behold, there was no man that would know me. Refuge failed. No man cared for my soul. Remember the old hymn, No one Ever Cared for Me Like Jesus? Jesus Christ was the only one that no one truly cared for. Master, carest thou not that we perish? Can't you feel what I am going through. Don't you know the trouble that I am in? Verse 39. And folks, again, this is just marvelous. He arose and rebuked the wind. You see, the disciples didn't even know what the problem was. They're worried about the waves that are coming over the boat. They're worried about being wet, tired, and hungry. They're worried about the storms and that they're in jeopardy. But Christ knew the problem was the wind. And in in all three Gospels it mentions the wind. He doesn't get up and rebuke the storm, folks. I've heard that all my life. He he he stilled the storm. No, he stopped the wind. They didn't even know what the problem was. But Jesus rebukes the wind. It was a great storm of wind that came. You see, folks, when we're in the middle of this problem and the waves are crashing over your boat, and your boat is now full, most of the time we really don't even know what the problem is. We're complaining about this and complaining about this and complaining about that and God says nope this one over here that'll fix it all He rose out of his tired, hungry, wet state. That beautiful. Rise up, O Lord. He arose and he took care of the specific problem. He rebuked the wind. May God rebuke the real problems in our lives. In the Luke passage, just to Reiterate Luke 823. And as they sailed, he fell asleep, and there came down a storm of wind. I don't know that it was raining, folks. The pastor never said anything about rain. There came down a great storm of wind on the lake, and they were filled with water and were in jeopardy. He knew what the real problem was. And so he arose and rebuked the wind and said unto the disciples, why are you so fearful? No, that comes later. He will say that. And notice he doesn't rebuke the disciples. He he he corrects them But he said unto the sea, peace be still. Stop it. Remember when the earth was out of form and void? And the Spirit of God moved upon the face of the waters. You see here a beautiful picture of the one who created these storms and made the wind. The winds and the waves obey his voice. Peace. Be still. Folks, I believe he was saying to the disciples, peace is to us well. Because we have these great storms that seem such a trial in our lives, but all it takes is peace. He rebuked the winds. And the wind ceased, and there was a great calm. Not just a little calm. There was a great calm. And he said unto them, the disciples, why are you so fearful? What are you afraid of, guys? Why are you so fearful? How is it that ye have no faith? And they were exceeding fearful. They've been afraid, but now they're more afraid. You see, folks, we need to learn to fear God more than we fear our trials. We need to fear the Savior more than we fear the circumstance. You see, if our fear of God were greater, our fear of this world would be less. If our fear of his love and providence were greater, our fear of our lack and problems would be less. And he said they said they said one to another, What manner of this Or what manner of man is this, that even the wind and the sea obey him And that phrase, what manner of man is this, is is a somewhat rare phrase. It's actually found uh twelve times in our New Testament, but only translated once or twice because it is it is a Greek phrase, a Greek idiom that really doesn't have a good translation in English. And so in a lot of contexts, a lot of our King James verses, the word itself is not even translated. It's just the thought of that word is put in to the verse because that's the best. our English can do. But basically, it is a phrase that shows great anxiety on the part of the asker. In other words, the one that asked asked in great anxiety. And they did not use this phrase when they said, Don't you care that we perish, but they did use it when they said, What manner of man is this? And it ties back to that exceedingly fearful. They were afraid of the storm and asked, don't you care that we perish? But now they're more afraid. Who are we dealing with here? What manner of man is this that we are in the boat with? Oh folks, what a difference it makes in our lives if we live that way every day. What manner of Savior am I sleeping through prayer with? What manner of Savior am I reading his word mindlessly? What manner of savior am I rebuking when I've got a storm going on? When the disciples ask who then can be saved, they use this same anxiety question And again, a passage that I've misinterpreted, when they said, We have forsaken all, Matthew 19, 27, if you want to write it down, we have forsaken all. What shall we then have? They again use that question. And folks, that m Matthew 1927, I've misinterpreted that verse all my life. I've always thought, we've forsaken all, what's our reward going to be? That's not what they were asking. They said, Lord, we've forsaken all. What are we going to eat? Master, we've forsaken all. We don't have a house anymore. Master, we've forsaken all. How are we going to make ends meet? That's a pretty anxiety wrought question. What manner of man is this that even the wind and the sea obey him? Master of the Tempest is raging. The billows are tossing high. The school sky is or shadowed with blackness. No shelter or help is nigh. Carest thou not that we perish? How canst thou lie asleep when each moment so madly is threatening a grave in the angry deep? Master, with anguish of spirit, I bow in my grief today. The depths of my sad heart are troubled. Oh, awake and save me, I pray. Torrents of sin and of anguish Sweep over my sinking soul. I perish, I perish, dear master. Oh hasten and take control The winds and the waves shall obey thy will. Peace be still. Peace be still. Whether the wrath of the storm toss sea, or demons, or men, or whatever shall be No water can swallow the ship where lies the master of ocean and earth and skies They all shall sweetly obey thy will. Peace be still. Peace be still. They all shall sweetly obey thy will. Peace. Peace be still. Master, the terror is over. The elements sweetly rest. Earth's sun in the calm lake is mirrored And heavens within my breast. Linger, O blessed Redeemer. Leave me, I'll leave me no more. And with joy I shall make the blessed harbor and rest on that blissful shore. Stand with me as we pray. Father, forgive us for doubting. Lord, forgive us for having no faith. Lord, forgiving us for being concerned about the storm when the problem's the wind. Forgive us, Lord, for looking at the winds and the waves rather than looking at the Savior. We thank you for your watch care over your people. We thank you that none of these things can move us, neither count we our lives dear unto us. Father, help us in the depths of our storm never to rebuke the master, but wait for you to rebuke the wind. Bless us, O Lord, we pray. Teach us through thy word this day. In Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. We close with number three hundred and sixteen And the Savior again to thy dear name, we raise. Number 316, in our blue songbook, we have in front of us today. 316 But we sing all four stanzas. Say your again we raise with what I'm We stand to bless me where our worship seas and holy will. Wake thy word of peace Grant us thy peace up on our own word We can where we shall emblem God now the words from Swiss from shame To die cry In the Keep my children free for dark and light dark, for the light to be red. Just like these two life are sorrow and our stay is trying. And when I voice out mid our complexes all was altered by determined. Oh man, oh man, please be seated.