If you would, please open your Bibles and look with me as we go through the first 11 verses of the fifth chapter of the book of Romans. Romans chapter 5, verses 1 through 11. I'll be focusing on 6 through 11 today. Romans chapter five, beginning at verse one. Therefore, being justified by faith We have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ, by whom we also have access by faith into this grace wherein we stand, and rejoice in hope of the glory of God. And not only so, but we glory in tribulations also. Knowing that tribulation worketh patience, and patience experience, and experience and hope, And hope maketh not a shame, because the love of God is shed abroad in our hearts by the Holy Ghost, which is given unto us. For when we were yet without strength in due time, Christ died for the ungodly. For scarcely for a righteous man will one die. Yet peradventure for a good man some would dare to die. But God commendeth his love toward us, and that while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. Much more then. being now justified by his blood, we shall be saved from wrath through him. For if, when we were enemies, we were reconciled to God by the death of the Son, much more being reconciled, we shall be saved. God's life. And not only so, but we also joy in God through our Lord Jesus Christ, by whom we have now received the atonement. Thus ends the reading of that portion of God's Word. This is a message that I could preach without notes. I call it a packaged deal. Some people have life verses, verses that they have kept with them in their hearts all their lives, and people ask sometimes, you know, what is your life verse? I we'd be hard pressed to give one. But if there's any passage of scripture that to this day stands out as a jewel as a treasure, as a powerful blessing and a reminder of the hope that I have. Romans 5, 6 to 11 Packaged deal. I'll never forget the first time I read it and understood it because it leaped out of the pages. And just exalted me between heaven and earth, yea, even to the third heavens. It was an amazing truth. It's a powerful passage. We're going to focus on 6 to 11 because actually that forms the reason behind the first five verses. Theologically 6 to 11 come before you even get to 1 to 5. And you can see that because in verse 6 it says for. Meaning, here's why these things are true. For when we dot dot dot. And I call it a package deal. Why do I call this a package deal? You know what a package deal is. You've seen these for vacations. You come and into a a travel place and they say, hey, we have a package deal for you. Oh yeah, what's that? We'll include airfare to Miami. And another flight. to Cancun. And there's a hotel and then there is meals provided at the hotel. You have access to beaches and they'll provide the rental vehicle there and perhaps a moped to get around the island and the flight back. And it's a For one price, it's all included. Just show up. It's a package deal. We like those sorts of things. It's convenient. All things are covered. You're excited and you look forward to it. Look at all the things that the Apostle Paul bundles together for us in this passage, beginning in verse 6. For when we were yet without strength, in due time Christ died for the ungodly. The key words, I believe, in this passage are without strength and ungodly. I have a simple question for you. Do you have any strength? Because if you do, Christ didn't die for you. He died for those who were without strength. You know, the Arminians believe that there is a spark of life that is still in man that can still choose for God. There's still a little bit of strength there. Christ didn't die for those people. The Roman Catholics believe that there's got to be some good works. Obviously, that is done by men with some strength. Well, Christ didn't die for them. You know, the Mormons believe that all of your good works is what's going to command you to God. They believe in great strength to get there. Christ absolutely positively did not die for such as those. There's universalists that foolishly think, well, Christ died for everybody. No, he died for those who are without strength. We absolutely know for whom Christ died. The text tells us It says he died for the ungodly, those who are without strength. The ungodly. And I have another question for you. Are you ungodly by nature? Is that your heritage? Do you view yourself as such, totally incapable of being or producing all that's needed to provide a full atonement for sins? If you truly believe you're ungodly, rejoice. Christ died for you, those that are without strength Those who raise their hand. Ungodly? Yeah, that's me. Imagine a school teacher calling out the names of children. Stephen? Richard? Ungodly? And a little child raises his hand. I'm ungodly. I'm the ungodly one. And verse 7, God continues through the Apostle Paul, for scarcely, for a righteous man will one die. Yet, peradventure for a good man, some would even dare to die. Why? Excuse me. Why is Paul talking about death at this point? Well, he's leading up to a point. Why does the man offer his life? Why would somebody give the ultimate sacrifice? What character must some stranger be in order for a man to give up his life? Righteous? Good? You read about Medal of Honor recipients in war who For the love of their comrades, their brothers in arms, they would give such a sacrifice. Perfect strangers. They're on the same platoon, the same team. But Paul says basically even then it's a long shot. It's unlikely. You don't find many Medal of Honor recipients. It's a rare thing. It is a very rare thing. For whom would I die? Oh, my children, yes, my family, my mother-in-law, my mother. Of course, for them. I love them. When's the last you heard of one man giving up his life for another and getting nothing in return? No benefit to his family, no benefit to his His job, his career, no no benefit to those for whom he died. It's a rare thing. It's a rare thing, and that is Paul's point. It's a rare thing. Men would only die sacrificially, folks, for the lovable, the desirable Those whom you're close, close, have a close affinity to, closely associated with. That's those for whom men would die, and even that is rare. In fact, if this display of virtue is rare, so must the opposite be even more rare, because then we read, God commendeth his love toward us. And that while we were yet sinners, sinners, ungodly, Christ died for us The scripture is very clear. Christ died for the ungodly, for sinners. Pay close attention. He didn't die for good people. He didn't die for heroes. He didn't die for every single human being that's ever lived throughout all time without exception. You don't read that in this passage. He died for ungodly sinners. It's that simple. But Brother Vince, Romans 6. 23 says everybody's a sinner. All have sinned and come short of the glory of God. Right? Jesus died for everybody, right? Wrong. That's God's vantage point. In Romans 6, Romans 5 is my vantage point. He died for sinners, and I'm telling you, a sinner is hard to find. Just ask people. Ask them if they're a sinner. Most will say they're not. Ask the man convicted of a heinous crime by a jury and a judge. He'll never say he's a sinner. He'll maintain his innocence. Ask any man in prison. Never will say they're in there because they deserve to be. I know. I've spoken with people who are wards of a prison in San Diego. He's never met anybody that says he's in here because he deserves it. Ask the man on the street, are you a good person? Yeah, I think I'm a good person Are you a sinner? Well, I'm not as good as other people. I'm not as bad as so-and-so. There's always an excuse. You can't find a sinner Ask the nice lady in church. I'm not perfect, but I'm not a sinner. I'm not as bad as so-and-so. Hard to find. A sinner. It's hard to find, but make no mistake, Jesus died on the behalf of real Bona Fide sinners. Men like Paul, who declared himself to be the chief of sinners. He said, don't do these things to the people on the island, ready to do sacrifice to him. We be men of like passion. Don't do it. I'm like you. He said in Philippians, what things were gained to me, he lists his righteousness, he lists his credentials, he hauls out all the old accolades and the awards. His reputation, his lineage, his tradition, what things were gained to me, he says, those are counted loss for Christ. People who confessed like the publicans standing afar off who would not so much as lift up his eyes unto heaven, but smote upon his breast, saying, God, be merciful to me, a guy that does the best I can, but I'm not perfect. No, he says, God be merciful to me. A sinner. So I have a simple application. We have some people who are evangelical in here. You know, when you're evangelizing people, how do we share the message of the good news of Christ's death to people? It's very tempting to want to explain the universality in a sense, of Christ's death and that he atoned for every nation, every race, tribe, kindred, tongue, and people. But you don't have to say Christ died for you. That may not be true. You may not have And I don't know that. And I can't say that definitively with judgment day honesty. But I can say Christ died for the ungodly. And then he has the question, well am I ungodly? Because if I'm ungodly, Christ died for me. But if your Christ dies for the ungodly, I'm not ungodly. I don't want your Christ. And I don't want your God. So you can be faithful to the scriptures and simply say it as it says. Declare it as it says. Christ died for the ungodly. And that leads to the next question Dear soul, are you ungodly? Are you a bona fighting sinner? Are you without strength? Because if you are, I've got really good news for you. So, having covered all this, we can now understand the astounding mercy and amazing love God has for us in spite of our total unworthiness. It says in Ephesians, But God, who is rich in mercy for his great love wherewith he has loved us, even when we were dead in sins, have quickened us together in Christ. By grace are you saved. And hath raised us up together, and has made us sit together in heavenly places in Christ Jesus. What an astounding truth. You know, I have an observation. One way you know, one way you know if you truly believe you're a sinner, saved by grace, is how you view your fellow man. When you behold an unregenerate person, whose behavior manifests all manner of wickedness, do you turn your nose up at them? Are you proud that you're not like one of them? Or do you say there, but for the grace of God go I? Now I'm not talking about reprobates. The scripture says, in whose eyes a vile person is despised. Contempt is an Old English word means despised. I'm not talking about reprobates. I'm not talking about those who came into the faith seemingly declaring to be a fellow pilgrim and a sojourner as you, and yet grievously depart from the faith I'm not talking about reprobates. It's a different story. I'm talking about people who have nothing to do with any history of religion. They're confused and they're lost. And you look at them and you can sense him. I see how somebody driving down the road can get really angry and pull out a gun and shoot somebody next to them. I am a man of like passions. I see how a mother can just abandon her children because mothers have had hard days with their kids and they just feel that this is just too much. And you see how except for the grace of God restraining sin in your life, oh you could just abandon them. You see how great sins that others would think are just unthinkable. You say, Oh, God has opened up and shown to me the depth and the scope and the breadth of my depravity. There, but for the grace of God go I. It's a humbling doctrine, isn't it? And yet it puts us in the right frame of mind. Verse 9, it says, much more then. as this package deal continues to unfold, much more than being now justified by his blood Jesus' life as a sinless man living righteously among the ungodly on this earth and his shameful, painful death on the cross actually accomplished something. Ivan it actually did something. It was effective. It availed. It prevailed. It justified his people. You know what justified means? Very simple explanation. Just as if I'd never sinned. That's what justification means. It means to be made just, to be perfectly aligned to God's standard, God's standard of holiness, God's standard of righteousness God's standard of moral perfection. God's standard of purity. In his sight you're lovely. Never was there such a lovely person as a bride in her bridal garments on her wedding day Never is there a more lovely sight. You're lovely in the sight of God because you've been justified by the blood of another. The debt has been paid. The guilt is removed. The slate is clean. Heaven itself cannot find any record of wrongdoings. Not a single item is found in the record. Bless my soul. I've had a bad record for a long time. It's mighty thick. Why can't record, why can't heaven find any record of wrongdoings? That bad record is covered. The record has been expunged God's law looks upon his shed blood, sprinkled on the mercy seat, and it's satisfied. Boy, the Old Covenant, the Old Testament had such wonderful pictures You had the tabernacle and then the Holy of Holies. And behind the veil was where the Ark of the Covenant was, wherein was Aaron's pot. I mean, uh the pot of manna, Aaron's rod that budded, and the Ten Commandments, and the Ten Commandments, that law of God, in that holy box. Made of sateen wood, a common average wood, but covered with gold within and without, a perfect symbol of the Lord Jesus Christ Himself. Fully man, like the Shatim would, fully God, pure as gold. Inside and out, pure as gold. But man. And in his heart is the law of God. And that law of God looks up and demands justice, because it has been offended, and it sees underneath the wings of the cherubim. The blood sprinkled. There's blood. I'm satisfied. I'm content. God will now meet with you here. I'm content. The blood has been shed. The law is satisfied. His blood fully justifies all for whom it was shed. It doesn't leave any gaps in coverage. This is the catastrophe of those who want to make man still have a little bit of strength. Because they say you need to have a little bit of strength because, you know, you have to do something to attain this this righteousness. There was a gap. gasp horror in the death of Christ and what he has accomplished. There's a gap. He did all that he could, but he left this one thing for you to do, and in fact heaven is hinging on this one little holy toggle switch that you've got to reach up with your little measly finger and touch it. That would be very unfair to a dead person. That they might have the resurrection of life if you left it to them to reach up with that scrawny little finger and hit the toggle switch, that will not work. The switch will never get tripped. Christ's blood would have been shed for countless thousands in vain. Perish the thought. His death is forever told as a complete sacrifice with no gaps in coverage. It doesn't leave any gaps in coverage. It doesn't hinge on my decision. It doesn't hinge on my input. My vote doesn't show up in here. It doesn't even require my presence or my knowledge of it. Christ's death was 2,000 years ago. I wasn't even a gleam in my mother's eye because my mother didn't exist at that point. Neither did her father or her grandfather Do you see why this is such a great package deal? Because I'm not even in that equation. My contribution isn't to be found in there. It is entirely, solely, and completely based on something external to me. By design it will work. Do you know there are elect of God out there, brethren, who are walking in darkness, not yet aware of God's justifying power for them? In due time they shall be born again through the preaching and the hearing of the word. and come to realize this grace. But election is not salvation. It's unto salvation. It must come, and come it will. And what's the result of his death? What's the result of this justification? Verse 9, the second part. We shall be saved from wrath through him. We're saved from wrath. We're not saved from tribulation. We're not spared from trouble, diseases, pains. Trials, a ton of college debt, terrible life choices. We're not spared from those. We can make those. We're saved from wrath. Because that's the bigger problem. When it's all said and done, as Solomon says in the book of Ecclesiastes, Vanity of Vanity is all is vanity. I show myself to be a wise man and yet I die. How? As the fool Because one event happened to them all, Vanity of Vanities. How does he escape that event known as death? How does he escape the second death? How does he escape that? Right here. We're saved from wrath through him. The wrath of God, the wrath that is rightly deserved, and we're saved through him. Through him. Not through my decision, not through my church offerings, not through participation in Iwana. It's got to be through him and only him. In the Old Testament again. You had God's high priest, God's ordained location. It had to come with God's ordained sacrifice, and it had to be sprinkled at God's ordained process. For the benefit of God's people. It was a very God-centric, God-ordained, God-declared process. And I have all that in Christ Jesus. It was his man, it was his blood, and it's for his people. Verse 10 says, For if when we were enemies, we were reconciled to God by the death of his Son, much more being reconciled, we shall be saved by His life. What does it mean to be reconciled? Well, try uh this on for size. You know what it means to reconcile your checkbook. That means the bank has got a record, you've got a record, and you've got to see if the two match. And boy is it hard. The bank just never seems to lay it out the way you write it in. It's out of order, it's a different sequence, there's some things you miss. There's and funny the bank is never wrong. Now try waiting a month and reconcile. Okay, well, that's when the statements come up. Try waiting a year. before you reconcile your checkbook. That's that's pretty painful. If you wait for two three or four months, that's kind of hard. Now we're looking at a real chunk of time that's gonna get killed. Try waiting your entire life to stand before the judgment throne of God and to give a reckoning and accounting of everything and see if all the puts and takes make it. Um folks, you have an entire lifetime of debt to be reconciled at the judgment. How are you gonna fare? How are you gonna fare? Have you ever thought about that? Notice those whom he reconciled. What does it say? Enemies. The enemies of God. Once they were enemies. Yet they repented. They turned to God with their whole heart. At the cross they were reconciled of all debts past and all debts future Roman Catholics believe in the removal of original sin, but not all sin. They've got to slip and work somehow into God's Jesus alone equation. It won't work. Our text says we have been reconciled past tense. In God's eye, there's no outstanding sin debt All is well. His law can't find any reason to accuse me. God cannot demand twice, once at my surety's hand and again at mine, that which Christ has paid for. You cannot have a double payment. If the sun's payment isn't enough, what else is going to satisfy Praise the Lord. We are reconciled. Past tense. And verse 11 says this: not only so, but we also join God through our Lord Jesus Christ, by whom we have now received the atonement. The atonement. What is an atonement? You know that word is found 78 times in the Old Testament, but only a handful of times in the New. Four times, frankly. In the New Testament, it's translated atonement once, right here. It's also translated reconciliation or reconciling. Again, it's a concept that's fully anchored in the Old Testament, atonement. You can think of atonement this way as a simple definition. At one-ment. I am at one again with God. If a man sinned, he had to bring a sin offering to God's ordained priest, God's ordained offering, God's ordained location. And when that offering was accepted by the priest, he was now at one again with the God of that temple, with the covenant people of God. He was at one. He was reconciled to the community of people. I'm at one with the Father. We are together. There's no space. There's no gap. There's no separation. There's nothing outstanding. Don't you hate those outstanding things? You know, when you're trying to reconcile your checkbook, there's something outstanding and you just can't clear it out and it's a nuisance and you just want to make it go away. And I got a lifetime of those things. And God says you're reconciled. There's nothing outstanding. There's nothing that's going to stand between you and the Father. Christ's death, furthermore, brought about a propitiation, not an expiation. It says in 1 John 2 that he's the propitiation for our sins. His death was propitiatory, meaning it truly made a full reconciliation between God and all whom Christ represented. This is the pro-part of pitiation. Pro. It means that now that sacrifice was so impressive. So acceptable to God that not only did it pay for the sin, but it also favorably disposed the offended towards the offender. You see, when you go to a court of law to pay your traffic ticket and you shell out your $75, your fine is expiated. The debt is paid. That's fine. But the judge ain't going to ask you over for dinner tonight. You just paid your traffic fine. Move along, son. Don't do it again. That's not what Christ did. His death was not an expiation, it was a propitiation, because so glorious and so wonderful was that payment for my sins. That God said, For whom did you die? Oh, yes. I love these people. I want to be with these people. He bring them into my family. I'll adopt them. And that's what we have. Our God, in fact Is not just placated. He rejoices over us. Ungodly, wicked. Simple people rejoices over us all because of one event in this package deal called the death of Christ on the cross. Let's review everything we found. Let's consider in verses 6 to 11 this package deal. Let's wrap it all back up. There's two camps, first of all, that are being contrasted. Notice the two camps. There's in the one camp those that are without strength. There's the ungodly. There's the sinners. There's those that are under wrath. Those are enemies. That's just one camp. In the other camp is Christ. There's the righteous man. There's God. There's the Lord Jesus. Those are the two that are being spoken of in this text. Question, can you identify with this first camp? Do you love the second camp? Or do you hate both camps? Next, we have all that Christ accomplished by his life and his one-time death. Died for those without strength Commended his love towards them, justified them fully by his blood, spared them from wrath, reconciled them to God, saved them by his life, and gave them a full atonement. That's what I call a package deal. All done at the cross by one man, without my input, voice, opinion, aisle walking, or hand raising, yea, even without my faith, I receive it by faith, I apprehend it by faith, I embrace it by faith It's a fruit, not a root, of salvation. Faith is. But my faith doesn't produce those things. It doesn't generate those things. It doesn't even cause any of those things. I'm simply not in the equation, I'm a benefactor. For by grace are you save through faith and that not of yourselves it's the gift of God, not of works, lest any man should boast What are the long-term results of that? Now we can understand why Paul rejoices in the first five verses. Look back now at Romans 5, 1 to 5. Having described this package deal, that's the theological basis for this, it says we have peace with God. Of course they have peace. There's no reason for God to be angry at them They've been propitiated, atoned, reconciled, at one with the Father. They have access to God. Well, of course they have access. Christ brought them into the divine family. They have hope for the glory of God. Well, of course they have hope. They're heaven-bound souls. God watching over them. Of course they have hope. They find benefits even in tribulations. Even in trials and troubles of this life, because they know, they're persuaded, that what Christ has done on the cross was for them, was effectual. They have peace. Access, hope, of glory. And because they have that, they know that whatever comes my way comes from the hand and the filter and the permissive will of a loving Heavenly Father Who only allows these things there for my good. They know they have a terminal life, but they see God's handiwork to educate, refine, and purify them into golden sons and daughters. It's a gentle process. It's not an overwhelming process. You're not thrown into a boiling cauldron with a heat turned up all at once. He knows our frame that we're frail, but of dust. He deals gently with us. He never gives you what you can't bear with his presence They find a love-filled hope in their heart. Of course they can. The very loving Spirit of God is present with them. He's given them the earnest of his Spirit. I have a closing application. Sometimes, folks, we skip over the gospel basics thinking, well, I know all that. But you know, I am still prone to get discouraged. Depressed, dumbfounded, and downcast at all the nonsense of this world, all the pains of this flesh All the disappointments of life, I can get discouraged by these things if I stare long at them, if I think on them. I have, however, the means to escape that pit of dark despair. I have exceeding great and precious promises. Pull out your books, and I'll put a few of them in there for you. I have those means. I have exceeding great and precious promises. I need my pure mind stirred up by way of remembrance. It's to that end that I share once again these gospel basics with you to encourage you in what is otherwise a crazy time. The world is lost because they will not seek the way. They remain lost because they have blinded their eyes and they have seared their conscience. The solution is not in the world. I frankly don't care who gets appointed to the Supreme Court or to the presidency, because that's not the solution. That is not my hope. Yes, I'm going to vote as righteously as I can, but that's not my hope. I'm not going to be saved from wrath by them. That's not going to help. in whose nostrils is the breath of life, they're going to die just like I am. And like Solomon says, what difference does it make if you're a wise man or a fool? He dies the same. What can he do for me? I need a life-giving spirit. So be of good cheer, dearly beloved Saint of God You are heaven-bound. You shall be glorified in him. You have a tremendous hope and future in front of you. Exceedingly bright future. You shall be exonerated of all false accusations. They will be shown to be totally, completely, and entirely false As those reprobates who make them descend shrieking into the pits of hell. You shall reign with him forever. And ever, and ever, of whose kingdom there is no end. All this because of Christ's package deal. Stand for prayer.