All right, well good morning everyone. Small crowd here, it's mostly my family. And uh hello to all remotely. Although I'm doing it behind the pulpit, uh it has uh been a long time since I've been back in here battling with COVID and trying to get over all that. This particular study is in Matthew 22. It's the parable of the wedding feast. And taking a little break as we seeks to return to Burkhoth's summary of Christian doctrine next week, Lord willing. But uh perchance and per by providence I had a very good discussion with my daughter Victoria about this. Parable recently, and uh just even as she and I were discussing it, I was tremendously blessed by reviewing it again. Uh the text runs from Matthew 22, verses 1 to 14 And I want to give a statement from Mr. Burkhoff on this. This is a selected excerpt from his Systematic Theology. He says the question of eschatology is a natural one. This parable of the wedding feast is about last things. The doctrine of last things is not something that's peculiar to the Christian religion, wherever people have seriously reflected on human life. whether in the individual or in the race, they haven't merely asked whence did it spring or how did it come to be what it is, but also whither is it bound? They raise the question, what is the end, the final destiny of the individual? What's the goal toward which the human race moves? Does man perish at death, or does he enter upon another state of existence, either of bliss or of woe? Will the generations of men come and go in endless succession and finally sink into oblivion? Or is the race of the children of men and the whole creation moving on to some divine telos, an end designed for it by God? And if the human race is moving to some final, some ideal condition perhaps, will the generations that have come and gone participate in any way? And if so, how? Did they merely serve as a thoroughfare leading up to the grand climax? It's interesting he also surveys other thoughts on the matter of the afterlife. Plato taught the immortality of the soul, that is, its continued existence after death Spinoza had no place for it in his pantheistic system. Immanuel Kant stressed the intenibless of these arguments, but retained the doctrine of immortality as a postulate practical reason Not only did the philosophers reflect on the future of the individual, they also thought deeply on the future of the world. The Stoics spoke of successive world cycles. And the Buddhist of world ages in which each of which a new world appears and again disappears. Even Kant speculated on the birth and death of worlds Buddhism has its nirvana, Muhammadism its central paradise, and the Indians their happy hunting grounds. It's only in the Christian religion that the doctrine of last things receives greater precision. and carries with it an assurance that is divine. Naturally, they who are not content to rest their faith exclusively on the Word of God, but rather make it contingent on experience and on the deliverances of a Christian conscience are at a great disadvantage here. I thought that was an excellent introduction that this business of the uh afterlife is not something that is unique to Christianity, but what is unique to Christianity is the great precision with which it is spoken of. And in fact the Lord Jesus had a lot to say about the afterlife. Well, you know, as we look at this text here, follow with me as I read Matthew 22 and the first 14 verses. of this parable, the wedding feast. And Jesus answered and spake again unto them by parables and said, The kingdom of heaven is like unto a certain king. which made a marriage for his son, and sent forth his servants to call them that were bidden to the wedding. And they would not come Again he sent forth other servants, saying, Tell them which are bidden, behold, I have prepared my dinner, my oxen and my fatlings are killed, and all things are ready, come unto the marriage. But they made light of it And they went their ways, one to his farm, another to his merchandise, and the remnant took his servants and entreated them spitefully and slew them But when the king heard thereof, he was wroth, and he sent forth his armies, and destroyed those murderers, and burned up their city. Then saith he to his servants, The wedding is ready. But they which were bidden were not worthy. Go ye therefore into the highways, and as many as ye shall find, bid to the marriage. So those servants went out into the highways and gathered together all as many as they found, both bad and good, and the wedding was furnished with guests And when the king came in to see the guests, wow, that's a big statement, he saw there a man which had not on a wedding garment. He saith unto him, Friend, how cameest thou in hither, not having a wedding garment? And he was speechless. Then said the king to the servants, Bind him hand and foot, and take him away, and cast him into outer darkness. There shall be weeping and gnashing of teeth. Many are called, few are chosen. That ends the reading of that portion of the word. I find in this several sections that lend themselves to a nice outline. The first is the first three verses, the ordained event. The ordained event, obviously the marriage for the son, the wedding. The second part in verses 3 to 7, the grievous rejection. And then the new guests in verses 8 to 10 and 11 to 14, the catastrophe of the missing garment. The catastrophe of the missing garment. Notice this is a kingdom parable in verse 1. The kingdom of heaven is like. One of the beauties of the teaching instrument of the Lord Jesus that to this day continues to confound people. is Jesus gave parables not to help you understand the kingdom of heaven, not to make it clearer and to break it down for you. Because his disciples ask, why do you speak in parables? And he says, to them that are his, to those to whom it is given They are the ones that can understand the mysteries of the kingdom of God. But to them that are without, meaning those who are outside of his electing grace, those whom he has zero plans to save, to them that are without He speaks unto them in parables, that seeing they may see and not perceive, and hearing they may hear and not understand, that they would be taken, snared, and broken by it. And we see a fulfillment of that even in this very passage, because look at verse 15, after the Lord Jesus gives this parable, then went the Pharisees and took counsel how they might entangle him in their talk. He just described the panoply of the whole of what he intends to do, everything that God, who is this king, has been doing and what his unique purpose is, and what the outcome shall be, and how to successfully arrive at the wedding. And yet they go and seek to entangle him. And so they seek to identify with those who want to kill Christ. You talk about blindness. Earlier in the 21st chapter of Matthew, in verse 45, the chief priests and Pharisees heard his parables and they perceived that he spake of them. He already condemned them, and they were already condemned in their heart that he's talking about them. And yet they still don't get it. So indeed, parables are a veiling mechanism. God seeks to obscure truth through it. Yet to his people, boy, does it ever speak plainly. Is the vision open ever indeed? And God's pleased to use the foolishness of preaching to reveal it. This is a kingdom parable. The kingdom of heaven is likened to a certain king. Don't try to make a distinction between kingdom of heaven versus kingdom of God. They're synonymous. He says kingdom of God, and we might begin to think, well, that's on the earth, but then he says, oh, the kingdom of heaven, and he uses the same analogies in other places. And so he's really talking about the kingdom of God. of of of the Lord Jesus Christ. Notice God's foreordination. It says He made a marriage for His Son. The New King James renders that. He arranged a marriage for His Son. It was planned out. And I love the illustration that he uses concerning a marriage. Everybody understands how a marriage goes. Two people don't wake up one day and say, hey, this is Tuesday, let's have a wedding. With zero planning, with zero preparation, like a bump falling off a log. Not going to happen. There is a ton of planning. Down to the colors, down to the venue. To the guests, there are invited guests. You don't crash a wedding. There are certain basics that are known globally in terms of how what constitutes a marriage in a wedding. This is a marriage for his son. In 1 Peter 1, it says of Christ who verily was foreordained before the foundation of the world. He was the lamb slain from the foundation of the world, it says in Revelation 13. that this wedding is what all of humanity is headed towards. This parable is a survey from God's perspective of all that He is doing from the arrangement and the announcement of a marriage for his son to the full full fulfillment of that and the the the the culmination of all of that effort. That's what human history to this point has been all about Notice the third point, the king's gracious invitation, and is heralded by the mouth of his servants. It's calling men to a joyful event. It's a call. He sent forth his servants to call them that were bidden to the wedding, and they would not come. God has his servants, and they have got a message, and it's frankly a very simple message His servants are like ambassadors. They are there to carry the message. They're not diplomats. They don't compromise. Well, if you come, I'll give you this. If you do that, I'll do the other thing. Or let's negotiate. Maybe we'll change the date Well you can change the arrangements. No, they're ambassadors. The king is calling you to a wedding. Come. You know, which of us receive a wedding invitation and decide to argue with it? Decide to change the terms and conditions. No, I don't like your wedding colors. Oh, that offends me. That's a little harsh. Maybe you could do it this way. Do you have vegan diets in here? None of that nonsense. Right? It's a simple call. Come to the wedding. And consider for the moment who the caller is. It's the king. You know, we live in a land that has a a system of government that intentionally breaks apart the powers of government uh from the presidential to the legislative to the judicial. Not so with the king. All of those powers are wrapped in one. It's his law, it's his sentence It's his command, it's his government. He makes the laws, he executes them, and so he has tremendous power. What a tremendous benefit. What a tremendous glorious honor to be invited by none other than the king of your country. If you were to receive such an invitation, and you were living, say, in Sweden, who still has kings, there's some 40, some odd nations who still have monarchs in their land. And if such a king were to indict you, that would be a tremendous honor. It would be a wonderful honor. And All that's needed is the message, the invitation. You know, it doesn't actually contain all the information, does it? The message is very simple. It is that I have uh uh he sends forth a marriage. Come, come to the wedding. That's all it was in verse 3, to call them that were bidden to the wedding. I'm sure he gave them some very basic fundamentals. When wedding invitations go out, it's the parties, the date, the location. Real simple pieces of information. A child can convey this information. It doesn't take a degree in theology to convey this information. It is a very simple message. And you look at the prophets of the Old Testament and you look at the messengers of God in the old days Amos was a herdsman among the shepherds of Tokoa. You had nobodies. You had very simple people who were messengers. Peter was a fisherman You didn't have exotic, well-trained individuals. You had his servants who were simply given his message. They didn't have to come up with the message The message was given to them. It was painfully simple. From God's perspective, it's not hard. In John 3, the Lord Jesus says, He that hath the bride is the bridegroom, but the friend of the bridegroom which standeth and heareth and rejoiceth greatly because of the bridegroom's voice. Those who hear and love to hear that message, they rejoice in these things. And it's a gracious invitation, and it's being called to a joyful event. So, everything so far is pretty straightforward, and I would submit to you that this is the call that has gone forth in the Old Testament. This is the very initial calling of the gospel in veiled, simplistic, hyper-simplistic forms, that there were Old Testament promises and prophecies. A son is coming. Unto us a child is born. uh a son is given, uh and the government shall be upon his shoulders. His name shall be called Wonderful Counselor, Everlasting Father, uh Almighty God, Prince of Peace. All these the um uh the the scepters shall not depart from from Judah till Shiloh come out of the loins of of Abraham, out of Jacob, out of Isaac, would come the promised Messiah. It was a simple message. One is coming. One is coming. One is coming. And so here's this gracious invitation. And then you read this horrible, grievous rejection. Notice in verses three Through seven, it says they would not come. They would not come. It's a simple statement. It doesn't say they didn't believe that there was a wedding. It just says they wouldn't come. See, you'll be condemned by your works. It's what you do. But I'll tell you what a man before a woman believes by what they do. If you really believe something, you'll do it. I can also tell you what you believe by looking at your checkbook. I get a lot of insight in terms of what your priorities are in life. You look at a person's checkbook. That's how I knew about when I was saved years ago. I kept meticulous financial records, and I really had no idea when the time of my salvation was. And sometime in the fall of 1988. Uh as I looked at my records, it was forty dollars at the liquor store, fifty dollars at the emergency room, the hospital, so-and-so at a nightclub, all these bills going out to horrible places, and then all of a sudden $10 to a ministry, $20 to this ministry. I started donating to faithful ministries. I'm like, yep, I can see it in the financial records. Right there. There's a change. Notice this grievous rejection, though. You know what an honor and a privilege to the servant and to the called. Rebuffed, the king sends servants who further explain unseen things. Now he gives more information. Behold the patience of the king. Again he sent forth other servants. This is again going back to these initial people who were bidden, which I believe in the context can clearly refer to national Israel. They were the first recipients, the Jews, you could say. They might not have been a nation at that point. in that whole survey of time. But the Jews, those who were the seed of Abraham, they were the ones that were first bidden. And it says, and again he sends other servants. You behold in the Old Testament the incredible patience of God with an incredibly stiff-necked people who continued to refuse. Read Isaiah. You'll see it again and again. The prophets. And so he sends other servants, and in the Old Testament speaks of my servants the prophets. And he gives them further message and further information. Tell them which are bidden, behold, I have prepared my dinner. My oxen and fatlings are killed. All things are ready. Come into the marriage. That's the one call that goes out in the Cluth house that there is an expectation for a fairly speedy response. Dinner is ready! We've labored hard to get it all on the table at once, good and hot. And if you delay, it gets cold, the cheese hardens up, the gravy becomes a gel. You want it ready. It's all ready. Come. And that's the message of the king. He gives further information that there is a dinner. It was presumed that there would be one before, because it was a marriage for his son, but now he makes it clear. And even so it was in the Old Testament. God gave further information as the prophets would come and give greater insight by way of their prophecies. God gave additional encouragement to faith, greater encouragement to come, a greater motivation for the proper response. You see this in Proverbs 9, for instance. Wisdom hath builded her house, she hath hewn out her seven pillars, she hath killed her beast, she hath mingled her wine, she also hath furnished her table. She hath sent forth her maiden, she crieth upon the highest places of the city. Whoso is simple, let him turn in hither. Again, the message is the same. Come, but there's greater detail. I would say a greater enticement to it. The response is extraordinarily unusual. I find it stunning. They made light of it, and they went their ways. We have turned each one to his own way. He said, Walk ye the narrow path, come this way. And they said, will not What an offense. They made light of it. Consider the one who is sending this call out. It's the king. It's the omnipotent of the land. It happens to be the guy that's in charge of your turf that you're living in to make light of such things when such a king has great power in his hand. and is the one through whom your beneficent life is made blessed and abundant. To make light of it? Look at the tax from stun. They went their ways one to his farm You know, I guess the guy went in and said to the missus, hey, you know, we have an invitation to the king for a wedding. Oh, forget all that nonsense. You've got sweet potatoes to plow. You've got to plant those things Well we got work in the field to do. I mean we got we got other business to go. How would you esteem so lightly such a a chance of a lifetime opportunity to not interrupt your daily routine to say, well this would be a A once-in-a-lifetime chance. Why? This is a a a grand opportunity. They go to their farm. just their regular business. The other to their merchandise, I've I've I just received a shipment of of of farm implements and I've got to prepare them and get them ready. uh for sale uh next week or whatever. I I I've got I've got to buy, I've got to sell, I've got to get gain. I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm busy in Middle of business, I've got business things going on. And isn't it true even today, when the call of the gospel comes, I'm too busy? I'm too busy. I've got too much going on right now. I can't stop and deal with that. Uh may maybe, I don't know, later. They make light of it. They just in their mind there's this assessment that goes on where they put a scale up and on the one hand is the opportunity to attend and be a witness of. the wedding of the king's son, who presumably is the heir and will be around a whole lot longer than the king, and is in fact the ruler of your land, and might in fact in fact afford you tremendous political, national, strategic advantage well beyond what you have. In fact, if he likes you so much he might just grant you land, he might just give you some of his service. He might just do something of that nature. But they weigh all that out and then they're thinking Man, that's just dust. Versus their personal responsibilities or things that are the routine and things that are the average and the normal. I'll tell you who else would make light of that if it wasn't if you didn't think he was your king. If you think, no, that's I don't know who this king is. I I don't care for him. Yeah, if I lived in France and I got an invitation to go to the King of Sweden's event, even then I might think that's a tremendous honor. But if I really didn't care, I could maybe get away with it because he can't do anything to me. Per se I'm in a different country. So it's a question of where is that individual's allegiance to begin with. He obviously doesn't believe he is in allegiance with that country or to that king. He has no interest in this individual. And then to add injury to insult, you see in verse 6, there's three groups of people, one to his farm, verse 5, another to his merchandise. The one who's the wealthy man, he wants to buy and sell and get gain. He's the big big business trader. And the third is the group called the remnant, and this is one place in the Bible where remnant is actually not good. But it does describe the response, on the whole, of everyone that was there. The largest share of people went back to their farm. Another large group of them went back to their merchandise. Well, there's a handful of different types left, and they're called the remnant. This would be the murderous remnant, you could say, because they are going to then conspire, they're going to take the servants, they're going to treat them spitefully, and my goodness, what a response. They're going to kill the servants. Can we really stick poke the king in the eye with a stick any sharper than that I mean these are his servants. The expectation is the servant will come back and give a report. The king probably is highly interested in seeing the servant again, and is it's his servant. He's interested in the welfare of his servant because he does the king's bidding. Acts 7, 51 and 52 reflects Israel's treatment against all the Old Testament prophets, and Stephen summarizes it nicely. Ye stiff-necked and uncircumcised in heart and ears, ye do always resist, always resist. Ye, old English word for what we in Texas would say y'all, do always resist the Holy Ghost As your fathers did, so do ye. Which of the prophets have not your fathers persecuted? He says, go and look, count. Go, go. Find me one of the Old Testament prophets that didn't receive horrific treatment at the hands of the Jews. And it was a Jewish prophet, no less And have slain them which showed before the coming of the just one, of whom you have now been the betrayers and the murderers. The Lord Jesus Himself said that all the blood of righteous Abel to Zechariah shall be required. From A to Z, every prophet that had been sent had been spitefully misused and in some extreme instances, even killed. So this is the this is the response. You know, and you have to act ask the question. What the king does after this, does it seem reasonable It says in verse 7, when the king heard, when this entered back into the king's ears, He was wroth. I'd say that's a pretty legitimate response. And he sent forth his armies and destroyed those murderers and burned up their city. Does that seem like an unusual response? No. Does that seem out of the ordinary? No. Does that seem a little over the top? He is a king. He has these things at his disposal. He has been patient. He is called not only once would have been enough. If he had been a haughty king, a hasty king, but no, he was patient. He provided greater clarification to the message. I'm not sure how they didn't get it the first time, but behold the incredible patience of that king. But now at this kind of response, I give you greater clarification, and you give yourselves greater damnation. You have slain my servants. Oh my. The city that would be destroyed would be Jerusalem, that Old Testament Jewish capital. The Lord Jesus said in Luke 13, O Jerusalem, Jerusalem. Which killeth the prophets, and stoneth them that are sent unto thee, how often would I have gathered thy children together, as a hen doth gather her brood under her wing, and ye would not Behold, your house is left unto you desolate. If Jesus pronounces your house to be left desolate, that means there are no children to follow. There's no spiritual children that would flow henceforth ever again. From Jerusalem. And that's exactly what the Lord Jesus did. He terminated it. The Apostle Paul says, seeing you judge yourselves unfit of eternal life, we turn to the Gentiles You guys won't have it, and to this day they won't have it in large. When Jesus came near the city. He beheld it and wept over it. He says in Luke 19, the days shall come upon thee that thine enemy shall cast a trench about thee, compass thee round Keep thee in on every side, and they shall lay thee even with the ground, and thy children within thee, and they shall not leave in thee one stone upon another, because thou knew not the time of thy visit. They shall fall by the edge of the sword, they shall be led away captive into all nations, and Jerusalem shall be trodden down to the Gentiles until the times of the Gentiles be fulfilled. And that's the period we're living in now, the times of the Gentiles. What a incredible rejection. I also find it interesting that it says the king sent forth his armies. And this occurred on more than one occasion. The Assyrian was the rod of God's anger in Isaiah 10. He was that Assyrian. I believe it was under Ashurbanopal, but I could be mistaken there. In Isaiah 10, listen to this language as God speaks about, quote-unquote, his servant. O Assyrian, Isaiah 10, 5, O Assyrian, the rod of mine anger, and the staff in their hand is mine indignation. I will send him against a hypocritical nation, speaking of the Jews, and against the people of my wrath will I give him a charge. to take the spoil, to take the prey, and so forth. Yes, these earthly kings Who don't worship God, who don't know Him, yet He calls them His servants. Because if He so chooses to use them, to go beat up a very rebellious and stiff-necked nation, he will do so. What did he use against Jerusalem? The Romans. They were his servants. When Israel was allowed to return after the captivity in Babylon. It's referred the leader was Cyrus, and he was referred to as Cyrus my servant. Truly he is king of kings, and he rules over all. Oh, he knows they're wicked. They were not bidden to this wedding at that time. Yet they're his servants. He moves the king's heart as a hand of the river. You serve a great king. Don't kid yourself. Don't think lightly of the God of the Bible. He is a tremendously powerful king, but he's also very patient, slow to wrath. And this extreme response merits and warranted a correspondingly harsh treatment They were destroyed, their city was burnt up, and he was exceptionally angry. There was no deliverance from that wrath. Well it continues. Notice the new guests. Then saith he to his servants, now there's new servants. He's never run out of servants. Our king will not be short of servants. He will always have someone to serve him. As dark as it may get, oh, we've they've killed, they've killed this wonderful prophet. Fear not, God will raise others His truth and his message and his word doesn't die with the generation that's killed by these wicked recipients of the marriage call. He raises up others. It's a light thing for God. to do that. His kingdom marches on. His truth continues unabated. It doesn't need me to hold up the flag. If I'm mowed down, God will raise another to hold that flag up. He is a powerful king. And he tells these servants, again, the wedding is ready, but they which were bidden were not worthy. Go ye therefore That sounds familiar, doesn't it? Matthew 28. Go ye therefore into all the world. That's not an accidental introductory. That should ring in our Gentile ears as the call of the Great Commission. And you go into the highways. Notice, again, the message. It hasn't changed. The wedding is ready. And you begin to sense this is a parable, because this has been a mighty long time. The oxen has been killed. Christ is sacrificed. He is that lamb slain from before the foundation of the world. Come, eat, come, partake at the king's table. He who drinks of this water shall never thirst again. Isaiah, let your soul be satisfied and delight itself in fatness. There is great abundance there. You eat at this table, you'll never go hungry again You'll never need your farm. You won't need your merchandise. You'll be a complete peace. You'll be ever fed. And part of the message is they which were bidden were not worthy. They were not worthy. And that's part of this message now. As the gospel in our Word of God unfolds, we read about the unworthiness of those who were first called. They after the flesh of Abraham turned out to be unworthy. Many were unworthy. The Apostle Paul spends great amounts of time making a distinction between those circumcised in the heart. They had a heart that wanted to go versus those circumcised in the flesh that didn't want to go. That rejected it, that made light of it, that indeed slew the servants. So the Apostle Paul makes a great distinction in terms of what it means to be worthy, and it gets down to the heart. And so he says, go ye therefore into the highways, and as many as ye shall find, bid to the marriage. What's a highway? A highway is a road, as Pastor McKnight, Pastor Joe mentioned um a couple of sermons ago that it's a road that's that's cast up. It's it's an all weather road It would be something that you would use to go hither and yon. You could go great distances. This wasn't the side of the river that could get flooded, and you might get stuck. It's a road that was built up high enough so that as you're making this long journey where you couldn't see the end of the road, you were assured of being able to make your destination. Because it didn't matter what the weather conditions were, you could still pass this way. It would be a clear indication that this is a message that was to go farther than before. It was to go broader than it had been before. It was to go, yea, even to the very ends of the earth. And they were to go with a specific targeted audience. Whoever you can find. Right? Whoever you can find, this is now kicked open, as many as ye shall find. So it's limited to the sight of the servant. As it were, the servant has a role, a distinct and significant role in identifying the wedding guests. You don't read it here, but it almost says, whoever seems good in your sight, bring them in. And yet the command is, whosoever you shall find. It's not whosoever you shall approve, it's whosoever you find. And indeed, that's whom we share the gospel with. What is your mission field? Well, who did you find today? Who did you run into? And so they were brought in. They were bid to the marriage. Same message, same king, same event, same calling. The Gospel of Grace in the New Testament began in the Old Testament. It was a gracious invitation by a powerful king to the marriage of his son. Again, you're being called the marriage of the Son. And so those servants, verse 10, went out. And they gathered together, all as many as they were found. And as they gathered them, the saints gathered. They gather. You know, it says in Thessalonians, uh in um 1 Thessalonians chapter 1. And verse 4, knowing, brethren, beloved, your election of God, for our gospel came not unto you in word only, but also in power in the Holy Ghost and in much assurance As you know what manner of men we were among you for your sake, and ye became followers of us. The saints of God gathered. They like to gather because they liked the message. What a wonderful thing. You know, they may not know the way back to the king. Why not follow the servant who called? He's been called by the king. He can direct us to the king. Why wouldn't we want to miss out on that? And this highway that leads everywhere. It goes to the good and to the bad is who they gathered. Now the bad would be the Gentiles, the good would be the remnant Jews. If anything, in the Old Testament, the Jews were a separate people. They were to separate themselves. They were to eat that which was clean. They had specific processes for sanitization that would keep them very healthy. Even to this day, archaeologists, when they go digging, when they find an absence of pig bones in their fire pits, they use that as a data point, say, in all likelihood this would be a Jewish settlement Because the Gentiles would love pigs. They were easy to raise. They ate all the scraps, and their meat was very easily flavored. That's the same reason you and I like bacon. Well, it was an abomination to the Jews. They would be the remnant good in this passage. And this message that goes out is is uh is effective. Now they're gathering people, and the wedding in fact is finally furnished with guests. They in fact do come And so it was an effective message. It was far more profitable. Then we have a very interesting statement. As they're all gathered. You now have the catastrophe of the missing garment. Some things are not clearly articulated, but are, I believe, universally understood No, a wedding is a special event. And you need to be mindful of how you're dressed. I only know one individual who didn't pay much attention to how they were dressed when they came to a wedding because they forgot their wedding garment. And uh I teased him endlessly because of it, but uh I still love the brother. Uh and it wasn't my wedding, thankfully, so But this wedding garment, as you know, according to Isaiah 61 and verse 10, is the robe of Christ's righteousness. Isaiah 61. 10, you ought to have that verse memorized, because it's highly relevant not only to our passage, but to what your salvation is about. It says, I will greatly rejoice in the Lord, and my soul shall be joyful in my God. For he hath clothed me with the garments of salvation, he hath covered me with the robe of righteousness, as a bridegroom decketh himself with ornaments, as a bride adorneth herself with her jewels Well, notice the king comes in, and he saw, that's a big word, the eyes of the Lord run to and fro throughout the earth. He saw there a man which had not on a wedding garment. This man made a pretty critical mistake. I believe it really is generally understood that you dress up nicely for a wedding. It sort of doesn't need to be stated on the invitation. You know, if there's even a higher level of dress, it might say tux and tie only. But then you always get into the issue of, well, what do the women wear and all that? that sort of stuff. But here it's fairly understood. You need wedding garment and the king, alas, finds a man without such And he, the king, saith unto him, the poorly dressed man, friend, again, notice the good nature, the good behavior, the The kindness of the king, friend, he was called, friend, how camest thou in hither not having a wedding garment? Let me give you a pro tip. When you get to heaven, you don't want the king asking questions. If the king asks you a question, Job says. How much less shall I answer him and choose out my words to reason with him, whom though I were righteous, yet would not I answer? Can you answer him one of a thousand? Job was asked a final quiz in the 40th chapter through the 41st chapter of a number of questions. Job's conclusion was, behold, I'm vile. In Matthew 22, 46, no man was able to answer Jesus a word. If you find yourself in the position where God is asking you a question on Judgment Day, know for a fact you've lost. You will not be able to answer him. You in fact will be speechless. If you somehow vainly think that you're going to have an attorney to help you, that king's son is the only attorney who could help you. And so he cannot answer him. It says he was speechless. Our God is constantly able and capable of rendering men speechless, all these ungodly speeches which they have ungodly committed With their ungodly deeds and their ungodly ways, God will sentence all of that and silence all of that with but one mere statement. In another parable of the gathering of the sheep and the goats before him. It says, all nations are gathered before him. And he puts the sheep on the right hand and the goats on the left. And with one sentence, with one sentence, he divides the entirety of human life To the sheep on the right, come you blessed, inherit the kingdom prepared for you from the foundation of the world, for I was hungry You gave me meat thirsty and you gave me drink naked and you clothed me in prison, you visited me. One sentence. And unto the those on the left depart ye cursed. One sentence This isn't, don't think there's this long protracted trial with a lot of argumentation and back and forth and patiently enduring more hardness and speeches. He's already endured all that nonsense The record is clear. Every idle word that men shall speak, they'll give account of. And the way they give account of it is depart you cursed You're gone. You're done. It's it. It's over. You cannot answer the king's statement. And what does it say? Then said the king to the servants, notice the servants continue to have a role even at the wedding. They're still his servants. They still do his bidding. And I would submit those servants are all of God's gospel preachers in the New Testament. Anyone who's got God's message. Whether in a formal capacity or an informal one, as a mother teaching her children, as a woman evangelizing other Muslim women at the marketplace, they have a role. And here, at that great wedding feast, when the Son is gathered and the king is there, and all are present, and yet even at the very gate of heaven, there is a path to hell. He tells the servants, bind him hand and foot, take him away. Just meditate on that word, a way. He came in the way to the wedding, but now take him a way. He is a false convert. He does not have on a wedding garment. Their spot is not the spot of my sons. He does not have my righteousness. Take him away. Out of this. Let's cleanse this wedding from such an offensive one. Cast him into outer darkness. Jesus has used that term before. That now ties us with many other parables that Jesus talks about. Being bound hand and foot and cast into outer darkness. There shall be weeping and gnashing of teeth. This is an unusual wedding. Jesus focuses on the bad event of the wedding, the one highlight of the event of the fellow that blew it. Jesus talks about that The presumption is that for the remainder of the people in the wedding, it was a joyful time. They remained, they stayed, they were there with the king's favor, they came with the wedding garment. And the parable is left with them still seated at the table, still enjoying blessed fellowship, still able to enjoy in the festivities, still eating at that table, even now. But the one individual is where the focus is, and it's a warning. He says there shall be weeping and gnashing of teeth. It says that he was so close and yet so far. Matthew 24, 51, shall cut him asunder, appoint him as portion with the hypocrites, there shall be weeping and gnashing of teeth Matthew 25. 30, cast ye unprofitable servant into outer darkness, there shall be weeping, and gnashing of teeth. That's the parable of the talents Matthew 25, 46, These shall go away into everlasting punishment, but the righteous into life eternal. Parable of the sheep and the goats. This ties all these parables together. It's speaking one and the same thing, different aspects of it And he concludes in verse 14, For many are called. And then he goes on to add, But few are chosen, because their account seems to imply all the guests had a wedding garment on, but one guy didn't. And as you survey the whole thing, many were called. Many in the old were called. The Apostle Paul asked, did not Israel know? Yea, they heard. Verily their sound went out in all the earth. Many were called. A great many people know about the Bible and its message. This is a religious place we live in. There's all kinds of religion And yet, how do we know who God's chosen are? Well, he makes it very clear. Those who have on a wedding garment. This is the doctrine of election from our perspective How do we know who the elect of God are? They have a wedding garment on. They cling to Christ. They cling to Him and His righteousness They disavow their righteousness. They disavow their robes. They disavow their persona. Brother Bernie used to say we uh speaking as a number of young men would gather around his small apartment table and talk, he said, Brother Vince, he didn't call me Brother Vince. He said, Vince, he says, you've got we've got to learn to take this this mask off. Take this mask off. And over the years I began to understand what he meant. We have a mask. We have a persona, a a type that we project. portray to other people. Brother Bernie says that's got to go. You've got to disavow that. You need to become a fool for Christ's sake. You need to wear his image, his garment. Many are called, few are chosen. Jesus is undermining a long-held Jewish hope, their bloodline election. Oh, did Israel hear? Yes, they did, but they didn't come. They didn't have a wedding garment. I close in Revelation 19, verses 5 through 9. A voice came out of the throne saying, Praise our God, all ye his servants. And ye that fear him, both small and great. And I heard, as it were, the voice of the great multitude, saying, Alleluia, for the marriage of the Lamb has come, and his wife hath made herself ready. And to her was granted, granted that she should be arrayed in fine linen, clean and white, for the fine linen is the righteousness. A righteousness that is a gift is the righteousness of saints. And he saith unto me, Write, blessed are they which are called into the marriage supper of the Lamb. And he saith unto me, These are the true sayings of God. So rejoice, Christian, and live a joyful, expectant life. You've been called to a wedding. You've received an invitation to the greatest wedding that there ever shall be. Rejoice in that. It's a wedding that outdoes all weddings, one whose joys will know no end, and it will surely come. Well, I hope that's been a blessing to you as you contemplate Matthew 22. Very powerful, very powerful section. She closes in prayer. Dear Heavenly Father. Lord uh we pray, Father, that we would be considered worthy uh of of thy grace and thy mercy, Lord. In that great day, Lord, knowing that Father, we come with no righteousness of our own word, but uh any righteousness that we have. uh before thee is all provided of thee, Lord. Um and uh Lord, uh we pray that we would all stand before thee in that day, Lord. with thy righteous garments and even that we would be counted worthy to be thy servants to go and tell others to bid them to come to the great feast, Lord. Uh, even while it is yet the day of salvation. We praise thee for thy salvation. Uh we ask thy By guidance in Jesus' name.