Twenty months ago I delivered my last message as the pastor here from the book of Mark, dealing with the ruler of the synagogue. And he had two patients that the Lord dealt with in that story, the ruler of the synagogue's daughter and the woman with the issue of blood for twelve years. And we covered the woman with the issue of blood, but we never covered the other patient, which was the daughter of Jairus, the ruler of the synagogue And I said I'd get a chance someday to pick it back up. And there is quite an interval between Jairus coming to the Lord and saying, My daughter's dying, or maybe dead. I mean you've got to do something And then this woman with the issue of blood intervenes for eleven verses. It's a long intervention. There's quite a conversation that goes on there. And then finally the Lord continues on for Jairus. So we've had an intervention here of 11, well more than 11 months, but at least the intervention. So although the title of the story is Patience and the Patience, we covered the one patient, the woman with the issue of blood And today we'll spend more time on the daughter of the ruler of the synagogue. So if you just follow with me, this is written by the way in in uh Matthew, Mark, and Luke. You might hear me referring to those other books. You need not turn there. We read a portion of Matthew. uh this morning in a responsive reading. It doesn't give as much detail, uh, but uh Mark and Luke certainly do. So if you look at with me in Mark chapter 5 and being in verse 21 And when Jesus was passed over by ship onto the other side, much people gathered unto him And he was nigh unto the sea, and behold, there cometh one of the rulers of the synagogue, Jairus by name. And when he saw him, he fell at his feet, and besought him greatly, saying, My little daughter lie at the point of death I pray thee come and lay thy hands on her that she may be healed and she may live. And Jesus went with him, and much people followed him and thronged him. And then we find in verse 25, uh up until verse 34, there's an intervention here over the woman with the issue of blood. And we preached on that uh the last time I stood here in the fall for with you as pastor And so we drop down to verse thirty-five, where she has been healed, and now we pick the story up again about Jarus and the he as the ruler of the synagogue, heading towards his home for his little girl And while he yet spake, that's speaking to the woman with the issue of blood, there came from the ruler of the synagogue's house a certain which said, Thy daughter is dead. She's dead. Why troublest thou the master any further? And as soon as Jesus heard the word that was spoken, he saith on the rule of the synagogue: Be not afraid, only believe. And he suffered no man to follow him save Peter and James and John and the brother of James, or rather, James and John, John the brother of James, and he cometh to the house of the ruler of the synagogue, and he seeth the tumult. And them that wept and wailed greatly. And when he was coming to the house, he saith, Why make ye this ado? And why all this weeping? The damsel's not dead, but sleepeth. And they laughed into scorn. They laughed at the Lord Jesus Christ. They laughed at the words of Christ. And when he had put them all out, he taketh a father and the mother of the damsel, and them that were with him, that's Peter, James, and John And he entered in where the damsel was lying. And he took the damsel by the hand and said unto her, Talifa Kumi. Which is being interpreted, Damsel, I say unto thee, arise. Taletha Kumi is Chaldean, Aramaic, it's a it's a Hebrew of sorts, much of the Hebrew alphabet is the same. And they would understand Telephakumi, even though the Jews would understand the Hebrew he was speaking there. And straightway the damsel arose and walked, for she was of the age of twelve years She was twelve years old. The woman with the issue of blood had been suffering the issue of blood for 12 years. And they were astonished with a great astonishment. And he charged them straightly that no man should know it, and commanded that something should be given her to eat. Beginning at verse 22. Behold, there cometh one of the rulers of the synagogue, jealous by name, and when he saw Christ, he fell at his feet. If you read Matthew 9 and 18, he not just fell at his feet, it said he worshipped him. Worshiped him. Looked at him as God, deity in the flesh. Reminds us not too long after that where Nicodemus and the Pharisees are arguing about uh Whether anyone here in the midst of the Pharisees or among the rulers believed on him. And we read that verse Matthew 918. Have any of the rulers believed on him? We read that in John 7 and verse 48. Have any believed on him? Nobody answered, but Jerus had. The ruler of the synagogue. He had And he besought this ruler of the synagogue, this believer, a ruler of the synagogue. This believer, he besought Christ greatly, we read in verse 23. or the word greatly he besought him, another word is fervently, worshiping him and fervently pleading for him, saying, My little daughter This is an eye under dying. My little daughter. We might put it in the modern modern vernacular. My my widowed girl is dying. We find out that his widowed girl is twelve years old. That's not so little. But As my daughter can attest, and some of the others here, you might be 42 years old, but you're still my little girl. And his little girl was dying. My little girl or my daughter has died. That's a term of endearment, what he says here. It's a term of endearment to call him his little girl. And it I wonder, pilgrims, do you use endearing language when you speak to others? Are your children just the rug rats? Are your children just your your tax deduction? Or are your children's your little blessings? Matt McHenry talk about his blessings that are running around the church. Are they your little blessings? Are they your princess? Do you call them princess? Do you call them Precious? Terms of endearment are the language that we ought to be using for one another. We ought to talk to our young ladies in the church and our wives and call them my lady. This is my lady. This is my bride. Terms of endearment. Or how some of you introduce your wife. How about this is the better half? He used here a term of endearment when he referred to his little girl and we ought to call each other by terms of endearment. We ought to speak of one another, brothers and to sisters and sisters. to moms and dads and cousins, and especially believers among believers. We need to use the term of endearment that's set here. She lay a dying, his little girl. I pray thee come and lay hands on her, that she is healed. In Luke 8 and 42, we read that she is my only daughter, his only daughter. I have an only daughter. She is my widow girl. It was his only daughter, and it says in Luke 8 and 42 that she was 12 years old. He obviously believed that Christ could heal, and you might wonder why he'd believe that or what he had heard. Well, we're in chapter 5 of Mark, and let me just rehearse with you quickly that he must have believed this because in Mark chapter one we hear of Christ healing the possessed. And then again we find in Mark chapter two the palsy. Remember they had to cut the hole in the roof and drop the man down on a bed? Well that was Mark chapter two when he healed the palsy. And then there's Mark chapter three, the man with the withered hand in the synagogue. And that took place in Mark chapter three. And then in Mark chapter four, he was there was a stilling of the sea during a great storm. And then in Mark chapter five, at the beginning of Mark, In Mark chapter 5, we read that there was a 2,000 swine that the demons went into, and they fled down the hill into the water, and they drowned. That's chapters 1, 2, 3, 4. In the first part of chapter 5, And now we're midway to chapter five, and he says, you know, this guy the his his right his reputation, and perhaps he'd seen some of this. He knew he could heal, though he'd never seen anyone healed In in chapter in the book of Mark, uh once they were dead. But he had faith. He believed. And all he had were perhaps these first four chapters, these few little bits of healing. They're not little healings by any stretch to imagine. But that's all he has were four stories of healings and of miraculous acts of Christ, and that he comes and bows at his feet and worships him. We have what? We've got hundreds of healings and miracles recorded in Scripture. In fact, the Scripture said there's so many things that Christ did that all the books in the world couldn't contain them. We've got so much more. Do we then therefore bow down to Christ? And worship him. He's done so much more than the rule of the synagogue could ever have imagined. We owe more to Christ, because we know more. To whom much is given, much is required. Therefore, we read that Jesus went with him. Well, I tell you, you sure respect the Lord Jesus Christ, and you expect God to stick beside you. You know, there's a there are deep benefits that pay those who adhere to Christ in their life. Until Jesus went with him. Honoring Christ publicly will be restore, bring benefits upon your life if you honor him publicly before other people, not hide your Christianity. And much people followed and they thronged him and said that the crowd crowded him so much that it really hindered him from moving down to the streets. And if you've been over there you realize how how narrow the streets are in those cities Their streets some of 'em are not much wider than this aisleway here 'cause there's booths and and grocery carts set up everywhere. There are narrow streets and and this throne it had to hinder them from getting there. And I I can envision Jerry saying, Oh, why is the crowd here? I I you know this is just going too slow. not going to get there in time and and everybody's jostling us and he almost loses sight of Christ or Christ of him. And and it it's just it's a throng of people. And this is eminent. I need to get back to her. She she's probably dead when I left she was dying. I don't know what's left of her And now they got this crowd hindering our progress. And then the woman with the issue of blood touches Christ hand. And he says, Who touched me? And he turns them once in all and begins a conversation with this woman for eleven verses. And I think if Jairah is sitting there and saying, oh my goodness, now we're in a kind of deep conversation with this woman. I don't know her from Adam. And I just told him my little girl is dying. And now we're stopping and who touched me and why why did you touch me? And what is your faith? And and on the questions go and How patient are you when you're driving in traffic around 695 or down ninety-five and it's backed up? And you've got to get someplace. And it's important. Oh, your daughter's not dying, or your son's not dying, or your wife's not dying, but still I People beating horns and cheating and getting in front of each other and fender benners and and now the police are there and the ambulance and the cars are back on the morning and you turn on your radio and five mile back up on ninety-five. You know, I mean how do you feel about that Are you patient when traffic is so congested? Are you patient when an individual drops in on you at your home and disrupts your whole schedule for the day because they want to talk about something? How patient are you? The ruler of the synagogue, Jairus, his daughter's dying. And we read nothing about him being impatient. He's with the Lord. What can go wrong? He said, I'll go home with you. Let's take a look. The words have come, you know, how sickly she is, but He's patient. Abraham and Sarah. I don't know if you realize how patient they were. I think it was not already in her 90s when they were told that she was going to have a baby. But if you read the story carefully, he said she's going to have a baby This time next year. Well that meant, if you think about it, do the math, if someone's gonna have a baby this time next year, that means that Sarah and Abraham They said, I don't see how it's possible. God promised that we have a baby this time this year and it's been one month, two months, three months. I'm not even pregnant yet That takes patience to believe God's word, doesn't it? Probably by the fourth or fifth month since the promise, she started putting on a little weight, feeling a little sweat in her tummy. But Abram and Sarah were patient. Noah. Filling the ark, we read it's about a hundred years it takes. And God said, I'm going to destroy the earth. I'm destroying all of man and and all of life. I'm going to destroy it all. And and and it's it's been hunt. He doesn't tell Noah, by the way, uh you know, uh this is the day the flood's gonna come and but he knows he's got probably about a hundred years to build this thing, to build this ark, it's gonna be a large one, bigger than anything you see in a colorful t shirts. And so the day comes, the ark is finished, the animals on the ark, God says, go inside the ark. And he says it's going to start to rain. In seven days. And so you're shut up inside an ark and you don't see the sun, you're in the dark, you just got the candles in there and and you're wondering, well, you know Seven days. How many days has there been now? And boy, these days are moving slow. The patience that Noah shared. And this was a patient man too. Be patient, it says towards all men. First Thessalonians five and fourteen. And so I would say this morning: does God seem slow to answer your prayers? Do you feel like sometimes you're running out of patience with the Lord? Let us run, it says here. Let us run with patience. We read in Hebrews 12 and 1. Well this is not the end of it. Let us run with patience the race that is set before us. How many here love the race you're in? Probably most of us don't. I'd rather run the hurdles, I'd rather run the hundred-yard dash, I'd rather run the the 26-mile marathon. But God has put us in a race that we're in that we wouldn't have chosen for ourselves But we're to be patient. Let us run with patience the race that God has set before us. Hebrews 12 and verse 1 So in verse 35, and remember we're skipping the eleven verses now about the woman with the issue of blood, because finally he gets back to Jairus in verse 35, from 24 to 35, we leave that out today And in verse thirty five, while he Christ yet spake to the woman, she's still there, there came from the ruler of the synagogue's house certain, sounding more than one, certain which said, Thy daughter is dead. Why troublest thou? the master any further. Maybe you've heard people say to you sometime, Why are you praying? Praying's a waste of time. You gotta wait on the Lord? Haven't you been doing that long enough? What's happened? Waiting on the Lord. Pray. Well, why troubles the master? How many of you have heard someone say, what good does prayer do? I've been a Christian all my life. I haven't gotten my prayers answered. What good does prayer do? I've been waiting on the Lord. You heard people do that? Have you had the Mr. Gloom and Doom come to you and they discourage you from praying, discourage you from reading your Bible discouraging from attending church. You have people that they're just Mr. Gloom and Doom. It doesn't do any good. Peter says, think. That's his first word. Peter says, think, think it not strange concerning the fiery trial that's come upon you, as though some strange thing has happened unto you. And how often do we feel like that? Some strange thing. Well no one's got the problem I got. No one's seen what I've seen. No one's going through what I'm going through right now. Have you ever heard of that? People say that all the time. And Peter says, thinking that's strange. The fiery trials, though some strange thing has happened unto you, you are partakers of Christ's suffering. 1 Peter 4, 12, and 13. You know, I've gone through some suffering in my life, and all of us have, and some of us are going through horrendous suffering even right now. And he said, how does that relate to I'm suffering the things in Christ? I can't always connect all the dots for me or for you But under the inspiration of the Holy Spirit, Peter says that these strange things that happen unto us, we are just partakers of Christ's suffering because he had strange things happen unto him. He was innocent. They killed him anyway. He was innocent. They crucified him. They didn't just kill him. He was innocent in a long, drag out, torturous way of dying, to a man declared innocent by Judas Iscariot, declared innocent by Pontius Pilate. Declared innocent by the one man hung on the cross beside him. That's a strange thing when you're declared innocent by so many people Why troubles thou the master? When people say that to you, why troublest thou the master? This is what I want you to say to them. Why not? Why not? I trouble him every day with my sin nature. I trouble every day with my insane sins I commit and think about committing and and plan to commit. I mean I c I trouble the master all the time I might as well trouble him with the prayer of a need. Why troublesell the master? Why not? We trouble with everything. Trouble trouble him about your pain, your suffering. Physical and emotional. Don't let people tell you prayer doesn't do any good and why trouble the master? You you you bother him like the woman beaten on a judge's door in the scriptures. Praying doesn't do any good. Oh, Daniel chapter ten, twelve and thirteen. On the 21st day of his praying, God sent an angel. And the angel gets there and he says, Oh. You've been praying for twenty-one days. I know of him trying to break through. You know, the king of Persia, the demonic forces that, you know, good thing you didn't quit on the nineteenth day or the twentieth day, Daniel I mean I guess I turned around and went back up to heaven, but you you prayed for 21 days in a row. I'm so grateful that you had the patience to keep on praying. How about the disciples who are so terrified or hiding in a room in Jerusalem Christ had told him after he'd been here, forty days after his resurrection, he says to them, Look, I want you to tarry in Jerusalem until God sends his spirit. And so they're up, they're tearing in Jerusalem after the resurrection. Three days in the tomb, forty days? Forty-three days and they tarry there until Pentecost. 50 Pentecost. They tarry for seven days. They don't know how long they're going to be there. Christ says just cherry till I send the Spirit to bless you and empower you. And they don't know how long it's going to be But they kept praying, meeting in that room. In Luke 24, verse 49, they prayed and waited until Acts Chapter two. Praying, praying, pray. Talk about the patience of a man and men What if Jarrus had taken man's word? That man or men that came from his house and said, She's dead, why trouble the master? These men that came to my house, these men, what they're telling me, they're the final authority. They've been there. They saw her last breath. They saw her last gasp. They heard it all. They know. They know I mean they that they speak with some authority. Maybe one of them was the doctor or the physician, whatever, but why what if what if Jared had taken their authority as the final word? Man's word is the final authority. What if he done that said, Oh, you can go home now, Lord, or go back to the with your fishermen. It's over, but thank you for the effort. What if he'd done that? That's what we all do sometimes. We take man's word over God's word. Sometimes we're looking through a Bible, it can even be a King James Bible, and you look at the Bible, and there's a footnote. Seven days doesn't mean seven days. Well, I didn't know that before. Wow, very interesting. Oh, the firing of the Red Sea. Well, you know, uh it was low tide. Oh, that's a good footnote We sometimes look at the footnotes in our Bibles and the marginal references, and we think, oh, wow, that overrides what God said. That overrides the Word of God. No, it doesn't. No, it doesn't. What if Jerry said taken man's word like a footnote or a marginal comment made? She's dead. Why bother the master anymore? You take God's word as your authority. No preachers, no pastor, no missionary, no evangelist, no CEO, no CFO, no billionaire, you take the word of God as your final authority. I don't care what your Christian teacher or your public school teacher says. You take the word of God as your final authority. And Jared said. And as soon as Jesus had heard it in verse 36, he said on the rule of the synagogue: Be not afraid, only believe. Believe my words. Christ ignores the view of the men that came from his house, and we should ignore the view of men. It's often wrong, especially if it's contrary to what Christ has to say. And Christ would have us to believe and to remember. Remember what? Well, one good thing to remember is you've heard of the patience of Job and have seen the end. Turned out pretty good for Job, didn't it? But if you've heard of the patience of Job, Jairus, be patient. Believe. Trust Christ. The rest of that you often hear in James chapter 5 and verse 11. You heard of the patience of Job, and you've seen the end. And here's the part I love. That the Lord is very pitiful and of tender mercy. Jaris, Jairus, how did it work out for Job? How to work out for Moses? How'd it work out for Noah? Ask yourself this. I've read it, you've read it. Can Christ really cleanse a leper? You say, I believe that. Okay. Then can he clean up the mess in your life? Why not? Can Christ make the blind to see? Oh yeah, yeah. Yeah, I think I think Christ can make the blind. Yeah, he can make the blind to see. Well then maybe he can make your children and your brother and your sister and your father and your mother to see the truth that's in the scriptures. What do you think? Can Christ raise the dead? Oh let's see the the son of the woman of Nain, uh Lazarus Uh we're gonna see here Jared's daughter. Can Christ raise the dead? That's a tough one, but Yeah, I believe that. Well then he can raise you up out of your depression. Right? Right? I mean what's harder? What's harder So Christ continues as we see the story in verses 37-38. He cometh to the house of the ruler. of the synagogue and he seeth these minstrels and people making a noise. That's recorded in Matthew, not here in Mark where he read it. There are minstrels with instruments And people making a noise or a tumult, that word tumult in market means they were making an uproar. I mean the closer they got the house, the louder it got And the more sorrowing, the more weeping, the more wailing they heard, and it got louder and louder as they got there. It was a tumult. It was an uproar of instruments and noise and and and the weeping and it says it's in Mark, wailing greatly Mark 37 and 38. And you know why there was so much wailing and weeping and sorrow This is an example of people who are sorrowing as a people that have no hope. She's dead. We're out of hope. She's dead We are to sorrow those who believe we are to sorrow, but not as those who have no hope, not as those who have not Christ present in their life. We sorrow, but we have Christ in our life. We don't sorrow the way these people are sorrowing here But Christ isn't there before Christ gets there. My goodness, it's an uproar, it's a tumult, it's a great wailing because Christ isn't in their life We sorrow, but not as those that have no hope. But when Christ arrives, the sorrow is different. The whole climate changes. There's a hope for those that love Christ. There's a hope for those that know that Christ loves them. There's a hope for believers that death is not the end. There's a hope for those that love the Lord Jesus Christ that death is not you know our body sleeps in the grave or in the dust, that that is not the end. There is a hope for those that love Christ, that death on the other side is not miserable for us. It is wonderful for us. There is a hope that there is an end, there is an end to the death body. There's a hope that end to the eternal laying there in the dust and being miserable. For those that Christ loves, sorrow, yes, but not those that have no hope. Christ teaches that God, this is the teaching of Christ on Mark 12, God is not the God of the dead. He is the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, and they're still alive. God is not the God of the dead, but of the living. That's why when you read about King David's body being interred, when David died, they take his body, and it says in 1 Kings 2, and David his body slept with his fathers The body slept. David was not dead. His soul was still alive. His soul was in paradise. He said, David's body slept with his father's, 1 King 2 and 10. How about the body of Lazarus in John 11:11? Christ said, He sleepeth. No, the body sleepeth. Call it dead. That's that's the way you you view things. I'm Christ the Lord. I'm the God incarnate. I'm I'm the King of Kings of Alpha and Omega. And y you you call him dead, I say he's asleep. The body's asleep in the dust, the soul is still alive. And so he talks here about in the scriptures we see about David was asleep, and Lazarus is asleep, and Stephen, Acts seven, sixty, was asleep. And in first Thessalonians four and fourteen it says All of us who love the Lord, our bodies will sleep in Jesus, but our souls will be immediately, as Paul says, absent from the body and present with the Lord. It is glory. It is glory. Our flesh sleeps, but our soul is forever alive. Scripture is a comfort to believers only. But to those who are wailing greatly here in verse 38, there was no comfort. Christ wasn't there. When Christ comes, well, we'll see what happens there. Christ's words were nothing but pearls cast before the swine, making all this noise, and Christ says, Why all this ado? The damsel's not dead, she sleepeth. And to those that weren't saved, these were pearls being cast before the swine. We read that term in Matthew 7 and 6. In fact, it went further. When he said she's not dead, she sleepeth. Verse 40, they laughed him to scorn. Have you heard that before? Laughing Christ to scorn? Matthew 9. 24, the same story that we did a responsive reading. They laughed him to scorn. Have you heard before that? You certainly have. Luke 8 and verse 53, they laugh him to scorn. Who are these people that laugh in the scorn? The swine. When you cast pros before the swine as Christ does here, what's all this to do? She's not dead, she's sleepeth, and they laugh in the scorn. They are the swine. He's casting prose for the swine. They don't want to hear it. They ridicule. They laugh in the score. It's the swine. It's the swine that laugh at God's word, because Christ is God, come in the flesh. And when he says she's not dead, she sleepeth, they are laughing at the words of the Lord Jesus Christ. Christ. They're laughing at the words of God. And when you run to people out there, many people you hang around with, and they laugh at the word of God, they're the swine. They're the pigs of the world. And you're comfortable with them? You know where they're going to take you? Into the mud of society. That's where they're going to take you. Into the spiritual muck and mud. You'll be so sunk in the mire you may never get out. Oh, the ones that laugh at the Word of God. They laugh at the six-day creation. They laugh at the world's destruction by flooding the days of Noah. They laugh at the resurrection of Christ. And they especially laugh at the story of the resurrection. of all at the end times of the book of Revelation. They laugh at the book of Revelation. Laugh and scorn. Oh, that term is used more than that in the Bible. We find in the days of of in 2 Chronicles 30 and verse 10. that there were Israelites, people professing Jews, Israelites, professing to be of the seed of Abraham, and yet they were laughing at the word of God. It said they laughed, it's a scorn. They laughed and they mocked the word of God. See, this isn't something new in America or new in Europe or England or or new in the world. This isn't just something new that took place in the days of Christ. They were laughing the word of God to scorn all the way back in 2 Chronicles 30 and verse 10. And again, 2 Chronicles 36 and verse 16. They despised God's wrath, it says, and arose no remedy for them. Because they laughed at God's word. I'll give you one more body of people who laughed God's word to scorn. Nehemiah 2 and 19. Sambalat, Tobiah, and Geshem the Arabian. It says there that when Nehemiah was quoting the scriptures and what God would do to rebuild the city and the walls, it says they laugh us to scorn. Oh friend, you watch the people who laugh at the things of God. You watch the people who laugh at the things that are holy. You watch those who laugh at the words of Christ, who laugh at the words in this scripture from Genesis 1 all the way to Revelation 22. You be very careful. Because it says in Chronicles, God's wrath arose and there was no remedy for them. Boy, look at God's wrath in the book of Revelation. They laughed at Christ's words. They thought that he was foolish. It's interesting. Verse 39, they're weeping. And verse 40, they're laughing. Tim the scorn. What a quick switch, isn't it? From verse 39, they're weeping and wailing greatly, and then they're laughing at Christ because he says he sleepeth. Christ's words were foolish things to them. 1 Corinthians 1 27. Anybody here think this are foolish things? To you. God will laugh and hold you in derision. And someday I'll be there with the Lord and I'll be laughing with him as he holds the wicked in derision. In the face of laughter, ask yourself this, friend. In the face of laughter, in the face of smirks In the face of snarkiness, in the face of scorn directed at the scripture, can you still cling to the Word of God and lose some friends? Can you still cling? Some here, perhaps someday, we'll stop toting it. And then they'll soon stop noting it, and then they'll stop quoting it. Why? Because they're afraid of the smirks and the snarls and the sarcasm You don't think there's people that you're confident with never leave the word of God and never do that? Two words for you this morning. Joshua Harris. If you don't know who Joshua Harris is, boy he was noting it, toting it, quoting it And now he's come out and said he's he wrote a book called Kiss Stating Goodbye. Well you might as well write another one called Kiss Christianity Goodbye because he said everything I thought is a Christian, everything I believed as a Christian, everything I thought that made you a Christian, I no longer accept. He said, take my books about kiss dating goodbye and all the other books that I've read and stop printing them, stop selling them, get them off the shelves. I am no longer a Christian, according to what the scripture says. And a lot more he says, worse than that. It can happen to you. It can happen to you. And the Lord Jesus Christ took care of them. He put them out of the house. Have you room in your home for Christ? Have you room in your heart for Christ? Even when you're hurting like Jaris, my daughter is dead. Do I have any room for Christ when my loved one is dead? Do I have any room for is there any room for for the Lord in my life? In my schedule of the week? When my loved one is dead? Is there any? For jealous, yes, come into my home. For jealous, yes, I want Christ so involved in my life. And he took the damsel, it says here, she was lying there And he patience, oh first let me give that verse, patience of hope in the Lord Jesus Christ. 1 Thessalonians 1:3. Jealous had patience and the hope. in the Lord Jesus Christ. We have to have patience for hope of the Lord Jesus Christ. First Thessalonians 1 3. So then Christ enters in where the damsel was lying. He took the damsel by the hand and he sent her to letha Kumai, and it interpreted here as dames will arise. And I did a little digging here and and I think that's a good translation, dames will rise. But that word Talitha Kumi i it's it's actually Hebrew words. If you go into your strong concordance, Talitha means And it can mean damsel, but I like the other meaning for it, lamb arise. And when he said soitakumi, probably the majori And I think the King James got it right, because we go back in the Hebrew, Taletha's only used twice for a lamb. But it was just kind of nice to know that it was a tender name for her, Taletha. As a damsel. When's the last time you ladies were called a damsel? It's a it's a touching word. And so he spoke. Salitha Kumai, which being interpreted as Damehul, I say unto thee, arise, and straightway. Not in five or ten minutes of the well let's wait and see that they do a little CPR maybe some mouth amount of sales we'll see what's going on here. No no no no He says two words and she arises. It says uh and the patient as she did this, it says here that straightway or immediately the damsel arose, and you say, Well maybe she really was asleep. No, no, no, no, no, no It says that there was loud music and there was great wailing and lots of noise and it didn't wake her up from her sleep. So her body was asleep. Her body was dead. So the loud music, the weeping, and the wailing greatly, it would not wake her up. But Two words from Christ. And I don't think his story said, Telete the Kumar. I think his story said, He's speaking to a widowed girl, right? To Lisa, to me. Almost like, come here. And she did. Two words change her life A couple of words in the Bible ever change your life? Two words or two verses? Has something in the Bible ever changed your life? Just a word or two from the Bible can make a big difference in a family and in the life of a family and the life of a little girl and two words can make a great big difference in the life of you as well. Repent. Believe. Two words. And I give you a lot of other two words. Born again can mean so much. So if just two words could raise her from the dead, if just two words could change her whole life. If two words could stop the whole family's mourning process. If that's what two words could do, may I suggest to you don't get a hold of the reader's digest abbreviated version. It takes out more than two words, more than two verses. And there's a lot of other Bibles out there too. They remove words and verses. And two words are so important. And you might be missing those two words. You've got a bad version of the scriptures. Not good. Not good. In verse 43, they were so astonished, with great astonishment. I understand why Peter and John and James were so astonished, because in Luke 7, the raising of the widow of Nain, son from the dead, actually preceded. the raising of this daughter of Jairus. But yet they were astonished. In Luke 8 and 41 it says they were they were you know they were astonished. I mean they'd already seen a widow of Main son raised And then there was a resurrection of Lazarus later on in John 11, 53, and John 12, 10, and they were astonished again. And then there's a resurrection of Christ. uh on Luke twenty four and twenty-two, three days after his crucifixion, and it says that the the followers of Christ were astonished. I mean what's with these people being astonished when you got resurrection, the resurrection, the resurrection. Tell you what the reason why they're astonished is Because the power of his resurrection, Philippians 3 and 10, it always astonishes when someone is resurrected from the dead. It is the presence of and seeing the power of the resurrection. It does astonish. Never loses its impact. Never loses its impact. And if you believe not that, think about the astonishment Of the resurrection on judgment day of all the unbelievers. Boy, there's gonna be a lot of astonishment then, too. It never loses its impact. The resurrection of the dead Now, someone here will surely say to me, where was Jared's daughter's soul after her body died? I mean, where was the soul? Ah, I got a better question for you. Where will your soul be? After you die and your body's asleep in the dust. Isn't that more important than where her soul was? Where will your soul be? After your body sleeps in the dust. Let's close a prayer. Oh Lord, as we are surrounded by death all around us, We hear about it every day in the news. The number of dead killed in Baltimore, the number of dead killed in El Paso Those people, their bodies are asleep in the dust today. Where are those souls? I don't know. Most likely some of them are in heaven. But O Lord, it's important not that we know where their bodies are, but that we would know where our soul will be when our bodies sleep in the dust. Lord, may no one leave here today without questioning again themselves The kind of people they hang out with who laugh at the Word of God. And may we even consider how we laugh at the seriousness of the gospel. Oh Lord, change our hearts, change our minds, change the direction of our bodies and our souls this day. For in eternity, it really matters. And we ask this in Christ's name. Amen.