Turn in your Bibles, please, to the last book of your Old Testament, the book of Malachi. We started in this series long ago, and then Didn't touch it for a period of a number of months, and now we're finishing up in two messages. So this morning we are in the last chapter, the fourth chapter of Malachi. There's only six verses in this chapter And your bulletin actually says I'm reading those last six verses, but I'm actually going to go up to verse 16 of chapter I hope that doesn't mess our IT guys up too much because they were all set up to start with verse 1. But I believe read reading those last three verses of chapter 3. will give us a good running start into chapter four. If you have your place now, I'll begin our reading with verse 16 of chapter 3 of Malachi. Then they that feared the Lord spake often one to another, and the Lord hearkened and heard it. And a book of remembrance was written before him for them that feared the Lord and that thought upon his name. And they shall be mine, saith the Lord of hosts, in that day when I make up my jewels, and I will spare them as a man spareth his own son that serveth him. Then shall ye return and discern between the righteous and the wicked, between them that him that serveth God and him that serveth him not. For behold, the day cometh that shall burn as an oven, and all the proud, yea, and all that do wickedly shall be stubble And the day that shall come shall burn them up, saith the Lord of hosts, that it shall leave them neither root nor branch. But unto you that fear my name shall the Son of righteousness arise with healing in his wings And ye shall go forth and grow up as calves of the stall, and ye shall tread down the wicked. For they shall be ashes under the soles of your feet in the day that I shall do this, saith the Lord of hosts. Remember the law of Moses, my servant, which I commanded unto him and Horeb for all Israel with the statutes and judgments Behold, I will send you Elijah, the prophet, before the coming of the great day and dreadful day of the Lord And he shall turn the heart of the fathers to the children, and the heart of the children to their fathers, lest I come and smite the earth with a curse Let us bow for prayer. Gracious Father, now bless thy truth to us this day. Father, this is a great and a glorious passage of thy word Father, may your spirit open it to our hearts. Lord, open our understanding. Remove the scales from our eyes May we not look at these verses with the eyes of flesh, but Lord, may the Spirit direct us to thy truth. Father, we pray today that you would encourage us in these days. Father, may we not give up the fight. May we not give in to the world. And O Lord, even may we not be discouraged. For even discouragement can become to us a sin and a stumbling block. We your people are prone to discouragement, and yet, Lord, we should be encouraged in thee. Bless thy truth to us in Jesus' name. Amen. As I've said many times before, the scripture preaches itself. And this passage, how can we expand upon it? But as God grants us his utterance and his grace, we're going to attempt to make some points from it that hopefully will be a blessing to our hearts. Remember what's about to happen. We're about to have 400 years of silence. We place a lot of emphasis on last words. And the last words of a lot of individuals are recorded. Scripture records for us the last words of David. These are the last words of David. Uh we we know the final last words, maybe not the last word he spoke, but the last words of the Apostle Paul, I fought a good fight, I've finished my course, I've kept the faith, henceforth has laid up for me a crown of righteousness. The importance of last words. Now, this is God's last word for 400 years. This is it. There's not going to be more. You better pay attention to it. And this last chapter contains three prophecies that are important, that are pertinent, that are essential to understand in the next 400 years. And before we actually dive into the passage, consider with me the numbers of people, even of the children of Israel, that would be born and die during this 400 years. And that was it. And consider the Israelites that were born in Egypt and never left. Their entire span of life was during that time of Egyptian bondage. And then consider those that were born during the Babylonian captivity. They were born, they lived, they died. They never saw Jerusalem. All they had was that. And so there are dark times for elect people. God's own people don't always live in the joys of this life. Because for the elect it's not about this life. It's about that which is coming. I uh saw a documentary recently about Believers in Russia that as very young people, 18, 19 years old, were sent into the gulags for their faith. And they died there. Their entire life was spent in horrible conditions And yet that's what God ordained for them. And their life was good in the sight of God. And so, as the true faithful, the last three verses of chapter three, which we rejoiced in last Sunday, and which are such great blessing. are speaking to people that are about to face some bad stuff. It's speaking to people that are not going to get any more bread from heaven for 400 years. This is it, folks. So the point is this. Pay attention to last words. Because the last words that a man speaks are usually pretty important. God is speaking, and he's not going to talk again for 400 years. And so these Verses, these truths, these three prophecies that we're going to see. Jerusalem is going to be destroyed. Elijah's coming, and then the Son of Righteousness will arise Tell your children about these. Because your children need to tell your grandchildren. And your grandchildren need to tell their children. That's the importance of this six verses. And so with that understanding, we find the first of these three prophecies in chapter four is that Jerusalem will be destroyed. But it's not just a matter of, okay, the city's going to be knocked down and be burned with fire. The temple, the priesthood, and the nation is going to be destroyed. The old order is done. Everything that you have known, that you have loved, that you have understand, understood before, it's done. God's going to wipe the slate clean There's going to be a reset. This is frankly as dramatic as the flood. Because God is going to wipe away the old ceremonial law. God is going to wipe away the sacrifice. God is going to wipe away the priesthood and establish his church. And so we read in verse 1 of chapter 4, for behold, the day cometh that shall burn as an oven. Now when you have a fire out of the campfire, there's nothing to contain the heat. Why do you need an oven? Oh, because the oven makes it that much hotter. An oven concentrates. You can't really bake bread over a fire because you'll burn the bottom and the top will still be dough. But the oven focuses the heat down. It contains it. It will burn as an oven. And all the proud Yea, all that do wickedly shall be stubble. And the day that cometh shall burn them, saith the Lord of hosts And uh as we go through this chapter, note how often it says, saith the Lord of hosts. Who's talking here, folks? This isn't Bob on the corner spouting conspiracy theories. Saith the Lord of hosts. And it shall leave neither root nor branch. The priesthood were worried. The scribes and Pharisees were worried. Remember what they said in John 11, 48? If we let him thus alone, all men will believe on him. And the Romans shall come and take away both our place and our city. And you know what happened in 70 A. D. Titus, the Roman Emperor, came and he took away their place, and he burned their city with fire, and not a stone was left on a stone. And so the prophecy that we find four hundred years before is fulfilled. God does all things well. God took it away, not the Romans. The temple. God took away the temple and with the temple the sacrifices. If you look over to chapter three and verse seven, God said, Even from the days of your father, you're gone away from mine ordinances. And we saw last week that those ordinances were the law of God. They were imperatives. They were not suggestions. And if you look down to verse 4 of chapter 4, it says, remember the law of Moses. You've gone away since your father, but remember the law of Moses, the law which has been broken. God took away the temple from them. God took away their pretense of religion because it was nothing but a pretense And in verse 7 of chapter 1, God said, Ye have offered polluted bread on my daughters. You had mine altar. And rather than respecting it and loving it, you offered polluted bread. And in chapter 1, verse 12, ye have profaned it. And in chapter 1, verse 13, ye have snuffed at it. You had this glorious gift from God. God gave the law to Israel. God gave the tabernacle to Israel. God told Moses how to build the ark, how to build the altar. All these glorious things that the Gentiles did not have. There was no mercy seat for the Gentiles. And yet, rather than worshiping Jehovah from the days of your father, you've gone away from my ordinances and God says, No more, I'm going to take it away from you. I'm going to take it from you. And so God took away their temple and not a stone was left on a stone. And folks, the western wall or the whaling wall is not part of the temple. The Jews try to claim it as part of the temple because if they don't claim the Western Wall, then Christ was right and there wasn't a stone left on a stone. Hm. But the Wailing Wall or the Westling Wall Western Wall was just that. It was a wall. The temple was on the Temple Mount. The w the western wall was just one of the walls of the city. And it is an ancient remnant. But it's not a wall of the temple. Because those there wasn't a stone left on a stone. God took it away from them. God removed the pollute polluted priesthood. And we're kind of reviewing the whole book because we come to the end of the chapter, but end of the book. But in chapter 2, verses 7 and 8, the priest's lips should keep knowledge. And they that should that they should seek the law with his mouth, for he is the messenger for the Lord of hosts. But ye are departed out of the way. Ye have caused many to stumble at my law The priesthood, rather than speaking truth and proclaiming the law, had caused men to stumble at the law. And so God removes the priesthood. He takes it away from them. And he declares that I'm not going to leave them a root or a branch. Not a root or a branch will be left. In other words, it will be so destroyed. It cannot return. I have a peach tree in my yard that has died. And yet, from the roots, there's a new shoot that's come up. It's what we call a sucker. And it will never produce the grafted fruit because it's below the graft, but that sucker will produce a fruit. God says, I'm not even leaving a root or a branch. There's not a sucker coming up. And as Brother Vince so well has pointed out in Sunday school in the last several weeks when we've been dealing with end times The priesthood has no genealogy. The root and the branch is gone. It is impossible to re-establish a worship in a rebuilt temple in Jerusalem. The root and the branch is gone. And to claim from Scripture that that's somehow going to happen is to deny what God says here before the end of the Old Testament. He spoke 400 years before Christ. He said, there's not going to be a root or branch left. It's going to be so totally destroyed that it cannot ever recover. And so God destroyed the root and the branch. And yet at the same time, when God says he's going to destroy the earthly priesthood, He declares, the Lord has sworn and will not repent. Thou, Christ, art a priest forever after the order of Melchizedek. You see, in order for God to establish the eternal priesthood of the Son, he had to wipe out the priesthood of man. The old covenant priesthood. And yet we have a high priest that continueth ever, seeing ye ever liveth to make intercession for us. And though the Old Testament priesthood has been remote, and not a root or a stubble or a branch is le a root or a branch is left of it. Yet we are what? A royal priesthood in Christ. And so he wiped the slate clean, just as he did in the flood, not a root or a branch. when he destroyed the city of Jerusalem. But we find also that God made all the proud and the wicked as stubble. The proud of the wicked. We are the Pharisees. I thank God that I'm not as other men. Do you ever meet a Pharisee? Oh no, I'm not uh there's some people you might call Pharisees, but I'm talking about a full-blooded Pharisee. No, they're gone Hm. They're gone. What about the scribes? Well, they're gone too. You see, God made them as stubble. They were burned up John the Baptist warned the proud Jews in Matthew 3. He said, Think not to say within yourselves, we have Abraham to our father, for I say unto you, God is able of these stones to raise up children of Abraham. And now also the axe is laid at the stump? No, at the root. The axe is laid at the root of the trees. Therefore, every tree which bringeth not forth good fruit is hewn down and cast into the fire. You see the comparison there? The root and the branch, it's all cast into the fire. And then again in Matthew 13, as therefore the tares are gathered and burned in the fire. so shall it be in the end of the world. The Son of Man shall send forth his angels, and he shall gather out of his kingdom all things that offend, and that them which do iniquity. And they shall be cast into the furnace of fire. Do you notice the words there? Cast into the furnace of fire. Why not just cast onto the bonfire? What's the difference between a bonfire and a furnace of fire? The same as between a bonfire in the oven. It concentrates the heat. It's the furnace of fire. It's not just cast into a big pile out in your yard that burns like a bunch of leaves. But rather it's cast into a furnace that burns it all down to ash, and we see later on that they shall be as dust. They shall be as ash under our feet. And so the Lord declares that Jerusalem will be destroyed. Now why is this important? Because you have a bunch of fearful saints. Who are looking to a city. And they're looking to an earthly city. And God is telling these faithful saints that are going to go through 400 years of of silence. It's not about an earthly city. The earthly city mo is going to be removed, but we seek a heavenly. Now folks, let's make application to us today. We don't have a city of Jerusalem, but we sure have a good life in America. We have comforts. That the rest of the world. I spent most of my young adult life in the third world. And until you've lived there for a while, you really can't understand. Just going and visiting doesn't tell the story of the way the rest of the world lives. And we have lived with religious freedom. And I don't know what it's like to preach with the threat of arrest. I don't know what it's like to suffer as our brethren in Muslim lands suffer for their faith. I don't know what it's like to preach in fear. I've never preached to an audience in the woods. I've preached in the woods a few times just by myself, just rejoicing in the word of the Lord. But I've never gone to the woods to preach because of fear of being arrested. God was warning Those faithful people, verse 16 of chapter 3, then they which feared the Lord, he was warning them: don't look at the earthly. Don't look at the city around you. Look for the heavenly. Now, God's not going to speak any more than he's spoken. We have his word. And we have these promises. Let us be faithful this day. The second prophecy, and then we'll see how it applies to us. If you look at chapter three, verse one The last part of the verse, Behold, I will send my messenger, and he shall prepare the way before me. And then chapter 4, our chapter for today, verses 5 and 6. Behold, I will send you Elijah the prophet before the coming of the great and dreadful day of the Lord. And he shall turn the heart of the fathers to the children and the heart of the children to their fathers, lest I come and smite the earth with a curse. Okay, the second prophecy is the prophecy of the return of Elijah. We know it to be the prophecy of John the Baptist. He will come in the spirit and in the power of Elijah. And in Matthew we read chapter 11, for all the prophets and the law prophesied unto John. And if you will receive it, this is Elias, which was for to come. John the Baptist is like Elias, first of all, in that he was a man of the wilderness We find Elijah hiding in the wilderness. We find Elijah out beside the brook Kidron. Why was it significant that Elijah was out of the wilderness? Obadiah Obadiah was in the palace of Jezebel and Ahab. Elijah was a separatist. Even though we commend Obadiah for feeding 50 prophets with bread and water in hiding, or it was more than 50 prophets, how many was it? 400, whatever the number is there. He was tangled up with the worship of Baal because he was a part of what was going on there in the kingdom. But Elijah was a man of the wilderness. Where do we find John the Baptist? He was preaching in the wilderness. He wasn't mingling with the scribes and Pharisees and priests. In fact, they were afraid of him because people were following him. You see, there was a difference there. There was a line of demarcation from truth and error. And God is telling us that when John the Baptist comes, he's going to be a man like Elijah. He's going to be a man which is separated from religious pollution. Because the previous prophecies, God's going to destroy the religious pollution. You see how it ties together. God's going to wipe out Jerusalem, and with Jerusalem, all the false worship of the priest And John the Baptist was a priest. John the Baptist was the son of an Old Testament priest, which made him part of the priesthood. But he was not in Jerusalem practicing the priesthood. He was out in the wilderness preaching repentance. And so we in this day, we don't get a become a part of the ecumenical love everybody religion of our day. We go to Christ without the cap. We have to dwell in the wilderness. John was a separatist. And in the wilderness he ate w locust and wild honey. John's diet was not that which we would necessarily desire. He ate locusts when God sent him locusts. He ate wild honey when God showed him a hive. And so with Elijah, Elijah was fed by ravens. Both these men just depended on God for everything. There's a lot to learn there, isn't there? But also we find Elijah in the spirit, or John the Baptist in the spirit of Elijah. John the Baptist, like Elijah, was not afraid to stand before kings. And once again, if you were here for Sunday school this morning, and I highly recommend it, but if you were here for Sunday school this morning, you heard our brother give a wonderful exposition on standing before the throne of God And he brought in Joseph, who stood before Pharaoh. And here he find Elijah, a man that's not afraid to stand before kings. He stood before Ahab and Jezebel. He stood before wicked kings. And we as the children of God cannot hide our light under a bushel. We gotta stand before games. And when we find Elijah standing before kings, he did not fudge on his message. He did not back off from speaking the truth. Are you the one that's troubling Israel? I have not troubled Israel, but you in your house in that you have built the groves of Baal. You see, Elijah spoke the truth at the danger of his life. The Lord do so to me, and more the God do so to me, and more also, if I not make that make not thy life like one of them by tonight. Elijah was not afraid to stand before kings, and he was not afraid to speak the truth. John the Baptist did the same thing And he lost his head for it. Because John the Baptist, we read in Matthew 14, for Herod had laid hold on John and bound him and put him in prison for Herodias' sake, his brother Philip's wife. For John said unto him, It is not lawful for thee to have her. John the Baptist had his head cut off for speaking out against sexual perversion. Doesn't that speak to our day? Doesn't that speak to the day we live in And folks, if as God gives us grace, and as the message goes out and is recorded week after week from this congregation, we can't fudge the message. Men may call our evil good and our good evil. But just as John the Baptist was prophesied to be in the Spirit and in the power of Elijah. So we are to be in that same spirit and power. For God hath not given us the spirit of fear, but of power and of love and of a sound mind. And we have to stand up in a wicked generation, just as Elijah stood in the wicked generation, and proclaim, thus saith the Lord. And so we have the prophecy that he's coming. But not only is he coming in the spirit and the power of Elijah, It says there in verse 6, and he shall turn the heart of the fathers to the children, and the children to the fathers, lest I come and smite the earth with a curse. And I s I struggled with that verse and really had to do a lot of praying and and and studying and reading. What does that mean to turn the heart of the fathers Let's try to break it down and see what it says. Gabriel foretold the ministry of John the Baptist. And in Gabriel's prophecy of the notion of John the Baptist, he repeats this prophecy. This is Luke chapter 1, verse 17 And he that is John the Baptist, and he shall go before him in the spirit and power of Elias to turn the hearts of the fathers to the children and the disobedient to the wisdom of the just to make ready a people prepared for the Lord. What was it that John did? What did he preach? We preached the gospel of repentance for the kingdom of God is at hand. That was the message of John the Baptist. We don't really have a lot of sermons from John the Baptist, but we know he preached the Gospel of Repentance. Repent, for the kingdom of God is at hand. You see, we read there in Malachi 3 that from the days of your fathers, days of your fathers. You've forsaken my ordinances. And so John the Baptist, as a as a Old Testament priest, because his father was an Old Testament priest Coming from the wilderness, not from the religious hierarchy of his day, comes and preach the gospel of repentance because the kingdom's at hand. In other words, John's message was repent. What does it mean to repent? It's to go back to where you're supposed to be. And so John Turn the hearts of the fathers to the children, and the children to the fathers. From the days of your fathers, you've gone astray. But now return. Repent. Return. Return. And what is the message we must preach today? Return to the faith of your fathers. Turn the hearts of the fathers to the children. And the children To the fathers. We've got to preach the old-time gospel, as they used to say. Not some new modern adaptation of the gospel Because we preach the gospel of repentance today. Return to the faith of the fathers. What says the Word of God? Thus saith the word of the Lord. And then let me read there Luke 1. 17 again. And he shall go forth in the spirit and power of Elias to turn the hearts of the fathers to the children. and the disobedient to the wisdom of the just to make ready a people prepared for the Lord. John preached repentance to a people who were far from the faith of their fathers. They were disobedient to the wisdom of the just, and they were not prepared for the coming of the Lord. Although there were a few, there was an Anna and a Simeon. There were a few, and we go back to 316, then they which feared the Lord spake often one to another. You see the connection. You see, there's been 400 years take place, but there was still a remnant. Why? Well, because their parents and their parents and their parents and their parents told them Through the evil days. And so we are to take a stand for truth and for righteousness Then answered and said unto him, Abraham is our father. Jesus said unto them, If Abraham were your if you were Abraham's children, ye would do the works of Abraham. He's turning them to the faith of their fathers. But now ye seek to kill me, a man that has told you the truth, which ye have heard of which I have heard of God. This did not Abraham. But then we get to the heart of our message this morning, which is the third great prophecy. And this is found in chapter 2 of verse 4 of Malachi. But other you that fear my name. Shall the son of righteousness arise with healing in his wings? And ye shall go forth and grow up as calves of the stall. First of all, I'd point out to you those first few words of verse 2. But unto you that fear my name. Unto you that fear my name. Then they that feared the Lord spake often one to another. He's continuing to address the same people. Did Christ come for the scribes and Pharisees? Well, there were a few among them that were saved, but by and large they were burned as stubble. There was a Nicodemus. There was a few, but they didn't fear his name. And they didn't know him when they saw him. Oh, but the simple fisherman. Whom say men that I am? Well, some say this and some say that. But who do you say? Thou art the Christ the Son of the Living God. To them that fear my name shall the Son of righteousness arise with healing in his wings. But I've left out that first verse word of the verse. What's the first word of verse 2? Let me hear it. But isn't it a glorious word? All this trouble's coming, but things are going to get worse than you can imagine. But See God's still in control. It doesn't really matter if Jerusalem's destroyed and the priesthood's gone. God's still got this God's still in control, but unto you that fear my name, shall the Son of righteousness arise? 400 years of darkness, but the sun's going to come up. 400 years without a word, but the sun of righteousness will arise. The sun will drive away the darkness. The root and the branch of the polluted priesthood have been removed, but the sun gives new life. New light springs up when the sun shines. The sun on the soil brings forth the plants. And so the Son of Righteousness will arise. The ruler of Israel was prophetically spoken of in 2 Samuel. 23 verse 4 is speaking of the earthly king, but it's prophetic of the coming Messiah, and it says this, and he shall be as a light of the morning. When the sun riseth, even a morning without clouds, and as the tender grass springing out of the earth by clear and shining Uh, by clear shining after the rain. The Son of Righteousness arises, and he arises how? With healing in his wings. He straightens it all out. 400 years of darkness are coming. And by the way, God didn't tell them it was going to be 400 years. They didn't know when it was going to end. But there was the prophecy it would. He's going to arise, and when he arises, he will come with healing in his wings. We saw in Isaiah 1 last week where God says, Why should be ye stricken anymore from the sole of your foot to the crown of your head to the sole of your foot? The whole body is sick. But Christ is coming with healing in his wings We were dead in trespasses and sins, but the Son of righteousness has arisen, and he's cured all of our diseases. In Psalm 103, verse 103, verse 3, who forgiveth all thy iniquities, who healeth all mighty Jesus. Now we know that God's word is true, and we know that God's word will be fulfilled. We also know that our earthly diseases are not all healed. But God heals all our diseases, because that verse is tied to our iniquities. He forgiveth all our iniquities and healeth all our diseases. He healeth that which kills the soul. He takes care of the sin problem, folks. Because Christ has risen with healing in his wings. Is there no balm in Gilead? Is there no physician there? Ah yes, there is a balm in Gilead. And ye shall go forth as calves of the stall. And I I love to take these words and find out how else we used it. That phrase says calves of the stall uh is translated four times in our English. It's only found four times in the in the original Two times it's fatted calf. You know, in scripture we find fatted calf. Two of those it's calves of the stall. It's the same thing. We'll go forth as the fatted calf. Now think about Elijah and his raven bread and water for the brook. Think about Elijah with the barrel of meal and the cruise of oil. Think about John the Baptist with his locusts and wild hunting. They didn't seem like calves in the stall. But I've been young and now I'm old, yet have I never seen the righteous forsaken or as seed begging bread. God provided. Ye shall go forth as fatted calves, ye shall go forth as healthy, strong. animals, healthy, strong creations of God. Also that phrase calves of the s of the stall is an indication of reproduction. It's not just adult cows, it's calves. There's a reproducing that's taking place among the people of God. And did you ever open the back door and let your dog out? DOOOOO! He's free! He's out! We have a cat that's not supposed to be out! And boy when that cat gets out, you better watch because you won't find her for an hour. She'll go into hiding 'cause that's where she really wants to be. Well we go forth as calves to the stall. We go forth with joy God's people go forth with joy. Ye shall go out with joy and be led forth with peace. The mountains and the hills shall break forth before you into singing. And all the trees of the field shall clap their hands, instead of thorn shall come off the fir tree, instead of briar shall come up the myrtle tree, and it shall be to the Lord for a name, for an everlasting sign that shall not be cut off And ye shall tread down the wicked. Look at verse 3 of chapter 4. And ye shall tread down the wicked, for they shall be as ashes under the soles of your feet. In the day that I shall do this, saith the Lord of hosts. What happens when the branch and the root and the stubble are burned? Ashes. Ashes. Ashes. But do you remember the verse I read for our call to worship? I read to you from Romans 16, verse 20. The God of peace shall bruise Satan under your feet shortly. The God of peace shall bruise Satan under your feet shortly. Folks, we don't speak evil of dignitaries. And um we used to sing a little song when I was a kid that um if the devil doesn't like you he can sit on his hat. And I thought that was cute as a child. But I've realized that was unwise to teach children to speak flippantly of Satan. He's a roaring lion. We don't mess. with him. We don't play with Ouija board and yeah, we don't we don't get into those things. But folks Our Savior Jesus Christ will bruise the serpent's head, and we shall trample on Satan. He's a defeated foe. Vince talked in Sunday school about the saints judging angels. But what is Satan but a fallen angel? And so we will be involved in his judgment as well. Now think about it, folks. This kind of a glorious message is coming to people that are facing bad times. In fact, I would venture to say that these people in the next 400 years are going to face harder times than we will ever face, no matter how bad it gets. And so this last book of the Old Testament is a book of great encouragement. Oh, it talks about gloomy things. But it's a chapter and a verse that should, passage that should give us great joy. Remember the law of Moses, my servant. It's going to be 400 years. I've given you all the words you need. I will speak no more, but pay attention to last words. Pay attention to that which I've said. And when all this takes place, chapter 3 verse 4, then shall the offering of Judah and Jerusalem be pleasant unto the Lord. Then shall the offering of Judah and Jerusalem be pleasant unto the Lord. What is the offering of Judah and Jerusalem today? It is the church. We are the new Jerusalem. Then shall the offering of Judah and Jerusalem be pleasant unto the Lord, as in the days of old, as in the former years. It'll be what God intended. Let me conclude with two passages. Isaiah 60, verses 1 through 3. Arise and shine, for thy light is come. The Son of Righteousness has arisen. Arise and shine, for thy light has come. The glory of the Lord is risen upon thee. For behold The darkness shall cover the earth, and gross darkness the people, four hundred years of it. But the Lord shall arise upon thee, and his glory shall be seen upon thee, and the Gentiles shall come to thy light. and kings to the brightness of thy rising. Second Peter 1, verse 19. We have also a more sure word of prophecy Whereunto we do well to take heed, as unto a light that shineth in a dark place, until the day dawn and the day star arise in your heart. And so the Old Testament, the last word that began in Jerus in Genesis with the account of the creation And followed through the books of the law, and the history of Israel, the Kings and Chronicles, and 1 and 2 Samuel And on through the books of poetry, Psalms and Proverbs and Ruth, and then on through the books of the minor prophets with all these instructions And God says, Okay, because you've polluted my sanctuary, because there's only a few righteous, if God had not left us a very small remnant, we'd be like Sodom and Gomorrah. But God has left us a remnant. There will be an Anna and a Simeon who have been told by their parents and told by their parents, and through the years of darkness still there will be faithful men who speak often one to another. 316 But the sun will come out tomorrow. God's gonna make it all right because the sun of righteousness will arise. And folks, for me to live is Christ and to die is gay. We're going to face dark days too. Not as dark as they did. But now we have the full canon of Scripture. We have a more sure word of prophecy. Wherefore unto that we do well to take heed. As a light that shineth in a dark place, in all of our dark place of this life, the light shines until the day dawn and the day star riseth in our heart. Even so come, Lord Jesus. Father, bless your word and your truth to your people today. May your spirit take the inspired word of God, spoken by fumbling lips. And apply it to the hearts of thy people. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen