Sentence in the book of Hebrews. Well, here's the scenario. You've landed a job at a company whose president you really like. You've maybe seen him on YouTube. Uh he's made some speeches at shareholder meetings and you really just like this person. He just seems like a really tremendous leader. And boy, if only I could be in that company. And lo and behold you landed a job at that company. But it turns out to be a very hard job. Middle management is very petty and they seem to be unqualified at times. There's a few good ones in there, but for the most part, ugh. The hours are long, the pay is short Recognition, it's non-existent. There's no recognition in this job. Abuse abounds. Violations are routine. Does that sound like a company that's maybe you could imagine? Well, if you're in that job, what would it take to keep you in that job? There is nothing. Nothing could keep you in that job. Nothing? Nothing did. Nothing did. Alright. Well is there any changes you could find that might keep you in that job? What would it take to keep? Remember, you really You think this is a great leader, this company's going someplace? She says nothing. Any other thoughts? How about Somebody else. What would it take to keep you in that job? A well-minded uh complaint and suggestion box. Okay. You know, if the management's willing to listen to problems and suggestions, then hope. Alright, yeah, all right. So a uh a suggestion box. Show me the money. Show me the money, right? That's true. You know, I guess uh A lot of people do put up with uh tremendous headaches on their job because wow the pay isn't out of this world. I was in a job like that. Oh I was gone in three days. You were out of there in three days. Mm-hmm. Not worth it. Any other thoughts? What would it take to keep you in that job, Gabriel? Well I would I would think that if the situation was desperate back at the home front and I really needed the money, that would probably keep me there. Okay. If you could find um another job Not at all. Good. Not at all. She buried basically? It's a job. A change in management. Change in management. Yeah. She just tried to change the I'll I'll get you out of your hole quick here. I said money. You said money? Yeah. Money. Money. Uh we'll stay on the job for three months and to see if there's any way to overcome those obstacles But even not looking for another job quietly, but never never go uh conflict with the management. Otherwise they'll hold you of not to let you leave. So you know. Uh it depends on the uh money is not very important as beginners to the beginners Because they really don't know whether it's a job they will stay on for a long time. But uh if you have a good employment rate in the market is it easier for the youngsters to find another job. They they are uh our Chinese Your market also depends on Guanxi that means connections. You can contact your classmates in the school your family, friends, relatives, they will help you to find another job quicker. In America. Yeah, that's great. Thanks for that input. America we have a saying, it's not uh what you know, it's who you know It's certainly how I got my job, although I didn't plan it that way. How firefighters work. Imagine being a firefighter, you know, that's kind of a dangerous thing when you're called and the house is burning. Your job is to make sure everybody's out of the house. What would it what why do people sign up to be a firefighter? What keeps them in that job? Probably they'd love to help us. They love to help. Well I don't know a lot of people that like getting burnt uh to a crisp in order to help somebody. I mean I'll help, but uh if the flames are gonna get me, I'm not so sure I'd like that. So it's kinda like a family tradition that this is what our family does. I see, I see. Some people are just adrenaline junkies. Yeah. Just like the ration. So y'all don't know how the job of a firefighter and a police officer works. Let me tell you how that works. You worked twenty years as a firefighter. And you get a retirement plan that says whatever the maximum amount of money that you ever made, whichever year in your 20-year history. Whatever that maximum dollar amount you made was, you get that for the rest of your life. So if you go in, say as a 20-year-old, And you're full of energy and strength. And you know, they've got free gems there. They've got weight sets you can, you know, work out 90% of the time you're sitting around doing nothing so you can exercise, you can eat, you can do but when that bell goes off, well then it's showtime. You gotta put on the gear, you run out, go rescue people, hope you don't get burned, sometimes you get killed in the job. It's a hazardous job, it's a hazard duty. But after 20 years, now you're 40 years old, you can retire basically with your full salary as a firefighter. Now, do you think that changes the equation for some people when you start to get about 35, 38 years old? Maybe those bones aren't moving as fast. Maybe lugging that hose is getting a little harder Do you see what might motivate them to finish the job? The firefighters are paid pretty well in China. Could be five times as the regular ranking um of the workers. The if you are from poor families Uh you have to pay very high duration if you uh you are admitted in university. But uh the the benefits package for fire uh fighter in China includes they will send you to the university. Oh well. So it also includes uh free uh secondary free tertiary education. Number one, secondly the whole family of yours, no matter how many members in that family enjoy some kind of benefit, you'll be given priority uh treatment for any kind. Let's say you have a brother who wants to apply a job. So you no matter what your score is, you'll be the first one to be considered as a candidate. Yeah. Those kind of things. including your parents. If they don't have a pension, when they retire the government will provide pension. Not big pension but they are covered. Medical cares. So if the boy in the family has we call it spring of sacrifice, he wants to give himself But for the bandit, for the whole family, they would like to join. That's really neat. Thanks for sharing that. Yeah. Well the reason I pick thank you all is good for participation. I think you all uh are uh hitting exactly on what I was getting at, that some jobs are very, very difficult. And in this first job scenario, I identified, what if that president is Jesus Christ? And you're called into the company of something called his church, where you do have a lot of petty management. You do have a lot of unqualified people at times. You have wolves and sheep's clothing that show up. You have a long, hard row and certainly there's not a lot of money in it. And the immediate benefits are dismal. However There's a retirement package that's out of this world. And that'll keep you going. And that's exactly what we're going to talk about today. So let's turn now to our passage in Hebrews chapter 6. I'm going to read 10 through 12 where we read as follows. For God is not unrighteous to forget your work and labor of love which you have showed toward his name, and that you have ministered to the saints and do minister And here's what we're looking at today. And we desire that every one of you, so this is a pretty broad application to the household of faith, every one of you do show the same diligence to the full assurance of hope unto the end. It's a long row. You know, it's a long time between age twenty versus age thirty-eight, being a firefighter. That you be not slothful, but followers of them who through faith and patience inherit There's some parallel passages in Galatians 6 and 2 Thessalonians which uses the phrase to not be weary in well-doing. For instance, Galatians 6. 9, let us not be weary in well-doing, for in due season we shall reap if we faint not. In earthly companies, if you don't see any reaping anytime soon You're going to faint and tire the job mighty quick. But among the household of faith, there's a different motivation. It's tremendous promises. It's a great promise You know, what weariness when it says, be not weary in well-doing, what weariness do you think the Bible is talking about there? Somebody described to me what is that weariness? Any ideas? Be not weary in well doing. What what is it that's getting weary? Body. A mind. All of the phone. The whole package. The body gets tired. The mind gets tired. Which of those do you think would be worse? Which weariness is more difficult? Which one? I was gonna say the body. Yeah. I mean you can you can sit around and plan and scheme when your knees are hurting. But it's hard to get up and do something about your plans. Great, great. Okay, well, body, some say mind. I tend to think from the Scriptures perspective, are there ways to serve the Lord that don't involve your body? Sure. Could that person still become weary in well-doing? Yeah, they really very much could. I believe that the principal weariness, and I'm not excluding the body, don't get me wrong, because you probably would not be my first candidate to return to a missionary trip to say the the Guam Islands or something like that. Uh that was maybe thirty years ago but not now. We we were talking about it this morning. Oh okay. Ready to go. That's great. Sometimes you you just can't hold them back But let's look at some details of what a diligent ministry looks like and why one might be weary of it There's two descriptions we find. I'm going to spend some time talking a little bit here in Romans 12. Maybe we can pull that up on screen. Romans 12, beginning in verse 8. The Apostle, at the close of his letter to the church at Rome, he says, He that exhorts, meaning he that's gifted at exhortation, let him continue in exhortation. He that giveth, let him do it with simplicity. You're not trying to make a show out of it. You don't make a big parade. You don't hang your name on the wall of the building. He that ruleth with diligence, the word diligence implies something. What does it take to be diligent? What does it take to be diligent? What's the difference between a person who's diligent on their job and someone who's slothful on their job? Energy. Motivated worker. Motivated worker, yeah. Discipline. Discipline? Right. They're kind of continuing on it. A diligent person is one who's kind of constantly busy. He that showeth mercy with cheerfulness. You know when you're trying to help people who are down and out, uh it can hard to be cheerful in that situation, but it says with cheerfulness Let love be without dissimulation. That means without hypocrisy. You know, there's some people in this fictitious company I gave you of middle management that's, oh, not too terribly lovable. But Jesus says by Uh all men shall know that you're my disciples if you have loved one to one another. We do extend uh greetings to others. And along with that, thick skin. Yeah, because people are going to offend you intentionally and unintentionally. Yes, yeah. A thick skin helps. Abhor that which is evil as opposed to coddling it as opposed to giving it room, as opposed to setting up a little private place for it in your life. Abhor that which is evil. Cleave to that which is good. What does cleaving imply? To cleave to that which is good. Does anybody know what that word cleave means? Hug. Hug? Yeah, hug that which is good. What does that imply? Yeah. pressure. You know, we have vice grips in our toolbox, those of you who have tools and enjoy them, because you can squeeze it and once it's squeezed, it locks in place. It keeps a constant pressure. Yeah, that's not so in the Christian life. You have to apply a pressure to cleave to that which is you have to hang on to it. Be kindly affection to one another with brotherly love, to be kind to them In honor, preferring one another. Not slothful in business, in the business of the church. Not sloppy in it. Not doing a poor job. Oh, that's good enough. It's just for the church. No, no, we don't. Fervent in spirit. What does fervent imply? To be fervent, what's the synonym for that? What's a person who's fervent in spirit? Active, yeah. Passionate. Passionate. I I I almost get the sense of fiery in spirit. There's a flame, there's a fervency. A zeal, yes. And that requires energy, which over time can make us weary, um, fervent in spirit, serving the Lord Not having served, rejoicing in hope. Patience in tribulation. That's the worst one. That's tough, isn't it? Tribulation. Some of you know a little something about tribulation. And it starts to wear on you, and you kind of get tired of it, and it keeps dragging on, and this thing just doesn't seem to get off. Patient in tribulation, continuing instant in prayer. You know, I find it hard, frankly, to pray straight for ten minutes. That's a sad commentary on me But that's a sad commentary, I think, for a great many. That it we find it hard. Our Lord was a man of prayer. Continuing instant, distributing to the necessity of the saints given to hospitality. All these are details of what a diligent ministry is, and you can certainly see then how Over time, we might become weary and well-doing. God says, no, you have to fight that. You have to fight that. In 1 Thessalonians, the apostle writes much of the same thing, and it's there in your handout. I'll pass over it for now. You know, we asked what might might you get weary doing these things? I think we all answered yes. But what does it take to get through that? What would it take to keep you on this job? What would it take to get you through it? Well, showing up for the job is half the job, Jeffrey. You've nailed it, I bet. I'd love to make that a little clip And put it on LinkedIn for Gen Z, you know, half your success in the job is showing up. And that I'm not talking about in office, I mean mentally engaged, ready to move forward. Amen. Prayers? Because sometimes I just get tired and I say, God, I'm tired. You might help me through this But I don't want to do it anymore. Right. Uh understanding why the job is needed. What what Like the firefighter, you know the fire's gotta be put out. Okay, yeah, keep but keep going to that firefighter job. You're thirty eight years old and that hose is getting mighty hard to carry around. Well bec the in uh Hebrews eleven because they had recompense there They had um respect for the recompense of the reward. There you go. They had respect to the recompense. They had hope, we would call it. You know. I'm gonna hang on to this thing because I know that someday I'm going to get this pension. I'm going to get these benefits. Or for the whole family. You're doing it for somebody other than yourself. It's a greater purpose. And what does it take to have hope? Well, let's look at this He says, we desire that every one of you do show the same diligence to the full assurance of hope to the end. That's our passage in Hebrews 6. 11. Well, what does it have to have that full assurance of hope? You know, in Colossians 2, the apostle writes and talks about a full assurance of understanding. So one part and one key component of hope is to have a good understanding of what is at stake and what's coming. That there is a day of judgment, that God will bring every secret work Into light, whether it be good or whether it be evil. And for them who are his people, he is not unrighteous to forget your labor of love and service and ministry to his name It would be unrighteous for God to forget that because he views you through the lens of Jesus Christ. You're a believer by faith. And so you're an heir, a joint heir with Christ. You're going to inherit the kingdom. So we're not doing it for the here and now as the best that some jobs can offer presently. But no rather, service to Jesus Christ is for the hereafter. Service for him comes later. Our paycheck We get one paycheck at the end. Now, praise God, he helps us along the way and he strengthens us and he gives us what we need. He gives us our daily bread. But we want more than bread sometimes. We want more than just a threadline to just barely survive. But God's no, his way is different He's testing, he's trying. He's teaching you about the fruit of the Spirit, and so he encourages you to not be weary in well-doing There's the full assurance of understanding. If you get what God's program is, if you understand his agenda, if you understand where he's headed, You can begin to see why the world is messed up because they know not God. You can begin to see why these things are happening to you. If it happened to Jesus Christ, are you any better And so you can have that assurance because of understanding. And then Hebrews 10. 22 talks about a full assurance of faith. Abraham believed God. In this illustration I gave at the beginning, you were working for this company and you really liked the president. And I then flipped the switch on you at the end and said, well, what if that president is Jesus Christ? You've heard about the Son of Man. And like Rahab the harlot, we've heard what God did. We've heard how he dried up the Red Sea. We've heard what he did To Sihon and Og, uh, king of Bashan, Sihon, king of the Amorites. We heard, and so they heard And so that full assurance of faith gives you hope. It gives you hope. All that I'm suffering and putting up with in this time is not in vain. It's not going unnoticed. And he does have a suggestion box, and we can pray often, and sometimes he's pleased to answer us, and other times he's pleased to answer with the words, wait. And that's a tough one. And that's one he hands out often. What is the effect of full assurance? Isaiah 32, 17 says this the work of righteousness shall be peace. and the effect of righteousness, quietness, and assurance forever. The people of God need to be assured of whom they're working for. They need to be reminded. We're prone to forget They need to be re-encouraged because they encounter great difficulties in this life, and they're not trivial. Some are life-threatening, some are family-threatening. Some are relationship threatening. There's all kinds of issues that come that surface. And so the child of God needs hope And so what we need to do is, as the writer, the penman for the Hebrews says, we need full assurance of hope unto the end. Unto the end. We have to keep hanging on. You have to keep hoping. There is a time when hope will end, when it's no longer thought about, but when it's actually seen. When you actually have it, you don't hope for it. Oh, I hope to get this gift for Christmas. You show up, you open the box, I've got it. You don't have to hope for it anymore. You've got it. Hope is for here and now Faith is for here and now. Love is forever. And the gift when you get it will never disappoint. So many times what we hope for here disappoints. Yes. Absolutely. You know, it says in Hebrews 3. 6, we already covered this. It says, Christ is a son over his own house, whose house we are if we hold fast the confidence. That confidence And the rejoicing, that happiness, because nobody wants a dreary Christian existence, that confidence, that rejoicing of hope, firm and to the end. A few verses later he says we're made partakers of Christ if we hold the beginning of our confidence steadfast unto the end. The Apostle Paul says literally we're saved by hope. You're rescued out of a great many situations in life, yea, even unto that great day of judgment. You're saved by hope. That is your salvation for the here and now. You're saved by hope But hope is not seen. We wait, he says in Galatians, for the hope of righteousness. There is a hope laid up for you in heaven. God's not going to give you some earthly things and treasures where thieves do break in and steal, where moth and rust is corrupt. No, he has a treasure in heaven that endures forever. Riches profit not in the day of wrath, the scripture says, but durable riches, ah, that can endure. You need riches that go past the judgment. I was meditating last night. I listened to several really good sermons. I listened to one from Pastor Byrd and um I pivoted. I heard one from Peter Masters just kind of in preparation for Sunday. And it got me to thinking The news of late in the financial world, I start to pay attention to dividend earnings and income because that's kind of what pays the bills right now. And the master, the titan of the value investing world is Berkshire Hathaway and its incredible president. uh uh Warren Buffett and his sidekick, Charlie Munger, who he said was the smartest man he'd ever met. Charlie recently died at 99. 9 years of age. He never lifted a finger for exercise towards anything in his life. He paid zero attention to anything that he ate. If he liked it, he ate it, and that was it. He died in the fullness of his strength. The man was as sharp as attack on his annual meetings. He was still bright enough to figure out how to make billion-dollar investments and multi-billion dollar profits. When asked about the secret of a success, he says to manage to avoid bad luck. What I'm hearing is what I'm hearing is Psalm 73, into whose hands God bringeth abundantly. God just showered it on this man. Now he's dead. He's had no interest in the gospel whatsoever. He's never mentioned Jesus Christ. You look at him, his eyes were as dark as they get. is just a hardened wealthy tycoon. How wealthy? In one year, every year they make at least $168 billion with a B in dividends alone He doesn't have to sell anything, Jim, and $168 billion flows into that company every year to do nothing. Now, there was a lot of wise and risky investments to be made and choices to put everything on the line, and as he said, to quote, avoid bad luck, I think uh Buffett said that, but I believe both of them had that quote-unquote fortune. And now what? And now what? So I thought, well, you know, if I called uh Berkshire Hathaway, or if I called Fidelity, uh, or if I called Schwab and said, you know, what happens to money when somebody dies? Can they take it with them? Just whimsically to ask them. What happens upon death? Well, upon death, guess what? Their assets are frozen. They're locked in place until the will or probate court determines now what happens with it. So even Adam locks it up. Is in an account that by Adam's own admission is locked up. Alright, so they're not going to load it in a hearse. Does God care about the American dollar? What value, what's the exchange rate between heaven's currency And the dollar. Let's go look to the Financial Times. I'm not seeing an entry in there. Jesus says, what does it profit a man if he gained the whole world? And lose his own soul. What? What, Jim? What, Carol, will a man give in exchange for his soul? He can't negotiate his way out of this. He has 99. 9 years worth of unrepented, unprayed for Risk that he has been taking on, known as sin, that he now has to give an account to the God of the universe, who has impeccable memory. What will it profit a man if he gain the whole world and lose his own soul and there is no second chance? Charlie Monger is very interested in evangelism right now. Unfortunately, not one nickel of his money was ever given towards that effort. What will it profit a man? Would you like to be in Munger's position? Would you like to have that kind of revenue flowing through? Well, maybe a little bit. I'll take a fraction of it. What would you do with it? I'll tell you what you do with it, what you do with your money right now. To whom much is given, much is required. What you do with the little God gives you is an indication of what you'll do with the big. And when that day comes when you do get big then you'll find out are you really of that same stuff. If you can tithe on a hundred dollars, you'll tithe on ten thousand and you'll tithe on a hundred thousand. But if you won't tithe on a hundred and you're a child of God, that's all God will give you is a hundred If you're not interested in his kingdom. I'm looking for that exchange rate between heaven's currency and the earth's, and I hadn't found it yet. If you find a magazine, somebody online, you find an article where you can tell me what the currency exchange rate is between The durable riches of heaven that last that Solomon talks about, and earthly exchange, let me know What is this hope that we have? What is this retirement package and program that is out of this world that the scripture speaks about? Well, Thank God for the Apostle John. He describes it very plainly in 1 John chapter 3. He writes in verse 2, he says, Beloved, now. Now, Jeffrey, look at your watch. What time is it? 10. 31. Now. Right now. Are we the sons of God An adopted son of God, it does not yet appear what we shall be. Do you believe that? You believe you're a son or a daughter of God Almighty, the divinity in you that can never die, you will win by default. The earth has the reset button hit, but you're still around It doesn't matter what they have. The wicked heap up for the righteous. It says, it does not yet appear what we shall be, but we know that when he shall appear, Jesus Christ shall appear. We shall be like him. Like him in glory, folks, not like him on the cross. Like him in a reigning omnipotence, not him as a suffering servant. Like him with glory and law and honor, an angel serving him. Not as angels ministering to his weakness We shall be like him, for we shall see him as he is. And every man that hath his hope in him purifies himself, even as he is impure. Walk as a child of God. Talk as a child of God. Live as a child of God. Because you are. Right now. I don't see it. I know. I understand. It's a walk of faith. Right now, we're a child of God. You've inherited everything. You're You've got all of heaven's riches. The storehouse is given. They say there are those who aim for earth, and they get neither earth nor heaven. And those who aim for heaven get heaven and earth to heaven. Yea, a new earth. And the eyes see and the knees don't hurt. And the eyes will see and the knees won't hurt. The tears are gone. And the pain is gone. All of it. You can run and not be weary. You can walk and not be faint. Motion will be not a problem at all. Boundless energy and strength. Boundless. Can you imagine being a I remember when I was a, I don't know, two or three years old, I used to like to Run around on the floor and kind of go on all hand fours, you know, hands and knees. I could bounce on my knees on the floor. That sh makes me shudder to think about that now Yes. Mrs. Ross absolutely will see again. That's right. She'll see you far greater than she could now. And so here's the application. Though everything around you, folks, says you are not a child of God. Everything around you. Being defamed, being mislabeled, being falsely accused, not being honored. That's really bothersome, isn't it? To be rejected in many different ways. Everything around you says, no, you're not a child of God. No such thing doesn't exist. God doesn't exist. Everything around you says that. Yet the very facts of what Jesus did, of his very life work, of what he testified, of who he was, and you can't get past the fact of the resurrection. Which validated everything he said, and his ascension into heaven seated at the right hand of God, that testifies otherwise. Frankly, we have nothing of benefit to lose and everything to gain. To live like that. Your Heavenly Father knows what you have need of. You can take some steps. You can walk. And so the first fill in the blank was to hang on, and the second fill-in-the-blank is to press on. You've got to hang on by hope, and you have to press on. Hebrews 6. 12 it says that you be not slothful. Don't be wearied in mind. Don't be slothful in this business. But be followers of them. Who through faith through faith and patience inherit the promises. We'll look at Abraham that he's going to proceed into next week, but I do want to touch on this And that says ye, that ye be slothful. Plural for you. You're not alone on this journey. You don't sit around on your pity pot. Woe is me. Nobody knows what I'm going through. Oh, there's plenty of people who have been exactly through what you've been through. And then some. You're not alone in this journey. Others have gone before, and others will come. I consider the life of Daniel. as a very interesting one in the life of service to God. Basically Daniel's life job was as a government bureaucrat, and he started at a very early age at age 17, probably seventeen. He was certainly not past 19 or 20 by the time he was transported into Babylon. Served in the king's court, made a eunuch. He served four different administrations, basically a bureaucrat. And his trial started early. Here, son, have some pork. Have some grill. They swapped up a big old Texas breakfast buffet in front of him, but he said, I'll have none of it. He wouldn't add it. That was a test. That's a mighty bold statement to make to the Prince of the Eunuchs who said, You're going to risk my head coming off, son. You better eat this. Let me put you to let me put my God to the test for ten days So he walked by faith early, and his trials kept getting more and more difficult until he's probably a 70 to 80 year old man. When they make this law that says you cannot pray to anybody except the God of heaven. And as an old man he faced the den of lions. These children's books that show this middle-aged fellow going down. No, no, no. No no no no. This is an old man being descended into a pit of lions. Not even a chance to think about fighting them off. You can't do that as a man in strength, let alone A man of 80. And all he had to do is just don't pray. Just just don't let just don't pray like you've normally done. And so every step of his way he had a challenge in life, and it kept getting bigger and bigger, testing his faith. So you have to consider that. There will be these difficult seasons, and then you have a season of rest. The Apostle Paul is on his way to Rome, he faces shipwreck And then on that shipwreck, that was a horrific incident. He writes about it at length in Acts. But he lands on an island. He basically has a three-month vacation on an island where they're serving him hand in foot. A nice little respite before his trip to Rome. God does give those breaks. And he says that you be not slothful. Now that word slothful I found is very interesting. It's kind of the word dull. It's that same word in Hebrews 5. 11. It's continuing the same thought. 5. 11 talked about you're dull of hearing. And he says, here, don't be dull in doing either. To be slothful in hearing, to be slothful in doing. Don't give Jesus a little bit just putting two fingers out there Be diligent. I have this haunting thought in my head, Jim Miss Alba. I have this haunting thought in my head that Someday, when I get to heaven and I look and see, oh, you mean When we were suffering through these things and when I was speaking at the Arabic Bible church and only it went down from 40 people to four people, they all got up and left, 36 of them got up and left to go to the children's church because they didn't like what I was saying. Oh, you mean long-term fruit out of that? You mean you're you've richly blessed your word and you begin to see the fruit and the benefit that came of when you did serve the Lord, when you begin to see This is the fruit that God was talking about. And he said, this is real. And I'm going to have this haunting thought. I wish I had done more. If I had seen how good it really is, I probably would have done more. I have this thought in my head, Jim, that says Don't think about it. Do it. I don't think we can outgive Jesus. I don't think we can. I'm not talking about your wallet right now, folks. Proverbs has a lot to say about the slothful. Now they're parables. It's an earthly story, which does have application. Good kids. But it does have a spiritual meaning to it. I want to read one of them to you. It's in Proverbs 24 and verse 30. This is the book of Proverbs. It's not the book of practicalities, it's the book of Proverbs, the book of parables, all right? They're practical, but they're There's a parable going on here. He says, I went by the field of the slothful, and by the vineyard of the man void of understanding. And lo, it was all grown over with thorns. And nettles had covered the face of it. Nettles, Texas has nettles. They have bull nettles. You're walking in the field, you don't have high boots on and you touch up against a bull nettle, your foot feels like somebody hit it with a hammer. And you don't really see it. But you can rush up against that thing and it's got these little spi uh poisonous s uh spikes. They don't stick in you But it feels exactly like somebody hits you in the foot with a hammer. You don't want to have your foot brushed against a nettle. They're nasty, nasty things Nettles covered the face thereof, and the stone wall thereof was broken down. You can just see the picture. Let me tell you something about it being a homeowner. If you want your home to look like a wreck, what do you gotta do to make your home look like a wreck? Do nothing. Just do nothing. It'll happen. It'll come If I want to find work to do, all I gotta do is get up, walk around the house. Inside and outside, oh crud, I didn't believe it. How did this happen? Oh look at this. Oh look at that. You gotta do something. Same is true of the church, folks The same is true with your house, right here. This vessel of the Lord. You do nothing, it'll pay you back Then I saw and considered it well. I looked upon it and received instruction. Yet a little sleep, a little slumber, a little folding of the hands to sleep, just a little. Just a little. Let's just back off a little bit So shall thy poverty come as one that traveleth, and thy want as an armed man. You remember Jesus' first parable, the parable of the sower? One of the problems was, actually this is a parable of the field, while men slept, his enemy came and sowed tares among the wheat. How did tares get in among the wheat? Not when they were awake. When they slept. When they slept. Just a little sleep. Because they were weary and well doing. I just want to take a break from this. Right when you take that break, that's when your next problem is being planted. While the bridegroom tarried, they all slumbered and slept, it says of the parable of the virgins. Sleep is an enemy to the house of God. Romans, he says it's high time to awake out of sleep. He told the Thessalonians, let us not sleep as others do. Jesus isn't against physical rest. He's not saying you've got to stay up 24 hours a day, seven days a week. He's talking spiritual. It's this weariness and well-doing. A little sleep, a little slumber, a little backing off. I'm not going to church today. Oh, because it's long Oh, this hurts or that hurts. I get it. If you're contagious, please stay away. There's a million things that keep people from the service of the house of God and from interest and attendance to spiritual things. Oh, we don't want to have Bible reading and devotions tonight. Just a little backing off. Just a little slacking off in spiritual things. Oh, we'll let this thing go. We'll let that when men slept That's when the tares got planted. When men slept, that's when the nettles came. That's when the wall starts to fall down. And it's little by little And so God's not against restful sleep. Sleep here means to rest at the wrong time, to relax, to yield to sloth, to yield to sin, to be indifferent to the things pertaining to salvation, to be indifferent to our promised kingdom to come, fervent in spirit. And so that's why we need a Wednesday night devotional to help us through that midweek shot of energy. And that's why you need the exhortations on Sunday. And how do we inherit God's promises? What does it say? Through faith and patience. Through faith and patience. And we're going to cover the example of Abram next week. So with that, we'll close. Joe, would you close this in prayer, please? Gracious Father, we thank you that for your children you've given us a new