Open your Bibles with me this morning, please, to the book of Mark. And I'm going to start our scripture reading with verse 35. And we're actually going to consider the bulk of 35 through the end of chapter 4 of Mark, and then Chapter 5 as well. There are four amazing miracles that take place in these verses that I'd like us to consider this morning. So begin our scripture reading at Mark chapter 4 and verse 35 And the same day when even was come, he saith unto them, Let us pass over unto the other side. And when they had sent away the multitudes, they took him even as he was in a ship, and there were also with him other little ships. And there arose a great storm of wind, and the waves beat into the ship, so that it was now full. And he was in the hinder part of the ship, asleep on a pillow. And they wake him and said, say unto him, Master, carest thou not that we perish? And he arose and rebuked the wind and said unto the sea, peace be still. And the wind ceased, and there was a great calm. And he said unto them, Why are ye so fearful? How is it that ye have no faith? And they feared exceedingly. And said one to another, What manner of man is this? But even the wind and the sea obey him Let us bow for prayer. Heavenly Father, now as we open your word together We again call upon the Holy Spirit of God to be our teacher, to be our guide, to be our instructor in the Word of God. Father, protect this congregation from me. Protect this people gathered here from the errors of human heart and human word. But Father, may this people today not be lacking in the voice of the Holy Spirit, speaking truth to their hearts through the Word of God. And Lord, we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Chapter four of Mark, starting in verse thirty-one, thirty-five Through the end of chapter 5 are a 24-hour period. It is one glorious day. Mark here gives us the time markers. If you notice there in verse 35, it says And the same day. And so they get into the ship on the same day in the evening. And then in chapter 5, verse 2, it says And when he was come out of the ship, immediately. Okay, there's another time marker. And then if you look down to verse 21 of chapter 5 There we find it says, and when Jesus was passed over by ship again, okay, there's another time marker, and then uh you look at verse 24 and you find that as Christ is going. And then down to verse 29 and straightway or immediately, and then down to verse 35, and um while he yet spake Time make marker, and then down to verse 39, and when he was come, and verse 42, straightway. Okay, so Mark throughout this passage is giving us these little time markers. We would say, okay, it's two o'clock Well, now it's 3. 30. Well, now it's 5 o'clock. Now it's 6 o'clock, and so on. So he's showing us the progression through the passage. We find in the verses that we've read already that Christ is at the end of a long day. The first portion of this chapter, fourth chapter of Mark, is the parable of the sower Where the sower goes out and he sows the seed, and some hear the word with joy, and they spring up and become nothing. Some won't hear the word at all, their heart is a stone. Some are by the wayside, some thorns grow up and choke out the word, but some hear it with joy. And of course the parable is misnamed when we call it the parable of the sower, because it's actually the parable of the soil. Because the whole point, the parable, is that there are hearts that are opened by the Spirit of God, and they with great joy and faith receive the word. And there are those that are adamant stones that will not hear the word. And following the parable of the sower, Christ gives three parables of the kingdom, the the the candlestick and the mustard seed. These things being ended, and the disciples having heard a full day of preaching They take Christ even as he was. He was tired. He was in a body of flesh. And they enter into the ship. to cross over the Sea of Galilee. And that crossing, they tell us, would take two to three hours typically. It's about eight miles across in our miles. It would not take all night But a few hours to make that crossing. The Sea of Galilee, we learn, is prone to sudden and violent storms because of the way the mountains are on either side. wind can come from the east rushing down between the mountains and very quickly whipped the Sea of Galilee up into great waves. And uh I was reading that in in nineteen ninety two they recorded waves of ten foot high. So you can imagine being in a little boat less than thirty foot long and a ten foot high wave. That's a pretty big wave and you could see how it would be very frightening and how the waves would beat upon the ship and even overflow the gunnels of the ship and very soon the ship becomes full. Bail as quickly as you can, but The ship is sent you. Christ is serenely sleeping on a pillow. He is tired. And the disciples wake him. Carest thou not that we perish? Don't you even care that we are about to die? We're going to perish in this sea Let us step that for a moment. Were the disciples about to die? We used to sing a song with the children in Jamaica. With Christ in the vessel, I can smile at the storm. Smile at the storm, smile at the storm. With Christ in the vessel, I can smile at the storm as we go sailing on What danger do we face with Christ? What harm can befall the child of God with Christ? For me to live is Christ, and to die is gain. Paul said, I have a desire to depart, but for you it's needful that I stay. Disciples are not in any real danger, and yet they are human. Yet they perceive all the things around them as great danger to them, and if Christ were not their God, if Christ were not with them, they indeed would be in great danger. But Christ is with it. And so we find a strong storm, a sinking ship, and a sleeping savior. And how often in the storms that we face, our first question is, God, why? And our second question is, God where? Where was God when a hurricane came through? Where was God when this happened? Why didn't God prevent this? Why do the righteous suffer? Should not the life of the child of God be all a bed of roses and calm smooth seas of Galilee? As for God, His way is perfect. The word of the Lord is tried. He is a buckler to all those that trust in him. There hath no temptation taken you, but such that is common to man. But God is faithful, who will not suffer you to be tempted above that you're able, but will also with the temptation make a way of escape that ye may be able to bear it all things. What's the exception? All things work together for good To those that love God and to those who are the called according to his purpose, if you do not love God and you're not called according to his purpose, you better be afraid of a storm on Galilee. But ah, for the child of God, with Christ in the vessel, I can smile at the storm But dear ones, I would love to tell you I always smile at the storm. But I'm as human as you are. And oh how when the problems come our faith fails so quickly And Christ whispers to our hearts, why are you so fearful? Have you no faith? But think about this. Where does faith come from? Faith cometh by faith Hearing, and hearing by the word of God. And what were these disciples doing all day long? They were hearing the word of God firsthand. They were hearing the parable of the sower, where the word which is the seed is sown. And how like they we are. How often, after a great spiritual triumph, we find ourselves most tempted to faint. How like Elijah following the great victory on the mountain where the fire of God fell And the prophets of Baal were slain, and the reins returned at the word of the prophet. He runs into the wilderness and says, Take now my life, for I am no better than my father's. You see, we're always prone to this same failing. But we're going to see in these miracles that every one of them has its foundation in faith. But we're going to see in chapter five that a demoniac is saved and redeemed, delivered from the demons. We're going to see a woman with an issue of blood who says, Oh, if I can just touch his garments And we're going to see a child raised from the dead. And so in verse 29, Christ stands and He says to the oceans, he says to the Sea of Galilee, peace. Peace. Peace. Be still. Did you ever Stir up a bunch of water and then wait for it to calm back down. I don't believe that happened. I believe I believe the war was just glass. Peace. Be still. And these disciples who are so afraid of the winds and so afraid of the waves, suddenly they're afraid now. But not of the elements of nature. Now they're afraid of the one who rules the elements of nature. It says there In verse 41, and they feared exceedingly. They were afraid before, but now they are exceedingly afraid. What manner of man is this? That even the winds and the waves obey him Have you ever been in a storm too big for Christ? Did the boat float because it was watertight? Or did it float because the one who upholds all things by the word of his power? Made it float. And could that boat have sunk with any amount of water? If Christ did not desire it to sink. And so they feared exceedingly And so we find first of all in the beginning of this twenty-four-hour period that Jesus Christ has power over all of our distresses There is no problem, there is no difficulty, there is no storm, there is no loss of employment, there is no sickness, there is no car accident, there is no losing of property, there is no financial reversal, there is nothing in this world There is no distress that we can face That is outside the power of Jesus Christ. Amen. He rules it all And yes, we worry about, am I going to have enough for retirement? Yes, we worry about, am I ever going to feel well again? Yes, we worry about, will this disease kill me? Yes, we worry about all these things And we fear them. But may God teach our hearts to fear him who can say peace bestowed on them. Mm, yeah. Yeah. The fear of the storm was replaced by the fear of the Savior. Yeah. Peace. Be still. But then we find as we go into chapter 5 that they came over to the other side of the sea, into the country of the Gadarenes. And when he was come out of the ship immediately, and there is our second time marker, they passed over the sea through the evening. This is early in the morning now. The storm is done. It may have even been before daylight, being a fairly relatively short crossing. And when he was come out of the ship, immediately there met him out of the tombs a man with an unclean spirit. who had his dwelling among the tombs, and no man could bind him, no, not with chains. Have you ever been locked up with a chain? Verse 4. Because that he had often he had been often bound with feathers and the chains And the chains have been plucked asunder by him, and the feathers broken in pieces, neither could any man tame him One night in Jamaica, early in the morning, there was a sudden crash And the shattering of glass. And vaguely in my mind the sound of something metallic hitting our Terrazzo tile floor. And there was glass on the bed and we didn't dare get out of bed in bare feet because we knew there was glass on the floor and so We just kind of shook the blankets to get the glass off the bed and waited till daylight to to get up to see what had taken place. And we could tell by the light coming in the window that the glass of our bedroom window had been shattered. When we got up in the morning, We found that half inch rebar burglar bars had been broken. A weld had been broken by the force of something that had come through our bedroom window. And our bed was about this far from that window, and so glass had come over onto the bed But we could not find anything on the other side of the room that had come through that window with enough force to break a half-inch weld in a bar. We found a piece of pipe about this long and about that big around between the bed And the wall. And the bottom of the bed was solid, so nothing could have rolled under the bed from the other side. And so a piece of pipe had come through the window at about head height With enough force to break a weld and then had fallen straight to the floor. Not in the arc that naturally would be taken. A couple things there. First of all, no human being of his own strength can throw that pipe from the length of this room across the fence through a window with enough force to break a weld. I believe the man was demon possessed. And secondly, the laws of physics would put that pipe across the room or on the bed. That's as far as it's going. Now this demon-possessed man had the strength to break chains. Just as that piece of pipe which I still have, I brought it back in Jamaica with me. broke through a w half inch weld on a burglar grill, but then when y it came as far as God was going to let it go, it stopped and it fell down. And the sound I'd heard vaguely at night was that pipe hitting the tile floor. Here's a man in the grips of a demon. And not just one But many. Let's continue reading. Verse 5. And always, day and night, he was in the mountains and in the tombs, crying and cutting himself with stones. But when he saw Jesus afar off, he ran and worshipped him and cried with a loud voice and said, What have I to do with thee, Jesus? Thou son of the Most High God, I adjure thee by God, that thou torment me not, for he said unto him, Come out of the man, thou unclean spirit. And the way that John that Mark by inspiration recorded this makes it sound like the man is running to Christ before the command, and it's not. It's actually the other way around if you look closely at the context. Christ says to him, Come out of the man. And the man comes and he worships. No man can come unto me except the Father which has sent me. Draw him. And this man was being drawn. There you go. And in verse nine he asked him, What is thy name? And he answered and saying, My name is Legion for me or many. And he besought him much that he would not send them out of the away out of the country. Now there was nigh unto the mountain a great herd of swine feeding, and all the devils besought him, saying, Send us into the swine that we may enter into them. And forthwith Jesus gave them leave, and the unclean spirit went out and entered into the swine, and the herd ran violently down the steep place into the sea. And they were about 2,000 and they were choked in the sea. What is happening here, folks? I believe that this man Struggling with these demons within him has tried multiple times to kill himself. He's tried to commit suicide. He's cut himself with stones He's dwelling among the tombs. He's in the place of death. And he would die to be free from his affliction. But he could not. Why could he not kill himself? Because he had a soul that was chosen in Christ before the foundation of the world. The Lord is not slack concerning this promise, as some men count slackness, but as long suffering Suffering to usward, not willing that any should perish, but that all should come to repentance. Do you have unchite saved children? Take hope. Take hope. For God's own elect will come to salvation. We have trained them up on the way they should go, and when they're old, they will not depart from it. Take hope. Take hope Don't give up praying for them. But here this man could not take his own life because his life was purchased in Christ. before the foundation of the world, but now the demons are in swine. They have no protection. And so these swine run down the hill and they drown in the sea. What does this miracle teach us? Well, first of all, we saw in this 24-hour period of miracles the power of Christ over distresses. Here we see the power of Christ over the devil. We see the power of Christ over the demons. I believe in Jamaica that night. That my family and I were protected from demons. And I don't say that lightly, nor do I say it casually, nor do I say it to point a finger at me. But the power of Christ. Satan had desired to have Peter, that he might sift him as wheat. But I have prayed for you. And so We see that though Satan is a roaring lion walking about seeking whom he may desire. seeking whom it is possible for him to devour. Seeking who, yes, I can get this one and I can get that one, but oh, that one's protected Oh, that one is purchased, and though Satan would desire to have that one. No man can pluck it out of the Father's hands. Glory. Amen. And so Christ has power over every distress you can face, my friend. And Christ has power over all the demonic forces that go to and fro in the world. Satan is a defeated foe. Because on the cross Christ declared, it is vanished. Now you would think, you would think that the people of the Gatarenes would flock to Christ And say, oh yes, we want you to teach us, just like you were teaching on the other side of the Galilee. Now tell us. For here, this man that we have bound with chains is clothed. And sitting, and he's in his right mind. Oh, tell us more. You think But what did they say? I don't think they said please leave. I think they said get out. They besought him. They besought him to leave their country. They besought him to go away. They did not want this teaching that he was bringing. Verse 17, they began to pray him depart to depart out of their coast. And so we come down to verse 21. And we find another one of our time markers in this passage. And when Jesus was passed over again by ship. Okay, so we started in the evening before the storm. He's passed through the storm a two to three hour passage. He's gotten to the gatherings in the morning. He is healed to demoniac. An hour, two, three hours there. Leave our country. And so now in verse 21, he's passed over again. He's made the two to three hour passage. Verse 21, and when Jesus was passed over again by ship into the other side, much people gathered unto him, and he was nigh into the sea. Isn't that glorious? They want to hear on the other side. The people in the Gallerines didn't want to hear this, but they want to hear. And behold, there cometh one of the rulers of the synagogue, Jarius, or Jarius by name And when he saw him, he fell down at his feet. There again you see an act of worship. I believe when the disciples feared greatly, they were at his feet. We saw the demoniac at his feet. Here now is Jarius at his feet. Verse 23, and he besought him greatly, saying, My little daughter Elias at the point of death I pray thee, come and lay thy hand on her and that she may be healed and live. It's a pretty great declaration of faith, isn't it? Oh, Jesus, my daughter, is about to die, but if you just lay your hand on her, your hand on her, she will live. Disciples, where is your faith? You see what Christ is teaching them. It says here in this same context that Christ taught them with parables in chapter four. Without parables he didn't teach them. He was teaching his disciples. Why is it ye have no faith? Look at this demoniac, look at his faith. Look at Jarius, look at his faith. Verse 24. Another time marker. And Jesus went with him. Okay, so he's he's on his way. So immediately Jerry's asked, come with me, my daughter, and Jesus goes with him. And much people followed him and thronged him, and a certain woman which had an issue of blood twelve years, and had suffered many things of many physicians And had spent all that she had and was nothing better, rather, grew worse. Does that sound familiar, folks? Do you know anybody like that? It's just talking about you. Oh how many times we've seen the family Go to doctor after doctor after doctor year after year after year. The medical bills pile up, the savings account grows slim. Ah, this poor woman. It would appear that she either was a widower or a widow or was not married because no husband is mentioned. Uh she probably didn't have much to spend in the first place, and now she's spent it all, and she's getting worse. And when she heard of Jesus, verse 27, when she had heard of Jesus, isn't that glorious? She heard of him. Oh my! I've heard of this man This man can heal. This man, I've heard of him. And when she'd heard of Jesus Came in the press behind him and touched his garment, for she said, if I may touch but his clothes I shall be whole. Disciples, why are you so fearful? How is it that you have no faith? You've heard of Christ again and again and again. You've just heard the sower. And yet disciples, look, you see what Jesus is teaching the disciples here? Look, disciples, look at this woman. She's just heard and she has faith. Why is it that you have no faith? And straightway. That's why I believe that the the sea became glass immediately. She's been sick twelve years. It doesn't take her two days to get better. It doesn't take her two weeks or two months or two years. She doesn't have to recover. Just like the lame man that never walked. He didn't have to learn how to walk, folks. He didn't have to gain strength in his legs a little bit at a time. He didn't have to learn how to get his balance They say when the astronauts come back from six months on the space station they have to kind of learn how to walk again because they've been in zero gravity and their balance is not quite right. And even on the space station, they have to pedal exercise bites to keep the legs from atrophying atrophying. But the lame man walked instantly. And straightway, verse 29, you see the God that said, let there be light, and there was light. This is nothing to him. And straightway the fountain of her blood was dried up, and she felt in her body that she was healed of the plague. And there's so much more we can say about this this dear lady. Now we won't go into all of it for time, but but she would have been forbidden from the worship. She would have been an outcast from society, she would have been a pariah because of the nature of her illness. She would not have been allowed to touch a Pharisee She would have been almost like a leper that had to cry unclean because of her sickness. And then she touches his garment. If I can just I won't e I don't have to get his attention Don't have to trouble him. If if I can just just touch the hand of this garment. That's all it'll take. And Jesus immediately. There's another one of those time words, isn't it? Jesus immediately, knowing in himself that virtue had gone out of him, turned about in the press and said, Who touched my clothes? D'ye think he didn't know? Don't you love that? D'ye think Jesus didn't know who had touched his clothes? Oh, he knew. Obviously new. And his disciples, what do you mean who touched your clothes? Everybody's bumping into you. You're on the subway here. I mean it's it's crowded. It's all pressed in What do you mean who touched your clothes? Jesus wants to do something more for her than just heal her physical body He's there to save our soul. And his disciples said unto him, Thou seest the multitude throwing thee, and thou sayest, Who touched me? And he looked around about and saw her. She doesn't say, hey, it was me. He he looks at her. And he looked around about to see her that had done this thing But for the woman, fearing and trembling, knowing what was done her, came and fell down before him. There it is again. Remember we saw Jarius. Remember we saw the demon demoniac. She falls down before him. And told him all the truth. And he said unto her, Daughter, thy faith hath made thee whole. Go in peace and be whole from thy plague. We've seen that Christ has power over all of our distresses. We've seen that Christ has power over the devil or over demons. Now we see that Christ has power over all diseases. There is no disease that he cannot heal. There is no disease that exists that he does not allow. God does work in his purposes. We live in these bodies of flesh. And Paul said, in these we groan. We groan. Most of us have some ailment of some nature or the other. My back is hurting this morning God is able. The prayer of faith shall save the sick We thank the Lord for doctors, we thank the Lord for pharmaceutical products, but our faith is in the God who heals. And so my friend, if you were suffering physically, or you have a loved one that's suffering physically, take heart It's for your good. It's for their good. It is in the will of God. It is under his providence. He is working his perfect will in his perfect way through the sickness. I prayed three times. Take it from me. Paul He said, My grace is sufficient for thee. God has power over distresses. God has power over demons. God has power over disease. But the day hasn't hasn't done yet. There's more to this day. Verse 35. And while he yet spake, okay, there's another time marker. While he yet spake, there came from the ruler of the synagogue's house surgeon, which said, Thy daughter is dead, why troublest thou the master any further? It's too late, folks. Sorry. Your daughter's dead. There is no hope for the dead. Why are you bothering Jesus anymore? She's dead. Master, if you'd been here, my brother had not died Verse 36. As soon as Jesus heard the word that was spoken, he saith unto the ruler of the synagogue Be not afraid only. What's such word, folks? Believe What are we seeing in all four of these miracles? Faith. What had Christ been teaching the disciples yesterday morning? Faith comes right here. Faith. Believe. Believe, believe. Why are you so fearful? How is it that you, above everybody else How is it that ye have no faith? Be not afraid, only believe. And he suffered no man to follow him save Peter and James and John, the brother of James And he come up to the house of the ruler of the synagogue and seeth the tumult, and they that wept and wailed greatly, this little girl's dead, so young And when he was come in, verse 39, he said to them, Why make ye this adieu and weep? The damsel is not dead. What sleepeth? What is death? To Christ What is death to the one who saith, I am the resurrection of the light, he that believeth in me, though he were dead, yet shall he live. And whosoever liveth and believeth in me shall never die Death is but sleep to him. And they laughed in this corner. Oh, we thought he was a miracle worker. We thought he was the Messiah. She's dead. What do you mean she sleeps? She's dead. It's no false. She's not breathing. Her heart stopped. She's dead. Helping you say she's asleep. And they laugh into scorn. But when he had put them all out, he taketh the father and the mother of the damsel And when they were and they that were with him, and entered into where the damsel was lying, and he took the damsel by the hand and said unto her, Kalatha Kunai Which being interpreted as, Damsel, I say unto thee, Arise, and straightway, there's another time marker, and straightway the damsel rose and walked. She's not in recovery either, is she? She's been sick. She's been about to die. She's so weak she can't get out of bed. He didn't just bring her back to life. He healed her. He healed her. Straight with she walked. For she was of the age of twelve years, and they were all astonished with great astonishment. Didn't that remind you of the disciples fearing greatly last night? With great astonishment. And he charged them straightly that no man should know it, and he commanded that something should be given her to eat. Christ has power over our distresses. Christ has power over the demons. Christ has power over disease. And Christ has power over death. Why are ye so fearful? How is it that I have no faith How is it that when the storms of my life come I want to shrink and fail? How is it that when it seems like I'm being oppressed by Satan and the temptation is more than I can take it? I Say, look, I can't take anymore. How is it that when we're in sickness we say, God, why? I I had so much to do. Why today? Why this year? Why, Lord? When a loved one dies, Lord, it was too soon. Don't fear the storms. Fear the Savior. Don't fear the circumstances of life. Fear the one who says, peace be still. Don't fear the Satan, though we don't speak evil of dignitaries, we need to be careful how we express that. Because don't play around with anything demonic or satanic And don't make bold predictions and prophecies about how you will stand. But ultimately we do not need to fear because our elder brother Has defeated him. O death, where is thy sting? O grave, where is thy victory? My God is mightier than at all. And so, dear ones, may we take encouragement. May we take Courage, may we have faith. Because this world is full of storms. And we might get into a perfectly smooth boat and the east wind come down between the mountains and we've got ten-foot waves before we know it. But with Christ in the vessel, I can smile at the storm. Our God is greater than it all. Let us stand for prayer.