Turn in your Bibles with me this morning, please, to the book of Ephesians and to the fifth chapter, Ephesians chapter 5. I've mentioned it to it to you before, but I hope you enjoy singing from the Book of Psalms for Singing. This is one of the few collections that covers every psalm. From start to finish. 119R is just the next section of Psalm 119. That's what the letters indicate. And it attempts to use familiar tunes to make the psalms more accessible. I first encountered this collection of psalms twenty some years ago. And it was a great blessing to me. The edition we have is one of the older editions because the later edition. is not not based on the same scriptures that we use. But we were very blessed to be able to find it. I hope you have your place now in Ephesians chapter 5. And I'm going to start our scripture reading in the 14th verse and read through the 20th. Our reading kind of begins mid-thought. Wherefore, verse 14. He saith, Awake thou that sleepeth, and rise from the dead, for Christ shall give thee light. See then that ye walk circumspectly, not as fools, but as wise, redeeming the time because the days are evil Wherefore, be ye not unwise, but understanding what the will of the Lord is. Be not drunk with wine, wherein is excess, but be filled with the Spirit Speaking to yourselves in psalms and hymns and spiritual songs, singing and making melody in your heart to the Lord. Giving thanks always for all things unto God and the Father in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ. But a spow for prayer. Gracious Father, now as we open the precious inspired Word of God, we pray, Lord, that you would open our ears. Protect us, O Father, from the wandering mind that plagues us in the preaching of God's Word. Protect us, O Lord, from the drooping eyes that can become weary Father, this message from thy word, these verses we're going to consider, are the most important thing we'll hear all year. This is the Word of God. And so, Father, may we indeed be blessed, for you said, Blessed are your ears, for they hear, and your eyes, for they see. Bless thy word to us this day. In Jesus' name. Amen. Our text this morning is that 16th verse Redeeming the time because the days are evil. Life does not have a rough draft Think about that. Most of us at some time in high school or in advanced studies have been required to prepare a paper. And we always prepare a rough draft, and then we take the rough draft and we refine it into the final paper, the final project. Life does not have a rough draft. Life does not have do-overs. If you play golf, and I'm not a golfer, but life doesn't have a mulligan. You don't get to try to hit the ball again and not count the previous one. This is all there is, folks. This is it. There's not a practice draft and then a final draft. There's not a, well, that didn't work out so well, let's do it again. My father used to say, and he drilled it into my mind, only one life will soon be passed, only what's done for Christ will last. This time is the only time that we have. You see, you realize there is no time in eternity. Eternity is timeless. A thousand years is a day, and a day is a thousand years. This time is the only time we have, and our text instructs us to redeem that time. To redeem it. We'll talk a little bit more about that word redeem in a moment. To redeem means to purchase again. It means to buy back. And Adam Clark, the old commentator, put it this way: buy up the moments that others throw away. Buy up the moments that others throw away. That's a good way to describe redeeming the time. There's no time in eternity. We must work today, for there's no work where we're going. We have to buy up the time. We have to buy back the scattered moments that we waste on the things of this world, because there's only one life, and it will soon be passed, and the only things that are going to last are what's done for Christ. All the things we accumulate in this world mean nothing. All the accolades we receive from the world do not follow us. Yes, we read in Scripture, and their works do follow them. But that has nothing to do with who was salesman of the month. It has nothing to do with who got the promotion. It has nothing to do with who got a plaque on the wall that said he had achieved this or that. I still had some trophies from sports and high school. And I enjoy getting them out just for the nostalgia, not getting them out. They're in the shed where they've been since we left for the mission field. And sometimes when I'm looking for something, they're in the way. But they they mean nothing. And so we are instructed to redeem the time, to buy back the wasted hours, the wasted moments, buy up all the time that is available. And the reason we're instructed to do so is because the days are evil In other words, buy up the days because they're evil. They're passing, they're short, we're surrounded by evil, this life is rushing past us, it will soon be done. And this time is the only time we have. We live in an evil time. What is the difference between the United States and Sodom? I would say the only difference is the judgment hasn't come yet. Our actions as a nation are no different and even in many cases worse. The only difference between the United States and Sodom is our judgment's still waiting. It's still to come. Our sojourn on earth is brief and difficult. In this life We are perpetually subject to the wiles of the devil. Our adversary, the devil, as a roaring lion walketh about seeking whom he may devour. And so Job tells us in Job 14, the first two verses Man that is born of woman is of a few days and full of trouble. He cometh forth like a flower and is cut down. He fleeth also in the shadow and continueth not. And the psalmist in Psalm 103 follows that same theme, as for man his days or his grass, as the flower of the field, so he flourisheth, and the wind passeth over it, and it is gone, and the place thereof shall know it no more. And James tells us in James 4, go to now, ye that say, tomorrow, or today, or tomorrow, we will go into such a city and continue there a year and buy and sell and get gain. Whereas ye know not what shall be on the morrow. For what is your life? It's even a vapor that appeareth for a little while, and then vanisheth away. And Peter tells us in 1 Peter 1, all flesh is as grass, the glory of man is the flower of the glass, the grass withereth, the flower fadeth, but the word of the Lord endureth forever. And this is the word which by the gospel is preached unto you. Solomon Ecclesiastes twelve, remember now thy Creator in the days of thy youth, while the evil days come not, nor the years draw nigh when thou shalt say, I have no pleasure in them. Have you ever said that? I have no pleasure in dwelling in this city anymore. I have no pleasure in this place. I'm done with it all. Ecclesiastes eleven, rejoice, O young man, in thy youth, and let thy heart cheer thee in the days of thy youth. And walk in the ways of thine heart and in the sight of thine eyes, but know thou that for all these things the Lord shall bring thee into judgment. And so, with that foundation of a multitude of scriptures, how do we redeem the time How is it as believers that we can take this admonition to redeem the day time for the days are evil and actually put it into practice What are some things we can do to redeem the time? They say that to establish a new habit takes between 30 and 60 days. In other words, if you start doing something consistently for 30 days, by the end of 60 days, it should be ingrained in you. It should be something you're accustomed to do. And we've seen this in m many physical ways. When you always get up at 5 in the morning, before long you your alarm clock's irrelevant. You just wake up. Your body has gotten into that pattern. When you eat dinner at a certain time, your body will become hungry at that time in the day. As believers, should not we train ourselves in prayer that way? That it's time to pray. In the study of God's Word that way, it's time to read. In being in church, does it feel wrong to you if you're not in worship on the Lord's Day? There's a lot of people doesn't, and they would call themselves Christians. So let's try to make this pac practical. First of all. And I believe most importantly, we are to redeem the time by panting after our God. And all the things we're going to consider today start with peas. We're to redeem the time by panting after our God, as the heart panteth after the water brooks. so my soul panteth after thee, O God. My soul thirsteth for God, for the living God. When shall I come and appear before God? Psalm forty two, verses. One and two The deer that is running from the hounds, running from the foxes Is exhausted and thirsty, and that deer pants for the water brooks Because it knows if it does not get the water, it will perish. It knows if it does not get to the water, it will no longer have the energy and the strength. to continue to run from the hounds. And here David in Psalm 42, running from Saul and in separation from the tabernacle of the Most High God He said, My soul pants. My soul is so thirsty for God. When shall I come and appear before God? Folks, most of us don't live that way. Oh, we're so eager to wins this and wins that, and this has to be done, and I've got my two do list. And there's things in the backyard that need to be taken of and there's taken care of, and there's this at work and all these things that consume our thoughts and consume our beings But the heart has one thing he must have. I must have the water props. And my friend, if we are to redeem the time, we have to have that same hunger and thirst for God. For blessed are they that do hunger and thirst after righteousness, for they shall be filled. We begin to redeem the time when our fellowship with God is the most important part of every day and the most important part of every hour. Oh, may we truly pant after Jehovah God. But scripture gives us the illustration of the opposite mindset And that is found in the book of Revelation in chapter 3. And so turn with me there to the sad illustration in Revelation 3 of the Church of Laodicea. And in Revelation 3, starting in verse 14, and to the angel of the church of Laodicea write these things, saith the Amen. the faithful and true witness, the beginning of the creation of God, I know thy works. That thou art neither hot nor cold. I would that thou were hot nor cold First of all, let me notice let us notice that God says, I know your works. I know if you're thirsty or not. I know what you hunger and thirst after. I know your works. Oh, we may be able to hide it from our friends and our brethren. But God says, I know thy works. So then, because thou art lukewarm and neither hot nor cold, I will spew thee out of my mouth. Because thou sayest, I am rich and increased in goods and have need of nothing. And knowest not that thou art wretched and miserable and poor and blind and naked I counsel thee to bide me, Glory Father. May God free us from Laodicea. And calls us to pan after God. For then we will truly redeem the time. Ho, everyone that thirsteth, come to the waters. The second way that we redeem the time is by pursuing that which is truly valuable. Pursuing that which is truly valuable. In Psalm 27 and verse 4, David said, One thing have I desired the Lord. That will I seek after, that I may dwell in the house of the Lord all the days of my life, to behold the beauty of the Lord, and to inquire at his temple. How much time do we spend pursuing nonsense? Mm-hmm. How much time do we spend reading foolishness? Folks, y you know you know I'm an old car guy. I always say I was born with grease under my fingernails. How much time do I spend reading Hemings Classic Classic Motors? I read it, folks. But oh, there's time that can be redeemed. There's time that can be better used. Sure, it's it's good reading, it's enjoyable. But why do we not hunger and thirst for the reading of God's Word? Why do we not dedicate our entire being to pursuing that which is of value? And this goes into every area of our life. What is really important to me? What are the things that I really value in life? For you see, Christ told us not to lay up treasures in earth here, where moth and rust doth corrupt, but to lay up treasures in heaven where neither moth nor rust doth corrupt Because where your treasure is, there will your heart be also. We can redeem the time. By pursuing that which has heavenly value rather than that which has only earthly value. And this pursuing of heavenly values. is in itself a mark of the new creature. We find this in multiple scriptures. In Ephesians 4. 28, let him that stole, steal no more. But rather, let him labor with his hands that which is good, that he may have to give to him that needeth Mm-hmm. Think about what that verse is telling us. The man who's been the thief, it's all about me. It's all about me. I gotta have this, I gotta have this, and I don't want to work for any of it, so I'm gonna steal, I'm gonna stake, I'm gonna I I'm gonna go into stores and smash and grab and so on and so forth. But the man who has been transformed by the power of God, his whole psyche, his whole goal in life has been changed. Let him that sow steal no more, but rather labor, and the reason labor is that he may have to give to him that needeth. He's no longer looking at me, me, me, but rather give, give, give. You've been transformed. And then again In Acts 20, verse 35, I have showed you all things, how that so laboring ye ought to support the weak. And to remember the words of the Lord Jesus, how he said, It is more blessed to give. than to receive. And again in Luke 3, verse 11, he answered and said unto them, He that hath two coats, let him impart one to him that hath none. But he and he that hath meat, let him do likewise. We redeem the time by pursuing heavenly values rather than the values of this earth Thirdly, we can redeem the time in our prayers. Redeem the time in our prayers. Um John Wesley Got up at four o'clock every morning to pray. To pray. And um there are jokes within Met Methodist circles. In in his study, there are two worn spots where it supposedly he wore the floor with his knees. And the wall is all stained. They said his breath stained the stained the paint on the wall. And uh there's all kinds of jokes about breath that stains paint. But he was a man who understood that he needed to spend his day in prayer. John Wesley would be up at four in the morning to pray and often would be preaching his first sermon by five o'clock. Because you see the history of John Wesley was that he was kicked out of the Anglican church and he went outside the church where he had been pastoring and hopped up on his father's tombstone and preached from there. But he saw the miners, not children, but but men who mined in the in the deep mines. He saw them on their way to their minds, many of them working seven days a week. And he saw them as a godless lot that no one was evangelizing, and so he started getting up at four o'clock to pray, and at five o'clock he would be standing outside the mines preaching. To the miners as they went in. And that's where the great revival that saved England started. We can redeem the time in prayer. Folks, I like to sleep in. I I love to get that extra weight. But oh how much more important it is to get up and pray. To spend time with the Lord in prayer. And you remember Christ in the garden when he Finds him asleep in Matthew, finds the disciples asleep in Matthew 26. And it's interesting, it says in verse 40 of Matthew 26, that he cometh to the disciples and findeth them asleep, and saith unto Peter What? Could you not watch with me one hour? Isn't it interesting? He doesn't say it to all the disciples. Peter, could you not watch with me one hour? Why Peter? Well, Peter was the one to say, although everybody forsakes you. I won't forsake you. And Peter was an hour away from denying the Lord. You know, maybe, maybe, if Peter had been praying instead of sleeping. He would have had the faith to stand up to the maiden and to the others and say, Yes, I know him. He's my Lord. But instead he denied. Redeeming the time through prayer. Pray without ceasing. Psalm 55, 17, evening and morning at noon I will pray and cry aloud, and he shall hear my voice. Set aside a specific time for prayer. Prayer I prioritize prayer. Make use of prayer list and be always in a spirit of prayer. When we were in Jamaica, some of the best prayer times I had was driving across the island. It would take an hour and a half to get from our mission station over to Montego Bay, which was the nearest big city for some of our supplies. And some wonderful days of prayer, just driving, just talking to the Lord, praying out loud in the car by yourself. Praying early in the morning, pausing in the middle of the day to pray, ending the day with prayer. As I said to my wife this morning, do as I say, not as I do. Because I would love to be able to stand here and tell you that that's the kind of prayer life that I have. But oh, brethren, friends, how we need to redeem that time. How much time is wasted on other things that could be spent in prayer? How we need to turn off the stupid radio in the car. And spend their time talking with the Lord, to use that bit of time that has no other purpose than to pray. So we redeem the time by panting after the Lord and by pursuing that which is of value and by prayer. But fourthly, we redeem the time in praising the Lord. Redeem the time in praising the Lord. Look at verses 19 and 20 of our text, back in Ephesians chapter 5. Verse 19, speaking to yourselves. In psalms and hymns and spiritual songs, singing and making melody in your heart to the Lord. You notice who the audience is there? Look at verse 19 again. Speaking to your brethren. Speaking to the congregation? No. Speaking to yourselves. Speaking to yourselves in psalms and hymns and spiritual songs, singing and making melody in your heart to the Lord. And so you're speaking to yourself self in prayer. In other words, you're admonishing your own heart and admonishing your own spirit. God is holy, you're not. God is worthy of praise, and you're worthy of his rebuke. And so we are singing praises to the Lord, and those praises are a conviction And a stirring to our own soul, because the more we praise him, the more we acknowledge that he's worthy of our praise. And the more we praise him, the more we acknowledge that we are sinful people that deserve to be in hell right now. But hallelujah, what a savior he has saved us. There's an old song, From sinking sand he rescued me. With loving hand he rescued me. From shades of night to plains of light he rescued me. We need to praise him. And so there are three areas in which I'd like us to consider redeeming the time in praise. And the first is in private praise. You realize that David wasn't composing the psalms. Many of them. Some of them were composed for the singers and so on. But many of his psalms were composed when he was out in the field of sheep. And he was playing his harp. And he was singing to the Lord. We praise the Lord in private Psalm thirty three, verses one through three. Rejoice in the Lord, O ye righteous, for praise is comely for the upright. Praise the Lord with heart Sing unto him with a psaltery and an instrument of ten strings. Sing unto him a new song. Play skillfully with a loud noise. And um Dear person that's very dear to me has often said, I can't sing well, but I sing loud anyway. You know, I don't have a beautiful voice, but I belt it out to the Lord, and I can tell you this brother does He sings out to the Lord. Because he's not singing to the person beside him. He's not singing to the congregation. He is singing to himself in psalms and hymns and spiritual songs Giving thanks and praise to the Lord. Right. So we praise the Lord privately, private worship. But also we praise the Lord corporately, and I'm not using public yet, we'll get to that. But we praise the Lord corporately. In other words, we join our voices together and praise the Lord. Right above the door it says where two or three are gathered together in my name, there I'm in the midst. We join our hearts and our voices together, and we sing as one chorus to the Lord, lifting up our voice as one praising our God in public worship. And we find this in Scripture as well. Psalm 111, verses 1 and 2. Praise ye the Lord. I will praise the Lord with my whole heart in the midst of or in the assembly of the upright. And in the congregation. The works of the Lord are great, sought out by all those that have pleasure in them. We sing unto the Lord in the assembly. I will give thanks unto thee and to the great congregation. I will praise thee among much people. And so we praise the Lord publicly or privately, and we praise the Lord corporately, but also I believe we're to praise the Lord publicly And here I would go to Psalm 109 and verse 30, where the psalmist says, I will greatly praise the Lord with my mouth. Yea, I will sing praise unto him in the multitude. And when we find that word multitude in Scripture, it most often is not speaking of the multitude of the saints, but rather the multitude of the Gentiles. It's speaking of the unbelieving world. Sing a song of praise at the top of your lungs at work. Among the multitude I was I was in the uh Charles de Gaulle airport in France and huge big concourse wider than a gymnasium and I heard a piano playing hymns. And I was I was on a layover there and I thought, you know, what is this? So I walked down here and here is a young man playing hymns and before long there were three or four of us standing there at the piano in the Charles de Gaulle airport He's playing beautiful hymns and we're singing at the top of our lungs. And most of the people walking by didn't pay a bit of attention. Poor yeah. But God was paying attention. As we were singing a hymn, we were blessed by the exercise And the multitude did hear whether they wanted to or not. It was a glorious experience. It's just a blessed thing to run into three other believers, four becoming the pianists. In the Charles de Gaulle Airport. You see, we can sing unto the Lord in any situation, in any environment. We sing the praise of the Lord publicly, and that is redeeming the time. Because we were on a layover. It was wasted time in the airport. But we can redeem the time in praising the Lord. I will speak of thy testimonies before kings and will not be ashamed. Write that reference down if you're taking references. That's Psalm 119, 46. I will speak of thy testimony before kings, and will not be ashamed. So we can redeem the time by panting after God, by pursuing that which is of value, by praying, by praising. But we also redeem the time in our participation. We redeem the time by using our time to participate in the things of God. To participate in that which is valuable. Don't plan on serving the Lord later. They drilled us into us in col Bible college. Don't plan on serving the Lord when you get to the mission field. If you're not a missionary now, you won't be one there either. Don't plan on serving the Lord at some point in your life, because that point in your life will never come. If you're not serving the Lord now, you're not going to serve him tomorrow either, because there will always be something that comes along. But you see, we serve the Lord with our participation in the work of the Lord. And that involves our witness for the Lord. It involves our care for our neighbors, whether believers or not. It involves our attitudes in the stores. I get frustrated, folks. I hate standing in line. But oh how we can lose our testimony standing in line rather than participating in the work of the Lord, even in that line. Let your light so shine before men that they may see your good works and glorify your Father. Which is in heaven. You see, I hope you're getting the theme here. There's moments all throughout our day that are wasted. Yes. That can be bought back, can be redeemed for the Lord Serve the Lord with gladness. Come before his presence with singing. Know ye that the Lord, He is God. It is He that hath made us, and not we ourselves. We are His people. and the sheep of his pasture. Who do you belong to? Then whose time are you wasting? You know, when we're at work, if you're working an hourly job, you don't own that time. You have sold that time to your employer. We are bought with a price. He has bought our time. And so know ye that the Lord He is God is He that made you. We are His people. You know what? We belong to the shepherd, and a shepherd does not buy pets. A shepherd purchases his sheep to a person Peas are getting in my tongue. The shepherd purchases sheep to a purpose. The shepherd doesn't have pet sheep. He has sheep that are profitable to his purpose. And we are bought with a price. Therefore, glorify God in your body and in your spirit, which are his. Whatsoever that ye shall do, do it heartily, as unto the Lord, and not unto men. Isn't that a good verse on buying back the time? Colossians 3 verse 23, and whatsoever ye do, do it heartily as to the Lord and not to men. You're not doing your job as if you're just pleasing the boss. But rather we do it as unto the Lord. And so Christ uh himself, when I mentioned this verse in prayer, but Christ himself said in John 9 verse 4, I must work the works of him that sent me while it is dead day. The night cometh when no man shall work, and so rejoice well redeem the time. Well done, my good and faithful servant. Enter thou into the joy of thy Lord. We redeem the Lord by partaking, and Brother Vince mentioned this somewhat in in Sunday school about about uh reading the Word of God and taking the Word of God in. We redeem the time by partaking of spiritual reasons. Thanks. By partaking of the bread of the Word of God, by partaking of the manna that God spreads in our place. And since we're going with peas, instead of partaking, I think it'd be better to say we redeem the time by pigging out. By pigging out. And we know what that phrase means. By gorging ourselves, by eating in abundance, by eating every crumb off the plate, by taking it all. We redeem the time by partaking of spiritual things. Thy words were found, and I did eat them. And thy word was unto me, the joy and rejoicing of my heart. For I am called by thy name, O Lord God of hosts. O taste and see that the Lord is good. Blessed is the man that trusteth in him. Neither have I gone back to the commandments of thy lips. I have esteemed the words of thy mouth more than my necessary food. The fear of the Lord is clean, enduring forever. The judgments of the Lord are true and righteous altogether. More to be desired are they than gold, yea, than much fine gold. Sweeter also than honey, and the honeycomb. You ever had raw honey? My my my fa grandfather kept these and sometimes he would get into the hive and just break off a piece of honey and not even put it in the extractor, he'd just hand his grandsons. pieces of the bees wax. And you put that in your mouth and it would bite down and the honey would just burst out of it. And it was so sweet that you couldn't take but a small piece because you'd get sick at your belly. It was so sweet. Oh my friends, could we truly redeem the time to such a point But the word of God had that same appeal to us, that it was so sweet that we say, enough, enough, enough, I can't take in any more right now. That would truly be buying back, redeeming the wasted time of our Moreover, by them as thy servant warned and keeping of them, there is great reward. We've got to move along, but we redeem the time by panting, by pursuing, by praying, by praising, by participating. And we redeem the time by persevering. And folks, I think I need this one more than anything else. We redeem the time by persevering. And be not weary in well-doing, for in due time ye shall reap if ye faint not. And my Father drilled into me again and again, 2 Timothy 2, and verse 3. Thou therefore endure hardness as a good soldier of Jesus Christ. I guarantee you it was hundreds of times I heard my dad say that to me. Joe, endure hardness as a good soldier of Jesus Christ. In college, I call dad complaining about a assignment. Joe, endure hardness as a good soldier of Jesus Christ The first two years on the mission field, we faced all kinds of adversity. Our house was destroyed in a hurricane. We had no roof. Penny was pregnant. We had rats in our water tank. Uh we had no electricity. We we just you you name it everything going wrong. We couldn't get water. And my father would say, Joe, endure hardness as a good soldier of Jesus Christ. You see, we redeem the time through endurance. Pressing on. Pressing on. Continuing. No man that warreth, the next verse, entangleth himself with the affairs of this life, that he may please him who hath called him to be a soldier. We've got some soldiers and some veterans in our midst. The soldier, he follows what the general says to do and what the captain says to do, all the way down to the corporal and the sergeant. He follows the directions. Ours not the reason why, ours but the do and die. But oh how we can waste time by complaining instead of perse persevering, by fretting. instead of doing that which God has assigned for us to do. But watch down all things. Do the work of an evangelist. I'm sorry, I left that the most part for the part of the verse. Second Timothy four verse five. But watch down all things. Endure affliction. Do the work of the evangelists make full proof of the ministry. Matthew 10, 22, and ye shall be hated of all men's sak men's for hated of all men for my name's sake, but he that endureth to the end. shall be saved. That's not talking about you'll gain salvation by enduring to the end. But he that presses on, his salvation is made manifest because God will deliver him from that which he's persevering in. God will deliver him from his trials. Psalm or Proverbs twenty four verse ten is a verse that I came across Ten or fifteen years ago, and it just arrested my attention. I've actually preached from this text. Proverbs 24, verse 10, if thou faint in the day of adversity, thy strength is small. If thou faintest in the day of adversity, thy strength is small. In other words, if I faint in adversity, My strength obviously isn't his, because his strength is small. But if I faint in the day of adversity, the problem is I'm trusting my own strength, and it indeed is small. We need to trust the strength of the God of heaven and persevere. And so, to review again, we're panting, we're pursuing, we're praying, we're praising, we're participating, partaking, and persevering. But the last one is the most important. We redeem the time by perishing. We redeem the time by dying. I am crucified with Christ. Nevertheless, I live, yet not I. But Christ liveth in me. You see, the reason we don't redeem the time is because the old man's running around wasting it. The reason we're not redeeming the time is because the old man, this wretched man that I am, he's the one that's using it, because my new creature in Christ Is it interested in those things? Right? It is the new creature that desires to pray. It is the new creature that desires to participate. It is the new creature that pursues after righteousness. It is the new creature that praises the Lord. The old man doesn't do any of that. And so if I am to truly redeem the time, I gotta perish. I'm going to die to all those things and die to all the time wasting that is so much a part of my old nature. For the love of Christ constraineth us because we thus judge that if one died for all, then all were dead. And that he died for all, they which live should not henceforth live unto themselves, but unto him which died for them and rose again. And they that are Christ have crucified the flesh with the affections thereof. Peter said in 1 Peter 4, verses 1 through 3. Forasmuch then as Christ hath suffered in the flesh, arm yourselves likewise with the same mind. For he that has suffered in the flesh hath ceased from sin That he no longer should live the rest of his time in the flesh to the lust of men, but to the will of God. You want a verse for 2023 that he no longer should live the rest of his time in the flesh to the lust of men, but to the will of God. May we not live this year to the lust of flesh and the will of men, but to the will of God. For the time past of our lives may suffice to have wrought the will of the Gentiles when we walked in lasciviousness. lust, excessive wine, reveling, banqueting, and abominable idolatries. First Peter one verses four through three And so to conclude, we have one little phrase from Paul in 1 Corinthians 13, verse, or 1 Corinthians 15, verse 31. I die. daily. If we are to redeem the time, we've got to die to that old man that we might live to Christ. May God give us grace to make this new year, 2023, the year of greatest revival we've ever known. When we come to the first day of twenty twenty-four, will we look back and say, I'm backslidden, or I have progressed in righteousness. For God. Let's stand praying. Our Father, again we pray. May we not be forgetful hearers. Or we've seen a lot of Scripture today. May it be ingrained into our being. Father, help us indeed to die to the old men and to buy back every moment we can. In Jesus' name. Amen.