Open in your Bibles with me this morning to the 122nd Psalm, Psalm 122. And I'll read all nine verses of the Psalm for our scripture reading this morning. Psalm 122, and I'll begin with the first verse Here we find these words. I was glad when they said unto me, Let us go into the house of the Lord. Our feet shall stand within thy gates, O Jerusalem. Jerusalem is builded as a city that is compact together. Whether the tribes go up, the tribes of the Lord, under the testimony of Israel, to give thanks under the name of the Lord. For there are set thrones of judgment, the thrones of the house of David. Pray for the peace of Jerusalem. They shall prosper that love thee. Peace be within thy walls, and prosperity within thy palaces. For my brothers and brethren and companions' sake, I will now say, Peace be within thee. Because of the house of the Lord our God, I will seek thy good. Let us bow for prayer as we begin to consider God's word to go this morning. Gracious Father, we thank you for thy word and thy truth. Father, we thank you that thy word is a lamp unto our feet and a light to our path. We thank you that the entrance to thy word giveth light. Father, this morning, illumine us by thy word. May we indeed rightly divide the word of truth May we dig into your scriptures and not apply man's thoughts or our own world opinions to the Word of God. But Lord, may the Scripture itself be the guide to other Scriptures. And this day, Lord, may we be instructed. May we be taught from thy word. May we be rooted and grounded in thy truth. May we gain a better understanding of the whole of Scripture. May we not be guilty of pulling out single texts and and uh shoehorning them into our current circumstances, O Lord. But may we take thy word for what it says. And O Lord, may we not try to apply thy word, but rather may Thy Spirit apply thy word to our hearts. Bless us in this endeavor, we pray. And may Christ be glorified. For we pray this in the name of Jesus Christ our Lord. Amen. We hear a lot about Jerusalem today. The city of Jerusalem, the modern-day Jerusalem, is very much in the news. And if you are on Facebook, which I don't necessarily recommend it, but I am on Facebook, if you are following social media, you probably have heard or seen multiple times pray for the peace of Jerusalem. And I would say to you this morning, indeed. We should be praying for the peace of that certain city in the Middle East today. Because there is great turmoil going on in the Middle East, in what we would call the Holy Land. or Palestine. And it's involving Lebanon and Jordan and Syria and Iran, all the nations around there are in one way or another involved or affected. And so I would not in any way endeavor to discourage you for praying for peace in the Middle East. But is that really what this verse is talking about in verse number six, where it says, pray for the peace of Jerusalem. They shall prosper that love thee. Peace be within thy walls, and prosperity within thy palaces. First of all, if we're going to understand and rightly abide this passage and make good application to it through other passages, we have to take a look at this word saloom or peace. What is it that it means? We often hear the expression, what is the definition of peace? Well, peace is the opposite or absence of war. And in our geopolitical setting, that's a good and fit definition. Peace is the absence of war. But is that the biblical definition of peace? Is that what the Bible means by peace? And if you follow this word saloom or peace through the scripture, you'll find that it's very, very rarely associated with military conflicts. It is very rarely found in the context of one army taking up arms against another. The first time that we find this word peace is found in Genesis 15 and verse 15, where God is making promise to Abraham. And he says, Thou shalt go to thy fathers in peace, thou shalt be buried in a good old age. Now it doesn't mean all the battles and wars are going to cease when you die, but rather you will die in peace. And then again when Joseph's brothers come to Joseph, and Joseph now is the third ruler in Egypt, and His brothers are fearful before them. And Joseph asked him that this question in Genesis 43, verse 27. And he asked him of the welfare of the welfare and said, is your father well? And that word welfare in well is, is your father in peace? It was speaking of his well-being, and the word peace is used there. And then again when Hannah was praying in the temple and she was greatly disturbed and so grieved in spirit that Eli thought that she was drunken. And she said, No, I'm not drunk, but rather I'm one in one who's in bitterness of spirit. I'm praying for a child. And Eli says to her, Go in peace And it's that word peace. And so the scriptural usage of this word peace or shalom is most often, if you follow it, the idea of completeness. The idea of soundness, the idea of welfare, or to use the word itself as its definition, of peace. It's the idea of completeness. It means safety or soundness in body. Is he at peace? In other words, is his body well Is he free from physical danger? Is it well with thee? What is the welfare of this person? That's what Joseph was asking about his father. Peace, quiet, tranquility, contentment is the fourth most common usage of this word. Peace and friendship in human relationships and peace with God is the fifth most frequent use of this word. Is is there peace between my brothers? No, we're not talking about warring, but Jacob and Esau didn't have peace between each other. Was there a good relationship between them? And then is there peace between me and God? What is my relationship with God? And then the fifth use is peace and war is the last. Most frequent use of this word. And so when we look at it that way and say, Okay, what does this word mean in Scripture When it says, pray for the peace of Jerusalem, well there was no war going on in Jerusalem when David wrote these words And so when we find this command to pray for the peace of Jerusalem, it must be something other than praying that the rockets will stop flying So what does it mean to pray for the peace of Jerusalem? Well, before we go any further into that, let's take a whirlwind tour. Of uh through history, the history of this city of Jerusalem. Now, uh, I'm a history buff, and if we're going to talk about the dates and history that relate to Jerusalem It's going to be six, seven pages single space of dates and lines, okay? So we're just going to kind of skim across the top. So don't fault me for thousand-year gaps in this, okay But basically, we know that the area was inhabited at least 2,000 years before Christ and further. in that general area. And the first I would pick out of the dates related to this would be when Um Abraham pays tithes to the king of Salem, to the king of peace in Melchizedek. And that we would date approximately 2000 BC. About 1000 B. C. , David conquers Jerusalem and makes it his capital. About 586 B. C. , Jerusalem is defeated by the Babylonians. About 73 B. About 0 BC, the wise men are heading to seeing the star and are heading to the Child Christ. 70 A. D. , Jerusalem is destroyed. 630 A. D. , the Muslims come along. Well, that's important in our modern context. That the Muslims come along to Jerusalem somewhere around 630. A. D. So those that are claiming this has always been our homeland, no, history history does not bear that out. Uh 1099 through 1291 are the Crusades, which were the attempt to retake Jerusalem, retake The Holy Land from the Muslims. So this conflict that's going on today dates back to the Crusades before And then 1526 to 1917, Jerusalem is ruled by the Ottoman Empire. November 2nd, 1917 is the Balfour Declaration. If you're a history bop, that means something. If not, you've never heard of it. The Balfour Declaration was from the former Prime Minister of Great Britain, who publicly stated in the Balfour Declaration that the Jews should have a homeland in Palestine. And then May fifteenth, nineteen forty-eight, the establishment of the State of Israel. Now All that has to do with a city in Palestine that has very rarely had peace. And if we take this psalm verse by verse and see the things that are said about the Jerusalem for whose peace we're going to pray. We're gonna find that the puzzle pieces just don't fit together. Do you ever have a piece in a puzzle that was not belonging in that box? That was from the wrong puzzle? And it doesn't matter how hard you try, you can't fit it in Because it's not part of the picture. What I'd like us to kind of see from this verse this morning. Martin Luther said of this of Jerusalem. Our Jerusalem is the church. Our temple is Christ Whenever Christ is preached, the sacraments rightly administered, there we are sure God dwells, and there is our temple, tabernacle, our cherubim, our mercy seat. For there God is present with us by His Word. Psalm 122 is a picture of the church. And the peace of Jerusalem for which we are to pray is the peace of the Church of God. It is the peace of the place where God dwells. Now, you may say, Pastor, that I'd never heard that before. Pastor, that doesn't seem right. Prove it to me. Well, let's take a look at the Word of God. So the first thing it happens to see from this psalm, from the context of this verse, is that the Jerusalem for which we are to pray is the place where God dwells. Look at the first verse. I was glad when they said unto me, let us go into the house of the Lord. Look at the last verse of the Psalm. I was glad because the house of the Lord because of the house of the Lord our God. This is verse 9. Because of the house of the Lord our God, I will seek thy good. I was glad when they said unto me, Let us go into the house of the Lord. The Jerusalem that is spoken of here is significant because God dwells there. Why are we praying for the peace of Jerusalem? Well, we're praying for the place where God dwells. In 2 Chronicles 6, verse 6. But I have chosen Jerusalem that my name might be there, and I have chosen David to ru be uh over my people Psalm 132, verses 13 and 14. For the Lord our God hath chosen Zion. He hath desired it for his habitation. This is my rest forever. God says, I'm going to be in Zion forever. Here will I dwell, for I desired it. And Psalm seventy-six, verse two, from our responsive reading, and Salem is my tabernacle, and his di is his tabernacle, and his dwelling place is in Zion. And so the Jerusalem being spoken of here is significant because God dwells there. I would sadly submit to you today that God does not dwell in the Jerusalem of the Middle East. He certainly does not dwell there forever as was indicated by Scripture. And if we go to the New Testament we find the glorious passage. Where Christ is desiring to enter into the church, behold, I stand Revelation 3 at the door and knock. If any man hear my voice and will open, I will come into him and will sup with him, and he with me. He that hath an ear Let him hear what the Spirit saith unto the churches. You see, the church is the place where Christ desires to be. The church is the place where he desires to dwell. And of course in the first book of chapter of Revelation we find the seven golden candlesticks which represent the seven churches. And what is the image there? Oh Christ is in the midst of them He is among them. And so the Jerusalem that is spoken of here in Psalm 122 is the place where God dwells. And Zephaniah 3 has a glorious, verse 14 through 17, a glorious prophecy of the church that's found in the Old Testament. Zephaniah 3:14, Sing, O daughter of Zion, shout, O Israel, be glad and rejoice with all the heart, O daughter of Jerusalem. The Lord hath taken away thy judgments, he hath cast out thine enemy. Well, I don't think the enemy is cast out of Jerusalem. But oh my friends, the enemy is cast out of my heart. For Satan has been put down within me. And Satan is driven from the church as the bird of the air was driven away, who would steal away the seed. The king of Israel, even the Lord, is in the midst of thee. Thou shalt not see evil anymore. Oh. There's no condemnation to them that are in Christ Jesus. The church will see co see evil no more. The curse has been removed. In that day it shall be said to Jerusalem, Fear not, and to Zion, let not thine hands be lack. The Lord thy God in the midst of thee is mighty. Well, I don't think Jehovah's mighty in the midst of the land in Palestine, but he sure is mighty within his church. He will save. He will rejoice over thee with joy. He will rest in his love. He will joy over thee with sin. And so if we look at the context and see what is said about this Jerusalem for which we're to pray, the first thing we find is the Jerusalem for which we're to pray is the place where God dwells. Mm-hmm. Well God clearly dwells in his church, not in a city in Palestine. But the second thing we would see is that the Jerusalem spoken of here is a city that is compacted together. Look at verse three. Jerusalem Is built as a city that is compact together. Now, what does that term compact together mean? Well, it essentially means in the first sentence it's united under one king. It's compact together. There's one king. There's one ruler over it. Not today. Today in the Middle East we have a divided city and we're talking about a two-state solution and all these geopolitical things that are coming in. Is that speaking of the earthly Palestinian Jerusalem or is it speaking of of a heavenly Jerusalem, a church? It is a city united, it's compact together, united under one faith Well, that certainly doesn't fit. It is a city that is united with one purpose. It is a city united as one people. The believers in Christ, as believers in Christ, we have only one race. We have only one nationality. We have only one ethnic background. We are indeed one people. Red and yellow, black and white and green with purple spots. It doesn't matter. We're one people in Christ. Folks, this city that is compacted together is the church For Paul said, I therefore, as the prisoner of the Lord, beseech you that you walk worthy of vocation with all loathliness and meekness, long suffering, forbearing one another in love, endeavoring to keep the unity of the spirit and the bond of the peace, for there is one body one spirit, even as we're called in one hope of our calling. Truly we are one body. For in First Corinthians, Paul said in chapter twelve, for As the body is one and hath many members, and all members of that one body being many, are one body also in Christ For by one spirit were we all baptized into one body, whether we be Jews or Gentiles, whether we be bond or free, we have all been made to drink of one spiritual drink, for there is one body and many members. I think I've probably told you before that the greatest compliment I have ever received in my life, not that I've received a lot of compliments, but the greatest compliment I've ever received in my life. was when I was told I was a white man, a white man's body with a black man's heart. That is the greatest compliment. That was when I was in Jamaica. Greatest compliment I've ever had. But the people realized I didn't care about the skin. A white man's body and a black man's heart. May that be the testimony that we can all give that I just love you because Christ has loved you. I'm a mix of Scots-Irish and German-Jew. That's my heritage. My name has two capital letters, M, C, Capital K. I've got that Scots-Irish in me. But on my mom's side, we're German Jews. In this congregation, we have folks from Lebanon, Ukraine, Cameroon. Mexican heritage, Italian heritage, South Korean. We have all ranges of skin tones And believe it or not, we even have a Native American with more Indian blood than Elizabeth Warren in this congregation. And yet we're one congregation. And we're united together. And that is what is said about the church. It doesn't matter what country we come from, it doesn't matter how light, dark, pale, Red, green, or blue, our skin may be. The church is one city that is compacted together It has one King, Christ. It has one purpose, his glory, it has one throne, his mercy seat, and it is one people. And so when we pray for the peace of Jerusalem, we're praying, remember that word peace primarily means completeness and well-being. We're not praying that the enemy won't be coming in, but we're praying that we might together give glory to Christ. That we might be complete, that the loss may be brought in That the unbelievers may be transformed from children of Satan into children of God, that the lost sheep might be returned. There's a lot of talk about equality and equity today. You know the church is the only place where there's true equity. You know, in in our nation We have in our original founding document that all men are created equal. It doesn't mean that everybody's the same. It doesn't mean that everybody gets the same amount. But it means that we are equal. We're created equal. But my friend, the church of God is the only place of true equity. That's right. It's the only place where we all receive the same. That's right We're all wicked sinners. We're all deserving of judgment. And we're all only here because of Christ. And as the old hymn says, Naught have I gotten but what I received, grace has bestowed it since I have believed. Boasting excluded pride I erase, I'm only a sinner, saved by grace. And the first shall be last and the last shall be first. And one says, I'm Apollo and I'm Apollos. And Paul says, No, we're all of Christ. That's true equity. And so in Revelation 21, 16, the New Jerusalem is described as a city that lieth foursquare. Its dimensions, height, length, breadth, in every way, it is equal. There's true equity in Christ. And in Christ alone. And so this city is the place where God dwells. And this city is a place that is compacted together. It is unitized. It is one. But thirdly, the city of Jerusalem that we're to pray for here Is the place where the tribes go up. Look at verses 3 and 4. Jerusalem is builded as a city that is compacted together. Whither the tribes go up. The tribes of the Lord unto the testimony of Israel to give thanks unto the names of the Lord. Folks, this can't be the tribes of Israel. Because today, there's ten of them lost. When we talk about Israel nationally, today we're talking about the Jews. Well, that's not the tribes of Israel. It's one tribe with Benjamin attached to it. That is all that remain with the house of David. If the Jerusalem that is spoken of here in this chapter is the place where the tribes go up, then it is impossible for the tribes to go up to a city in Palestine Because they are no more. They're lost or dispersed. And even the Jews today are in question. Now I am I am very proud of the fact That I am of Jewish heritage. My family fled Germany in God's providence before World War II. Or I probably wouldn't be here today. My great-great-grandparents were born in Germany and they came to the US on their honeymoon and never went back. Okay. So I have Jewish heritage, and yet even though today with a degree of Jewish blood flowing in their bodies, there are no pure Jews. They they are intermingled with the Romans. They are intermingled with the Canaanites. The Jews in Christ's day had no dealing with the Samaritans. Why? Because their Jewishness was impure. And they were forbidden from the tabernacle from the tabernacle and the temple because they could not show their heritage. Remember that from the Old Testament. Well, today no physical Jew can show his heritage. None can demonstrate their purity. We're all a mixed bag. And so if this Jerusalem for which we're to pray is the place where the tribes go up. What tribes? How can this be? In Malachi four, verses one and two But in the last day, ah, the last day, that's beginning with the time of Christ. But in the last day it shall come to pass That in the mountain of the house of the Lord. Oh, isn't that insignificant? In the mountain of the house of the Lord, Maihiah 4. 1 That the mountain of the house of the Lord shall be established in the top of the mountains, and it shall be exalted above the hills, and the people shall flow into it. And many nations shall come and say, come, let us go up to the mountain of the Lord and the house of the God of Jacob. And he will teach us his ways. We will walk in his paths, for a law shall go forth of Zion, and the word of the Lord from Jerusalem. The true church of God It's not an American phenomenon. The true Church of God is made up of all nations. All tongues, all races, but we have flown into the heavenly Jerusalem. We have flown in, flowing not as flying a plane, but flowing, flown. In like a river into the house of God. We are one people. It doesn't matter if you go to Kenya and worship there with the church. You will find yourself to be among the people of God. If you go to Jamaica and worship there with the people, you will rejoice to find yourself among the people of God. And so indeed the tribes of earth flow in to the church. And so the church is indeed today the place where the tribes go up, where they beat. Fourthly, the Jerusalem for which we are to pray is the place of the throne. That's what the passage tells us. Look at verse 5. For there are set thrones of judgment, the thrones of the house of David. In this Jerusalem, for which we're to pray, for whose peace we're to long and pray, there are set thrones of judgment, the thrones of the house of David. In the church today there is a throne of judgment. Yes, there is. In the New Testament church, the New Jerusalem, there shall be thrones of judgment in heaven. Doesn't exist in Palestine today, does it? Does not exist in the Middle Eastern nation that has the city of Jerusalem. Where is the throne in Palestine? You will find none. And look specifically. At what it says here. It says, there are set thrones of judgment. God has given judicial authority to the church. Check me out on that. The New Testament. God has given judicial authority to the church. Matthew 18, verse 15 through 18. Moreover, if thy brother trespass against thee Go and tell him thy faults between thee and him alone. If he will hear thee thou hast gained a brother. But if he will not hear thee, then take with thee one or two more, that at the mouth of two witness or three witnesses every word may be established. And if he neglect to hear thee, tell it unto the church. But if ye neglect to hear the church, let him be unto thee as an heathen man and as a publican. And so we've talked about the fact that the church is compacted together. It's made up of all peoples, tongues, nations, and races. That the characteristic of it is its unity. And here we find the judicial authority is given to the church. If your brother you've got a problem with brother, go talk to him. And if you two can work it out, good and fine. Peace is restored. If that doesn't work, take with you one or two others that you know you don't want to he said, she said, but try to work it out, and if that doesn't work, you go to the court And the court of the children of God is the church, and those that will not hear the church's authority, let them be to you as a heathen. That's right. Because the child of God, if he's truly a child of God, and not a tear among wheat, not a goat among sheep, he will hear the word of God, he will hear the people of God, and unity will be restored. And so that's the biblical pattern. So the first thing we see is that God has given judicial authority to the church. But then also we find, if we look at scripture, that thrones are prominent in the New Testament and in the New Jerusalem. Uh uh in Psalm eleven four, the Lord is in his holy temple, the Lord's throne is in heaven. Doesn't say the Lord's throne is in Jerusalem. The Lord's he throne is in heaven, his eyes behold, his eyelids try the children of men. Revelation four verse two And immediately I was in the spirit, and behold, a throne was set in heaven. Heaven. You see, we pray for the peace of Jerusalem, which is the New Jerusalem, and the New Jerusalem is depicted as a bridegroom coming down It is indeed the Church of God, and so we find the thrones throughout Revelation. But I think the most important thing when we consider that the Jerusalem being spoken of here is a place where the throne is. Is that it is an occupied throne. It is the throne of David which is occupied. In Psalm 132 and verse 11, the Lord has sworn in truth unto David He will not turn from it. Fruit of his body will I set upon thy throne. And then Isaiah nine verse seven, of the increase of his government and peace there shall be no end upon the throne of David and upon his kingdom to order it And to establish it with justice and judgment from henceforth, even forever. Now, from henceforth, what's that mean? Well it means from this time forward. From this time forward, henceforth does not involve the past. Henceforth is from now forever. When was Isaiah 9 speaking of The speaking of the day of Christ. Okay? Uh the increase of his government upon the throne of the king David upon his kingdom to order it and establish it That's talking about David, or it's talking about Christ, the son of David, who comes and sits on the throne from the time of Christ forward. The throne of David is now for all eternity occupied. Well that's certainly not a throne that doesn't exist in the Palestinian city of Jerusalem, nor is a throne that may someday be built on the Temple Mount. I don't believe it's ever going to happen But a throne that would be established there. But rather, the throne that is spoken of here dwells within the church today. And it is the throne upon which Jesus Christ is set from the time that he was crucified. His enemies now are his footstool. And so this is the place of thrones. And so to review very quickly, we find that this city is the city where God dwells We find that it is a city that is compacted together. We find it is a city which dwells in unity. It is a city that all the tribes of the church are in. And is a place of the thrones This is the place that we're to pray for. But the last thing we see about this city is the city that we're to pray for is a place of great joy. Look back to verse 1. I was glad when they said unto me, let us go into the house of the Lord. There are people today that are trying to get a ticket to get out of Gaza. And Americans living over there, many of them there, trying to get on a plane. And if you watch the news, you've seen interviews, yeah we you know, we we made it out. We got out you know, we got we got people are trying to get out of there right now. The Jews who today it is their homeland, they are standing to fight for it and they are staying, just as we would take up arms to defend our own nation, our own country, and that's good, and that's well, and I support them. Uh make no mistake about who, what team I'm rooting for in the current battle. It is indeed the Jews. It is the state of Israel And I do pray for them. But the Jerusalem in this verse that we're to pray for is a place of perpetual joy. Mm-hmm. I was glad when they said them to me. How many of you were glad to come to church this morning? That's right. Wow. We have a large group that worship with us online. I guarantee you if you ask them, every one of them would say they would rather be here with us in person Thank the Lord that we have these means today that we can join together and worship together through the internet because we have people scattered in areas where they cannot find a good place to worship. But we're glad. We look forward to it. We make the Sabbath our delight. We joy to be here. And in the true church there is peace, there is unity, and when you find a church splitting, there's serious problems there. And probably the greatest problem with churches of split is that a lot of people have no business being there because they're not sheep, they're wolves. Because they're not sheep, they're goats. My sheep hear my voice and they follow me. That's right. And I give unto them eternal life. Did not you show good seed in your field, whence hath it tears an enemy hath done this. But the true church of Jesus Christ is the place of joy. It's a place where God's people delight. I was glad when they said unto me, it's time to go. I was glad when they said to me, Let us go into the house of the Lord. Isaiah sixty-five, verses seventeen through nineteen, for behold, I create a new heaven and a new earth. For the former shall be not be remembered, nor come to mind. Be ye glad and rejoice forever in that which I create. For behold, I create Jerusalem a rejoicing, and her people a joy. I will rejoice in Jerusalem And joy in my people. You see the connection there? He's not talking about rejoicing in a building or a place with walls around it. Rather, he's rejoicing in the people. I will rejoice, Isaiah 65, 19. I will rejoice in Jerusalem and joy in my people. And the voice of weeping shall no more be heard in her, nor the voice of crying. Why? Well, because God shall wipe away all tears. You see, this is something other than an earthly that the psalmist is speaking of. And so, dear friends, if we go back to our text and read from verse 6 again, Pray for the peace of Jerusalem. They shall prosper that love thee. They shall prosper that love thee. You know what that word prosper means? It means to be complete. It means to be whole. Still prosper. Who is it that loves the church? Those that are made whole by the grace of God. Pray for the peace of the church. Ah, they shall prosper that love thee. See, those that love the church of God love the price of the church. Those that love the church of God don't care about the things of this world. For this world is not my home, I'm just passing through. What shall it profit a man if he gained the whole world and loses his own soul? The Lord giveth, and the Lord taketh away. Blessed be the name of the Lord. In sickness or in health, I am his. In life or in death, I am his. And though after this body worms destroy this flesh, yet in my flesh shall I see God, who I'll see for myself, and not another, though my reigns be destroyed within me. Great peace have they that love thy law, and nothing shall offend them. Come unto me, all ye that labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. This word is a word that means completeness, and the second meaning is it means rest. Great rest have they. They shall have rest that love thee. Verse 7, peace be within thy walls and prosperity in thy palaces. It's that same word, prosperity again. For my brethren and my companion's sake, now will I say, peace be within thee. Why is it that we long for the peace of the Church of God? For my brethren's sake You see, how can brethren fight against brethren if they're truly brethren? For my brethren and companions' sake. I will now say, peace be within thee, peace be in the church. For my brother's sake, I won't fight with you. For my brother's sake, I'll agree with you. For my brother's sake, I will esteem others better than myself. For my brother's sake, I desire your good rather than your my good. It doesn't matter who won the election. It doesn't matter who got the office. It doesn't matter who got recognized the door. It doesn't matter that her dress was nicer than your dress. It doesn't matter that you played the piano and someone complimented you and not them. It doesn't matter that that you gave more money than someone else and weren't recognized. It doesn't matter that you mow the yard and no one else helps. It doesn't Yeah All these things that are split churches. Right. Do they really matter? in the company of brethren. Right? Oh my friends, pray for the peace of Jerusalem. Because Satan wants nothing more than to disrupt the peace of the church. That's right. Verse nine, because of the house of the Lord our God, I will seek thy good Because of the house of the Lord our God, I will seek the good of the church, I will not try to tear it down. I will not keep a list of all the times the pastor's tongue got twisted up. Fortunately I've never had that happen, but some of you know a pastor who has. Keeping a list of every time the pastor's tongue got if if you've ever spoken in front of an audience on a regular basis, I can assure you that you will s your mind will say one thing and your tongue will say something totally different. It's just a human state. My friend, where the church is true to God, where the people are praying for the peace of the church for the peace of Jerusalem Because of the house of the Lord I will seek thy good. And so to conclude, let me read just a few verses from Revelation 21. Revelation 21, 1, 16, 17, and 20. And he showed me a pure river of life, clear as crystal, proceeding from the throne of the Lamb of God. Verse 16: I, Jesus, have sent my angel to testify unto you these things in the churches. I am the root and offspring of David. And the bright and morning star. The spirit and the bride say, Come. Let him that heareth say, Come. But him that is a thirst come. And whosoever will, let him take of the water of life freely. That's the message of the church. Yeah. Doesn't say the wealthy come. Hm. Doesn't say the important come. Doesn't say the Americans come or the Jews come or the Arabians come or whoever. It just says come. He which testified these things saith, Surely I come quickly, even so come Lord Jesus. Jesus. Folks, I encourage you to pray for the city of Jerusalem in Palestine. I encourage you to pray for peace in Middle Earth in the Middle East. But folks, let us pray for the peace of the Church of God. Let us pray for the city of God that is spoken of in Psalm 122. Stand with me as we pray. Father, we thank you for thy word this morning. We thank you, Lord, that thy word is truth. We thank you that it is forever settled in heaven. O Lord, apply it to our hearts and give us grace to rightly divide it. In Jesus' name. Amen.