And I thought that was a very good statement. And I think God does that to exercise the head of the house to be able to go into the scriptures and figure out how to answer something very simply. So it's not something that's alien to us. Now he doesn't tell me what track that bus is going to take. And he's using a means. I'm going to talk a little bit about reprobation. They were in a ring right around that wilderness tabernacle. If you start having clowns in office, you ought to start to scratch your head and go, uh-oh, we might not be in the favor of God. We are not to go and to take the seed and say, well, I'm going to drop some over here. I'll just go to the remnant section. Can you imagine the wife whose husband says, I love all women? In fact, what good would the love of God do for an individual who winds up going to hell? The implementation, the carrying out, the execution, and the sustainment, the whole salvation life cycle is all in God's hands and it won't fail. And they're like the rich man who's in hell and torments. The Apostle Paul appointed these men as elders. The doctrine of election, when you start to talk about predestination, when you mention those words, what do you think people are going to commonly complain about? Well you look back when God first saved you. Well why did they seek after God? There's no salvation plan for angels. If I go in the garage and I make something for a purpose and it doesn't carry out that purpose, it's a failed device. He did a real good job of it. There's quite a lot of people in our time, it's even more in his time, whose overall population in the country couldn't have been more than uh five or ten million. So that's tonight's study. That's a pretty bold statement. Hath the Lord brought you out with a mighty hand, and redeemed you out of the house of Bonman, from the house, excuse me, from the hand of Pharaoh, king of Egypt? Can't crack through this knucklehead skull, not going anywhere, uh lost, you know, gonna go to Hollywood, gonna go uh you know, this is just a just a lost cause. All right, tonight we're going to continue in the general topic of the divine decrees, and the particular topic is predestination. But here's how that doctrine plays itself out. And this particular series was one of interest that Mr. for the glory of his sovereign power over his creatures to pass by and to ordain them to dishonor and wrath for their sin, to the praise of his glorious justice. And I have uh some cluthisms, but uh these are my handles that I give to my children to understand because You know, if it says Lake Forest Mall, that's my bus. Now there's a subtle nuance there. It probably took me a good 15 years to be able to get to that point to say that. The Westminster Divines use the phrase pass over. Pro-orizo, as you know in Greek, it kind of bolts on meanings, pro, forward, or two, and then or it's the concept of to limit in advance. So we will be conformed to the image of the Son. The other beauty about this verse is that salvation is a package deal. There's no way that God operates apart from his means. That wouldn't make any sense. You get it? But I'm doing it because I want us to focus on verse 7. to get into heaven because I've done these things. So what is being ordained there? Don't have it as a bumper sticker. Uh too often the Reformed faith is beat up and attacked because it says, well, you believe God's predestinated people to hell. That are phenomenal encouragements to all the children of God. So in the Bible, we actually find the word election used in three different contexts. So he's very clear on the basis for choosing them. I made with your fathers. They were certainly not in a position to rescue themselves out of Egypt. uh of some people to a special office or a service. So God made a decision. That there would be one tribe, the son of Aaron, of Levi, that would minister to him in that office. And you had to give it to the hand of the sanctified Levite, no less. You use any other moving company, dead. You never know who might come. Boom. whom he foreknew. uh handcocks or you go to the the remnant section. Trying to get rid of. you know, the mustard on or it fell in the dirt and they washed it off. helped God's transportation system and God smote him dead. Dathan and Abiram, with two hundred and fifty princes of the assembly, famous congregation, all come together against Moses and Aaron, and they said, You take too much upon you Really shouldn't have sunk so much money in that silver car. Yeah, but does he really know me? God called them out and uh uh brought them out into the uh into the area and he gathered them together and the glory of the Lord appeared in the tabernacle. to the image of his son. I've used this illustration. Oh, I've loved you all the way up to this point, but you just didn't believe in Christ. It really makes God's love quite cheap, is what it really is. And when they're done with it, you know, they put it out in the break room and somebody calls in the sharks and everybody comes in and devours it. Is that what you were gonna say? when the when the car was in the garage. And that's what it is. You lose understanding like a brutish beast. China type clay. That clay that should be destined for very common, insignificant purposes. I would expect it to read, Jacob have I hated, and Esau have I hated. Because he wouldn't allow his younger son to marry her and raise up seed to his brother's name as she had desired, but he had no respect for the law of God They're in some hard lot. Isn't that the prayer of the disciples' prayer? This vain idol that says, well, there is no hell. They didn't know. And as God began to work on her, and as she had her memorized, much scripture, and as that scripture, she's memorizing it, it's impacting her. That's how he predestines. I've seen some people that have uh uh been in the middle of a church, they're very quiet, they just seem to come, they go, there just doesn't seem to be you don't have much interaction with them, you can't really tell There's different views on whether God ordained Adam to fall or not. How that all works out, I don't know. Our mind is cursed, our lineage is cursed, the earth has been cursed with a flood. I need a really good attorney. Uh doctrines that y'all marked off on a piece of paper of about, I don't know, roughly a hundred different things I've taught on over the years So the very simplest definition that one can find is the plan or purpose of God respecting his moral creatures. These angels and men, thus predestinated and foreordained, are particularly and unchangeably designed, and their number is so certain and definite that it cannot be either increased or diminished. So that's a pretty bold statement, and I think that's very biblical, and we'll cover that as well. Neither are any other redeemed by Christ, effectually called, justified, adopted, sanctified, and saved, but the elect only. Wherefore, they who are elected, being fallen in Adam, are redeemed by Christ, are effectually called unto faith in Christ by his Spirit working in due season the gospel. God knows who the elect are, I don't. God's throne, God's judgment throne, his justice has the same bar, and we have to meet that bar, and it's met in Jesus Christ on the merits of their own work, and they willingly choose to do so. one in 1 Corinthians and a couple in Ephesians. It was ordained that he would endure everything that was required as the surety for his people to save them from their sins. for a sinner. He calls them fools and slow of heart to not believe these things. on the mount and being spared by a ram with his horns caught in a thicket. Obviously there's limits to my illustration, but you know, that's the five-year-old illustration, okay? How's that going to happen? And since we're each called out from different parts, different sin weaknesses, no strengths. Part of the ordination I'm seeing here is the fact that this book is veiled to most people. I thank thee, Father, that thou hast hidden these things from the wise and the prudent and has revealed them unto what? Christ knows they didn't know, because he's hidden these things from them. Whether or not you perceive and understand, Lo, I come and the volume of the book is written to me. Ephesians 1 5, having predestinated us unto the adoption of children by Jesus Christ to himself, according to the good pleasure of his will. He's pretty much never failed. So if this is what he has ordained, he has ordained you to be conformed to the image of the Son. This will in fact come to pass because God Himself has personally assured us, He's put His very character on the line. I would also point out that if you look at it very carefully, you will not be too quick to overstate what the Bible says God has predestinated. You'll be ordained to the image conform to the image of his son. Deuteronomy 7 and verse 6. Turn to Deuteronomy chapter four and verse thirty-seven. The Lord thy God hath chosen him, Levi, out of all thy tribes, to stand, to minister in the name of the Lord, him and his sons forever. Yeah, there's human processes of election or coups or bloody rebellions or whatever, but God is the one that's ultimately behind that. Sometimes God elects to put the very basest among you on top and as a punishment. Samuel said to all the people, See ye him whom the Lord hath chosen, that there is none like him among all the people. He would not put his hand to the quote Lord's anointed. Which is what we're talking about today. Through some other tool, which is very common in the Lord, he doesn't allow one individual to have any full credit for the salvation of somebody. And that is underscorn in verse 5. Ask the question, has God cast away his people in verse 1? When? That we should be conformed to the image of his son, that we should be holy and without blame before him in love. Maybe you accuse yourself. And every idle word that men shall speak, they shall give account thereof in the day of judgment. You're going to be an inheritance, you're going to be holy and without blame. Seeing all the congregations holy and the Lord's among them, why do you lift yourselves up above the congregation of the Lord? Flames, fire, pits, scream, noise, children falling down, all open back, close right back up on them again. It's very distinct and it's very special. And don't, and you women will appreciate this. His wrath waxes hot against them. And only and uniquely, right? with the operation of his special grace and to punish them for their sin. Like the man who came to ask, What good thing shall I do? up in a park somewhere on the side of the road or parking lot in the rain and the hot. Father, Lord Heaven, because you have hidden these things from the wise and the prudent and hast revealed them unto babes. And that's what the devil tempts us with, and we still buy it sometimes. And that my name might be declared in all the earth, therefore he has mercy on whom he wills, and whom he wills he hardeneth. That's all God has to do is remove his hand of restraint. That's not the kind of clay God used to make the human race. with a corrupted seed and a bad name and a bad history. That's the amazing thing. But the fact of the matter is that he actually loved this rascal known as Jacob. But the election have obtained it, and the rest were blinded. He says, the election have obtained it, and the rest were blinded, meaning there is a remnant, verse 5, this remnant according to the election of grace, out of this whole nation of Israel eyes that they should not see, and ears that they should not hear unto this day. He says God hasn't given it to them. Notice this. Now how many times do you read in the Psalms? Don't say strengthen me that I can get a little stronger and climb my way out of this pit. He can keep them. You know, when you're dreaming, you think, oh, I have a scary dream. ungodly men, turning the grace of our God unto lasciviousness, unbridled lust, and denying the only Lord God, our Lord Jesus Christ. There are men crept in unawares, unawares, and they're ordained to this this condemnation. And one day, as her mother keeps insisting, you've got to seek the Lord with all your heart. You can see a change, even in a child. So the common complaint is that's not fair and God is unjust. That's why I like to fix things a lot, because I believe in redemption. Everything. Saying thou hast wrought These have wrought but one hour, and thou hast made them equal unto us, which have borne the burden and heat of the day. And I can remember the first time I read it, being the sinful creature that I am, I didn't particularly like the answer to the question. But I realized God was simply telling me that's a wrong question. Nor of him that runneth, but of God that showeth mercy. Later turned out to be uh uh uh a complete disaster. You know, Elijah went into a mountain in a cave and he said, Lord, I alone am left. And uh and and that's a completely different set of circumstances you and I are in. Go right through the Ten Commandments and find us guilty of every single one of them and say, Depart from me, ye that work iniquity, I never knew you. Man, these people in the kingdom are not, well they just don't resonate. Predestinating Adam, electing Adam, all those kind of things in that such such situation. You want to go to God on the basis of fairness, they'll tell you what's fair. the plan or purpose of God respecting his moral creatures. By the decree of God, for the manifestation of his glory, some men and angels are predestinated unto everlasting life, and others foreordained to everlasting death. according to his eternal and immutable purpose, and the secret counsel and good pleasure of his will, hath chosen in Christ unto everlasting glory out of his mere free grace and love, without any foresight of faith or good works or perseverance in either of them or any other living thing in the creature, as conditions or causes moving him thereunto, and all to the praise of his glorious grace of the Reformation because there is a singular focus on predestination of God, particularly as it relates to salvation. about five sentences and uh I trust you'll find them helpful. I like that sentence in particular because it uses much Bible language from it. Part number six. are justified, adopted, sanctified, and kept by His power through faith unto salvation. And it uh or the last clause, uh. So shall this doctrine afford matter of praise, reverence, and admiration of God, and of humility, diligence, and abundant consolation to all that sincerely obey the uh unnatural branches are graft into the into the fig tree, uh or to the olive tree rather, that we ought not to boast against these things out of the books. The elect are brought in because of their name in the book of life, but the non-elect are judged by their works. God doesn't maintain a separate book of names that says, Well, your name's over here. His righteousness, his life, his merit fulfilled the satisfaction of the law on our behalf. But in fact, that will be the measurement of justice. I know Greek by numbers. for to do whatsoever thy hand and thy counsel determined before to be done. to limit in advance. Let's turn now to Romans chapter eight. that he might be the firstborn among many brethren. So there was a purpose in his predestination. that God has foreordained is that stop which says, conform to the image of the Son. God is going to give some eyes to see and ears to hear, that they might perceive, that they might know, that they might understand these things. He does that to aid and assist in our glorification process. He's talking about that group of people right there at that time. He's ordained that we would partake of the glory of God through the knowledge of Jesus Christ. This is sounding like if God has ordained something, and we saw last week how effectual his decrees are, if God has ordained and decreed that something will come to pass, Vidal, he ain't never failed. Because it the sentence now continues about this hidden wisdom, verse 8, which none of the princes of this world knew. You will in fact be adopted into the family of God that will not fail. By saying, I have ordained this. That's a pretty good assurance, if you ask me. It keeps getting better. So all that Jesus Christ inherits, you also are partakers with. You know, I would not call it a murky area, but an area that has to be dealt with with prudence and care. It would have to be the the face of unbelief that says, Well I just I know he's ordained this, and you either believe he doesn't exist, you would believe that God can't carry out what he promised, or he's not up to up to par to be able to do this That would be very bad. Election, uh, simple definition, God's eternal purpose to save some of the human race in and by Jesus Christ. Election is God's eternal purpose to save some of the human race in and by Jesus Christ. He says, Thou art a holy people unto the Lord thy God. Above all people that are upon the face of the earth. To drive out nations from before thee, greater and mightier than thou art, to bring thee in, and to give thee their land for an inheritance, as it is this day. the first king of the nation of Israel was in fact a total disaster. They are chosen of God. No political commentary, just saying that's how God operates, right? It is a gospel call. You come late to a picnic, you know, you're looking over the food area and you know you're you're gonna dig out the remnants, you know, the half a hot dog or the the one where somebody dropped the He saved you for a purpose. I don't appreciate the fact that his love is spread about so generally, so casually, because God's love is very peculiar, it's very unique. It would make no sense whatsoever to put a God loves you sticker on the outside of the ark. What do we mean by reprob? is what every man apart from Christ gets, punishment for sin. and to punish them for their sin. He is going to select this one, and then he makes an intentional move to say jumping, jumping, jumping to this one. has been conscientiously picked over. a respected man in the whole village and God specifically chose him to make that same point. What a choice there, huh? Well, you weren't at the Pentagon, so that should be pretty obvious. Jesus thanks the Father that this happens. Because that which is highly esteemed among men is an abomination unto the Lord. I don't know, just a thought. pottage. God is tenderness and compassion and hope and comfort. Hath not the potter power over the clay, of the same lump, to make one vessel unto honor and another unto dishonor. He's talking about making something out of clay. And from that unseemly union came Pharaoh, who was directly in the lineage of Christ. That's pretty obvious, to me at least, and so I think that there's kind of a reverse logic here. So, nation of Israel minus remnant is what he refers to as, quote, the rest, and they are blinded. 2 Peter 2. That's what he speaks of in verse 9. Well imagine the reverse. to be reserved unto judgment. There are certain men crept in unawares who were before of old ordained to this condemnation. That word ordained there is marked out or literally before written. So now I understand why, when the Apostle Paul, speaking to the Ephesian elders on the shores of Miletus, says he's about to depart for Jerusalem, now I understand why he says, take heed to yourselves. We don't have a lot of powers of observation. life is just radically I can see it in my children. Frankly, we can only speak of an injustice only if a man has a claim on God. God owed the creature salvation. Well, I owe him. But God is insisting that he doesn't owe the creature salvation. Why should he? He he would have lived forever with God. It's not like God doesn't know us. You owe us something. Because I am good? I'm good, but you don't seem to like it. If that's the case, you're on the wrong side of the equation. He says to Moses, I will have mercy on whom I'll have mercy, whom I'll have compassion, I'll have compassion. So this is the doctrine of election. We do not know who God's elect are or not. I would have sworn on a stack of Bibles that 15 years ago, my wife's very best friend, if boy, if that's not a child of God, I don't know who is. My bumper sticker concluding point is that God is perfectly just to cast all of us rebels into hell. Paid. really depressing week. Unworthy sinners. Let me ask it this way. Right. You and I are called priests and kings, queens, if you will. Alright, that's our same word, pro-orizo, having predestinated us into the adoption of children. Now, I don't know about you, but you start to pack all that stuff together, and you start to think about who you are in Christ, and this is sounding like a pretty good deal. So this would be King Saul, verse 26. Sometimes at my company uh there are business meetings that are had and they bring in some food. cantaloupe or whatever they don't know. God's purpose in saving some and not saving others has nothing to do with what attracted us to God. knowledgeable that they don't know Christ, but they're very sharp. Families would be blessed in him. If they're not in Christ, their end is going to be ridiculously miserable. uh uh uh uh of will and uh uh extraversion to her. So don't get into that, that's God's vantage point. that men, attending the will of God revealed in his word, and yielding obedience thereunto, may, from the certainty of their effectual vocation, be assured of their eternal election. Five-year-olds ask really good questions. Predestination is the sign on the front of the bus. He chose to do that and obligated himself to do that for some people. That there would be a universal rejection of Jesus Christ. the animal slain to cover Adam and Eve, to the promise of the seed of the woman, to all the way through uh Mount Moriah with Abraham sacrificing his only son Isaac He also called. I just love it. But he insists that we in fact are going to be conformed to the image of his son. And it's really quite in enlightening, I think. We see they were elect because he chose, and the word elect and choose are the same thing. than any people, for ye were the fewest of all people. Uh Deuteronomy ten fifteen we see another example of this. Behold the choosing of God, however. Ephesians 1. That tends to be whom God selects. It says, the wisdom of this world is foolishness with God. Feign. Because he's thanking God for this. Romans 9, 17 and 18, for the scripture says to Pharaoh, for this very purpose I've raised you up, that I may show my power in you. In more ways than one. Moses, under inspiration, as it were, speaks to them. And notice the flip side, he's also able to reserve the unjust into the day of judgment. Reality sets in. He who is has his hand with me on the table is a betrayer. For I know that after my departing shall grievous wolves enter in among the flock, among you, not sparing the flock. How's your prayer time? Take that thine is, and go thy way, and I will give unto this last even as unto thee. Paul says, I bear the Israelites' record. When we talk about election, when we talk about predestination, this is from God's vantage point, not ours. Does that resonate with you? So just a simple study through this doctrine of predestination, I don't know why Christians don't trumpet this, don't blast it, don't broadcast it, don't revel in it There is a second sense of election, in which the election of people to some special office or service, the election of some special That was far beyond them to be able to do that. Romans 11, 5. In verse 5, but in verse 4 he speaks very plainly, according as he, that is God, hath chosen us, that's his elect, in him, that's Christ. This is the God that, you know, some Uzzah reached his hand up to to support a cart that was taking the the the Ark of the Covenant back to the temple and Uzzah reached his hand to put out to stabilize it to As it were, that thief is going to judge them on the last day. Esau has found no place for repentance. Why did God choose me? 2 Peter 2. Verily, verily, we do choose the Lord Jesus Christ. Suddenly and quietly in my heart, I thought over the years that, yeah, I'm pretty confident I know certain people, in fact, are a child of God. Right? Knock yourself out, but it's not going to work. Men are not elect unto hell. For whom he did foreknow. All right. A unjustified sinner is never going to make it to be conformed to the image of the Son. 1 Corinthians chapter 2 and verse 7. Ephesians chapter 1 tells us more about this grand and glorious doctrine of His sovereign electing grace. We've been predestined to be adopted into his family. Why this isn't more commonly taught, I don't know. You see here that he specifically said, because he loved his fat the fathers of the children of Israel, because he made a promise to Abraham, therefore he did these things for their benefit. And so he's very clear about that. Burkhoff gives a nice summary, definition. Not Caiaphas. Prefect over Judea? Brother Bernie has told me on more than one occasion, all God has to do to harden an individual is take his hand of restraint and remove it from the creature. That thou hast hidden these things from the wise and prudent. He's the chief architect behind his plan of salvation. Every idle word that men shall speak, they shall give account in the day of judgment. And at the end they all come and they get what? Herod, Pilate, the Gentiles and the people of Israel would gather against Christ Ephesians chapter 1 and verse 5 and again in verse 11. And thank you for letting me pick on you, Yvonne. He could throw away his ability to choose correctly. Matthew chapter 20 and verses 14 and 15. So there's a lot here that you can just think about. Glorification of the sinner. Which God ordained before the world unto our glory. Deuteronomy 18, 5. First Corinthians chapter uh I'm gonna go to chapter three. It is an incredibly detailed system. It's not fair. The situation is entirely different because all men have forfeited the blessings of God in Adam. 7. So I thought that was uh yeah, I those are great words. Somebody gets interested in the Word of God. Before the foundation of the world. Acts chapter 4 and verse 27. I love this passage. And the inheritance he speaks about is that we are joint heirs with Christ. Because he loved thy fathers, therefore he chose their seed after them, and brought thee out in the in his sight with his mighty power out of Egypt. It's either going to go in the trash or somebody might buy it for two dollars and might as well, you know, sell a piece of it. In Romans 11, 7, and 8, he says, What then? Paid in full. I'm going to give you some definitions just so that you get a quick thumbnail sketch and a handle on what we're talking about Before the God of the universe, who's very good at finding blame. Several passages explicitly teach this business of God actively choosing to not save some. Common objections to these teachings. You see that? They thought he was going to go out and get something for the poor. That we just read there in scriptures, he didn't die to save angels. So several times throughout Deuteronomy he's underscoring the fact that he chose them, not the other way around. That's a qualified qualification of his people. So there's a lot of positives to election. I appreciate in the scriptures when God talks about his love, and we hear much about the love of God. Well, I have an idea. Yeah, basically. He despised it. God calls sin pleasurable. He continues in verse eight. It's found in verse 4. The rest of mankind, God was pleased according to the unsearchable counsel of his own will, whereby he extends or withholds mercy as he pleases. So tell me in a short phrase what that verse is saying. There's a group of people called the godly. He's the creature. So that is the sign on the front of the bus. Matthew 11, 25, where we read this. Go ahead. He threw it all away. I hope you enjoyed it. He is the only one you could ultimately say that of, I think. He's very clear and careful to give almost a demeaning reason to the recipient and a glorifying reason to his counsel, to his will, to his plan. 4, back in that passage again, because that's a premier passage that speaks a lot about that. There's a certain very fine white clay that you make that coffee pot out of, that little coffee cup. As God hath appointed the elect unto glory, so hath he, by the eternal and most free purpose of his will, foreordained all the means thereunto. I just I just absolutely love it. He calls it this hidden wisdom. That's whom he loves. Here's a good five-year-old illustration to illustrate God's love. 9. They are judged by their works. You feel quite guilty about certain things. Well, no, he's already given us that view from heaven. That's that's the dig. When the wicked are in power, the righteous hide themselves. So this sign on the bus, it's got a limited circuit. He's he's there's nothing too hard for the Lord. Feign. It's a package deal. Well in general, remnants are not whole bolts of cloth. 9, we see this language of the Lord here. Look at the language. If I had done that, I'd have given up on Yvonne a long time ago. It's a cauldron of temptations, plural. I owe him. They're just straight to the pit. That's pro oritzo, which means it's also rendered it's normally translated predestinate They are anointed of God. It goes to all the earth. I have no idea. I just thought of that, by the way. This one's mine. You just read that and you just meditate on that and you just think about that and there's just you can suck on that berry for a long time, get a lot of juice out of it. Unworthy sinners, I'll go with that. His name happens to be Jesus Christ. And whom he called, them he also justified. PR destinated, you know, however you can get predestinated into a seven letter uh bumpers uh or a license plate is what I'm looking for I'm going to spend a lot of time on that. Thank God it died in the garage. Romans nine thirteen, Jacob have I loved, but Esau have I hated. God the Holy Spirit's working in their heart. That's a stinging question. Well, that's uh a summary from Burkhoff, a longer explanation for the Westminster of uh Confession of Faith, Chapter 3. And the reason they say it that way is because the free offer of the gospel does in fact go to every preacher under heaven. That which is highly esteemed among men is an abomination unto God. The grapes and the blueberries and the and the and the strawberries, psh gone, right? I'm going to pick a thief. It's not fair. You can see a change. Yvon uh uh sold me something. I mean the creature. Predestinated to what? Those in the room selected that they wanted certain things, obviously the things that were tastiest to them, and they overlooked the others. I don't care about that. Help, Lord, deliver me. When you have a dream and you're having a great time and you're on a cruise ship and it's nice and you're having a fun time, and then you wake up and the house is on fire. They are kept unto judgment. Reality sets in when they awake and they awake at judgment day at the resurrection. That's me. I'm telling you, they can ask some very deep theological questions. Of all these tribes of Israel that would come out, those that were numbered of the sons of Jacob, his twelve sons. I've worked with some pretty wise people from time to time. What shocks me in Romans 9 is not that he says, Jacob have I loved, Esau have I hated. There's a place where Moses even speaks to that language. I love talking about this. And yet God Almighty said, Oh, yeah, yeah, that's the one I'm gonna set my affection. And that's what this doctrine typically is all about. There is a very unique love that he sets upon her, and I think every woman will appreciate that. How's your Bible memory going? This will come to pass. In whom also we have obtained an inheritance, being predestinated according to the purpose of him who worketh all things after the counsel of his own will. It's because you were basically the smallest group I could find. You're a good sport. Even so then, at this present time also, there is a remnant according to the election of grace. You're saved on purpose. He had no respect to the promised seed to come. They loved him. He has a claim. part number eight says this. You're just destroyed. Look at 1 Samuel chapter 10 and verse 24. At this present time there is a remnant. They get real interested in the Bible. You see that word reprobate in the scriptures sometimes. Alright, so God's election and salvation implies this, that he actively chooses to not save some. You know, the biggest loser on the planet, yep, that's the guy that God's going to save. Go ahead, shoot. Like when he picked out Zacchaeus from the from the tree. That was the initial state. Notice he hits the two things. They have a zeal for God, but not according to knowledge. This is the doctrine of predestination. Because if you're going to try to argue with fairness on the basis of the judge of the universe, you're going to fail. Those of mankind that are predestinated unto life, God before the foundation of the world was laid For what purpose? He says he will consume them in his anger. You're no different than a ravening mad raccoon crawling around in the wilderness or a mad bear with some brain disease, some brute beast. I I just don't know where they're at. God knows whom he intends to save, I don't. So I I put that twist in there to say it that way. Stick with the language, whom he did predestinate to be conform to the image of his son. He doesn't tell me where it's going to stop. That'll fail. Do you begin to see how the glory of God is manifested in a very different way? He's finding a reason to thank God. If God spared not the angels that sinned, but cast them down to hell and delivered them into chains of darkness. Uh you know, from I have videos of Victoria when she was young and she was a spunky little girl. Listen to the uh the the language here. Look over six verses later in verse 11 Alright, so let's look at two uh teachings here. This is a case where election isn't necessarily a grand thing, because this man chosen of God to be You know, the remnants, the stuff that, you know, you kinda hope is still edible. He acknowledges what it is. We all know how this works. I can see a whole raft of reasons why I was headed for the pit. Burkhoff had gone through and uh captured in a book. There's another reason I like this verse, because although I'm narrowly focusing right now on the aspect of predestination and specifically what it is that God ordained Everybody else had to be away. You know there might be a I I need a little something of bolt of cloth uh to make uh my child a little jumpsuit. Well you can't do anything good. Esau's on his way to hell. There's annihilation. If he owed it to you and he didn't give it to you, that would be unjust. Second thing is don't get into questions, asking questions too much about Adam And this is the other part, and you may debate this a bit. If it says someplace else, I'm not getting on it. I don't know if you notice that phrase. Upon whom he sets his love, that is the one who is elected, who is predestinated, who is ordained to become conformed. For it is written, He taketh the wise in their own craftiness. That's when reality sets in. The creator, you're the creature. I I thought that was a very good ending to it to show that we don't casually flip this thing around. Because he's ordained this to happen, therefore he's also ordained the means that are going to occur. Why this? Let's turn now to 1 Corinthians chapter 2 and verse 7. Deuteronomy 18. God says that man's mind is vanity. Romans 9. And so he lost it. That's the rub. He doesn't say that he predestinated them to be conform to the image of his son. And lo and behold, that's correct. I'm in Deuteronomy 7. How many of the parables underscore the fact that the seed is broadly spread? I'm hot and sweaty. Apart from Christ, there's no tenderness, there's no compassion, there's no hope, there's no comfort. He left his brethren and joined up with a Canaanite, married and had children, and and uh unbeknownst to him goes out to try to find a harlot and he happens to come into his daughter-in-law. If we're not hanging on to this real tight, it's real easy to get pulled off the trail. Three words. What a tumult. They're quite happy to do so. So let's go to our first passage, and then I'm going to have some questions, or one question to ask for each of these passages. So here, the very first king of Israel was one whom the Lord chose. I'm failing on this. You kind of start to think twice about doing things. I was being chased by something, and I couldn't move, and I couldn't scream, and I had this horrible dream. My mind is too sinful to go back to that state. Because this is fantastic news. So this is one place we see election used, and one context we see election used in the scriptures as identification of God's Old Testament people. He says, I'm going to put this one in there. There are those whom the Lord does not love. What a switch! That common old red dirt Mexican clay for these little old Mexican pots that you see that you get three for a dollar at the at the at Home Depot. Lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil? They had no idea Satan entered into this man. There's one big common objection. It's a very fair thing for God to pull out his book, crack it open Okay. Nope. We want the here and now. Doesn't matter how long they work, they all got a penny. I know some people who really think they know they can check and figure out who God's elect are. Elect to saints. And then I'm going to look at some common objections to these teachings. What's amazing, you think about it more, boy, this makes me bristle just thinking about it. There's not a random chance that any of it will fail. The Lord knoweth how to deliver the godly out of temptations, and to reserve the unjust unto the day of judgment to be punished. They wept on his neck and his shoulders. And they all kept asking, Is it I? He can throw away his ability to stay right with God. I could go on for hours and days about this because these are the golden grapes of the gospel here. For of a truth against thy holy child Jesus, whom thou hast anointed, both Herod and Pontius Pilate, with the Gentiles and the people of Israel, were gathered together. He looks at this, like me, this worm at the bottom of the dung hill, and says, that one right there, I'm going to make him to be the image of my son. God repeats this and he gives some additional clarification on the basis of his choosing. You know, the body of Christ is referred to as the bride of Christ, that we are married to him. This is a good thing. What a wonderful thing. You're not paying me back. They're reserved to that punishment. And he gives a parable. It's cheap love. For his glory that you're not saved by your works. Certainly anything that Adam did was uh not catching God by surprise. That's the very simplest handle you can put on the word predestination. That just don't get better than that. Conform to the image of the sun. Why that? It's the mystery of God that's spoken of, the mysterious wisdom of God. When the temple moved, there was a specific branch. He used sinful, rebellious human clay, very rebellious sons and daughters of Adam. Romans 9. That this had to happen. Let me repeat that. Now notice again that there is a subset within this nation called Israel that are called, quote, the election, unquote. I don't care what your works are, your name's over here. Obtaining of an inheritance. I don't know what child of God hearing this would stop his ear and say, you know, I don't want to hear any more about that. Deuteronomy four thirty-seven That we should be holy and without blame before him in love. 21. There's a coffee cup right there. There's none righteous, no not one, there's none that doeth good, there's none that seek after God. Sounds a whole lot like Christ, who said, You will not come unto me that you might be saved. Are you evil? But there's plenty of scriptures that make it very, very clear, yep, God even ordains the reprobate, but I'm just trying to be specific in terms of how that comes to pass. Moreover, whom he did predestinate, them Salvation. He's ordained some pretty difficult things that will occur, and he's never missed a beat. I will do all my pleasure. And you'll enjoy the process, and he'll be sure that that happens. He would not raise his hand up against him. God forbid, he says, I'm also an Israelite of the seed of Abraham of the tribe of Benjamin in verse 3. I don't see really why it gets such negative press. He's very thankful for this. They're stored. In other words, because you asked this, let me ask another question. There's others he chose not to do that with, and they're going to go before the throne. Simply put, what is it that God is predestinating? Do you see Christ coming in the volume of the book? They were slaves, a nation full of slaves who had zero military training, had zero understanding of how to effect a coup. We read, For the Lord thy God hath chosen him. And these godly are in the midst of temptations. And that's a fearful thing. That's not fair. They are not judged out of the absence of the book of life. The uh glorification of the sinner, I'll go with that. But because the Lord loved you, and because he would keep the oath which he had sworn unto your fathers Try it again. Third, identification of election. You never know. That's this God. Thank God. He's hidden them. Yeah, I won't limit you to three words. God made man very good. He doesn't tell me what's going to happen in the bus. It says, we speak the wisdom of God in a mystery, even the hidden wisdom. But you see, blessed are your eyes, for you see these things. I still I still pick on you. I'm failing over here. He is grateful that there is some justice being served here from heaven's perspective. It says he knows how to do this, to be punished. It is going to be above and beyond their worst imagination. They tend to go into their little caves and hide and hunker down We're not in the Garden of Eden, we're in a world tainted by sin. There is so much history of curse behind us, I don't think we could think through it straight anyway. So many illustrations throughout scriptures illustrate that there would be a substitute, one who would come and save and redeem another. It is unto our glory. Is he really gonna accept me? What difference would that make in anyone's life if they still wind up in hell? It died in the garage, good. I just want something to eat right now. We've done more to deserve this. Your will is not the deciding factor, and your running, your pursuing. It just shocked me. So it's only by his tender mercies that anybody is saved. He's also my Savior, and he's my advocate. He chooses to pass over some. Romans chapter eight and verse twenty-nine. This is one of the finest sentences in all of Scripture. Okay. Start asking questions and trying to get specific about the language. To come to the tabernacle, you had to go to Levite, and you had to have the right offering God alone knows the hearts of men. Those are some pretty impressive positions. I like to try to redeem things around here. It is pleasurable for a season. Help me, Lord. You are in a wrong spot. They really have a vain idea that they're going to succeed in doing that. He also did predestinate, pro-orizzo, to be conformed to the image of his son It's about Jesus Christ and who he is. The Lord did not set his love upon you nor choose you because you were more in number 5 is one good example He thinks, boy, thank God this happened. This idolatrous thought that, uh, well, I I managed to get away with it. He doesn't even owe the creature a chance at salvation. Uh I couldn't disagree with any words put in here. God simply elected to not save the reprobate. It's going to go to Lake Forest Mall and back. What else? There's no way that you can be justified and not glorified. This is He's not brought you this far to drop you 6. And I've seen it in in uh in in my others as well. We've read that in Psalm 14 and Psalm fifty-three His chooser is broken. 14, what shall we say then? And then the last phrase, and I'm very delighted they put this in here. You could say Christ is the only one who truly was elected to go to hell. He was one who was not obedient to the people. They're little pieces with weird cuts to them. You know you thank God for good things. He says, the Lord knows how to deliver them. How can we talk about predestination like that? The doctrine of this high mystery of predestination is to be handled with special prudence and care. So God had ordained that the Christ should suffer. And because he did that, therefore he called them. Rightfully so. We'll look at that just a few verses later. Just kind of a reason we encourage these things. Victoria, you're not seeking the Lord with all your heart. You just never know. He doesn't say he hasn't cast away all of his people, period. You're not saved by an accident. They're locked. Scratch that part of the film. Some kind of stuff brews up in a church, and there's some kind of a split, but they're still hanging around and they're among the faithful, and they have some sense about it, and they they get what's going on. This guy is never going to come back around here. Fire burns to the lowest hell. He had no respect to the promise of God. Israel has not obtained that which he seeks for. That's a very common phrase you find throughout the Psalms. I don't know how there can be a secret salvation thing. He was under a much different set of circumstances than you and I, and our minds are way too sin ruined with sin to understand God's decrees correctly. If you're gonna memorize a verse of scripture, do you want to pick yourself up from a I don't care how much you fight against it, I don't care how much you kick against it, if he has to drag you by your heels, kicking and screaming So I want to look at those. God loves you and his plan for you is drowning. God's eternal purpose to pass some men by with the operation of his special grace Y'all are not part of it. It's just absolutely foolish. God has not yet given you a heart to believe. It had to come to pass. Read it carefully. And he tells us in Daniel that he sets the basis of men up over you. Matthew 22, 14, the Lord Jesus says, Many are called, few are chosen. I almost can't imagine that degree of fellowship. It goes like this. We're not willing to suffer affliction with the people of God, but rather seeking to enjoy the pleasure of sin for a season. The rest were blinded. That's when they'll realize this false idol of a vain imagination of a God that doesn't throw people into hell He's working in their heart. Because my eye is good? What else do you see is being predestinated there? That is our glory is to search out a matter in the scriptures. That's spoken of in another place where he describes what that is. It's a pathetic excuse for what it is. That's not fair. Chuck it, I'm getting a new one I said, I'll give you the money. I have two concluding points. Many of the phrases of Scripture are used to frame that explanation. This is a wonderful teaching concerning all that God has insisted he's done and will do for his people. That's a remnant. Some who are reprobate concerning the faith. It's a perfect example. It was before written. But Psalm 110, verse 3 says, Thy servant shall be willing in the day of thy power. I'm reading from chapter three of the confession, point number three. So what do we have in this passage? They had no idea who he was. I'm gonna look at three heads points. That's going to go over real well. So it's not about you, you know, it's it's about God and his glory. Yep. According as it is written, God hath given them the spirit of slumber. Is it not lawful for me to do what I will with mine own? It shocked both of us. It's that simple. Who decided where that bus is going? Question, what is it that's being predestinated here? It's not a big deal if that clay is made as a vessel of dishonor. There's angels that never rebelled, and there's angels that did rebel. The Lord anticipates this complaint. They jump right to that. You ladies, some of you do selling, and maybe you go to None of this catches God by surprise. Jude chapter 1, verse 4. They didn't know. Satan was right in the midst of them, and they didn't know. All I know is Adam was made upright and righteous, and we leave it at that, and I know that Christ is the surety. These key words, again, predestination. We elect a president, we choose a president. You were a bunch of nobodies. Maybe we shouldn't have made that decision. And a very common thing to bring in is a dessert tray that are, you know, pretty goodly sized, like a large pizza-sized tray, and they'll have different types of cut-up fruit on it. I know you know about chapter one, but look at chapter three and verse nineteen. I'm tired. God says, yep, Judah will be an example. And in the parable, everybody was told to go work in the vineyard, verse 2, for a penny a day. Go find a co if I because I don't accept you. One of the evidences that your nation is losing favor with God is when you no longer have good statesmen I can do something about it here. This guy was a scoundrel. Their path that they're in is a guaranteed path that has one terminus and that end is called hell. Their zeal doesn't add up to much. Proverbs 25, the leading verse, says it's the glory of God to conceal a matter, it's the honor of kings to search a matter out. Obtaining an inheritance. Right, he does that. He despised his his birthright. My delight. They can really hit at the crux of some very difficult things and it can be hard to answer. Can't happen. The Lord thy God hath chosen thee to be a special people unto himself. He said, He whom God hath chosen, he chose him. Who's really good. Even you and I don't know the depths of the depravity of our heart. You know, he talks about certain behaviors or abomination. I've got to send you to hell now. I've come across some people that are just tremendously sharp. You've got the world, the flesh, the devil against you and all of his minions. Can anybody guess what commonly is objected to when you start to teach? It's taken me a number of years to actually be able to say this. But when it comes time for judgment day and they stand before the throne of God's grace, the scriptures are clear, they are judged I shall do all my counsel. You can put a God loves you sticker on the inside of the ark. There was no problem there. And he puts this worm on that bus. There's just something about the Kolyabin family. We're not talking about a bounty there. Blame. But the the stuff that's left over That word reserve is elsewhere rendered keep. He can throw away and he did. God tapped him on the shoulder and said, I don't think so, son. You're joint heirs. Mr. He gave us this person as a ruler. I'm going to drop it over here. A remnant isn't much God's angry with the wicked every day. I think the first part is probably the key essence. That the wise are blinded. Is there unrighteousness with God? You see what I'm saying? And the reason it's not fair, they would say, is because I have free will. That's the implication. So then it's not of him that willeth? And certainly there's passages of scripture, like I said, And they had a very specific office called out. Right? And again the Lord knoweth the thoughts of the wise that they are vain. It cannot save or deliver. Look at the answer. To be conformed to the image of the Son. Babes. It says, Only the Lord had a delight in thy fathers to love them, and he chose their seed after them, even you above all people, as it is. Well, that's the same idea here, except What does hated mean? And then you put it in and you heat it up. I really never would have expected that Hey, can I have a ride to my house? It's a hymn book, H I M book. Burkoff's given a very nice, concise summary of that. I'm famished. That's pretty clear. Three different contexts. I'm gonna pick a thief. Look at what Jesus is thanking God for. They awake when they die and they come into the presence of Christ. They knew him. So he doesn't owe you any salvation plan. That's a penetrating question. And I uh used that as a springboard into the scriptures that uh developed this doctrine. There's all kinds of things that are going to happen on that journey, but the destination He has ordained that they would be glorified. This is that God when Korah And he was the least They were ordained to this condemnation. They didn't look around and said, I think Jesus is looking at Judas kind of strong today. I don't have it right now, I'll give it to you a little later. You know, we'll make it work somehow. They have forfeited those blessings. You've ever gone to a bus stop, you sit there and you wait, and what are you looking for? Gives the wrong impression of who the Christ is. He's ordained that we will be adopted into his family. He's a hardened atheist. At that time Jesus answered and said, I thank thee, O Father, Lord of heaven and earth. God's plan of salvation is listed as nothing but a grand success from the inception of the design, the architecture We're asking him to do that. Free will. Just uh Daddy loved it, but I knew it was sinful So let's look at some verses. God's electing grace is very precious and very rare. The word of God came, he opened up their ear, it took root in the heart, it spread, and it grew quickly, and the convictions became mighty. He's the creator. And indeed when you look at the volume of the scriptures in terms of And let's uh let's uh suck on that grape for a while. They really didn't know. I'm gonna talk a little bit more about election It's quite an impressive thing when you think about what God has, in fact, decided to do with you. High priest, King of Israel. Men of your own selves shall arise, speaking perverse things. And here's my question. He's ordained to conform us to the image of his son. When they miss over the portions that are glorious. The Kohiphites are the ones that could pack up the gear and move it. Thank you, hon. Romans 11, 5 gives us another indication of this teaching. Wow What about the two thieves on the cross? As newborn babes desire the sincere milk of the Word. It's manifested through whether or not you get his scriptures. For had they known it, they would not have crucified the Lord of glory. Common objections. God's eternal purpose to pass some men by I'm not stranded Romans 9. So I had a Savior who's met that on my behalf. So God has a very specific purpose in mind for you and I Or is this just a book of laws and rules and statutes, ordinances and regulations and a checklist for how to live my life so I can And they jump right to that He uses different tools. They're they're scraps. You want to know why he does it? He had zero interest in the fact that God promised that kings would come of the seed of of Abraham, that nations Romans 11, 7 and 8 is instructive because the apostle meditates on this as well. And he holds up two pierced hands and pierced feet and says, And whom he justified, them he also glorified. You weren't too terribly impressive. It hits all kinds of soil. Interesting. There's he says There's only one chapter to Jude. It's impacting her mind. Give it back to me, right? Verse 13. Now, I'm only going to read half the sentence because the sentence ends in verse 8. That's that God. Somehow in God's grand scheme of things across the universe, you matter a whole lot. That doesn't make any sense. Now, why do you think God would do that? Really has to be based on the fact that God would look down the corridors of time to see who would raise their hand and vote for Jesus God calls it a hidden wisdom. They would of course have no problem with that because He speaks of the ploughing of the wicked is sin in his sight. She would be very incensed. That's made out of nice fine He's quoting from Isaiah 29, 10, and Isaiah chapter 6 and verse 9. This was one of several There's a different point to be made, and I'm trying to be more consistent with the fact that You'll be conformed to his glory. God says, we're going to be without blame In fact, God tends to it to draw to himself the least likely to succeed in life. They are in the midst of difficulties and struggles. They had a relationship. Every idle word, God has an accounting system that goes below the pennies. The ground is cursed. That's predestination. The election of individuals unto salvation We don't know. At the very point in time when you really need the love of God and you don't get it, what good is that? God chose to save a thief on the cross, not Pontius Pilate, not Herod. You can only speak of an injustice if man has a claim on God, meaning But he made man with a free will, and if he wanted to, he could have thrown away And so that's why I say they're not elect to hell Now that word determined is our key word. The first is the election of Israel as God's Old Testament people. Even today we see kings and rulers that are put in office. It's just a few things, and that's his point. The way is getting hard. You know, you find your car bur I was so glad my car battery died Well it doesn't mean love less, it means hated. Forget this future heavenly stuff. God is wisdom and understanding. And then you wake up and that's gone. Psalm 73 says, like a dream when you awake. And it's interesting because somebody complains. I need an attorney. The Westminster Confession of Faith developed that far more extensively and is unique among the chapter of the confessions. And all the people shouted and said, God save the king. And David had respect to that. You know, I I kid around with Dan, I kid around with others, you know, we we this is a holy living God Brief time. Notice from whence your deliverance comes. Do you realize God does not have a salvation plan for angels? I have two concluding points, and then the final bumper sticker. And the wages of sin is death, and the death that God has in you is eternal damnation. 1 Samuel 10, 24. That's a bad question you're asking, because you didn't seem to like my penny That'd be fair. Not going to happen. That's what he said to the two on the road to Emmaus. And because they are called, therefore they are justified. And there are some specific things that have to happen to get us to the state where we're conform to the image of the Son. He says there's many righteous men and prophets that have desired to see them and have not. Well, that's kind of a nice little bonus there. He would have nothing to do with it. That's your help. It's not something we treat as a as a manner of boasting, as the apostle speaks about when he talks about the That's the definition of vanity. He answered one of them and said, Friend, I do me no wrong. So here's some of my simple answers I've given for members of the Cluth House and others who have asked. Stop, period. Somebody tell me in a simple phrase, what is it that God has ordained? I like to just pick on these people. He says, I haven't cast away the people that I foreknew. Much in Romans 9 talks about the reprobation of God. You're not. We're we're gonna we're gonna try to redeem this thing So for their God to have scattered in that midst seven thousand that he didn't have a clue who they were That would be fair. We don't have any strengths, because while we were with yet without strength, Christ died for the ungodly. Alright? Now he's speaking about Levi. He just love it when it happens that way. His choice of election is consistent with his choice of predestination. It almost makes me fearful. No, I love you especially. Uh free will. 14, God asked the question as well. I'm now going to turn your attention to five different passages, one in Acts, one in Romans. There's no way that you can be effectually called and not justified. That's who it's about. It's the worst of the Saturday morning cartoon shows to God. I want to call your attention to that word lump That's the one I want to pick. Who can stain my hand or say, What doest thou? That just I don't that's just the sound of an unbeliever. You can't move my stuff. They're they're things they're just And so that's pretty sad. It impacts your life, it's a massive impact. Tell me in a short phrase what that verse is saying. That's part of the glory of God. We need to be beseeching the Lord quickly because we get this wicked individual in here. Reprobation is a noun. Look about Judah Matthew 20 and verse 14 and 15, there's uh uh two verses I want to look at and we'll close out. Lo and behold It's very specific. Boy, I'll tell you. He thanks God for this. That's what I'd expect it to say. And he says to them boldly, take heed She's thinking about it. God forbid So let's jump on board with that. They and they alone could minister to the temple. And God says, No, you're going to be adopted. Even so, Father, for it seemed good in thy sight. Because it helps. Look at all this burden we've been bearing. There's many scripture proof texts given for it and we'll look at that tonight He calls it a hidden wisdom. Ephesians 1. Man, I screwed this up. He relates to us as a husband. Judas is the prime example. How's your Bible reading time? And there but for the grace of God would I go. Three words. I'm really not sure we'd get to the bottom of that correctly. We live with it every day. What is it? And you know what happened next? Not teach me how to deliver myself out of these things. I mean she had lots of Alright? That's why I picked it. Man was made upright God has also ordained that you will inherit something. And And I'm not about to touch it. We'll be before him without plan. You're going to have a glorified body They did not know Uh and I never pay him. Those whom he loved are the ate inside the ark. Matthew 11, 25 and 26. I thought man had free will. Those angels that rebelled, okay, reserved to judgment, period. That's fair. I have a specific track and I'm going there and if you want to jump on, that's, you know, great. So there's lots of pineapple left over, you know. Moses didn't go for that. The second part It can't save, it can't deliver. What good does this birthright do to me? Apart from His hand, there's no wisdom, there's no understanding. What is amazing is when you take that Mexican pot and you make it into a vessel like that That was so back far away, you know, nobody's around to remember it. And the confession of faith uh puts it this way. You know, they're just pickable. Now the Apostle Paul is speaking about the Jews. Certain people are an abomination to him. She's worried and concerned. It doesn't have to be so picture perfect or whatever. So I assert that really nobody's getting away with anything. Therefore, live any way you want to It's like I want the here and now right now That's all he has to do. Wow. I used to scratch my head. It's a nuance and it's a distinction. 4, we were just there. Go to 1 Corinthians It continues on, or the the Westminster divines continue on. Romans 8. Right We need it. I can choose to do whatever I want to. Uh no blame. Vain. Because I loved you and because of my oath It's talking about a doctrine. We live with a predetermined path of where things are going Ought not the Christ to have suffered? And those things have been ordained to our glory. And only the that was God's moving company for the temple So if you want to start talking fairness, you want to go down that path This is just good stuff. I'm telling you what, that that ain't gonna end anytime soon. He's speaking about the gospel call. They said, Stand back, and they all stand back, the ground went I thank you, Lord I thank thee, Father. The sign that shows up on the bus. Acts chapter 4, and let's go to verse 27. That is also the part of the glory of God. Well, now we're going to talk a little bit about reprobation Now listen to this question. I had seven thousand men who have not bowed the knee to Baal. So when Christ sits there and says, Father, forgive them, they don't know what they're doing. Help, Lord. They murmured against the good men of the house in verse 12 They just they just there's just so many things you can pick on. He says, I know whom I've chosen, and one of you is a devil. Why did you come? They lived right around it Man, I don't know. 29, we read this. I need it Okay? That's number 4309 in the Greek You know this. And now she's seeking the Lord seriously. God has not cast away his people It really rattles your cage. We simply declare that. Who puts them there? You just would simply have to say, I don't believe God. Skip ahead to Deuteronomy 7 Well again, that's very selective. I'm about to perish with hunger. We just have to stick with some Bible language Very can very godlike. He uses strong language against them. Look at Matthew 11, 25. They really think they can figure that out So all of that is very good. If you've ever been blamed by people before, if you've uh What is that talking about? And because they are justified, they are therefore glorified. The Lord knows how to deliver you That's where his love was set. Does not the potter That's just not something they could pull off It's just a small piece of cloth God insists there's none that seek after God Jude 1 and verse 4. So tonight we're going to look at this doctrine of predestination. Simply put, what is it that God is predestinating? Snap, dude, pull away from him. I can choose to come to Christ or not come to Christ. I'm going to read to you We'll get into it a bit later and discuss it. That is what the law of God requires. It's very rare. That's what we're talking about. Didst not thou agree with me for a penny? Is thine eye evil? Well I'm going to submit to you that God does. Romans chapter 11, verse 5. Sheep's never going to learn that. That's just how God talks What is he predestinating here? There's many who are called. There's a huge change That is a big cluster right there. It's just great He's Outside the ark, no love. End of discussion I've quoted this a little earlier. It changes things. Knock yourself out We got problems. That's very selective. Nobody saw it. That clay. Seven thousand is quite a lot of people. Let me have this bowl of I don't I don't want that to They don't have a clue. It's up to me.