Make one change, if you would, if you look in your bulletin, we'll be reading from Acts eighteen, twelve through seventeen Actually I even thought about changing the title of the message, but sometimes you don't know that till the last last minute either. But we're looking at chapter 18 And beginning the reading of verse twelve through seventeen, should follow with me there. Verse number twelve. And when Galileo was the deputy of Achaia. The Jews made insurrection with one accord against Paul and brought him to the judgment seat That word judgment seat in the Greek is called bima, and you'll be hearing that a lot. Bima actually means seat, but in the context, if you just talked about bima in their days, I'm going to the bima, everybody knew that was here going to the judgment seat. And uh just kind of bear that in mind, you're going to be hearing that word a bit today. Saying in verse 13, this fellow persuadeth men to worship God contrary to the law. And of course Galileo is hearing these charges against Paul. And when Paul was now about to open his mouth, Galileo said unto the Jews, If it were a matter of wrong or wicked lewdness, oh ye Jews, reason that I should bear with you. But it is about the question of words and names and of your law. Look ye to it, for I will be no judge of such manners. And he drave them or drove them from the judgment seat or the bima. Then all the Greeks took Sophenaeus, the chief ruler of the synagogue, and beat him before the judgment seat or the bimah. And Galileo cared none of those, cared for none of those things either. Title The Message of the Judgment Seat But you'll find that the theme of the message is going to be more about the reliability of Scripture and the preservation of the Scriptures. I have been to the Bemisi in Corinth. It's really there. It's still there. Archaeologists, Jewish archaeologists admit that this is where Paul stood. It's really there. Mars Hill not that far away in Athens is really there. I've stood on that mountain It's really there. And there's a large brass plaque that records the entire sermon of Paul in the book of Acts. Uh these things have been verified. They're they're really there. They've been preserved. It'd be hard to remove, I would admit, the uh Uh Marsh Hill, it's all marble. Precious marble I think. I came up pink and white marble. Uh I did remove some of it. Probably somehow also when they were there Uh Vince is if if you're ever in our church at Pilgrim, uh you if you stood behind the pulpit you were standing on parts of of uh the marble. This isn't going international, is it? They're a little broken pieces, they're laying everywhere. They're just lying there. So let's just get back to something that won't get me arrested. Verse twelve. The Jews made insurrection against Paul and brought him to the judgment seat, to the Bima The stone is mentioned in these verses here twice. The B messed are mentioned, and it is stone. It's a very large stone wall. It would be at least high or h as high as the ceiling in here and probably twice the length of this this wall along here. Uh it's a good size. Could have been removed. They removed the temple in Jerusalem, destroyed that. They could have removed the Bima seat, the judgment seat But they didn't. The stool or the stone chair that probably sat there and the podium that probably sat there in stone, they are gone. But the judgment seat where Galia, or whoever would have been the full counselor or deputy at the time, that is where he sat. I placed my hands out, ran my hands through it uh through the cracks in it and so forth where the the mortar joints are. It's really there. And it's mentioned twice here in verse 12 as we read and again in verse 15. It's been preserved now for at least two thousand years And that to me proves the reliability of Scripture. The scripture talks about the Bemis in Corinth. Well, how accurate is the Scripture? And we're looking at these verses more in 12 through 17 Nothing particular here jumps out about Daniel and the lion's dead, the three men, the fiery furnace. You know, nothing here talks about anyone being resurrected from the dead or or 186,000 Assyrians killed by one one an angel or two. You know, it's it's it's kind of a a section of the scripture that you say, well okay that's kind of nice, but uh what does that matter Well it matters at the fact that something so so minute, something just a little minutiae of detail here, we can prove it I mean, there's there's so much of the scripture when you go through it, and we could do this page by page, and you'd always find some archaeological find designated in that area that proves that the scriptures knew what they were talking about And so although we don't have a great story to tell here, I want you to feel when you come away this morning that some of the minutest little details are recorded in stone. People often say, yeah, well, I don't believe anything in the Bible except what's written in stone. I said, so you believe it's thrown to commit adultery. Well, let's not go too far. But really, you you look at they they want things that are written in stone and that's what they'll believe in. Well, the judgment seat is written in stone. And it's there, it's mentioned twice here in scriptures and just those few verses that we read here. And so it has been preserved The statement in scripture, the beam of seed, it's been preserved. There's a scripture verse written in stone. It's been preserved. Don't tell me the scriptures aren't preserved. The scriptures have been preserved of God. And don't tell them they're not reliable because here the Bemisy in Corinth, it's still there. It shows that that verse is a reliable thing in Scripture And so if it's mentioned twice here and we can go and see the bhima seat, the judgment seat in Corinth, why not believe also when the scripture speaks of another judgment seat? The judgment seat of Christ, also written as a word uh the bhima. the judgment beema of Christ in 2 Corinthians 5 verse 10 and Romans 14 10. How can you believe the one is a reality it's been preserved? It it shows that that it's reliable f S segment of scripture and then not believe that there's a judgment seat of Christ, which is also mentioned twice. They're both mentioned twice. The one in Corinth and the judgment seat of Christ Well people don't want to believe the verses because of course it says that at the judgment scene of Christ, not everyone has seen The Bhima or judgment seat in Corinth, but the judgment seat of Christ all shall appear before it. And everyone shall receive the things done in his body, whether good or bad. Now aren't you glad if you're sitting here that you've been cleansed by the blood of Christ? And then I can see all the bad They're going to see the good that you've done in the name of Christ. But if you believe in one beamless seat and it's there, why would you not want to believe the second one? And you say, Well, I never saw the first one. Well you're going to see the second one. You're going to see the second one. In verses thirteen and fourteen, the Jews said of this Paul, he persuades men to worship God contrary to the law. And when Paul was about to open his mouth, Galileo, who we read in verse 12, he's the deputy, he's the pro-counselor, all right, uh, he speaks unto the Jews, and he says in verse 14, it was a matter of wickedness and lewdness Isn't that something? He admits that Paul wasn't a wicked, lewd man. I wish that every Christian had that reputation. It was never burned or destroyed. We we hear names sometimes mentioned of pastors or evangelists who've just destroyed their reputation with some lewdness or wickedness. Paul had not. Paul had not. And that's a testimony of an ungodly Roman. Deputy consular, a judge. Were a matter of wickedness or newness, I should bear with you. How do we even know this guy lived? I mean, okay. We're not even sure about Paul, but yeah, you got the beam of sea, but now we gotta hear about this Roman guy called Galileo. Is that preserved in stone? Yeah Galileo's dance preserved in stone. They found it in the nineteen hundreds. Preserved in stone. Galileo, let me just tell you a little bit about him He uh there's a it's called the Delphi, some pronounce it Delphi, the Delphi inscription. It was nine fragments of stone, they put them all together, and it was a letter from from Julius or from uh Claudius Caesar. A letter from Claudius Caesar To Galileo. The pro-consular. The judge. It's written in stone. They found it in the 1900s. So Galileo's name is it's this these little minutias, these little things in Scripture, do well, okay. Maybe it's true, maybe it's not. Unless it's written in stone, I'm not going to believe it. They used to say that of Pontius Pilate, until they found stuff with Pontius Pilate engraved in stone up in Caesarea. So they even found a ring with the name Pontius Pilate in it. They think it belonged to one of his servants. But I mean, I was taught in the sixty that Pontius Pilate didn't exist. It wasn't true. Why my pastor from the Lutheran Church. We just don't know. He said and we don't know about Caiaphas. We don't know who the high priest was. And we don't know Caiaphas who crucified Christ really existed until they found his name in stone. In fact they found his bones in a bone box with his name on it. Yosef Caiaphas. That was found up near Tel Aviv when they're digging out the side of a cliff for a highway And they found his name on a casket or it's it's called a bone box now. And uh his bones were in it. They brought it to the Smithsonian Institute and I looked upon it with my own eyes. Read I just finished my Hebrew. I could read it. This is great. Took the church down, our whole church went down here, or most of the church. Written in stone. There's there's just these little things that you would think, well, it's important, maybe it's not important. They're written in stone. And they've survived. God has preserved the name of Caiaphas. God has preserved the name of Pontius Pilate. God has preserved the name of Galileo. God has preserved the judgment seat of Abima. And and these are all words out of verses and and verses that are that are verified. That's the way God preserves his Bible. We wonder, well, how do you know that what you're reading is the real scriptures? How do you know that things haven't changed? Because they're preserved in stone and artifacts. Do you know there's not been one archaeological dig or find ever in history? that disproved one jot or title of scripture. And believe me, there are lots of archaeologists out there. They'd love to find something like that. They're not old Christians out on those digs But the things they keep finding. You know, if we live long enough we'll probably every verse we can find in in stone. In fact I would submit to you that probably just about every verse uh you want would be found in script. The verses about sowing and reaping go down to the Department of Agriculture in Washington, D. C. It's engraved on the building on the outside. The truth shall set you free? Meaning you can travel, I guess? You go down to the uh Union Station. It's all across the Union Station, written in stone I mean finding i it tells you what verse I mean the verses are written everywhere. They can they can burn our Bibles with they have to turn down you burn down our stare tear down the Union Station and oh tear down the Library of Congress. My goodness must be ten verses. Written in gold guilt. Why would they put those verses? They didn't put Shakespeare in gold guilt. They put the Bible in gold guilt. Border on by Congress. Let's spend the money on the gold for Bible verses That wasn't this Congress. Oh, they're willing to spend the gold. They're just not on Bible verses. So here we have it. The fragments of the letter of the Delphi. It's called the Delphi inscription. It comes in nine fragments put together. It's a letter by the Roman Emperor Claudius Caesar, who's mentioned in Acts 18. 2, by the way, if you just want to look back real quick In fifty two AD he wrote this letter to Galileo and it was discovered as I said in the nineteen hundreds at the Apollo temple in in Delphi. Delphi is just north of Corinth, just across the little canal that's Well it's a big canal to dug through. It's like the Vanova Canal dug between Corinth and Delphi. But um that's where was found and it proves the reliability of Scripture, doesn't it? This guy really lived. The Bima seed's really there. In fact, you go one chapter further, if you just want to look over at 19 and verse 22, mentions a man named Erastus. And it says in Romans 16, 23 that Erasmus ministered unto Paul. And it mentions, by the way, that Erasmus was the chamberlaid or the minister or administer, administer of the city. His name Erastus What's that got to do with Corinth and the Bima seat? Because when you're standing in front of the beam seat and you're looking at it, and you turn around and walk a few feet over, There's an engraving on the ground. It's about as big as a pulpit desk here. And you know what it says? In fact, it's bigger than that. It's longer than that. But it's that's how wide it is and and about eight foot long. And it mentions Erastus' name there. I mean it's just well it could be any erastus, right? That's a common name. We all know Erasmus is there are a lot of erastes. No there's not a lot. But it but it be that as it mentions his name and it even mentions what his job was. Guess what his job was He was the administrator or the chamberlain of the city. It's right there. I mean now you got three or four words out of that verse. I mean, these are written in stone. They said, how reliable is the Bible? Well, if it's written in stone, is that reliable enough for you? If it's written in stone 2,000 years ago, is that reliable enough for you? You read me that God is preserving the Bible, He's preserved these characters' names here, He's preserved Erastus, the title that he had in that city? Well if you don't believe it right now, when you're at the judgment seat of Christ, you you tell it to him, okay? Because you're you're gonna be there. See how that works out for you. Thank you for that. That's Arabs. It's a first century stone laid in Corinth, preserved, still there, proving the reliability of Scripture, that he was in the ministry of the city. And I can just go on and on about archaeological discoveries Remember what Christ said one time when he was coming into Jerusalem? They told him, Why don't you tell these people to be quiet? They were praising Son of David and save us, son of David, save us, your king. You know, they were just praising him so loud and and they the Pharisees were shouting at Christ, tell these people to be quiet. And Christ said if they should hold their peace, the stones would immediately cry out. Luke 19 and verse 40. You know You can shut us down, but the stones, the verses, they're still gonna be there to cry out, aren't they? Job nineteen, twenty-three through twenty-five. He wrote, Oh, that my words were written and printed. How about that? Are Job's words written and printed? Yeah they are. Our Bible's true that Job is telling them Tell the truth, he got his request, he was prophetic. Oh, that my words were written and printed, engraven with an iron pen. How do you engrave things in a rock? with an iron pen. Oh, that they were grave with an iron pen in the rocks or in the rock forever. And in in the context, he said, reading this, he said, Oh, that my words were, and you know his next words were, My Redeemer liveth. Verse 25. How many of you have gone through a cemetery? Maybe I'm the one that likes to go through cemeteries. I love to go through cemeteries and look for Bible verses and Bible imagery and Christian imagery. And I can't tell you how many times I've seen the tomb, my Redeemer liveth. What did Job say? All that my words were engraved with an iron pin and a rock forever. My Redeemer liveth. So that's a part of a Bible verse. My Redeemer liveth. How do I know it's reliable? Well, I I think it's reliable reliable because it's in Scripture. I think it's trustworthy because of Scriptures. It's been preserved because God will have his words preserved He can preserve them on paper, papyrus, animal skin, on stone. But you have to believe there's there's something behind the words of of what of what people say this is from the Holy Bible, this is the word of God. Well how do you know that? It's been preserved in some of the most uncanny ways. Well we're gonna wipe up we're gonna go sandblast and wipe the verses off the Union Station. We're gonna wipe the verses off of uh Department of Agriculture. We've got to go to all of Arlington Cemetery then too and get all those tombstones in there where there are Bible verses. Including this one here that Job meets or mentions. There's another verse I love. And if you read the old old commentaries, they take a different take on it. But if you read some of the newer commentaries, uh The take is what I'm going to share with you now because sometimes as we get older and sometimes as things transpire in our life We begin to see verses. You know, it says if we mount up into the heavens, God will be there. How are we gonna mount up the heavens? Well we got rocket ships now, don't we? So now that verse says, wow, we really can't we go to the bottom of the sea. Well we've got submarines out, don't we? You know how these verses they they come alive to us as as as the world progresses or degresses. And so Job he writes another one. And maybe some of you will get this right away, but think creation research. Think the Institute of Creation. Think fossils. Think Noah's flood when you read this verse. Job 26, 5. He states, dead things are formed from under the waters. How are fossils made? Animals die and they're buried in a in a watery, muddy grave, laying there. They turn to hard rock stone fossils, don't they? Of course, that doesn't mean there was a worldwide flood, because if there'd be a worldwide flood, you'd find fossils all over the world. Animals dead, animals buried underwater in a muddy grave. And that's what you find. And it's written in stone. I mean that's what these these fossils. I've got some at home. They're they're stone. I could have brought some today, but There's hard I I I saw one time where I showed things projecting up here and the lights would reflect off of things you wouldn't be seeing very well. In fact I brought it with the Dane you can look it later on. I got a picture of the beam, my wife and I standing in front of it. You can look at that, come up here afterwards. I got another picture of the beam up back further so you can just see how how big it is But uh I mean they exist and you can get books on archaeology and they'll show you the pictures all the time as well of the things that uh that are in existence. I'm gonna stop here and see that Don't panic, but I've just lost one page of my notes. Wow. That would sure make for a short sermon I had this happen once before, it's humidity and the p the page stuck to the other page, which is what just happened. Good, I got it. Sorry, you're gonna be here a little longer. See my wife and be watchers later on. Sorry, huh? Now you know why I retired. All right. Dead things are formed from under the waters and the inhabitants thereof. The things that are under the water that inhabit under the water, that drown in the water, whether it's a fish or a dinosaur or tyrus rex or whatever I d they form dead things. They're dead. In fact you can see they're dead. They look like they're gassing for air sometimes. They don't have teeth marks all over their bodies like they were killed by something And have you ever noticed when it when your fish dies, he he floats to the top. And along come the birds, the seagulls, and they eat them up. No bones left. But when you find fossilized fish, what happens? He didn't float to the top. He died buried under an avalanche of sediment and volcanic ash and and uh mud slides and so forth. He died so quickly they've got I I've seen that some where a fish is swallowing another fish And he dies right there. Doesn't get a chance to swallow the whole fish. I mean they said this this was instant catastrophic event that took place. And we we see this and Job talks about dead things are formed from under the waters and the inhabitants thereof. And they're written in stone. Every time you find a fossil, it is proof there was a flood there. Now what the world doesn't know unless they're on the internet, and that's not the best place to find things out really, but what you what you find out on the internet is everybody can find fossils no matter where they live. There's fossils in Maryland, there's fossils in North Dakota, there's fossils in Europe, in England, the white cliffs of Dover. They're white cliffs because they're made up of fossils. You go down here to Calvert Cliffs, Calvert Cliffs, those whole cliffs are made up of fossils. Everywhere you go in the world, there is proof that there was a flood. Put it all together, you got a worldwide flood. Wow. We weren't supposed to do that. We were supposed to just know about the local flood in Maryland, the local flood, you know, in England. It was worldwide. And if there was a worldwide flood, what would you expect to find? You'd expect to find dead things formed under the water and the inhabitants thereof. And Job talks about it. So there's proof of a verse right there. All over the world, fossilized dead things. leaving a stone record, preserving in stone the judgment days of Noah. That's what it is It preserves in stone. Just what scripture said. It preserves, it shows that the scripture has been preserved accurately. It shows that the scriptures are reliable because we've got the flood of Noah. preserved all over the world. You know top you know on Mount Everest they find fossilized seashells on top the highest place in the world right now. Maybe it wasn't at the time. We find them everywhere. Every mountaintop has oyster shells and seashells and sea creatures. preserves the judgment of Noah and it shows and improves the reliability of Scriptures. Every fossil shows the reliability of Scriptures in the days of Noah So you get all of these things we've been talking about. Why should we doubt the coming of the judgment seat of Christ? Got the judgment seat mentioned here twice that we just read? Mentioned twice about Christ. They're all going to be there. You know, sometimes we think when we leave church on Sunday, somebody might die, somebody might be in a car accident, somebody might be sick. This group may never be gathered together again. Yes, we will! At the judgment seat of Christ. I'm looking forward to that, I gotta tell ya. I don't see the Supreme Court doing a whole lot about judgment. Supreme Court. The judgment seat of Christ, the Bima, that's the Supreme Court. Amen. That's the Supreme Court. And that wasn't even my notes. Wow. Okay. I know. Wow. I'm gonna have too much fun up here, hon. I'm sorry. Verse fifteen. Galileo here, he's like so many others, a question of words, he said. I'm not getting a question of words and You just go back one chapter and that's Paul preaching on Morris Hill. Paul was preaching on the creation of the God who was a God of the heavens and the earth. He created it all. Paul was preaching on in uh uh in Acts seventeen on the resurrection of Christ, how he came back from the dead and is alive and was alive among us. You know, he talks about all this. That's all by the way engraved on a brass plaque about Oh, as big as that sofa at Mars Hill. Everybody reads it. In in the I can't remember if it's in English or Greek. I know I could read it. I think it's in Greek because it's is Greece. Yeah, I think it's in Greek. But that's preserved, isn't it? All that Paul preached is preserved on Mars Hill. Engraved with an iron pen, as Job would say. But Galilee says in verse 17, he cared for none of these things. He didn't care about creation, didn't care about the resurrection, didn't care about this this uh guy Jesus or the Christ. He just wasn't interested in that. He just cared for none of these things. You run anybody like that this past week or in your life? They don't care about any of this. Well maybe if it's written in stone. Ooh, well you've opened a whole white gate there. Didn't care about the creation of the heavens and the earth in six days. Where we read this morning our response of reading, God called the light day and the darkness night, and the evening and the morning was the first day, Genesis 1. 5 And then the second day, uh verse eight and thirteen, nineteen, twenty, every every day was described that way. You know. But they want to limit the holy one of God. We read about that in Psalm 78, 41. They limit the Holy One of Israel He couldn't do it in six days. How ridiculous to say he did it in six days. He just couldn't. Well, how much clearer can Moses be when he said that They called the light day and the darkness was night and the evening and the morning with the first day. That's pretty clear what a day is. It's twenty four hours. Oh, he couldn't have done that. So then you limit the Holy One of Israel? Yeah, I guess I do. Well Psalm seventy eight verse forty one was not taught about good people when it said you limit the Holy One of Israel, his power to do what he wants in six days Augustine, a great theologian, and some of those who are not saved, they they know of this much about Augustine. Augustine did not believe that God created the heavens and the earth in six twenty-four hours Shocked, are you? But you've got to read in the context. You know what Augustine thought? On day one, he did it one second. Day two, he did it in another second. So he just believes that, yeah, it was done over six days, but it wasn't done in six, twenty-four hours. God just did it like that and it was done. I don't have a problem But the college professors will quote you. He didn't even believe in the six days that God did it in six days. But he thought they don't quote the other half. He thought it was in six seconds. Could have been microseconds But they live in the Holy Woman of God. They don't believe that God could do this. They think it takes billions of years to change a a soupy ooze or a worm into a flying creature. Right? Billions of years. Oh I'm sorry. I was just describing the butterfly and the caterpillar. But but what's the difference? I mean, if if we didn't see a caterpillar turn into a butterfly in ten days And we saw a picture of a caterpillar as he's an old oozy soup inside that cocoon. And then we'd see a picture of a of a butterfly and we said, how long did that Uzi's soupy stuff take to turn in this beautiful flying butterfly? You say, well that never happened Oh it did. Well, I don't know. How long would it take? Oh no, that'd take hundreds of years probably or or maybe thousands of years. I don't know how long you know, I mean y things like the Uzi soup in evolution, it takes billions of years to become a bird or a flying creature. But God left us with the caterpillar and the butterfly to see I can do it in ten days. I can do it a lot less time. In fact the first time I made the caterpillar and the butterfly, it didn't take ten days. Did him one day. Is it so hard to believe that God can form the man from the dust of the earth? And one day, if we watch every year, he turns them into a butterfly, a caterpillar in ten days. Why why not one day? For one second. How long did it take him to make Adam out of the dusty earth? Probably not long. Evolution, no I'm not pronouncing it wrong. I think that's just the way it should be pronounced. Evolution teaches things contrary to the scriptures. Not only they don't believe in six-day creation. They believe the earth's billions and billions of years old. It's taking a long time for us to get here. Contrary to what do they teach us contrary to scriptures? Well, have you ever heard of survival of the fittest? They teach survival of the fittest. The problem with that is, ask the Egyptians how that worked out for them at the Red Sea, the survival of the fittest. How'd that work out for them? Not so good Goliath. He's the most superior Philistine warrior they ever had. He's got four brothers behind him uh just like him and they send him out to take on the Israeli army and and and he goes out and he has to fight this shepherd boy survival of the fittest. How did that work out for Goliath? There's a carpenter giving us a lot of problem in Jerusalem lately. And he said he's a slick one. Boy, we've tried to catch him a couple times. He always gets away from us. This time we're sending a band of men. uh the word in the Greek is cohort. It it implies as much as five hundred something, even a thousand men were sent with Jews Iscariot that night. Don't let him get away. We got a thousand men. And they all approached Christ and they said, Who are you looking for? the Lord says and they said Jesus of Nazareth, he said, I am he. And what happened to those five men? Boom! Down on their bottoms they went, fell backwards and down the ground. The only one left standing is the great I am. Well I thought survival of the fittest here. How come they can't take a carpet so easily? Well they got him eventually. Well sure. But Christ says no one takes my life from me. I lay it down on myself. Well what could he have done next after they fell down Well they can you imagine what the sound was like with five hundred men with with swords pulled out and and stabs? I wonder how many stabbed each other accidentally. You know, be he'd be like a a a a sail at Kingmart or something. Everybody's rushing to the desk room to get something with with screwdrivers in her hand. I mean he said, Well what would he have done? What would he have done? Okay, he's it's knocked 'em down. Now what? They start to get up and he will just say he just breathed out. I am. Boom. Down they go again. You start to walk out of the garden, they start to follow him, I am, boom, down they go again. He could have died, he could have struck him dead. It was lucky they were alive. Can you imagine in the presence of God, looking in the face of God, who's seen the face of God and live? So how does that first basic foundational law of evolution, the survival of Vidas, really work out? Not so good. Not so good. It says Mark fourteen forty, a great multitude, a band of men with weapons. And John eighteen thirty-six came to arrest the carpenter Didn't work out, did it? Not the way they planned anyway. Also, what does the resurrection of Christ mean? Galileo's not interested in it. Yeah, he he heard about the Mars Hill and Paul's down there preaching about the resurrection of this of this individual and He's just not interested in names. He's just not interested in in these stories. He's not he d he doesn't care about these events And the Jehovah's Witnesses are like that. You ask a Jehovah's Witness, do you believe in the body and resurrection of Christ? And they'll say, well, not the same body that died on the cross. I mean that one there was was beaten and bruised and mutilated and nails to the hands and the feet and uh we believe there was another body that was a resurrec why wait what do you mean? If God wants to show his power, he's not going to raise up his son The Jehovah Witness believe he he raises up another body that looked like Jesus. What's the point of that? Was it a physical body? Some of the culture will tell you, well, it was a spiritual body. Christ was resurrected in the heart of the believers, they say, but not a physical resurrection. Well the scriptures make it pretty clear in Luke twenty-four, thirty-nine and forty. Behold my hands and my feet. Handle me and see, for a spirit hath not flesh and bones. He said it's me. Not some other body that the Jehovah witness thinks was raised up to look like me. It's me. Handle me. He showed them. Luke 24, 39. And Thomas, reach hither your finger, and behold my hands And thy hand thrust it into my side, John 20 and 27. Can he make it any clearer that the body that died on the cross is the same one that was resurrected and that it was resurrected? I mean can scripture be any clearer when it talks about what a day in the day of Moses was referring to. Evening and night, darkness and light. Can it scripture be any clearer when it says here, put your hand in the hole my side of my in my side, your finger in the holes of my hands and my feet. How much clearer can you get that this is a real resurrection? You know, the problem isn't. The problem isn't that the scripture isn't clear enough People say, well, it lacks clarity. No. The scriptures, they do not lack clarity. The problem isn't the clarity of the scriptures, it's the depravity of man. Who cannot believe. Even God's good news. It's it's not clarity missing from the Bible. The Bible's very clear. You're a sinner you deserve hell and damnation in a place where you'll spend the rest of your life wailing and gnashing of teeth. There's clarity. But for the unsaved man he wants no clarity. He doesn't even believe God's good news. You would think that you know God promises that I will give you eternal life and you shall never perish. John 10 and 28. That's the good news. They don't want to believe that either. Is it not cla what is it lacking clarity? No, it's the depravity of man does not want to believe that God is going to resurrect us as well and give us eternal life, that we never perish He is going to preserve us. That's the reality of it. And that's the reliability of it. You know, it's sometimes people say, well, never perish, eternal life. That that sounds better than for as long as you own your car, you know, that muffer's good. We just put the muffler on for as long as you own your car. Well, I like never perish. That sounds better. I want a muffler that never perishes that's preserved forever. Gave us eternal life. Never perish. Life that would endure forever. That's what's the problem. That's the good news, and they don't even want to believe that. Life that will endure forever. You know what else endures forever? His mercy endureth forever. First chronicles 1634. You know what else endures forever? Thy name, O Lord, endureth forever. Psalm 135 and verse 13. And guess what else endures forever? The word of the Lord endureth forever. 1 Peter 125. Scripture endureth forever. How so? Well It's still with us now. A lot of it's written in stone. I mean, if God's name is not if God's name doesn't endure forever Or if God's word doesn't endure forever, or if our if w then that then how should we believe that we're going to endure forever? You know, you can't have it both ways. Well yes, we'll endure forever. We're all going to be in heaven someday forever. Uh no, the Bible is not going to be preserved, it's not going to endure forever. You can't have it both ways. He says that his word will endure forever, that he will preserve it, that it will be reliable. In fact, how can the word of God be reliable if it doesn't endure forever I believe in the Word of God. We just don't have it. Well then how can we rely on it? Hmm, good question. I don't know how we can rely on that. I mean it's got to be. He he said that y if you don't believe the Word of God is preserved, then why should I believe that you're going to be preserved Why should I believe that my name is going to be preserved? Preservation of Scripture, that's a that's a major doctrine to have confidence in, if you want to have confidence in yourself, never perishing and being preserved forever. It undermines the authority and the reliability of the scriptures if you question the preservation of God's Word that He says will endure forever. Forever. That's longer than this world so far. Shall never perish. I think if people believe that we will never perish, that there's a judgment day coming, some will be in hell forever and some will be in heaven forever. If they really believe that They might believe more about the judgment seat of Christ. They might believe that it's just not some cunningly devised fables, 2 Peter 1 and 16. When Christ says, well it Actually it's recorded in in Luke 1732. Remember Lot's wife? Famous quote, right? But you know who said it? Christ said it. Christ said it. Not Lot. He maybe said it too. But remember Lot's wife. And they they would call that also just a cunningly devised fable. Second Peter one sixteen. These fables, these wives' tales they say. When Lot's wife was assaulted Anybody get that? When she was assaulted When she was assaulted by God's judgment, people want to call it a fable. People want to call it a tale. When she was assaulted by God's judgment, and there is a judgment coming, the judgment seat of Christ, the beam, it is coming. It is coming. It's not a fable, it's not a tale The world the world thinks we're dealing with you hear people say, well yeah, I believe in the man upstairs. Oh, dear me. The man upstairs, they're not dealing with God. God's not real to them. They believe there's a God, if there's a God, he's the God of all love and he tolerates all manner of sin. Wow, where do they get that from? That is delusional thinking. That God will tolerate all sin forever. Judgment will not come quickly. That's delusional thinking. Well, it's been a long time in his coming. After all, we've been around for billions of years. No, you haven't There's some people who look pretty old, but they don't look that old. Evolution says the salactites, salagmites, they grow very slow. uh to eight foot long, salagma salacti from the caverns. It takes about ten thousand years for them to get to be one foot long, maybe eight foot long sometimes. Ten foot or eight foot and a hundred thousand years. I got a problem with that. There's a six foot long stalacite in the Abraham Lincoln Memorial down the basement. Six foot long. And they say, you know what their answer is that? Well they grow faster indoors. Oh, okay. Let me let me tell you how fast thalactites and thalagmites grow. They grow very fast. They don't grow slow. Those thalactites are not billions of years old or millions of years old or even hundreds of thousands of years old. How do I know they grow fast? Because if you go up and look at the psalactides sometimes, and sometimes they'll show them to you if you ask them, there are bats caught inside the psalactide. I mean this glob fell on the bat and he couldn't get out, you know. He got caught. That that's just a lag that growing pretty fast, right? And not only that, but okay, he's caught, and guess what? They're called cave crickets. They eat the dead bass. Why didn't they eat the ones in the stalactites? Because the stalactites, they happen very fast. They go very quickly. They engulf a bat and they preserve the bat. Oh, the bat's preserved. You know why the bat's preserved? He's a fossil now. You know why he's preserved? That we might believe that So lagtites don't grow real real slow, but they grow real real fast, and they grew in a period of time sometime after the flood, and it didn't take very long to engulf and encompass that bat, because he didn't get eaten Mm-hmm. By the bacteria, he didn't get eaten by the uh cave crickets and so forth. It happens very fast. Their preservation The earth is not old. It was created by God as a mature and a fully functioning planet. What does a mature person look like? They look older than a baby. What does a mature earth look like? It looks older than it is because God created it with a mature and functioning ability. We say, well, it sure looks older to me. Yeah, well that's the consequences of a skin a sin, scarred, and aged earth. The flood and everything else. What sin has done deserve. It didn't always look this old. But the flood do it. The consequences of sin have made this plant look much older than it is You've met people who you say, Whoa, what happened to him? I knew Joe twenty years ago. He sure has age. Boy, he's been drinking too much, smoking too much, he hasn't been eating right, he's been laying out in the sun too much. Boy, he's really aged. Yeah, well that's the consequence of doing things the wrong way. Mm-hmm. Had you believed Moses Christ said, you would have believed me. If you believe not his writings, how shall you believe my words? You don't believe Genesis, Exodus the biggest, and the prophets of all the if you don't believe them, you're not gonna believe God's word. You're not gonna believe what Christ had to say. Christ said in the days of Noah Oops, he believed that. Yeah, Christ did. Christ talked about Moses, talked about uh Uh the flood that came and destroyed them all. Luke 17, 26, Christ talks about the flood in the days of Noah, how the flood destroyed them all. Fossils show that. Fossils are all over the world. Every fossil proves that there was a flood, that there was a No Way flood. If you get a chance, go around to museums and read the little cards and description of the cards. Sometimes you'll be amazed what you learn Cumberland, Maryland. Anybody know where Cumberland, Maryland is? The Cumberland Bone Caves. You ever heard of the Cumberland Bone Caves? Google it. I hope it's still there. Google gets rid of the stuff. Come to a bone cage. They went inside there, they found saber-toothed tigers. We used to have them in Maryland. So you thought things were tough now out in the streets. You go in the Common Bone case, they found a dragonfly with a three-foot wing spread. Wow! Looks like a drone, I guess, or something. Massive looking dragonflies. See, things haven't evolved and gotten bigger and better. Things have actually gotten smaller and worse. It's devolution we believe in, not evolution. The floodstone fossils are preserved and they prove the reliability of scriptures, and it urges all of us to consider today the judgment seat of Christ. Consider the judgment seat of Christ. Psalm 33, 8 says, and stand in awe of him. Let's pray. Father, we thank you for this day today, an opportunity to share what's been on our heart, an opportunity to Stud more study a little more than we would naturally do when you don't have a lesson to prepare. Uh the blessings that come along with having a prepare. Uh Brother Vince would know and others here would know. But Lord, may our people have been blessed today. May they take something home from this. May they be encouraged that the Word of God is reliable. May they be encouraged that what we have has been preserved from the days that it was written. We have a reliable, preserved, trustworthy book called the Bible. And may we not forget that. And in not forgetting that, we'll be prepared. We'll be prepared for the judgment seat of Christ. The Bhima seat. to come. It's in Christ's name we ask that you bless every heart here and that we do meet someday, but to hear of the good that we've done as Christians and not the bad as uns Saved. We ask this in Christ's name for his sake. Amen.