Third chapter of Hebrews. Hebrews 3. So if you will follow along in your bulletin, I'm going to read Hebrews 3. And we're at the last few verses of this third chapter. And the title is The Price of Admission. I'm a little sleepy today, so bear with me as I try to get through this. There's actually some interesting discussion I'd like us to get into here. But uh let's read now Hebrews 3 and these last few verses beginning in verse 16 to the end of the chapter, Hebrews chapter 3. For some, when they had heard, did provoke How be it not all that came out of Egypt by Moses. So this is taking us back to the Exodus. But with whom was he grieved forty years? This is now talking about the wilderness sojourn. Was it not with them that had sinned, whose carcasses fell in the wilderness? And to whom swear he that they should not enter into his rest But unto them that believed not. So we see that they could not, that's a big big phrase, could not enter in because of unbelief. And this is our terminal passage of the third chapter of Hebrews. There's a parallel passage in the book of Jude in the fifth verse. There's only one chapter in Jude, and I'll just mention it here. I will therefore put you in remembrance, though ye once knew this that's an interesting phrase, how that the Lord, having saved the people out of the land of Egypt, afterward destroyed them that believe not That's Jude 1. 5. Well, uh we're going to look at uh verse 16, the first part. I'm going to look at that phrase uh when they had heard. This is the outline of the message today, or the study. The next part in sixteen to seventeen, howbeit not all that came out of Egypt, with whom was he grieved, we're going to discuss that audience and that group of people. We're going to look in this phrase entering into his rest, because that I think is the most exciting part of this. Uh don't fall asleep on me until you get to that part of me. Well, don't fall asleep on any of it because that part's really going to be interesting. And then verse 19, how they were to uh enter. Alright, well, let's talk about hearing It says in the first part of 16, and again, this is a Bible study. We take things kind of slow because we're going to study some portions and phrases that you find here. And it says, for some when they had heard, did provoke. And I was struck this because what is it that the context tells us that they heard? Look in your Bible. I actually haven't printed it there. You may need to turn to Hebrews 3. What is it in the context that says that they heard? It says, for some when they had heard. Heard what? Here, it's in verse fifteen His voice? Yeah, his voice. His voice. Some people heard the voice of God. And yet they did provoke. So the penman here of the inspired penman of the book of Hebrews is directing us back. to this Old Testament account. So now that you have your Bible in your hand, we're going to turn all the way back to the book of Numbers. Let's go back to Numbers 13, because he says some when they heard they did provoke. And I am really struck again, you you're we've looked at this before. We're going to look at it one more time with a f maybe a a little different perspective. And I need some readers. Somebody read Numbers 13 verses 30 and 31. And Caleb stilled the people before Moses and said, Let us go up at once and possess it, for we are well able to overcome it. But the man that went up with him said, We be not able to go up against the people, for they are stronger than we. Alright. Somebody else read Numbers 14, 2 to 4. And all the children of Israel murmured against Moses and against Aaron, and the whole congregation said unto them Would God that we had died in the land of Egypt, or would God we had died in this wilderness, and wherefore hath the Lord brought us into unto this land? to fall by the sword, that our wives and our children should be afraid. Were it not better for us to return into Egypt? And they said one to another, Let us make a captain And let us return into Egypt. Alright. And then uh somebody else, numbers fourteen, the last section, eight through eleven. Numbers fourteen, eight to eleven. Gabe, why don't you read that? 148 through eleven. If the Lord delight in us, then he will bring us into this land and give it us. A land which floweth with milk and honey. Only rebel not yeah. against the Lord, neither fear ye the people of the land. For they are bred for us, their defense is departed from them, and the Lord is with us. fear them not. But all the congregation bade stones them with stones. And the glory of the Lord appeared in the tabernacle of the congregation before all the children of Israel. And the Lord said unto Moses, How long will this people provoke me, and how long will it be ere they believe me, for all the signs which I have shown among the fam people Alright, so we just kind of took a sampling of some of those passages that are being alluded to and referred back to from the book of Hebrews. And I have some questions now. I'm going to talk about this. You know, Hebrews said when they heard When they heard, they did provoke. And I found that to be interesting. What was the voice of the Lord that they heard when the Lord didn't appear until later? What was what was the voice of the Lord that they heard? What did they hear? Well they heard his voice through Moses. Yes. They certainly heard his voice through Moses. Moses was a what was Moses? He was a prophet. It was a prophet of God. When Moses spoke he was uttering as it were the oracles of God. Alright, though the words of Moses are written. That's how they heard the voice of the Lord. And how else did they hear it? You could consider, for instance, maybe Joshua and Caleb, because they were Giving what? What did Joshua and Caleb give? What was their word? What was their voice? Um they were well, I mean, yeah, they were sort of giving instructions, so what how else would we maybe uh look at that again and um Numbers thirteen, thirty, and thirty-one. This is the voice of Caleb. This is giving a testimony. Of of which? Of what they saw and what they believed God would do. Yeah, uh yeah. An account, right? I'm looking at Freddie because she's one that does this a lot. Encouragement. See, Joshua and Caleb gave great encouragement. They were encouraging the people in the Lord. They said, He will give it to us. Their defense is gone. They kept bringing God into the equation. And God says, You heard my voice. You heard the voice of my witnesses. So that's insightful to me because it tells me that you and I are representatives of the king. We are the voice of the Word of God to our generation. And there are some people to whom you will come, and they will hear that voice, and they will reject it. They are provoking. They're provoking God. And it's a astounding thing because later we read in Numbers 14, while you're in your Bible, look at verses 22 to 24. Because here's when God speaks more directly to Moses, and he gives a reason as to why he's going to do what he's about to do. He says in Numbers 14, 22, because all those men which have seen my glory And my miracles, which I did in Egypt and in the wilderness, and have tempted me now these ten times. Behold the patience of God. And have not hearkened, haven't listened, haven't obeyed, they've not listened to my voice. Surely, rest assured. They shall not see the land which I swear unto their fathers, neither shall any of them that provoked me see it. But my servant Caleb, because he had what? Listen to it. He had another spirit. Isn't that interesting? He had another spirit. Caleb was a spirit-filled child of God. And so the Spirit of Christ was in him speaking when he said, Let us go. We can take it. Their defense is gone. Guys, the Lord's got this. Listen to this promise that he's given us. We can do this. He had another spirit with him, and it followed me fully. Him will I bring into the land wherein wherein to he went, and his seed shall possess it. So I was just struck right off the bat, studying this passage, when it says, When they heard, because as I went back and looked at the numbers account, They saw the miracles of God. They got out through the Red Sea. But from that point forward, it was mostly Moses, the spies speaking. And they said they heard his voice and rejected it. They were rejecting it from his servants. They were rejecting it from the servants of God, from the prophet of God. They were rejecting that. No, I don't believe this anymore. Isn't that astounding? And this is in the midst of a corporate group of people who God had rescued temporarily and brought them out of Egypt's hard bondage of labor. And then we get to 16 and 17. And it says the last part of sixteen, howbeit not all that came out of Egypt by Moses, but with whom was he grieved? So not all means, and this is your next fill-in-the-blank, not all means how many. So when it says how many, well, we know from Exodus 12 and verse 37 that about 600,000 men came out of Egypt. That's a lot of souls. It didn't count the women, didn't count the children. Some have estimated that based on the headcount of the patriarchs, that that could have been a crowd anywhere between one to one and a half million people by the time you add women and children. That's a lot of people. The biblical minimalists in the archaeology camp say there's no way there were that many people. Just no way. They they say, well that's the the they reduce it to something like six thousand. They try to have that count to say instead of men it's really more of a count of tribes or or end they they reduce it to some ridiculous ridiculously small number such that a complete and utter destruction of Egypt isn't even required. I mean a good special ops force mission could haul these people out the way they've reduced it. No, no, it's six hundred thousand. It's definitely a large biblical grade quantity of people But how many of that group, I'm talking about the group that came out of Egypt, those that were in Egypt, they saw Egypt. They saw Pharaoh, saw the Nile River, babies thrown in the river. They saw all that stuff. How many of that group made it into the promised land? Do you remember the count? Two. Two. Two. Joshua and Caleb. Six hundred thousand people, plus women and children Came out. Now, it wasn't just two that entered the promised land. There was a count of about 600,000 that went in. Who were those 600,000? A new generation. That's correct, because God had indicated that those who were uh what's the number? I think twenty and uh younger would go in, but anybody over the age of twenty, they were gonna wander around and be slain You know, the Baptist talk about age of accountability. Well, twenty's a good number. Biblically speaking, uh if you're going to try to pick a number, you might want to go with something like that Well, I'm not encouraging that. So anyway, the point is that the there was a great a lot that there was I'm just astounded by that. You've got a whole lot of people that actually saw miracles. They saw hail come down from heaven. They saw a river turn to blood. They saw frogs invading the land. getting into the kneading troughs, into the oven, into their bakeware. They go to make some bread. Here's some frogs jumping out. They go to sleep in their bed. Frogs are coming out. The Egyptians saw that and they reported it. And then they saw the Lord Drive them all away. They saw locusts come in, devour every single thing that the hail had left behind. They saw cattle die. They saw cattle die only of those who didn't bring them back into your abode If you left your cattle or your servant in the field, they died, but if you brought them back into your boat, they lived. They saw God do this. His his miracle over the waters, over the sky and the weather, over the smallest of animals, the Firstborn, and of course the death of the firstborn was the crowning blow, because there wasn't a single house in Egypt that night that had not suffered the death of the firstborn. They had seen these mighty works of God, and yet they did not believe God when it got a little tough. What applications can we make from these insights? Because, yeah, it's Old Testament, but our New Testament book of Hebrews is saying to you and to me. Don't don't do what they're doing. What how can we make an application from this? Yeah. Well I think You know, the the Israelites might have thought that those those miracles and those provisions were good for us in Egypt, but we're out here in the desert. You know, that that that stuff just doesn't happen anymore. Because they're in a different environment. They began to reason with themselves as to why God's promises wouldn't be true there. And I think the application from that is No matter where we're at, God's promises are still true and we should rest in that and not give up on that. Mm-hmm. Yeah. Any other thoughts on that? What other applications could we make from this? How do how do we apply this to ourselves today? I haven't been a slave in Egypt, but I've been in bondage to sin and I've been redeemed from that. What tempts you to provoke God in the way they did? Trial and tribulation. Trials and Tribulations. Can you think of anybody in the Bible who underwent some severe trials and tribulations and was tempted to provoke God? Yeah, you mentioned Job. What did his wife say? Do you remember? Curse God and die. Look at all this that's fallen upon you. Curse God and die. Why is it hard to believe God when trials and tribulations fall? Because we're living by sight, not I think. Ooh, that's a very profound statement. Because we live by sight and not by faith. And we know that God can change any situation. But when he doesn't Yes, we know he can change any situation. We know he can. We don't doubt that. But when he doesn't, then you begin to wonder, why is this? Right. Has God changed along the way? Oh that's great. Yeah. What other thoughts come into your mind when hard situations occur and you begin to wonder what God's doing? What other thoughts do you think might enter into people's minds when hard times start to come? We begin to think we know better than God does. Okay. Expand on that a little bit. We we know better than God in in in what sense? We we have our our pet solution which ignores the might and power of God to do something far greater than we can imagine. Yeah, God you made a mistake. Perhaps you weren't paying attention down here, but uh things have kind of fallen in in in a bad lot for me at the moment. Uh would you mind uh casting a glance down here and fixing it Yeah, we can begin to question why God's doing what he's doing. I'm quite sure Joseph was really scratching his head in an Egyptian prison far away from home for those two years And yet that was the path to the throne. Media polls wouldn't have covered that. They wouldn't have figured that out one bit. So yes, you see that Um there was uh times when we can really discourage people. But what about the fact that all of these people Had been rescued by Jehovah. We're talking 600,000 Hebrews that had been hauled out of Egypt, and only two of that group made it into the promised land. What does that say to us? Election. Certainly screams election. What else does it say? Don't be comfortable sitting in a church or in a home. where there's uh true uh genuine preaching going on. Um and just think uh because you're in here with this group you're safe Yeah, you know, that is the hard teaching from this passage. He says, yep, they provoke God, but not all. There were some who believed. But the all that he's talking about are all those who were delivered out of Egypt. Do you know people? maybe over your life, who went to church, seemed to be good church Christian members, but then you look back today They're not in the faith? Have you encountered people like that? I think pretty much a lot of you are shaking your head. Yeah, we've seen people like that. He that endureth to the end shall be saved. And it doesn't mean that they endured and therefore were saved, but rather they endured because they were saved. Would you agree that perhaps the endurance was an endurance of faith? Yeah. They were faithful to the end. They believed. They still trusted God. What is that you mentioned, Job, Lisa, there's a great statement Job makes. Though he slay me, yet will I Trust you. That's faith. That's faith. It says, Lord, I'm not going to question why you're doing what you're doing. But if this is your plan and this is your approach, that's fine. Look at your back to your handout here in 2 Peter 220. I'm just really struck with the fact that 600,000 Jews God's people, descendants of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, great-great-grandchildren. 598,000 of them, God says, I am not pleased with these people at all. They had the right lineage. They had the right heritage. They had the right patriarchy. They had the right God. They had the right message. They had the right gospel. They were in God's ordained place at God's ordained time, with God's ordained prophet, no less. And he says, I'm not pleased with these people. It'd been better for them, it says. Click at 2 Peter 2. 20. If after they have escaped the pollutions of the world These people that escaped the pollutions of Egypt. They escaped it. There's some good Christian people. People I'd love. They'd be fine neighbors. I'd have no problem with my kids spend time with them. They've escaped the pollutions of the world through the knowledge of the Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. Now this is where I have a problem with my kids hanging out with them. They are again entangled therein. They get tangled back up in the world. It got a little tough. John Bunyan's book Pilgrim's Progress shows an account of a man who, when he got a little, the going got tough. He just turned tail and ran. They are again entangled therein and overcome. The latter end is worse with them than the beginning. But it has happened unto them, according to the true proverb. The dog is turned to his own vomit again, and this is the one that strikes me. And the thal, the pig, that was washed, was a washed pig. To her wallowing in the mire. There are some pigs among the sheep In the house of God. And I'm using house of God in the broadest possible sense. They were drunks. They discovered the Bible and Jesus. They gave up their drinking. Praise God. Hallelujah. But then car gets stolen. I can't believe God would let this happen. And fall away. I've seen that. This is an example of true life. I've literally seen that happen. His car got stolen. He said, oh, this is a wreck. Who is this God? And he turned away. The ridiculous? A little bit of difficulty. Touched the flesh. A little bit. Love that word wallowing. A pig loves to wallow. And they went back to what they really loved. Yes. They didn't love Christ, they went back to what they really loved. Yeah. But there's a washing The sow was washed. It was washed by Jesus, but it wasn't unto the soul. It was a temporal, external salvation, which is what these 598,000 people had. Wow, how can you get so close? So close and yet so far. Matthew Henry has some good observations. He write he uh wrote this, though the majority of hearers Provoked God by unbelief. Yet there were some who believed the report, the good report. Number two, though the hearing of the word be the ordinary means of salvation, yet if it be not heeded It exposes men more to the anger of God. It had been better for them not to have known the way of righteousness than to turn from the holy commandment delivered unto them. Number three, God will have a remnant that shall be obedient to his voice, and he will take care of such, and he will make mention of them with honor. And number four, if these should fall, meaning the whole mixed multitude and the elect, if these should fall in a common calamity Yet, the elect, these shall take partake of eternal salvation, while disobedient hearers perish forever I think he summarized that quite nicely. And then we turn back now to Hebrews 3. 18, and it says, it introduces a grand theme that now begins to appear throughout the book of Hebrews. Entering into what? Verse 18, and to whom swear he that they should not enter into his rest. This is fascinating. Because that word rest is the word katapalsis, and it's an interesting word. It literally means to settle down. Want to get married, have kids, settle down. It literally means to colonize, but it has a um A sense of it meaning to desist. You're going to stop wandering, stop working, stop laboring. It's kind of a dual sense of the word. of rest. In fact, it's not the typical word for rest that you find in the Bible. For instance, in Mark 14, when the Lord Jesus says, Sleep on now, take your rest. That's a totally different Greek word that's anapal. This is katapousis. In fact, the Apostle Paul never uses this particular word that you find in the book of Hebrews. It's pretty much limited to the book of Hebrews. This idea of settling down, colonization, rest. I think settle down and rest is kind of the sense of it. Now the closest the Apostle Paul gets is the word refreshing even by way of the theme. He never uses this word. He uses that other word, the normal word. He says, for they have refreshed my spirit, he wrote in 1 Corinthians 16. They've refreshed my spirit. But that's not this word. The Apostle Paul never really touches on this theme of resting, settling down. So let's review the promises that they had, shall we? It's in your handout. It's in Genesis 13, 14. He says that they should enter into his rest. Well, the promise they had was given all the way back to Abram in Genesis 13, 14. The Lord said unto Abram, Lift up now thine eyes and look, verse 15, all the land which thou seest, to thee will I give it, and to thy seed for ever. So historically, what was the rest? That God is talking about historically. The promised land You have the promised land, the land of Canaan. You're gonna walk into this land and you're going to settle down there You know, it's interesting because later God would continue to talk about that land of Canaan. They were going to take over ready-built houses. Some of you just moved into a brand new house. It's really nice, it's exciting, and then you realize There's a lot more to be done. I gotta put a fence up. I gotta do some lawn work. I gotta do this. Oh, this goes out. It takes a while to kind of get the house fully furnished and set up the way you like it. Certainly took a lot to clear the ground, clear out the stones, set it up. Back in the old days they didn't have electric machinery to do all this. It takes a lot to get the house established. How about landscaping? How about trees? How about a vineyard? Oh I'd love to plant a vineyard. Well it's three years before that grapevine begins to pr produce anything. Oh I want some apple trees. Plant a little stick in the ground. How long is that gonna be for that stick produces apples? Maybe never. Maybe never. If you're planting it If you're planning it in Joe's yard, it may be never. You may have to figure out what variety you need before you actually get something. And you know what God said of them in Joshua twenty-four after they came in He says, I've given you a land for which you did not labor, and cities which you built not. How long does it take to build a city? Road work, drainageways, gates, wall defenses, cities which you built not, and you dwell in them, of vineyards and olive yards which ye planted not. Do you eat? You're eating from those things. In other words, God wiped out like with a neutron bomb all of these people and they could walk into a place ready-made. I ain't got to do nothing. I just move in. The occupants have been kicked out. And I've got a house with a fully stocked kitchen. I've got a vineyard. I've got trees that are known to produce. I've got fields. It's already How easy does this get? I can I can see I my family can come here. Why you can have this house. Oh no Dad, you have the bigger house. Well, thank you, son. I think I will take the bigger house. And then all these nice trees that you've got. It's all you just move in. You literally, I mean it's it's a done deal. And why do you think then God, the Holy Spirit, would call it an entrance into his rest? That was the rest that he was talking about historically, but now Hebrews calls it an entrance into his rest. Why would he use that particular word now? What's what are we being taught from by that word now? Our God is going to prepare a place for us. Where's that at? Is that in Palestine? Is that in Israel? Where where's is he going to fix that over for me? And if I go and prepare a place for you, I will come again and receive you unto myself, but the rest is in Christ. Yeah, the rest is in Christ. It's a new heaven, it's a new earth, it's all ready, it's all built. I saw New Jerusalem descend from heaven above. The city's built. Comes down, ready built. You see that picture. Of Canaan, that land of Canaan, is a glorious picture of the inheritance you and I, as believers in Jesus Christ, from the right God with the right gospel. with from the right prophets and the right apostles with the right message have. We have these promises. They are great and exceeding and precious promises. And we are inheriting An everlasting kingdom, an eternal kingdom, one that's not going to know an end. Everything's ready. God's not going to ask you to bring your tools with you. He's not there's not going to be any shovels in heaven You don't need a shovel, it's a it's not even a shovel ready site, it's a done built site, everything that you need is prepared for. It's Kind of like the Garden of Eden, but better because there's no testing program. Right? There's no chance, there's no opportunity to fail again. It is a glorious promise. It is a phenomenal promise. But there's some obstacles between here and there called this world, this life, the world, the flesh, and the devil. Don't let that get in the way of that great and exceeding precious promise that you and I have, of which Canaan was but a mere shadow. A fleeing shadow, but a glorious picture of the rest we can settle down In new heaven and new earth, and be content. There will be no more tears. There's no more pain. No crying nor suffering. No disease. None of that. Psalm 94. Just listen to this language that God gives. Because this land of Canaan, typifying our rest in Christ, come unto me, all you who labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you what? Rest. That rest ties us to another rest, and we'll explore that as we get to it. Psalm 94, 12-13. Blessed is the man whom thou chastenest, O Lord. And teachest him out of thy law that thou mayest give him rest from the days of adversity. Rest was always an Old Testament concept of blessing. It was a blessed thing to be able to rest in God's rest. Not the men who are at ease in Zion resting on their leaves. That's not I'm not talking about the dumb dogs that cannot bark. I'm talking about a good rest Psalm 116, return into thy rest, O my soul, for the Lord hath dealt bountifully with thee. It says, return to that rest. That rest, that recognition, okay, I have teach us to number our days that we may apply our hearts unto wisdom. Alright? It doesn't matter what physical state I'm in now, perfect health or agonizing misery My days are numbered, but this place, this time, this corrupt, sin-cursed, double-run planet All under God's supervising hand for the purpose of sanctifying his people is not my eternal home. And God has an end and a mean to all of it, and that end and that mean is rest in Jesus Christ. Isaiah 11 10 In that day there shall be a root of Jesse Which will stand for an ensign of the people. To it shall the Gentiles seek. There's a root and there's an ensign. And his rest shall be glorious. It's a glorious rest. You know, how many of you just like to go out to restaurants? Had a hard week, come home from Friday night, got your paycheck, money's burning a hole in your pocket Let's just go out and get something to eat. One of my favorite splurge places to go to is make a quick run to Five Guys for Lunch something. You'll get that five guys burger, mustard and jalapenos on the side, pickles and lettuce, and big old bag of greasy fries. Stinks up the car for three days, you know. I only just bringing it home. And you just, oh, I just like to go out and splurge. Just, oh, that's nice. You just rest in that Can you imagine? Can you imagine God Almighty giving you a rest for your soul that's beyond what any restaurant would have all manner of fruit the scripture says, each tree bearing his fruit in his season. All of that is just typology to depict that everything that you could want is supplied. And all of your desires will be godly desires, so that everything you will want will be glorifying to God. And you'll want it. Your chief desire in heaven will be to glorify to God, be glorify God, and you'll be happy to do it Very happy to do it. You'll be ecstatic to do it. Heaven's not boring by any stress of the imagination. Hell is isolation. If you think you're in a party in hell with your friends, you're sadly mistaken You're worshiping a vain delusion in your mind. That is called outer darkness. It's isolation. You're solo, separated, you're under the wrath of God. There's no light, there's no love, there's no hope, there's no mercy. All of the positive attributes of God that you seem to think are just going to be yours forever are gone. The worm dieth not. The fire is not quenched. It is a horrific and eternal and endless suffering. The smoke of the torment ascendeth up forever, and ever the scripture says. The contrast couldn't be sharper. And in fact, the dead carcasses in the wilderness are but a weak reflection of the carcass of hell that they'll rot in for an eternity, for those carcasses will be resurrected and put into a body that can endure eternal damnation and suffer again. God is not mocked when God moves, when God does great and glorious things. He demands that you understand that and appreciate it. And it's not unrighteous of God to request that. If you've been granted a glorious salvation, glorious promises How dare we snub our nose at the Lord's sake? What good does this promise do to me? Give me a bowl of lentil soup. Really? You're gonna shortchange that glorious blessing for some buffoon's answer at something else. to get you out of a temporary let's make a captain and go back to Egypt. You know, I I got to scratching my head this week. Now, if I recall correctly, when they left Egypt, that place was a wreck. There wasn't anything green. Dead animals everywhere. Piles of dead stinking frogs all over the place Uh burials happening all fresh? Fresh graves everywhere? Egypt burial their army in the bottom of the Red Sea What was there to go back to? I'm seriously scratching my head. Go back to what? And you know, with eyes of faith, when God saves you, the Apostle Paul says, What fruit had ye in those things whereof you're now ashamed? For the end of those things is death. Why why would I want to go back to a bar and order a drink? What w what was there? A bunch of stupid people in stupid places at stupid times doing stupid things. That's what was there. Vomit and mud. Vomit and mud was what was back there. Why? And the only reason I think you would go back there is because your eyes are really not open. You really don't know God. You really never believe God. And so how were they to enter? It continues. Isaiah 28, to whom he said, This is the rest wherewith you may cause the weary to rest, and this is the refreshing, yet They would not hear. Isn't that astounding? None are so blind as those who refuse to see. None are so deaf as those who refuse to hear. Jeremiah six sixteen Thus saith the Lord, Stand you in the ways and see and ask for the old path, where is the good way, and we will walk therein, and ye shall find rest for your souls. But they said We will not walk therein. How is it that people do that? How were they to enter in? What was the price of admission? Hebrews 3. 19 says they didn't enter in because of unbelief. So the point is you enter into heaven by faith. And faith means not that you believe this historical character named Jesus appeared and actually walked in Judea, born in Bethlehem, lived in Nazareth Died on a cross, ascended to heaven. I'm not talking about belief in a historical fact. I'm talking about belief in a person, what he said. That what he said was true. That what he said was accurate. Like the centurion said, surely this was the Son of God. Surely, yes. But when you get nervous, it's legal, scary or well, be deal and know. And I don't go ripping and running all over the place looking for the hands. He steal. And you know. That's hard, sister, that is very profound. That's very profound. That is the Word of God. Yeah Be still and know that I am God. See the righteous work of God. It's the belief that results in repentance. The devils believe but they don't repent. They believe and tremble, but they don't repent Yep. You know, their failure to enter into the promised land is because of unbelief. So is that any different today? Can somebody be truly saved if they don't believe? There were no one to believe in order to be a big deal. Yeah. They might believe in a historical Jesus. They might believe that, yeah, this is the house of God's people. Yeah, that's the word of God. They might believe about it, the circumstantial things. But entrance into rest, meaning entrance into heaven, meaning salvation, in the Old Testament, was no different than it is today They entered in in the Old Testament by faith. They had to believe God's promises. It was never by works. But Their works betrayed the fact, as our brother taught in a recent Wednesday night study in James, their works betrayed the fact that in fact they did believe God, or that they don't Your works are simply an indicator on the dashboard. Our pastor knows a lot about automobiles. When you turn on the car and the red light goes on, There's two ways to fix that. One, you can reach up behind the dashboard and cut that little cable that goes to the red light. Fixed it. No red light. Good to go. Or You can pay attention to what that red light's telling you and go deal with the problem. So what I'm saying is that John 3. 18, he that believeth on him is not condemned, but he that believeth not is condemned already. Because he has not believed in the name of the only begotten Son of God. You can't assuage that little red light blinking into your face, warning, warning, what you're doing is wrong. You can't reach up behind that dashboard of your conscience and just sear it. Make it go away. It's really not a problem. Everything's alright. I'm fine. No, you've got to believe God and His promises You've got to believe him in the middle of it. You've got to believe in in the hard times, because that's when the trials come and that's when the test comes. Listen, if you have a season of rest right now, meaning a season of peace. Things are going relatively well. Things are doing fine. Praise God for it. Hallelujah. I'm glad the entire body of Christ isn't suffering all at once. Praise God. If any rejoices, let him sing Psalms. Is any merry? Let him sing Psalms. That's praise God. Because rest assured that there will be some hard seasons. There's uptimes and there's downtimes. And the downtimes sometimes get deeper, and then they get deeper. But don't, don't cast away your confidence Don't let something so hard come upon you that you become don't take up Job's wife's doctrine. Curse God and die. Don't do it, don't do it, don't do it. We need to exhort one another daily. And so, what a marvelous exhortation we have from Hebrews 3. Isn't that interesting that this Old Testament account of the people of God is just as relevant back then and even more so today. And so yes, we pray that we would hold faithful and hold tight during those difficult times. One last comment, and I'll ask Gable to pray. Three of the most profound words in scripture. Remember Lot's wife. She was out of Sodom But she looked back. Luke seventeen twenty-one. Remember Lot's wife. I had that stuck on a sign that I had outside my office at my workplace. I stuck it up and One day I had somebody ask, they were trying to figure out, is this some movie star? They had no idea who Locke White was. They had no clue And it caused opp it gave opportunities to have some discussion. So if you can close this in prayer.