Our topic tonight is providence. So I'm going to give you an overview of the history of this doctrine. I'm going to look at three elements of divine providence because that whole term is very broad. There's many things the scripture uses which we lump under the category of providence. I'm going to look at some wrong views. uh so that we hedge that and they're wrong because we may find ourselves tending to want to slip into thinking that and so that's why I want to call that out There's some extraordinary providence we find in the scriptures. That's also known as miracles, and we'll touch upon that topic as well. And then blessings from the doctrine of providence. What blessings does the child of God get from these things? I'm obviously not going to cover all those tonight. So we'll go as far as we can tonight and I'll cut it off at about the 45-50 minute mark and we'll proceed from there. Well, the thing we want to look at is scriptures, and so we'll begin by looking at the key passages that talk about the providence of the Lord. So if you have a Bible, open it and turn to the book of Nehemiah. I'm going to direct us to about four passages that describe, in summary, some of the key passages about the providence of God. And the first is Nehemiah chapter 9 and verse 6. Nehemiah chapter 9 and verse 6. You go to the book of the Psalms and back up before Job, before Esther, then you'll get to Nehemiah We read in Nehemiah nine six the following. This is a a um a statement that they're making as they stand up to read the book of the law of God as they're rededicating and rebuilding this temple. the second time. And here we read this, thou, even thou art Lord alone. Thou hast made heaven, the heaven of heavens, with all their host. the earth and all things that are therein, the seas, and all things that is therein, and thou preservest them all, and the hosts of heaven worship thee So this is a bold statement from Nehemiah as he's introducing the Lord in this prayer. He's not only the creator of all things, he also surely provides for all things. Notice it says he preserves them all. Hebrews chapter 1 gives us some more detail on this. We'll turn to the book of Hebrews. Hebrews chapter 1. Hebrews 1 and verse 3. We read this: Speaking of Jesus Christ, who being the brightness of his glory and the express image of his person and upholding all things by the word of his power. When he had by himself purged our sin, sat down on the right hand of the Majesty on high. Now it's that little phrase I'm focusing on. Jesus Christ is listed here as several things. He's the brightness of the glory of God. He is the express image of his person. I think that's an interesting phrase. There's probably a good sermon tucked in there somewhere. And it says, He upholds all things by the word of his power. How did God create the universe? Anybody remember? Mm-hmm. He spoke it into existence. And as a result, it says he upholds all things by the word of his power. As he speaks, he continues to uphold it. His word upholds it. And of course, he also speaks to preserve it and to have other things occur. Look at Acts 17. 28. Acts chapter 17, 28, where the Apostle Paul is here on Mars Hill And he declares this, for in him we live and move, and have our being. Now he's not any church service. He's at Mars Hill, where people are gathered to hear and tell some new thing. He's speaking to a group of philosophers, unbelievers, as well as any who might call upon the name of the true and living God in spirit and in truth. He says of all men that God is the one in whom we live and move and have our being. And he then cites a quote from one of the prophets, excuse me, one of their own poets, who have also said, we are also his offspring. And then lastly, Psalm 103. Can you talk about that? That's hard to get better out. In him we Yeah, in him we live and move and have our being. Well stay tuned for the next two or three studies because we're going to unpack that because that verse and many others are very much uh capsulating in seed form. These little nuggets of what does that mean in him we live and move and have our being? How is it that he upholds all things by the word of his power? They call that providence. We'll use other passages to start to unpack that. So hold that question, because that is a good overarching question. Because it's very relevant to this text and to the uh topic at hand. Psalm one hundred and three in verse nineteen. Uh again I'm not trying to dismiss you, but uh I uh That's kind of why I'm here. We're tackling this whole thing. It's a big topic. Psalm 103 in verse 19 says this. The Lord hath prepared his throne in the heavens, and his kingdom ruleth over all Now you might say, well, Vince, these sound like passages that are simply talking about the fact that God's on the throne and he rules over everything. Yeah, yeah, I get that. But what do you mean by providence? Well, I'm not sure you actually get that When it says that he upholds all things by the word of his power, when it talks about in him we live and move and have our being, when it talks about him ruling over all, God's not a passive ruler. He's quite active in his universe. It talks about that he ordains certain things. So we're going to start to unpack this a little further because those are very big and broad statements we may not have an immediate appreciation for, but because of the scope and the breadth of them. They're like standing on the north edge of the Grand Canyon looking down. You you it it's almost hard to Contemplate what a large structure that you're in front of and yet you just pulled up in your car, you parked, you got out, and you looked, and it's like, yeah, it's pretty big. Yeah. Y you you can't almost get your head around it. Even flying over the Grand Canyon in in an airplane, which I've done recently, you still look out and you go, My goodness, that is tremendously huge It's very hard to contemplate. And so the scope of his rule, the depth of it, how much he rules over, how active is he in it, what does it mean? He preserves all things You know, in the Sermon on the Mount, Jesus talked about not a sparrow falls apart from your Father's will. You know, that's a tremendous amount of detail. That's an awful broad scope and reach. We would say it's universal in reach Well, I'm going to give you a little bit of history of this doctrine. Where have people come with this? How has this been developed over time? Unfortunately, this is one where we're sitting on the shoulders of others who have labored before us in the scriptures and have pulled together some fairly clear views on this, and I think have articulated them very nicely to avoid errors that can come with this. Because there's definitely some erroneous ideas one can come with. The early church fathers had no definite view. They were struggling to survive. They were trying to make sure the Word of God was propagated to the next church without error, and they did a good job of that Now they would oppose the Stoics' doctrine of fate. Maybe some of you have heard of fate. Well, it's just up to fate, the gods of fate, it's just, you know, oh well, whatever happens, happens But uh sometimes they would overemphasize the will of man. Uh they were very much trying to hammer in obedience, and so they're going to press upon uh and uh make an appeal to man's will Yeah, it wasn't until Augustine who came along, uh that great bishop of of Hippo, who led the development of this doctrine, among many others, and he opposed the ideas of fate and chance. Those were really more Greek ideas And he really stressed that a wise, omnipotent, and good God, and here's the key words, preserved and governed all things. He underscored that part of preservation and governing, that he governs it, but he's a wise, omnipotent, merciful, gracious God, and so he also governs what he preserves and preserves what he governs. He did maintain God's control over good and evil. He defended the reality of what are called second causes. Just keep that word in your mind as I read the Westminster Confession of Faith a little later. When we talk about this topic, one of the terms we come up with is called second causes. And it's just a handy term, a way to describe something that appears in the scriptures. And we will look at scriptures to underscore that. He defended the reality of second causes to safeguard God's holiness and to uphold man's responsibility. And I think this is one of the jewels of the study of providence. In the Middle Ages, Augustine's views prevailed with little controversy. There weren't any councils that tried to over overrule these things. The Pelagians limited his providence to the to the natural life and not to ethical life. Pelagians are those who would uh we would call modern-day Arminians. Um they would militate against all the five points. They would say man's not totally dead in sins and trespasses, he still has a spark of life God looked down through time, found those who had that spark of life, would raise their hand to vote for Jesus. Jesus made a good effort at the cross, made a redemption pool, but it's up to you to make a difference, and so forth. That's what we mean by Pelagians. The Reformers mostly followed Augustine. Luther believed in general providence. Calvin stressed providence in salvation, and a big amen to that, that God definitely oversees it. Today you'll have many Baptists who will uh appreciate and hold on to the doctrine of God's sovereignty and providence in all areas of life except for one They will not allow God's providence to poke into the matter of salvation. That's one thing they say, nope, that's man's will is there. God doesn't really get involved in that. And I've always scratched my head about that, of all areas for God to get involved in The most glorious work, the chief reason Jesus Christ came to save sinners, he's not involved in that, in the saving of sinners, even in their conversion. You know, and if you've ever come out of a cult or a a d sect that deeply embeds your family, you'll testify. Once this all I know. Once I was blind, now I see. It clearly is the illuminating work of God and the work of the Spirit, and God has to initiate that. By the time the 18th century came along, Providence was wiped out by pantheism. uh evolution to come along and and it started to have its effect and they began to talk about well God is in everything. He's in this chair, he's in this, he's in the cushion, the couch, the the fan. I mean he's everywhere. Um and it blurred a distinction between God and the world. There was no such thing as second causes. The other side of the coin was deism. This was one of the uh bastard stepchildren out of the Reformation which said that uh it's natural science. The world is controlled by an ironclad system of natural laws. Just things go on. Gods out there are far off versus the pantheist where he's in everything. He's in the plants, the trees, like the Native American Indians, the spirit of the great wolf, the they they worshipped everything because it was all an outreach and outworking of God. So those are different ways that that came about. And today there hasn't been much change to that. Well, so let me start off with a definition and then let's get into some of the elements of it that we find in scriptures, because there's some very you're going to review tonight, we're going to turn the pages to some very difficult to understand passages. There are going to be passages that'll rock your world. You're going to look at things and go, huh? I never knew that was in the Bible. Never really thought about that. That's one we just kind of jump over in our church. Well, not tonight. We're going to have to deal with that because there's some real head twisters in some of these passages when we look at how who God is and just to what extent his hand of control operates. With me? You got your seatbelt on? Okay, here we go. Let's uh look now at a uh uh an overarching definition of providence. Uh that working of God in which he preserves all his creatures. is active in all that happens in the world, I think we're okay with that, and directs all things to their appointed end. That's where we get a rug. He preserves all his creatures. He's active in all that happens in the world. And he directs all things to their appointed end. Alright, well let's turn now to So we looked at Nehemiah, and let's go back to that again because I want to expound on that a little bit. We're going to look at divine preservation, God's act of preserving his creation. He's made this world and he continues to maintain responsibility for its preservation. In Nehemiah 9. 6, there were several notable things that jumped out there. In fact, I wish I had Reference that verse when we were going through creation in the spiritual world. That's a good passage to show that God created angels. But in Nehemiah 9:6 He ascribes this divine act of creation to the Lord, L-L-R-D, capital, Jehovah. This is Jehovah God, whom we would know as Jesus. Even thou art Lord alone. What did he make? He said he made heaven? The heaven of heavens, with all their hosts. So we find that there's A couple of heavens that the Bible has in view. There's the atmosphere where the birds fly in and so forth. Satellites zip around, and that's R. world, and then there's the heaven of heavens where God dwells. And apparently there's other things up there too. The heavenly host. You see that in the book of Luke, when it says the heavenly host appeared to the shepherds and began to announce the birth of the Lord Jesus Christ. They can appear. It says He made them with all their hosts, the earth and all things that are er therein. So here we have this spinning globe full of water and land and Mass and ice and lots of creatures in it, the seas and all that are therein, and thou preservest them all Now, when I think about how many creatures are on this planet, anybody venture a guess at how many different kinds of animals are on this planet? Mm-hmm. Well, there's billions of different animals, kinds, meaning those that can reproduce after their kind, like cat kinds or dog kinds. Hundreds of thousands, I would imagine. You know, the least explored part of this planet is the depth of the ocean. And when they go down to these deep cracks and fissures on the ocean floor, that are belching out steam and smoke because it's real hot to the m real close to the hot magma that's there. And it comes out and it hits that cold seawater and it actually boils underneath. There are certain creatures that live right there And it's very toxic gas that comes out, all this chlorine gas, all this stuff that would kill you in a heartbeat. And there's these creatures that live right there. It's as if they were designed to live right next to a thermal vent on the bottom of the ocean Other creatures have these little curious uh light post things hanging off in front of their face and these huge teeth and they Lurk around in the murky depths of the water. It says God preserves them all. He brings them their food. He speaks of the ravens, how he feeds them. The sparrows he feeds. He says they don't gather into barns, and yet your heavenly father feeds them. Now, how many of you have ever uh had a pet? We've got a pet, right? They can be a drag sometimes. You want to go on vacation? We can take them, or we're not taking them with us. No, they're not coming with us. You know, there's a burden to it One of the most poignant lessons I received in high school was from an English teacher in my senior year, and she was very smart. She went to the nursery and she bought a whole bunch, I mean many, many pallets. I don't know what she spent. I hope the school had a budget for this. If she paid for it herself, She was a saint. A whole pallet full of all these little geraniums, just little small flowers, just a little potted plant. And she gave one to every person graduating. Say, why are you giving us? It says, Well, I want you to take care of this plant. for a year. If you can't take care of this plant in a year, what are you gonna do if you get somebody pregnant or you yourself get pregnant? You have to take care of that baby. And so it was a lesson to let them know that, you know, you need to be cautious about what you're doing because you're actually going to have to take care of a living individual. It's no big deal if a plant dies, but you can't let you can't neglect your baby. That was a very pointed lesson that was very powerful, and I think it registered with a lot of people. My point in all this is that we've all had some measure of experience trying to take care of something that we purchased or has come into our responsibility Does the scope of this impress you in terms of what God's taking care of actively? What challenges do you think there might be with such an organization like that? For God to take care of all the things that you just have listed here. First off, the numerous amount of attention that everything has to have. Just the sheer volume that's required. And it all runs real smooth, right? And the different types of needs as well. You can't just give one blanket food to everyone or water supply to everyone. They all require different things. Yeah, they all have a different need requirement, don't they? Uh I know at the Cluth house I uh steaks have gotta be in the deep freeze. I'm sorry, it's just gotta be it's just gotta happen. I can afford it now and I like it so they gotta be there. Other people it's pasta. Boy, we don't have pasta in the house, man. It's Where does that come from? Now does that cow get fit? The scope of this, the magnitude, the The every second there's somebody on this planet eating something, isn't he? We're just talking about food so far. There's other needs that are there. Have you ever had times in your life when you feel God is just very close to you and He's providing you a custom fit benefit or a custom fit blessing, a a or a a little trial to kind of just give you a little you know, tap on the shoulder saying, so you're really interested in this thing. Well, let me tell you what it may pan out to be. That custom fit attention that you get. He's an excellent father in all that. You know, if I were trying to dish it, I'd be s slinging food out here. You're fine over here, you know, I'd just be going nuts because I can't keep up. You get stressed Do you realize our God is not stressed about this in the least? He doesn't break a sweat to do this. This is really not tapping much energy. It doesn't hurt him to do this. This isn't, he's not groaning. We don't read anywhere in the scriptures where God's breaking a sweat to do this. When you just start to meditate through that, it's really astounding. There's a lot in that passage. What needs do angels have? I don't have the foggiest idea. I wouldn't have the the c the slightest clue how to administer uh uh to to minister to an angel I wouldn't have a clue how to minister to an earthworm for crying out loud. I mean they're out in the garden. So you have passages like that We have Psalm 36, 6, which says that he preserves man and beast. Look at Psalm 136 and verse 25. That was kind of in the theme of what we were discussing a little earlier, although it says it explicitly. Psalm 136 and verse 25, speaking about all the great things he's done, and I gotta back up to verse 23 because I don't want to pass that up. Who remembered us in our low estate, for his mercy endures forever, and hath redeemed us from our enemies, for his mercy endures forever? Who giveth food To all flesh, for his mercy endureth forever. He gives food to all flesh All flight that's that you can run you can take that and run with it as far as you can because I don't know how uh you can cut back on that a bit. Look at what the psalmist says in Psalm 145 Psalm 145 and verse 15. Think about this. It says, the eyes of all wait upon thee. And thou givest them their meat in due season. Now I want to unpack this a little bit. How is it, practically speaking, that you and I get food? Oh we go to work. Okay, you gotta go to work. And you work and you get paid. Yes. And then you do what with that? Pocket full of cash. Burning a hole in your pocket, just dying to be spent. Then what? You gotta go hike it to a grocery store. How'd you get there? In a car. Or a bus. Or bus? How did that get made? Who did that? Who packed the grocery stores? When you start to unpack the logistics of how God claims responsibility and in fact is responsible for your very three square meals a day, if you're so blessed to be able to have that then you begin to get a sense of where he's w what he's able to do. My dad never made anything more than forty thousand dollars a year He was an insurance salesman. He barely squeaked his way through college. He was an orphaned child at an early age. His mother died when he was six months old. His oldest sister uh also died. Uh they had drank bad well water and it put five members of the house into the hospital for diphtheria and only three came out. His father abandoned the family, and so he was pretty much on his own and had very little help. He was the only member of five or six members of the family. uh that uh went through college and he could only afford three and a half years and so that's when he got his bachelor's in three and a half years and it was struggle, struggle, struggle every step of the way. He started to do land real estate and then that collapsed in the 70s and then he said, Well, I'd better learn how to sell insurance and so we went and sold insurance and that's what floated the boat. He managed to put my sister and I through a school with that. He didn't have a lot of money. I remember him telling me years later as I asked him, I said, Dad, I said, you know, how did you do it? It's pretty impressive that he he did that. And he said, Row Vance, he says, you know, and he was an unbeliever at the time. Not a staunch atheist, but I mean he he knew about God. He had had some knowledge of God, but God hadn't saved him just yet. And he said, you know, he says, I I can't explain it. He says when I needed the money, it was there. I'd be in the office, you know, be in the agent of the week and whatever random phone call random phone call would come through and hi we're a big group and we're tired of our old insurance group and we we need to get we want to go with somebody other than you know the Yahoo guys down the street Can you help us? Yeah, how many people in your company? We have 200 people in this company. We need health insurance for all of them. I can help with that. And he would get just out of the blue, one of his best clients just went just because he happened to show up in the job. Like he'd always done, and God would provide for him. It's just amazing, and I'm sure you've seen countless stories like that as well. I can't quite put my finger on the passage, but David says, I have been young, and now I am old. He says, but I've not seen the righteous forsaken, nor his seed begging bread. God in fact does provide. You know, the Sermon on the Mound, the Lord Jesus, maybe we ought to take a look at that. Let's go to Matthew. Look at Matthew when the Lord Jesus speaks about these things. He's asserting his providence and care. I think it's in Matthew 6. Listen to this language that he says, Matthew 6, 25. Jesus says, Therefore I say unto you, take no thought for your life what you shall eat, nor what you shall drink, nor yet for your body, what you shall put on Is not the life more than meat and the body more than raiment? Behold the fowls of the air. He says, look, let me take you outside, stick your face to the window, look at some birds for a minute, will you? They sow not, neither do they reap, nor gather into barns, yet your heavenly father feeds them. We go, okay, I get that. Are you not much more better than they? In other words, isn't that a light thing for God to do that for you? Which of you, by taking thought, can add one cubit to his stature? So I'm impressed with that because the Lord Jesus is saying, you know, you shouldn't be worried about that. That's my job. I worry about that. I worry about feeding you. You need to worry about something more important. Now you can begin to see where we might start to come up against the edge of a wrong idea. Well, are you saying therefore I should just sit down and That's great, Brother Vincent. I'm glad you told me that. I'm going to sit home tomorrow and I'm just going to hang out at my table. I'm going to wait for those eggs to show up, and I'll wait for that coffee to show up, because God says He'll do it And you obviously know that you're going to be disappointed. And it's not because the scriptures are wrong, it's because we haven't integrated the whole Bible just yet. Which is why you have to take this as a as a doctrinal topic. We have to pull all these threads together. So this is design divine preservation. God in fact does preserve things. Let the scriptures be clear on that. There's others that talk about this. 17 uh I think I've already covered Acts 1728. Did we already look at that? Yeah, we looked at Acts 17. 28. Then there's something called divine concurrence. divine concurrence. Now, I don't know. I I should probably sit down one one time when I have you know time on my hand and try to come up with a better title for some of these things. But again, we're trying to put a handle on different nuances when we talk about the preservation, the providence, the overruling of God over his creation. What do we mean by concurrence? It's that work of God by which he cooperates with all his creatures and causes them to act precisely as they do. That's the definition from Mr. Burkhoff. Now, the basic idea is this: God not only provides for your being, but also your actions. And this is where we start to get the rub. This is where the poke comes in. And this is where we start to scratch our heads a little bit Now the powers of nature don't work by themselves, but God is somehow over every action of every creature. Nonetheless, there are second causes, human will, etc. , from God's ordained subordinate powers, which are not an extension of God Himself. So this is a tough one to get right. Let's look at some passages where God works concurrently with the creature. God's working, the creature's working. Where you see those two side by side, when you see an intersection. The passages we've covered so far simply assert he rules over all things, that he provides for everything. And we don't think through that too carefully But I started to go down that path with the grocery store example. That you somehow you have to get a job. Somehow the employer has to find your services of enough value to keep you around on the job, or else he'll replace you with a robot That employer has to have enough business so that he is of value in the marketplace and so forth. All of that has to occur so that people can have sustenance. money where they can go out and provide shelter and food and clothing, etcetera. God is behind all that. But where? That would imply that he's Now poking and penetrating at some actions. So let's look at some scriptures that talk about that. Psalm 104, verse 20. Let's start with the animals first. I think they're maybe a little easier to swallow. Especially when they're cooked. Psalm 104 and verse 20. And here we read this Thou makest darkness, and it is night, wherein all the beasts of the forest do creep forth. The young lions roar after their prey, and seek their meat from God. So notice, here you have the beasts of the forest. When do most beasts of the forest do their hunting? Night or night. Nighttime. Dawn and dusk in particular. It's getting a little cooler in the day. You can see just a little bit. Boy, that's when the lions are active. And yet, it says, the young lions, verse 21, roar after their prey. They've got their eyes set on something. That gazelle's looking pretty good. And it's pretty close. And I'm pretty hungry. And so it's kind of getting there and hunkered down. We've all seen the National Geographic videos and the slow motion where the dust is going and the animal and and eventually the lion grabs it and takes it down Caleb's smiling over there. He likes that sort of stuff. All right. But it says that they seek their meat from God. Somehow, even that beast knows that ultimately God's got to deliver an animal to him. Let my Let my legs work today. Let this animal stumble today. Could I get a hold of this one today? That's how he describes that. Look at verse 30. Thou sendest forth thy spirit, they are created. That's interesting. This is interesting here. Thou renewest the face of all the earth. So what's going on here? He's talking about he renews the face of the earth, to renew the face of the earth, to refresh it. That's the act of God doing something. He's revitalizing it. You know, I gotta tell you, some days I look at the news or I look at the local newspaper or the situation around me, and I can find plenty of reasons to get depressed and think, boy, Jesus must be coming soon because this looks like a disaster But you know what? God from time to time does intervene and He renews things. He sends forth a revival. He rejuvenates the earth. He rejuvenates the landscape. And so that's something that he does. I'm just speaking in terms of the realms of men. He does this in parts of the world as well different parts of the world that uh may not have had certain kinds of wildlife before and all of a sudden they're reflur they're flourishing again and they're replenished. God is the one that takes responsibility for renewing that Let's look at Matthew 10, 29. I was alluding to this passage earlier, but let's just read it. It's when Jesus talks about the sparrows. In Matthew chapter 10 and verse 29, we're going to see how God's work is concurrent with that of the creature. Now it's here. You may have to think about it a bit, but it's there. Are not two sparrows sold for a farthing? And one of them shall not fall on the ground without your father. Luke 12. 46 adds, not one is forgotten before God. He goes on to say, the very hairs of your head are all numbered. So we think about this for a moment. He says that not one sparrow falls to the ground apart from God saying, Yep, it falls. Now, you say, well, I can see God's work in that. God has just simply made an ordination, okay, that sparrow's going to fall. And I think about that every time Gabriel blasts some catbird in the backyard. Because those are enemies of Angela's fig trees. And so Gabriel has been given full license from his mother to shoot all the catbirds that land on her beloved fig tree. And Gabriel is quite happy with this arrangement, as long as he didn't hit any figs. But it says two sparrows are sold for a farthing. Well, what happens when you sell a sparrow? Probably means he's put into a cage. What's the outcome of a bird in a cage? Usually death. I mean it'd be held for a pet for a while and unless it escapes, tends to just die there. And so you see the hand of man coming in to capture and restrain this bird. He's now sold. And of course in the Old Testament some of the offerings were that of birds. They would buy a turtle dove or something, and it would be sacrificed. It was an offering of the poor. And so many birds were sold near the temple as part of the ritual sacrifices and the offerings. Their fate is to die. Their end, I should say, is to die. I shouldn't use that word fate. Well, somebody caught that bird. And yet God says he is the one that said it falls. He ordains that Hmm, that's interesting. Alright, okay, I can see birds, I can see animals in the forest and lions. That's okay out there. Don't let it come near me. Hmm Let's look at Deuteronomy 8. 18. Deuteronomy chapter 8 and verse 18. This was a precious memory verse. For me very early when God gave me a job when I went to Southern California with only six dollars in my pocket God's speaking through Moses here to make sure the people of Israel, the Jews who had been wandering in the wilderness, the children of the Jews that came out of Egypt, bear in mind their parents, all died, because they were rebellious. And he wants to make sure that when they get to this good land that he's bringing them, they're going to get wealthy. And he wants to make sure they don't let it go to their head. Pick up the context in 16, who fed thee in the wilderness with manna, which thy fathers knew not, that he might humble thee, and that he might prove thee to do thee good at thy latter end. And thou say in thine heart, My power and the might of mine hand hath gotten me this wealth. They go in, they think, Wow, look at this, boy. I'm the one that conquered this mountain. I'm the one that conquered this city. I'm the one that went to such and such a city to buy and sell and get gain and and a lot of gain. And I'm the one that figured out that great business deal and I'm the one that wrote that great proposal and I'm the one God says, verse 18, But thou shalt remember the Lord thy God, for it is he that giveth thee power to get wealth. that he may establish his covenant which he swear unto thy fathers as it is this day. It's the Lord who gives you these talents and abilities It's the Lord who gives you a certain disposition and an interest in an area where in fact you would be able to express your talents. and your inclinations and abilities to the benefit of somebody else. He happened to put you in the city that you needed to be at where just such a job would be available. And you say, well, I'd really like some more money. Well God says, well, you can't have more money. Sorry, you're not ready for it. You can't handle it. Because if you could, I'd give it to you. It's interesting how we when you start to think about the providence of God, and maybe all of a sudden as we look at these doctrines, as they start to come together, Then we start to maybe realize, well, are you saying, Lord, if I repent in these areas and repent in that other area, that maybe some of these things will get out of the way? And that your blessings might come and be bestowed more freely on me? Yeah, we might start going down that direction. Not because we looked for it. Remember Solomon, who was a boy. He was anointed to be king of Israel. He says, ask the Lord. Ask the Lord one thing. What do you want? Boy, he's sitting there scratching his head. He's looking at the job ahead of him. I'm gonna be a king. Man, I've looked at over those a lot of people out there. They're gonna be coming to me with a lot of questions. All these people. Lord, I tell you what I need. I need wisdom to judge these people. That's what I need. Lord said, good answer. Because you asked for wisdom. You didn't ask for riches and wealth. I'm not only going to give you wisdom, but I'm also going to give you these other things. And God indeed did give it to Solomon in exodus, insomuch that when the queen of Sheba came, she was blown away. She says the half wasn't told me She saw his servants coming and going. He was exceptionally wise, exceptionally wealthy. Turned out to be a downside for him later on. But don't forget the reason he got it. It was because God gave it to him, because he had a good prayer. He asked God for the right thing. He was aligned at that moment very nicely with the will of the Lord and God blessed it. Ah, you get it. A son of mine who gets it. Yes, I'm going to reward that. Right? When my children in the house, Angela's very ecstatic. She gives great praises when she'll be in the kitchen. She's so tender. She's so nice. She won't yell upstairs for help. I'll come down, honey. Are you sure you need some help? So I'll bark upstairs and I'll start to shoo some kids down here. Help your mother, you know. And uh so then they help their mother. And every now and then one of them will actually stick their beak around the corner and look and say, Mommy, do you need help? And she's like Yes, they need help. And then at the table, oh um child X came by to help me. I was so glad for that. It's like finally somebody who gets it, right? It's a nice thing. Well I think our Heavenly Father does the same thing. I think he does. All right. Well, what about the good, the bad, the ugly, all these? Well, let's go to Amos chapter 3 and verse 6. I'll give you a bit of time to find the book of Amos. It jumps around in my Bible, but I think it's after Daniel, then Hosea, then Joel, and then you get to Amos. Known as a shorter prophet. I don't like it when they call them minor prophets. They're just as major as the rest. They just didn't happen to write as much. Amos chapter 3 and verse 6 There are some interesting rhetorical questions that are being given here, as is common throughout the scriptures. Amos 3. 6 says this, Shall a trumpet be blown in the city, and the people not be afraid. Shall there be evil in a city, and the Lord hath not done it? So here Amos is saying, yeah, when some grievous evil disaster falls upon a city Yeah, God was ultimately behind that. You mean God's the cause of sin? Oh no. Oh no. Hardly. Hardly. You work through second causes. Nothing catches our God by surprise That is comforting. What is surprising to us is when his judgments come down hard and sore upon people, we look at that and go, wow, uh, all these innocent people? Well We have to trust that the God of the universe will do right. One of the complaints that the unbelievers have about the God of the Old Testament is they say, boy, You know, you Christians, you hold this God of the Old Testament. You know, what about when the children of Israel came out of Egypt and they came around and they went into Canaan? And rather than just kind of walking in and, you know, living with them, they they were slaughtering uh men, women and beasts, and they say, even sometimes children. They say, Leave nothing alive. They went through. It was just a slash and burn. It was a scorched earth policy of the you know, uh the the thousand BC or whatever time they made their way in, thirteen hundred, fourteen hundred BC. How can that be a good thing? But they fail to realize that there was a reason that God did that. And we read about that in Leviticus 18. We were talking about this earlier, some of you. Leviticus 18 tells us why God went through and had this scorched earth policy with the Canaanites And he says in verse two of Leviticus eighteen, speak to the children of Israel, and say unto them, I am the Lord your God. After the doings of the land of Egypt, wherein ye dwelt, shall ye not do. And after the doings of the land of Canaan, whither I bring you, shall you not do, neither shall you walk in their ordinances. Now, I'm not going to take the time to read the next 20 or so verses, but there's a whole list of abominations, most of them with respect to what we would call sexual sins, leading up to bestiality. And he goes and concludes in verse 27 after he goes over these four or five different abominable areas He says, For all these abominations have the men of the land done which were before you, and the land is defiled. That the land spew not you out also when you defile it, as it spewed out the nations that were before you. For whosoever shall commit any of these abominations, even the soul that commit them shall be cut off from among their people. You see, God appears to have a standard by which he judges the nations. And since he preserves and he provides and he overrules and he sees everything they're doing, in his judgment the iniquity of the Amorites was not yet full But it did come to a point when it was full and God said, okay, your wickedness has totally topped off. You've pegged my anger meter It's time for you to be ejected from the land. People of Israel, come out, I'm delivering them into your hand. So why did God do these things? Very simple, because they were wicked. It's interesting when you read the history of the Native American Indians. Frankly, they weren't too far off from some of the things you read here in Leviticus 18. They were idol worshippers, they sacrificed children. They were constantly at war among each other. The land was filled with violence because of them. There was all hosts of evil things that they had done. And I think God simply said, Pilgrims from Europe come over. Time to erase and eradicate. That seems to be God's plan. And who are we to say no to him? God's no novice at governing the universe. And we're not about to stand up and point our stubby little finger at him because we have zero insight into all the things that he does. So I just put that there for your consideration. You know, there was even a complaint in the New Testament about a tower of Siloam that fell and slew a bunch of people. He says, Do you suppose they were sinners above these others He says, Except you repent, you shall likewise perish. Jesus makes it clear, forget this tower business falling on people. As it were, he's saying, Yeah, I ordained that. I know all about that tower He says, but do you suppose they were more wicked? You need to repent, or you're going to perish the same way. Wow, that's hard language for us to hear, but God makes no excuses for that. He in fact says, if there's evil in the city, yep, the Lord's done it. Ultimately, he's behind it. It didn't catch him by surprise. Question. When you say uh when you say that uh God is responsible, but no you didn't say he was responsible but I think he is the cause. Uh these things. Can you elaborate on that just a little bit? That is a great segue. I love it. So to what extent is he the cause and the control of it? And that's why this doctrine has been difficult for people to to struggle with and to wrestle with. Because of passages like this, and those other passages we'll get to that are even stronger than what you read here. The short answer is, on the one hand, we know from scriptures that God is holy. He is high, harmless, holy, undefiled. God does not lie. God is not the author of confusion, nor is he the author of sin. He definitely does not sin in all his ways. He has verity, which means a divine being of great integrity. He is who he is, and he says what he speaks is true. Yet, how can he claim that he's behind these things and yet at the same time not be sinful? We find other passages in the Bible. Let's go to the book of Acts, Acts chapter 4. Where we see what theologians have termed a first cause and a second cause. A first cause and a second cause. We look at Acts 4, 25 through 28 And God gives us the most amount of insight into this, into one of the greatest crimes that has ever occurred on the face of the planet. The unrighteous trial, death, murder, and burial of the most righteous man who ever walked on earth, the Lord Jesus Christ He had done absolutely nothing wrong. He absolutely did everything good. He helped a tremendous number of people beyond what anybody has ever done. Forget Dr. Livingston and all these other people who can claim all kinds of wonderful life of good works. Nobody's raised people from the dead, healed blind eyes Paid for the sins of his people. I mean there's a tremendous amount of good that the Lord Jesus did. How can God be behind that most vile act? So we read in Acts chapter 4, verse 25. Notice verse 24. When they heard that, they lifted up their voice to God with one accord and said, Lord, thou art God. which has made heaven and earth and the sea and all that in them is. An acknowledgment of his creative power, of his divine ownership, his right of providence. Who by the mouth of thy servant David has said, Why did the heathen rage and the people imagine vain things? The kings of the earth stood up, and the rulers were gathered together against the Lord and against his Christ. He's making a reference to Psalm two Keep reading. For of a truth against thy holy child Jesus, whom thou hast anointed, both Herod and Pontius Pilate, Herod, ruler of the most upright religious group, the Jews, Pontius Pilate, ruler in that region from the most powerful nation of the earth, with the Gentiles and the people of Israel, Gentiles and Jews. So here you have Gentile rulers, religious rulers, Gentile people, Jewish people. You pretty much got the whole planet represented there. All of them were gathered together To do whatsoever thy hand and thy counsel determined before to be done. In other words, they did exactly what God had ordained should occur. God had ordained Jesus Christ as the surety for his people. He would be the backstop. You ever have a cosigner on a loan? He was a cosigner on our life. If we threw away our righteousness, Jesus Christ would guarantee that he would backstop it. And that's what he did. God ordained that. But when you read in the New Testament account of how Pontius Pilate and Herod and the Jews and the Gentiles all acted, I don't see any contorted, twisted behavior. I see a Roman ruler like Pontius Pilate acting like a pompous Roman ruler that's concerned, confused, but powerful. What I have written, I have written. Why have you brought him to me? He you know, he must be a you know, see to your own law for this What is truth? I I I don't see anybody other than a typical politician there. He knew that for envy the Jews delivered him to him. So he had keen insight. He knew exactly why the religious leaders were doing that And they're going through their system, bringing them before Caiaphas the high priest. Can't believe what he said. You heard the blasphemy? They carry their coats and garments. I see typical religious people there People shouting out to the rulers, crucifire and crucifire him, a mob seeing outside, just all they can do is shout and scream one thing. I don't see any I don't see God twisting any arms in there, do you? I just see normal human behavior. It just looks quite oso-normal. And so theologians have come up with the term of first causes. God's the first cause. Well he's ordained, you better believe it'll happen. But then there's a second cause. That's the area you and I operate in. If Brother Vince don't go to work on Monday, he ain't gonna get no paycheck on Friday. That's just not gonna happen. Right? And if I ain't getting no paycheck, Angela ain't gonna put no food on the table until the cupboard runs out Right? Did God give me my job? Yes, he did. Did he allow me to make it? Well, yes, he did. So there's those two clauses that are in there. The Lord Jesus speaks in a place Matthew 18, 7. It says, Woe unto the world because of offenses. For it must needs be that offenses come. You better believe there's a raft of sin coming. There's all kinds of evil things coming. But Woe to that man by whom the offense cometh. That's interesting because you see there that God has ordained, yep, there is a sinful thing that will happen. It will occur He's almost intimating, at least from our perspective, that although it's been ordained, you can in fact repent. You can in fact turn. You can in fact go a different way. Somebody else can fall into that snare, but it doesn't have to be you. I don't know how that works. He's the sovereign over the universe. I have a limited mind. But so theologians have come up with this idea of first causes and second causes. Let's go to another passage, Philippians 2. 12, and I'll close it out there. And at least I've got your your mind thinking about it. So when you come back next week, we'll look at some other passages that uh are going to require you to really Put your seatbelt on. We didn't quite get there tonight, but next week are going to be the heavy-hitting passages. Philippians 2, 12 and 13. You see the intersection of God's work and our work when it comes to this business of sanctification. Philippians two, twelve and thirteen. Wherefore, my beloved, as you have always obeyed, not as in my presence only, but now much more in my absence, work out your salvation with fear and trembling. Why do I work out my salvation with fear and trembling? That's to me. Work out. That's in a present tense, meaning you continue to work it out. I think that's the name of the tense. It's a tense that implies it's an ongoing activity. It's not Work once and stop. It's a work out your salvation with fear and trembling. That has to be an informed fear and a legitimate trembling, not contrived. To this man will I look, to him who is contrite and trembles at my word, Isaiah says. For, verse 13, it is God. Who worketh in you both to will and to do of his good pleasure. There's other passages we'll get to in the scriptures that illustrate times when God leaves a believer, leaves a person for a season to see what they will do. to observe them. Other times when he uh it seem seems to it uh no matter what they did everything they possibly could to do this thing and it was destined for success and it totally collapses and falls apart. how God works in that situation. And so our God is the very powerful ruler, omnipotent. sovereign and he makes no excuses for it. He asserts it. He declares it to be so. I've seen it in my life. I've seen it in the lives of others. It's hard to argue and kick against. Uh he is who he is. Uh and so uh how do we understand that and articulate it is where we struggle with. So I don't know if I fully answered your question. But we'll start to get at it some more next week. We're just scratching the surface and there's some other good work. If you're unable to make it next week, you can look online at the Westminster Confession of Faith in Chapter 5. It talks about that and it gives a lot of scripture proof text for it. And I'll be reading some from it next week. That'll help you get some of the precise language and references of scripture Okay, any other questions? Probably have given you more questions than answers at this point. All right. Well let's close out there.