Alrighty, I think we are ready. I had my coffee, I had my water, I had my microphone, my Bible, my notes. We are continuing through a study on providence. We've got a little mini-series that we're going through. Last week we gave an overview of it, about the history of the doctrine, a basic set of introductions in terms of definitions And we started down three elements of divine providence. When we talk about providence, there's a definition that goes with it. And I think there's a very good working one, and that's this. Providence is that working of God in which He preserves all His creatures. Notice the word all. He is active in all that happens in the world. Notice the word all. And directs all things to their appointed end. And again, notice the word all. He preserves all. He's active in all, and he directs all. You could say sovereignty is a subset of the providence of God. It's a overarching doctrinal teaching, and we looked last week at one of the first elements in which he preserves all And the key passage was Nehemiah chapter 9 and verse 6. If you'd like, you can turn there, but I'll read it for you. It's Nehemiah 9. 6. where we address God's divine preservation, that continuous work of God by which he upholds all things. Nehemiah nine six says this. You alone are the Lord. You have made heaven, the heaven of heavens, with all their hosts, the earth and everything on it, the seas and all that is in them, and you preserve them all. Pretty comprehensive. And again, you can run as far as you'd like with that word all. There's nothing outside of his limit when it comes to what he has created and what he maintains. Then we looked at other verses that supported that. You can check the study out from last week. It's both on Sermon Audio and it may still be up on Ustream as well. Then we looked at divine concurrence, that is, where he's in the actions of things, and we started to go down that path Definition there would be that work of God by which he cooperates with all his creatures and causes them to act precisely as they do Now, anytime a theologian gives a definition of something, there's probably five others out there who have five different definitions and come at it differently. Don't take that as divine, but there it's an attempt to get their head around passages of scripture that teach these things. The basic idea is that God not only provides for your being, but he also directs your actions. An example we gave had to do with work. The scripture says he feeds all things. Are you not of more value than many sparrows? It's an easy thing for him to feed the sparrows. How shall he not much more also clothe you, feed you, etc. Well, how does he do that? And we start to think our way through that and realize that, well, he kind of works through normal means. He gives us gifts and skills and talents. We have an opportunity at a job. We go work at that job, and if you work at it hard enough, you start to master it and you become productive. That is, if you're paying attention. to what your employer is interested in, not what you're interested in, then over time you start to have some extra income and you can start to improve. And if you invest it back in the business and so forth God is the one who allows all that to come to pass and even directs you to it. Now, the main question for the second part that is the act by which God upholds all things. and the act by which he cooperates with all of his creatures. This is where we start to get into areas that for some people are hard to hear. We're going to cover some passages of scripture tonight that you may look at and go, wow, I never knew that was in the Bible. How do we handle that? And I gotta admit, when I first went through this about, I don't know, seven or eight years ago, there was a certain direction I went with it, and I And basically going in the same direction, but I fine-tuned it a little bit by introducing some other passages to help ward off a thought process down a wrong way. The question that we're really trying to answer is this: to what extent does God's providence and rule reach into our actions? Now God insists he's not the author of sin. When I do something sinful that's flat out in rebellion against God, the Bible's very clear, and we've already covered studies on that, that one of the fundamental characteristics of God is that he's high holy, harmless, undefiled. He's perfect in his being. He is a God of verity, what he says he is, and he is what he says. He is Full of integrity, he's nothing but truth, and there is no darkness at all in him. He is pure light. And so we can't ever ascribe uh sinfulness to God We do find some passages where we will read that, in fact, men do not work independent of God's will, but in fact are controlled by God's will. Let's turn to Genesis chapter 45, and we're going to study very carefully two passages of Scripture. We are going to be in Genesis chapter 45 and beginning in verse 5. This is the account of one of the righteous men listed in Scriptures, a young man named Joseph, who at the age of seventeen was sold into slavery by his envious brothers because of the stature and position he had with his father Israel, otherwise known as Jacob. And lo and behold, after finding his way on a caravan and being in Potiphar's house and care of that for a couple of years and then in prison for a while. Thirteen years later, thirteen long, painful years later, at the age of 30, he finds out he's now been made vizier of Egypt, the second in command. And he's going to maintain that position in his job for the rest of his life. And that's going to bring with it quite a lot of responsibility, of honor. a position of tremendous power, and all of his dreams that he'd had earlier about the sun, the moon, and the eleven stars coming and bowing down themselves to him, even that to the very letter would be fulfilled Well, as Joseph apparently had plenty of time to meditate on exactly what God was doing with his life, he records in Genesis 45 as he's speaking now to his brethren for the first time when he couldn't refrain himself, he had been talking to them through a an Egyptian interpreter, he knew Hebrew perfectly, but he didn't want to let on who he was. And I'm sure he looked very much the part of a pharaoh, you know, with the long beard and the shaved head and nothing like an Asiatic Hebrew He says to his brethren, verse 5, pay attention to the language. Now therefore be not grieved, nor angry with yourselves that ye sold me hither. He's pointing out, yes, I know that you fellows sold me here. Don't be angry, don't be grieved about that. Why? For God did send me before you to preserve life. You see two causes there, do you not? The first cause is that God had a purpose. God had a purpose as God's looking down the corridors of time. He sees, you know what? Uh as part of my divine plan, I've got a famine that's coming to the land of Egypt and the whole world. I'm going to shift climatically things so that there's going to be an abundance of rain in Egypt and it's going to flood the fields too much. They can't plow And they're going to have a famine as a result of it, and all that rain that should have gone in the land of Canaan instead goes to Egypt, and Canaan is going to be bone dry and they're not going to have any crops. It's going to be a famine both in Egypt and in other parts of the world. I've got to save my people because I've made a promise. Again, you don't read this, I'm just trying to spell it out as if though I were a man speaking, recording down what's going on in the Godhead, not that I know. But as it were, God says there's got to be a man called Joseph that's got to be in charge. He's got to be in favor of both the Egyptians and the Hebrews. And he and he alone is my man for the job to save life. How am I going to get him there? How are we going to get a 17-year-old boy to the throne of Egypt? Well, we're going to send him off to school, we're going to save up a lot of money, we're going to rack up sixty thousand dollars of college debt and have him learn how to do all the stuff in Egypt that they know and macroeconomics and and uh how to treat No nonsense. God's got a totally different plan. It happened to go through a prison That's not the plan you and I would put together. And yet Joseph realized that that's precisely what happened. Look at the text again. Ye sold me hither. You did that. God did send me before you to preserve life. Now compare that with chapter 50 and verse 20. This occurs now after old man Jacob dies and his brothers think, okay, well maybe he was light on us when Daddy was around, but now that daddy's gone, boy, he's gonna give us the hammer because it's pretty obvious to them at this point Joseph is really a big man in charge in Egypt and you we can't mess with him. They're afraid. And so he's fearful. They send, Joseph's not fearful, his brethren are fearful, and they're fearful that he'll come against them. And he says to them again, verse 20: But as for you Ye thought evil against me, but God meant it unto good, to bring to pass as it is this day, to save much people alive. Notice, he says, God sent me before you in 45, and here he says, you meant it for evil, God meant it for good. So we see here that there are two cross purposes that only in the divine hand of God can be, in fact, tweaked around so that they actually accomplish the same thing. There is a co-working of evil from the part of the human and good on the part of God. As it were, he says, I will allow you to carry out the evil that's in your heart that I know is there. And I'm going to restrain it because Reuben stepped in and Judah stepped in and said, no, don't kill the boy. Don't kill him, because they wanted to kill him. They really wanted to kill him. So there was a restraint. You see there's a restraining hand that he was simply put into the pit. So God's hand of restraint is there. Only the amount of wrath that would be allowed to come forth, that would accomplish his purpose, came out And what it did carry out, God, as it were, channeled and bridled that horse and allowed it to go exactly the path that it was supposed to go. And so Joseph is prima fascia evidence A on the table of God's plan and man's plans. God meant it for good, they meant it for evil. Same event, God superintending over it, and it carries out exactly what he intended. Can somebody know that? Yes. Did Joseph know it right off the bat? No, he did not. He didn't understand this for a very long time. And that hurts. If you're in something like that, that hurts. When God does something hard to you and you are left with no answers. You have an example in the scriptures of Joseph. I can't imagine it was too terribly wonderful in an Egyptian prison. They didn't offer scholarships and degrees in Egyptian prisons like they do in America. You didn't get to watch CNN and ESPN and basketball and keep up with March Madness and all the other wonderful things that you can do in prison with his three squares a day and his medical treatment. Nonsense. He was with the rats. He was with disease. He was with uh misery and and and destruction was his company. I'm sure there was a routine beating that went on there and blood uncleaned and it was just absolutely a pit. And yet he went through something very, very hard. And God's purposes have never changed. He meant it for good. It's hard to get our head around sometimes. It's hard to get our head around that. That's a long time. Age. Yeah. For thirteen years before finally the dream came to pass, and he interpreted Pharaoh's dream, and he was brought up, and to his shock and stun and dismay Pharaoh says, that's a great plan. Whom shall I appoint over such a matter as this? Uriet I think I'll make you it. Here's my ring. Give him a robe. Let him ride on my chariot. Announce to all Egypt Joseph's in charge, and whatever he says, do it. That's quite a change. And he's not even an Egyptian. And the Egyptian the Hebrews, who were shepherds, were an abomination to the Egyptians. This one they loved. Really is quite the head twister when you think about it. We like to think about the part when okay Joseph gets up on the throne, right? There's every boy's dream as to who they want to be. They want to be a Joseph, right? I have these interesting dreams and you know, I tell on my brothers and they all pick on me, but I uh uh overcome in the end. Or David with his little sling and Goliath. You know, there's certain heroes that we like to focus on, the outcome, and that's good, and the kids should, and they should know these stories. As adults, we need to put ourselves in those shoes and walk our way through it and think, just what was that like? That could not have been easy. In Exodus chapter 4 and verse 11, we read this. It says The Lord said to Moses, Who has made man's mouth? Who makes the mute? The deaf The seeing or the blind. Have not I the Lord? Now therefore go and I will be your mouth and teach you what you shall say. God laid a burden upon Moses and said, I want you to speak for my people. Tell Pharaoh, let my people go. This is some 400 years later. There arose a Pharaoh who knew not God's people, and Moses had come up in that court, and he was wanted for murder in Egypt. There must be some dusty old signs on papyrus somewhere wanted for murder, Moses. He fled and forty years later God said, Nope, you go back and tell Pharaoh, let my people go. Probably was a different Pharaoh, but it didn't matter Moses had been a has been. He was a has been at this point. He'd been in the court, been trained, now kicked out, eighty years old. You know, I don't know why people want to get into politics very late in life, because that is a pressure cooker. And indeed what you see from Moses' last forty years of life was miserable. And I could talk a lot about Moses, but notice what God says to him. He's complaining, I'm really not the man for the job, Lord. You know, I kind of got this this flap in my mouth called a tongue which doesn't work very well. I'm not eloquent. He wasn't an eloquent man. He said he was slow of mouth. You know, I've met some of the finest engineers in my company that have a problem with stuttering. And uh if you get over it and just shut up and pay attention and don't make them nervous and listen, they're quite sharp. But they're not eloquent. And God says, who has made man's mouth? Now notice what else he says. Who makes the mute, the deaf, the seeing, or the blind? Darwin said, I tremble to think about the human eye. Yeah, there's a lot in the human eye, how all that comes together. He had no idea about rods and cones, he had no idea about the the blind spot in the nerve. You know, seeing occurs in your brain, not this little receptor on your uh this orb. You know that the blood changes color as it passes through your eye? It turns invisible so you can see through it and not see a sea of red? Fearfully and wonderfully made, I'm telling you. It's incredible. You know you fill in blank spots, you got a blank spot in your eye, a bot right here. There's absolutely nothing coming through. You f your brain fills it in, it figures it out real time Not even a glitch. Who has made man's mouth? John 9 they ask him, who did sin, this man or his parents, that he was born blind? Nope, for the glory of God he was born blind. God made him blind. His flat out didn't give him sight. God has deprived the ostrich of wisdom. She's so stupid she'll step on her eggs. Powerful bird. You can ride them. I haven't. I wonder if they're tasty. Joshua chapter eleven, verse six. What about battle? Joshua 11:6, the Lord says to Joshua as he's through conquering the lands, he says, The Lord said unto Joshua, as all these people are pitched against it. They're concerned. They've heard about the battle of Jericho. They heard about the conquest, second round at Lachish. The Lord said unto Joshua, be not afraid because of them. For tomorrow, about this time I love it, God gives them a time, will I deliver them up, all slain, before Israel. Thou shalt huff their horses and burn their chariots with fire. To huff their horses means you're going to hamstring them. Hamstring something means you get in that part right below your thing and put something through it and you put a string through it and then you can pick it up. And it's a painful but cheap way to get it out of commission. We're going to have horse on the hoof. You're going to be eating horse tomorrow. About this time I'm going to deliver all of them. Notice, what does the camp of these other people think? It says in verse 1, It came to pass when Jabon king of Hazor heard these things, he sent to Jobab king of Madon, the king of Shimron, the king of Aksvah, and the kings that were on the north of the mountains and of the plains. South of Chinnaroth in the valley, and the borders of Doram in the west, to the Canaanite on the east and the west, and the Amorite, the Hittite, the Perizzite, and the Jebusite in the mountains, and to the Hivite. I mean you got a pretty you got a multinational coalition force here, and they're steaming forward against this one enemy that's had two very successful battles, and Hazor is one of the most popular archaeological digs because it was a phenomenally powerful city And so here are these multiple kings, multiple rulers, multiple armies, different types of weaponry, with all sorts of people who are skilled in their national weaponry. Whatever they've got, that's a very significant force. And God says, Joshua, not to worry. Look at the sundial Push it ahead twenty-four hours. At this time, they're all yours. I'm giving them to you. It's like not not I just love that language. Sometimes I wish God would tell me that sometimes, you know, just that just one day. This You know, you're doing X, Y, and Z. Just calm down. You know, you don't have to worry about any stuff. This is going to be delivered into your hand. Now we talk about Joseph and his 13 years of wondering what's going on. Let's think about Joshua. And his next 23 hours of thinking what's going to go on, or at whatever time God said he was going to deliver him. Maybe it was 18 hours. What's going through his head over the next 18 hours? You know, you kind of got to convince your troops. Um the Lord talked to me and said, they're all going to be delivered to us. Joshua. Okay, I hear you, that's good, but shouldn't we get other things ready? And shouldn't we do this? And shouldn't we do that? Oh look at these people, we're afraid, we're frightened That's intense. If you've ever been in an intense situation where there's a very obvious deadline and it's sitting right here in your face, you know, right here, all the issues that need to be resolved are big, fat, and glaring They're breathing down your neck and the breath isn't nice, and you're trying to deal with it quickly and come up with a plan? How do you deal with that? In the long-term situation with Joseph, God is there. In the short-term intense period, God is there. I'll deliver them into your hand. Not to worry. And lo and behold, that is precisely what happened. Verse 7, Joshua came, all the people of war with him, against them by the waters of Merim, suddenly, and they fell upon them And the Lord delivered them in the hand of Israel, who smote them, and chased them unto the great Zidon and unto Misroth Mayim, unto the valley of Mizpah eastward. They smote them until they left them none. remaining. It was a complete rout. It was a stunning defeat. All adversaries were absolutely slain The biggest problem men had was, you know, gee, where's some of that ointment? Because my arm is sore from cutting people's heads off. I've been doing this all day And Joshua did unto them as the Lord bade them. He huffed their horses and burnt their chariots with fire. He hamstrung the horses He did exactly what the Lord said. God did what he said. And there's Joshua. He has to go into battle. He's going to go and do it. He didn't sit there and say, Well, you know, the Lord said he'll deliver him. So I don't know. Pizza tonight? What do you think? We'll just take a break. No, he had to do something. He had to make some plans and preparations, but he had a promise of God, and he went forward on that promise, and God in fact delivered. You know, we have passages like this in Proverbs 21, where it says, and you know this passage, the king's heart is in the hand of the Lord. like the rivers of water. He turneth it whithersoever he wishes. It's Proverbs 21. 1. The king's heart is in the hand of the Lord. I did a little check tonight. I thought, hmm, got Google? How many kings are on the earth? So if you believe Wikipedia, there's actually 23 kings that are currently in rule over some 46 different countries. The Queen of England is in charge of most of them. She's been a queen for 65 continuous years. The one who's been the shortest has been some guy, a sultan or something for 322 days. As of September for this year. There's twenty-three kings. God says their heart is in his hand By the way, he also counts the nations as a drop in the bucket, and he says he contains the oceans in his hand. So he's it's not like his hand is full. You know, he's really having a hard time holding these folks. This is probably gonna say these these kings are the dirt under his pinky. Okay. We're not really talking about much difficulty here. He turns it whithersoever he wishes. You want an example of that? Go to the book of Ezra. Go to the book of Ezra. I'll give you a minute to find Ezra. Uh just before Ezra, right? It's just before Esther, that's correct. After the first and second chronicles, if you can find the first and seconds, first and second Kings, first and second Chronicles, then you get to Ezra chapter six and verse twenty-two Ezra chapter 6 and verse 22. This is the passage that talks about the rebuilding of the temple the second time. They had in 586 BC been conquered by the Babylonians who totally wiped everything out, and then they were carried off captive to a strange land for 70 years, and then God set another king up. And as it says in Proverbs 21, he turned his heart and the king said, Oh I see there's some Hebrews in my land. Let them go back to their land. Let them build their tabernacle again, and I'll pay for it. And I'll sign something that says anybody messes with them, they're messing with me, and I'm gonna have them and their house burned and made into a dung hill. I'm giving it the Vince NIV version Um Ezra six twenty-two it says they kept the feast of unleavened bread seven days with joy, for the Lord had made them joyful, and turned the heart of the king of Assyria unto them. to strengthen their hands in the work of the house of God, the God of Israel. They faced many struggles in that. They had oppositions, and at one point they faced some legal battles where they said, hey you can't build, you know, there's problems Back in old days, we look back, they were rebellious against the king. They won't pay taxes. They don't do this. They went digging up some dirt from 70 years ago. They have no statute of limitations, apparently. And that's when they produced Cyrus's letter that said, nope, you can't mess with them. You mess with them, you're it's all back on your head. So what impresses you the most about these verses that we read? And this is just a sampling of some of the more glaring, obvious passages that shows the work of God working and alongside man's. What impresses you about these verses? That he's in control of everything. There doesn't seem to be too much that he's out of control of. What else impresses you about these passages? It gives us is such a great encouragement, especially in our times, you know, saying the when the world thinking in a world that's filled that God is God is not real and it's just chaos everywhere. Us believers, we're in perfect peace and calm because any any catastrophic event especially like the Houston It's in the Lord's hands. And takes kind of weight off us of as a believer. Sometimes we want to feel like, you know We won we're we gotta try to control everything? No, it's it's the let the Lord handle that. Let's just mind our own business and and take care of what we're supposed to do and Every you know, everything's in Dastan Joe, so it's just fantastic to hear. Yeah. Any other thoughts about what impresses you on these verses? So you probably have the same thing. Try and let's say we want to get a meeting of five or six people together and you know they use the the cliche herding cats, right? He's got the whole world and everything in it and coordinating it and integrating it all together to serve his purpose. I can't do it with five people. He's doing it with every molecule in the universe. Truly, the scope of what he's coordinating and the timing of it, and to us it quote unquote appears oh so normal. Yet you do get glimpses of it in your own life from time to time. Haven't you ever thought, well, providentially I happen to be at such and such a location? Or providentially I happen to be here at a certain time? Or I happen to come across this person or whatever. You see certain events and well-timed things that occur in your life, and you can't but do anything to say, surely the Lord has done this. It just doesn't make sense how this all could have come together. And I'm sure many of you have testimonies like that Let me read to you an excerpt from the Westminster Confession of Faith. You can always look this up online if you'd like. I'm just going to read a couple of sentences out of the fifth chapter, which talks about Providence. It's a pretty good chapter to read. It says, although in relation to the foreknowledge and decree of God, the first cause, all things come to pass immutably and infallibly, meaning it can't change and it won't fail Yet by the same providence, he orders them to fall out according to the nature of second causes, either necessarily, freely, or contingently. So what does that mean? Well, God ordains things that are going to come to pass, and it shall come to pass, it can't change, and it will happen. That's what immutable and infallible means. So just like Joshua's battle, God says, I'll surely deliver them to you. That was the plan of God, and it absolutely would happen precisely the way God said, and yet you see that he ordered it through secondary causes. Joshua had to go to war. He had to pull his men together. They had to face that battle. They had to pull out their swords. They had to go and attack. They had to come up with some strategy. They had to do something. And it almost seems to me like it it I almost want to say it almost doesn't matter exactly what strategy they would have picked, they would have been successful, but they would have had to go to war. And in that God worked through their working to ensure complete success. Through confusion of the enemy, through fear of the enemy, through whatever, but he works through those normal secondary means. He's behind all that. There's another sentence they have which I thought is pretty good. God in his ordinary providence makes use of means, yet is free to work without, above, or against them in his pleasure. God in his ordinary providence makes use of means. There are certain means that he uses to carry out his providence. Yet is free to work without those means. Above those means, meaning supernaturally, or against them. He has a burning bush at Mount Sinai, and the bush burned but was not consumed Well that's not normal. God's free to do that. Why? Because he can. Does he explain why? No? Does he have to? No? Sure doesn't. Now hold on to your hat or your hair, or if you either, which one you may or may not have. There are some verses that show some kind of divine cooperation in that which is evil yet without sin. I'm going to show you some verses that illustrate a divine cooperation in that which is evil yet without sin. Now, first, let's be clear. Many times God will act and not tell us why he is doing a particular thing. Many times he does that. I came across a great passage in Job chapter 33, and we were going to spend some time there, so let's go to Job and chapter 33. In Job 33 and verse 13, so we read this. But God still being without sin, that's what Yes. Yeah. And that which is evil yet without sin. You'll see what I mean as we get to that. I'm giving some preface before we dive right into this. Job 33,13 says this, why dost thou strive against him? For he giveth not account of any of his matters God doesn't give an account of what he's doing. You can't go up to heaven's dashboard and get a status on God to say, okay, well, so what's going on right now? So why are we doing that? Hit him with the 50 questions. He's not going to give you any of that. It says in a place, if I were hungry, I wouldn't tell you. He doesn't have to give an account. Parents know this over little children. Now, mothers, future mothers, whoever, fathers, future fathers, it doesn't matter, there is one question that children love to ask, and bear in mind This is something that will always drive you nuts, and you can cut it short right away. It's a one-word question, and it's a very penetrating question. And you can keep going with it. It doesn't matter what you answer, they can repeat that same question again and again. It's only one word. Can you guess what that word is? I'm sure you've heard it. Why? Why are we doing such and such? Well we do such and such because we go to worship God. Why do we go to worship God? Well because And you get some little Weisenheimer that if you're not careful, they'll skewer you on the why question and they'll get you all spun up and frustrated. And at a certain point you can say, enough. You can demonstrate to them how God acts. God is not responsible to answer all of your why questions, and I have no interest in answering all of your why questions. I would like to ask you some questions, and since you seem so curious about life. Uh and this is one dreaded response my daughters received pretty quickly, and Gabriel as well. Oh, since you're so interested in this topic, I can't wait to read your report at dinner when you do some research on it. You can come back and tell me all about what you discovered. Because in this day and age, you have no reason to be stupid. You can go to G-O-O-G-L-E. And you can type in all your little why questions, and you can do some research, and you can type it in, and you can make a paper, and you can come tell me, come bring me some answers. So don't get skewered on the why business, that is for the birds. God doesn't always tell us why he is under zero obligation to do so. And if he does tell you, it's a benefit. You ought to listen. You ought to take advantage of it. Another freebie for parents there. Deuteronomy 29, you know this passage. The secret things belong unto the Lord our God. But the things that are revealed belong unto us and to our children forever That we may do all the words of this law. God gives you insight to encourage you to obedience. Remember, it's the desire for knowledge, for knowledge's sake, that drove Eve into grabbing the forbidden fruit. The false prophets are said to be ever learning and never able to come to the knowledge of the truth. The academics At college we'll always take your money and we'll give you an education in the most ridiculous things they don't mind. Knowledge for knowledge's sake is pointless. Deuteronomy 29 tells us, the things that I reveal to you are there that you may do all the words of this law. God reveals his will, his way, his commandments, because the bottom line is this, I got a certain path I want you to walk down. And everything I'm telling you is to aid and assist you in walking down that path. Your business is not universe building. That's my job. Your business is not ruling the world. That's my job. Your business isn't even building the church. That's my job. You need to be walking down a path, and I and everything I'm telling you is is to go down that path In Matthew 20 and 15, in one of the parables, he says, Is it not lawful for me to do what I will with mine own? So what is it in this universe God doesn't own? If you can find something he doesn't own, then you can go to the owner of that thing and then you can ask them questions about it. Uh here to tell you it doesn't exist It's totally lawful for God to do whatsoever he will with his own. We get upset when he does that. We get upset when he does that. Look at Acts 1, verse 7. This is one where religious people simply cannot let go of. They insist beyond a shadow of a doubt, I know when the Lord's returning. And the Lord Jesus Christ says in Acts chapter 1, verse 7, they asked him, they said, Lord Lord, wilt thou at this time restore again the kingdom to Israel? And he said unto them, It is not for you to know the times or the seasons which the Father hath put in his own power. This is not for you to know that. It's just not Lesnar's not something you're privileged to have. There are some people who have jobs that they look at privileged or private information. If you work in a medical facility and you've got some famous person's x-rays and they show that they have cancer Uh that's got to be kept quiet, because if you find out this famous person has cancer, it could do all kinds of disasters. That's secret information. You don't go blabbering out everywhere If you've got a famous politician who gets drunk and drive off a bridge and ends up in prison or whatever, you know, they they kind of keep that stuff quiet for a while in the prison. They don't let it out. Hey, do you know just showed up in prison because you hadn't been tried yet? There's been no trial. Some of that stuff's kind of quiet. God says there's some information there that basically you don't need to know. Now, what do you think human sinful clay would do if we knew when Jesus Christ was returning? I'll tell you what you'd do. I'll tell you what I would do, because I thought I knew one day back in September of 94. I was 70% certain I knew Jesus was coming back in September of 94 I went over to Mark Leakey's house with a lawn chair and sat down and looked up at the sky. Right, this is gonna make a difference. And would you know it? That night there was a thunderstorm that rolled through and I'm asleep in bed and I heard the first crack of lightning. You talk about somebody that came three feet off that bed. Man, I was like, Oh, he's here It's just a thunderstorm. I'm not here. I'm dead serious. This is an embarrassing story, but you know what? You were thinking, you know, lightning flashes from the east of the West. Flashes from the east of the west, yeah. It was September seventh, it was the very next day, and uh well we're just off by a day. If we knew we would radically change our behavior. If we knew we would do things very differently. So here's how God has arranged it. He gave you some indications. Okay, when the Son of Man returns, before he comes, this is what it's going to be like. And he gives you all these things. And you look at him and it's like Men shall be lovers of them own selves, covetous, blasphemers, unthankful, disobedient to parents. It's like this is garden variety sins And basically what it is is Jesus says, okay, I'm coming again soon. See ya. Paul comes out and says, here's what's going to happen. And it's almost like Jesus went to heaven and he says, okay, when you see this alarm go off, I'm near, he goes to heaven, bam, the alarm goes off. Ning-ing-ing-ing-ing-ing-ing-ing-ing-ing-ing-ing-ing The oars been rigging Every century has been saying, he's coming soon, why? Because the alarm's ringing, it's been ringing, it's been ringing, and it's still ringing, it's still ringing And it's still ringing. It's ringing, it is ringing. His return is imminent. I think he did that on purpose It's a long-sounding bell. No one will have an excuse. I didn't hear the bell. It's been ringing for a long time. You had no excuse. That's my take on it. I pointed out to you that God will act and not tell us why he's doing a particular thing. He can do what he wants to because he owns everything and he's big boss in charge, and you're not. God's actions can appear evil because he doesn't tell us why he's doing a particular thing. Turn to Job chapter 12. This was my passage of the week that I discovered during a family devotion. And I was all excited about it, and I said, this has got to go into the Providence study. Job chapter 12 Now it's a long section, but I want you to just think for a moment about the breadth, the scope, and the extent of everything that he's claiming that he's doing. Job here is speaking. He's speaking quite literally And we're going to begin in verse 16. You can read the whole chapter. I'm just cutting it short. Chapter 12, beginning in verse 16. With him is strength and wisdom. The deceived and the deceiver are his. He leadeth counselors away spoiled, and makes the judges fools. He looses the bond of kings and girds their loins with a girdle. He lets them go, he tightens them up. He leads princes away spoiled and overthrows the mighty. He removeth away the speech of the trusty, and taketh away the understanding of the aged. Have you ever seen anybody struck with Alzheimer's? Wow, that's a debilitating disease. He poureth contempt upon princes and weakeneth the strength of the mighty He discovereth deep things out of darkness, and bringeth out to light the shadow of death. Look at 23. He increases the nations and destroys them He enlarges the nations and straightens them again, meaning he puts them through a difficult path. He takes away the heart of the chief of the people of the earth and causes them to wander in a wilderness where there is no way. They grope in the dark without light, and he makes them stagger like a drunken man. Yeah. You read that and you go, you know Kinda getting a stiff neck and button heads with God and shooting in the finger really isn't a grand idea. If he does this to nations, if he can take away your wisdom and your strength and whatever all these things that we think we possess, I'm unique, I'm different, I'm strong, I'm whatever He can make you a babbling idiot in a heartbeat. One wreck that bumps your head against the windshield and you could be a vegetable in a coma where they're feeding you through a tube for the rest of your life. It doesn't take much. We're houses of clay, it says. We're in houses of dust. Dusty houses shouldn't be boasting too much. So, God's actions can appear evil. Look at 2 Samuel chapter 16. We're going to start to get into some tougher verses. If you got through Job, alright, we're doing good. The book of 2 Samuel, back before Job. 2 Samuel, we're going to go to chapter 16 and verse 11. 2 Samuel chapter 16 and verse 11. This is when David is fleeing. He's fleeing from Jerusalem because he has a son that is trying to take over the kingdom. And as he's fleeing, there's a man named Shimei who is cursing David. He's out there cursing, he's throwing dust and rocks, and this is God's anointed. This is the sweet psalmist of Israel. This is evidently a prophet. This is a mighty warrior, the one who conquered Goliath and the Philistines, the one who brought about much good for the nation. And he had been very successful. beat out a lot of enemies and he's really established Israel as a great great nation. And here's this man Shemi that is gonna get a little huffy. He's gonna get a little huffy at David. And we see, verse 11, David said to Abishai and to all his servants, Behold, my son which came forth of my bowels seeks my life. He's talking about Absalom. How much more now may this Benjamite do it? Shumi I was a Benjamite who was cursing him. Let him alone. Let him curse. He's cursing David You know, you can you can come to America and you can curse the president. That's your right to do that. I had a man come to me from Cuba. I know I hadn't finished the verse. Guy from Cuba says, Well I love America. You curse Castro in Cuba, you get your head cut off. In America, you can, you know, curse the president, you still live. He says, This is a great land. I love it. Well, that was not the land that Shemiah lived in. You curse the king, he could take your head off. In fact, that's exactly what his his uh Abishai, his basically uh chief of the Marine Corps, was saying he'd like to do. I'd like to go over and take his head off. Grant permission that I go take his head off. And he said, no, uh let him let him curse. Look at the last half of verse 11, for the Lord hath bidden him. It may be that the Lord will look on mine affliction, and that the Lord will requite me, repay me good for his cursing this day. He had a different mindset. Just let him alone. God sent him. Let him curse. That's interesting. I'm not quite sure how David knew that. Either God tapped him on the shoulder and said, uh Never mind this. Or David through great faith said, Nope, I see all things of the hand of the Lord, even this man cursing me. Somehow God's allowed that to come to pass, directed to come to pass. I'm going to be content with it. That's fine It's quite interesting that David has that insight and has that response. So evil, now we're going to get to some more intense passages. And I think these are three of the most intense passages I have found in all of Scripture. And I hope it doesn't overthrow the faith of some, but I've been trying to show you in this that God is the one who's in charge, and he does pretty much what he wants to. And he's big boss in charge. Look at Isaiah chapter 10. If you can handle Shemiah cursing David, maybe you think that's not too terribly personal. Look at Isaiah chapter 10 for a moment. Isaiah is one of the great prophets, prophet of Israel. Tradition has it that as the kings eventually got sick of his prophecy, he was committed to prison and eventually sawn in half. And I can't imagine that was too joyful. Prophets came on the scene at a very dark time, whenever Israel had a mess of a time, and there was multitude of sins going on. And they were very stiff-necked and against the God of the Bible, the God of the Hebrew fathers who had brought them into their land. And he speaks here, and he says in verse 5, now God, speaking through Isaiah, is going to talk about the Assyrians, who were the superpower of their day. They were a threat to Israel. If Israel were Cuba, America would be like Assyria. A significant threat. They were nothing you could sneeze at. They had tremendous power. In Isaiah 10, verse 5, the Lord says this: O Assyrian, the rod of mine anger. And the staff in their hand is my indignation. He's referring to the Assyrians, the Assyrian nation, as the rod of his anger. So think of a rod. A king with a rod in his hand and he's angry. That's not the position to be in. He says, You, O Assyrian nation, is the rod in my hand, the rod of my anger. He says, I will send him against a hypocritical nation, against the people of my wrath will I give him a charge, to take the spoil, to take the prey, and to tread down them like the mire of the streets. Howbeit, he meaneth not so, neither does his heart think so, but it is in his heart to destroy and cut off a nation's not a few. In other words, he doesn't think to do what I'm thinking to do. He just wants to cut off a few nations What he says, the Lord gives insight into. Here's the thoughts of the king of Assyria, verse 8, for he saith, Are not my princes altogether kings? Is not Kalno as Carchimish? Is not Hamath as Arpid? Is not Samaria as Damascus? as my hand hath found the kingdoms of the idols, and those graven images did excel them of Jerusalem and Samaria Shall I not, as I have done unto Samaria and her idols, so do to Jerusalem and her idols You see, this is what this uh Assyrian king is saying. He's saying, I'm my princes are great kings. See, God knows what he's thinking. He knows what he's thinking. And look at this. The Lord says in verse 12, Wherefore it shall come to pass that when the Lord has performed his whole work, His whole work? In other words, he's bringing the Assyrian upon Zion, Mount Zion, on Jerusalem. I will punish the fruit of the stout heart of the king of Assyria and the glory of his high looks For he saith, By the strength of my hand I have done it, and by my wisdom, for I am prudent, I have removed the bounds of the people and have robbed their treasures. I've put down the inhabitants like a valiant man, and my hand has found as a nest the riches of the people. As one gathers eggs that are left, have I gathered all the earth, and there was none that moved the wing, or opened the mouth, or peeped. He's just this is amazing to me. What Isaiah is quoting here is what this Assyrian king is going to say after And this is a few, many years later, when the Assyrian king is going to conquer Zion and Jerusalem. And he's going to boast about how great he is. And God says, yep, I'm using him to destroy Mount Zion in Jerusalem, but I'm not done with him yet either. Verse 15, here's what God's going to say to him. Shall the axe boast itself against him that heweth therewith? Ah, the Siri is the axe, and God's the one swinging it Is the axe going to be real proud? I don't think so. I don't think so. Shall the saw magnify itself against him that shakes it, as if the rod should shake itself against them that lift it up, or as if the staff should lift itself up as if though there were no woods Therefore shall the Lord, the Lord of hosts, send among his fat ones leanness, and under his glory he shall kindle a burning like a burning of a fire. History records that Assyria was a very mighty and powerful nation. They were a superpower. And then this little scrappy startup to the east called Babylon came and out of all ex and to all amazement conquered the Assyrians. It'd be like the Azores Islands conquering America. Yeah, I mean it was just this little upstart and it's like, who are these people? Because he was very proud. He was an axe in God's hand, and God took him and used him to beat Israel with it, and he says, Oh, you're proud about this. Well, crack, crack, crack. Let me show you what you're made of. Wow. God is no novice at governing the universe. And Isaiah 10 is a classic passage on this. Alright, we go to 1 Kings chapter 22. A lot of this was preparatory to get to this passage. Much of what you read about in the days of Isaiah preceded Excuse me, came after this passage in 1 Kings. In 1 Kings 22, there is a king on the throne. He is not a godly man. And it is the uh the king Jehoshaphat. That is the king in Judah. And the king of Israel is uh uh uh uh Ahab. It's King Ahab. So you got Ahab and Josh. And in verse 6 we read, the kings of Israel Gathered the prophets together about 400 men. Now bear in mind, they're all false prophets. Okay, these are the prophets of the court. 400 men. They're all false. And said unto them, Shall I go against Ramoth Gilead to battle, or shall I forbear? They want to know, can I go up and do battle against this other king They're trying to figure out, should I do that? And they said, all four hundred go up. For the Lord shall deliver it into the hand of the king. Now it's interesting because Jehoshaphat seems to think that we may not be getting the whole truth here. He says, verse 8, the king of Israel said in, or verse 7, Jehoshaphat said, Is there not Here a prophet of the Lord decides that we might inquire of him. And the king of Israel said to Jehoshaphat, There is yet one man, Mekiah, the son of Imlah, by whom we may inquire the Lord, but I hate him. For he does not prophesy good concerning me, but evil. What a great answer. And Jehoshaphat said, Oh let not the king say so. I love that passage. So it goes on where these false prophets are there and Micaiah, the son of Imlah, is there, the true prophet, and Micaiah, they said, please tell us what we should do. Micaiah's like Go up. Just do what you want to do. You're like, did I not tell you you're supposed to tell me the word of the Lord? I I don't want you to, you know, sweet talk me. And then we get what Micaiah says. That's in verse 20 Verse 19 is where it starts. And he said, Hear thou therefore the word of the Lord. I saw the Lord sitting on his throne. And all the host of heaven standing by him on his right hand and on his left. There's an irony here. You have two kings, kings of Judah, kings of Israel. They have all these counselors around them, 400 men. All of the king's host are around them, and they're trying to figure out who's going to go to battle, and they're all telling lies, except for one man. Verse 20, and the Lord said, Who shall persuade Ahab that he may go up and fall at Ramoth Gilead? In other words, this is the place they're trying to figure out, do we go and conquer this place? God's saying, who's going to persuade Ahab to go up there and fall down? And meaning die. And one said on this matter, and another said on that matter, and there came forth a spirit. which stood before the king, excuse me, which stood before the Lord, and said, I will persuade him. And the Lord said unto him, Wherewith? He said, I will go forth and I will be a lying spirit in the mouth of all his prophets. In the council of heaven, God said, Oh, this is how it's going to happen. And he that is the Lord said, Thou shalt persuade him and prevail. Go forth. And do so. Now therefore, behold, the Lord hath put a lying spirit in the mouth of all these thy prophets, and the Lord has spoken evil concerning thee. Whoosh. There's a principle that God has in the Bible, and you will see this repeated in many different ways, in many different fashions, and it's this. God repays a man's ways back upon his own head. To the merciful, he will show himself merciful. To the kind, he will show himself kind. To the forward and to the proud, he will show himself hard and harsh. Here, these kings were listening to lies. The proverb says that if a king hearken unto lies, all his servants are wicked. And so, because they decide that lies is the way of the kingdom, because I really love deceit and I love deception and I really want to go to war. God says, fine, you want lies, you want deception? You got it. Coming your way. In spades. Wow, that's an intense passage. But God is recompensing these evil kings, particularly King Ahab, their way back upon their head. Nothing is beyond his disposal. The other passage is 2 Thessalonians chapter 2. Well, you say, Brother Vince, that's the God of the Old Testament. That is the God who was very harsh and mean. Now have Jesus. Jesus is very loving. Jesus is a loving God. He's a good God. Yes, he is. He is a loving and a good God. He's a gracious and merciful God. Oh yes he is. Absolutely. No question. He's also the God that is referred to in 2 Thessalonians chapter 2. In verse 10 it says, with all deceivableness of unrighteousness in them that perish, because they receive not the love of the truth, That they might be saved. There are those who don't receive the love of the truth. They don't love truth. You know, if you were to put flesh and blood on this book called the Bible, you would have Jesus Christ, of whom he said, I am the way, the truth and the life. This book is the way. This book is the truth. This book is the life. There are a lot of people that don't like this book. The universities that I'm fond of picking on don't like this book. They push evolution for one and only one reason, because it pushes the Bible out of the picture. You send your children to college, be careful, they'll send them back as reprobates. All that good work you've done will be erased if they're not given firm, solid answers in the Word of God, if they're not anchored in the Scriptures, if they're particularly not anchored against the evils of evolution, oh my goodness, they will be swept away. Because in there they don't have a love of the truth. So what happens? How does God react to somebody who doesn't love truth? Well, he looks upon such a one, he goes, oh. You're a cup of mess. You don't like truth. Okay. I'll give it to you. You don't like truth? I'll give you a bunch of untruth. A whole lot of untruth. Look at the next passage, verse 11. For this cause, don't miss that phrase, for this cause, God shall send them a strong delusion that they should believe a lie. That they might all be damned who believed not the truth, but had pleasure in unrighteousness. Does that trouble you? You see, when the Word of God comes to somebody, God's not neutral about it. There's no neutral ground. I've had relatives, I've had friends, I've had others who uh I'll present the Word of God, I'll I'll say some things about the scripture and you know, kinda no response, nothing, neutral. We'll try to talk about religious things or whatever. Well, you know, I steer clear of religion and politics. You know, indifference is really a form of hatred. It's a form of hatred. There's no neutral ground. God insists that you have to respond. Today is the day of salvation. Now is the day. Today, if you hear his voice, harden not your hearts as in the day of provocation. You see, God has an expectation The son has been committed to a bride, and he is inviting people to the wedding. Come to the wedding of my son. Some had an excuse. I've just married. I've just bought a land. I've just bought five oxen. They've got lame excuses. They've got things of this world to worry with. And he's It says these people are not worthy. Go into the highways and byways, as many as you can find. Compel them to come in. And tell them, all things are ready. Come. You know, when you make a dinner and it's a very nice dinner and there's a wedding, y you're not supposed to be late to a wedding, right? I mean that's a universal rule. The bride and the groom may start when the bride and the gro when the groom when the bride wants to start, let me get that right. It may start when she wants it to start. If she wants to be late, finds her wedding. But you can't it's not your choice to show up when you want to. You're never late to a wedding. These things are well planned, and so it is with Jesus Christ. And he calls out to you now, come. Today, while you hear his voice, harden not your heart. Well later. Well, later may never come. You see, it's that there's got to be a love of the truth. And so God is nearly always Evil, and let me repeat this. Evil is nearly always God's just recompense to the ungodly. It seems evil to us. But all it is is God, more often than not, repaying to the ungodly their own evil, wicked ways. Wow. Now, I say this. This is a cluthism. Be careful not to overdose on the sovereignty of God Be careful not to overdose on the sovereignty of God. What in the world do I mean by that? It's easy for us to just simply say, well, he is in control of all things, and he's behind all things, he's directing all things. And yes, we can use that, but with some understanding. Look at Jeremiah 14. Okay? Jeremiah chapter 14. The secret things belong to the Lord our God, but the things that are revealed belong to us. And to our children, that we may do all the words that are written in this law. You already heard me read that. There are some things that God reveals. Why did God put a lying spirit in the mouth of the 400 prophets? Because Ahab loved lies. God had been extremely extremely patient with Ahab. He gave him Elijah, one of the great prophets, and he persecuted him. And finally, it was this other prophet that came forward with the last pronouncement of his judgment. In Jeremiah chapter 14 and verse 14, we read this again during a similar time period that Isaiah prophesied. The Lord said unto me, The prophets prophesy lies in my name. I sent them not. Neither have I commanded them, neither spake unto them. They prophesy unto you a false vision and a divination, a thing of naught, and the deceit of their own heart. Therefore, thus saith the Lord, concerning the prophets that prophesy in my name, and I sent them not. Yet they say sword and famine shall not be in this land. By sword and famine shall those prophets be consumed. My point is in verse 14, he says, I sent them not, I didn't command them, I didn't speak to them. So, here's that first cause and that second cause. God has ordained, it must needs be that offenses must come, but woe unto that man by whom the offense cometh. Okay? That message that that false prophet is speaking, you can't say, well, God's in that. It must be true. Well, no. That is still a false message, right? In Jeremiah 32 and verse 35, we read this. Here Jeremiah is recounting all the evil things that they had done. It says, They built the high places of Baal, which are in the valley of the Son of Hinnam. To cause, my goodness, to cause their sons and their daughters to pass through the fire unto Molech, which I commanded them not. Neither came it into my mind that they should do this abomination to cause Judah to sin. Way back in Leviticus, God said, I'm bringing you to a land of the Canaanites. Amorites, the Hittites, the Perizzites, all the Ites. And he says, I don't want you worshiping their gods. I don't want you causing your sons and daughters to go through the fire. Lo and behold, sadly, we read in Jeremiah 32. As is recorded in the Kings, it's exactly what they did. It means you take your your own children of a young age thinking that you can gain some favor with this dumb statue called Baal Which was half man looking and had the body of a man and the head of a a bull or some other strange animal. Man oh man's an idol factory. He makes all kinds of ridiculous things. Today they call him NFL football stars And they uh and they make these idols up. And they cause their children to pass to the fire. They'll sacrifice their children We do it today. The spirit of Herod who slew the firstborn is still alive. It's called the abortuary clinics They'll cause their children to pass through the saline solution and the and the grinders or whatever else, or just waitily deliver them partially and take a pair of tin snips and snap the spine off of this precious child. From the base of the neck. Hideous. Why? To a false god. It's an idol of their imagination. Nothing's changed. God says that didn't come into my mind, that they should do that abomination. He says it didn't come into his mind We can't overdose on the sovereignty of God. There are some things he clearly indicates, I'm not no, that's that's not me. I'm not in that. So that's why I put that in there, to say, be careful as you go through, because there are those who can overdose in it and take a wrong view, and we'll look at those, Lord willing, in the next study or the one after that But I'll close out here. So with that, that is the topic for tonight about divine concurrence. We work and God works and Uh, aren't we glad that uh he is the one who is the King of Kings and Lord of Lords and he rules over all? And if he's got our best interests at heart, we have a lot of hope. But it's also very clear that if you're not interested in the things that God's interested in, you're facing pretty much a losing battle. You will lose. It's just a matter of time. Absolutely. Alright. We'll close out there.