Well, good morning everyone on this lovely cold winter day. We have a continued study in Hebrews 10, and its verses 30 and 31 is our focus today I'm going to uh repeat the verses above just to bring some context into what we've been dealing with. I call it going over Niagara Falls. It's a very difficult portion of Scripture. It's a troubling portion of Scripture But it is the Word of God, and judgment and truth are all of his ways. We'll begin in verse 26 of Hebrews chapter 10. If you have your Bible turn to that, Hebrews 10, 26, it says this For if we sin willfully, after that we have received the knowledge of the truth, there remaineth no more sacrifice for sins, but a certain fearful, looking for of judgment and fiery indignation, which shall devour the adversaries He that despised Moses' law died without mercy under two or three witnesses. Of how much sore punishment, suppose ye Shall he be thought worthy, who hath trodden underfoot the Son of God, and hath counted the blood of the covenant wherewith he was sanctified, an unholy thing? and hath done despite, has despised the spirit of grace. And then our passage for today, for we know him That hath said, Vengeance belongeth unto me, I will recompense, saith the Lord. And again, the Lord shall judge his people It is a fearful thing to fall into the hands of the living God. I have been reminded and reproved, and it's been a good reminder and a good reproof to have more questions. And just the Sunday, I have lots of questions, is the Sunday I don't have lots of audience. And I'm not going to burden my uh beloved audience present with all of my questions, but I will pose them anyway just so all of you get an opportunity to reflect Because some have expressed a great uh interest in them. So imagine for a moment that there is a developer in a very large city. It has many glamorous and impressive buildings And this developer is out to make a name for himself. You are the architect that he chose out of all people. Remember, he wants to build something that is very glamorous. He wants to make a name for himself. So people come into this city and they look and they say, wow, that's his building. And what would be your approach? What kind of features do you think would really stand out in a modern building? Now, to make it easy for you, and this is going to try to open the aperture, and I'm going to try to open the aperture a lot, don't worry about breaking any laws right now. Don't worry about that. That's not terribly important. Just for the moment, don't let laws, city hall, don't let any of that stuff get in your way. So As I posed the question myself and considered what might I do, I think there's maybe a couple of approaches that I could take One would be, I think an obvious one that might come to some minds, would be to build the absolute tallest building in that city. Just the tallest building you could possibly find. But that would mean I'd have to dig pretty deep. I would have to dig so deep, the foundation would have to go down so far, that I need to make absolutely certain I'm on a solid bedrock. And so most of the time building that structure would be digging a hole, and then of course you've got to figure out where all the dirt goes, and that's why I said forget the laws, right? Just We're going to dig a big hole, and most of the time is going to be digging in the mud and the muck and all the issues that you have with digging down. There's another approach I would take. Build a simple structure. It doesn't have to be big, it doesn't have to be beautiful. It just has to be a real simple structure with one critical feature. It can withstand a nuclear blast. I would build a nice simple bunker, maybe put in bed Cluth estates right on the concrete on the outside of this eight-foot thick concrete structure right in the middle, and then nuke the whole town. Just wipe out all the other buildings And mine and mine alone is left standing. There I made a name for myself. And in a way That's out-of-the-box thinking, but you know, does it bring glory to the individual's name? Sure. So I just wanted to entertain you with some different thoughts about what does it take to build a structure with glory to your name. Well, we're going to see hopefully a little later where I'm going with that illustration and what it has to do with this section of Scripture. The title of the Sunday School lesson is Pruning the Flock. Pruning the flock. Our passage in Hebrews ten, thirty, and thirty-one begins as follows. It says, we know him. And in those three words, it betrays a very telling indication that this first audience is the Jews. The we would be the Jewish community to whom the penman is writing, the Hebrews. We know him, and the quote is coming to us from Deuteronomy 32. It's also And Deuteronomy is also reflected in Psalm 135. In fact, this kind of language even the Apostle Paul picks up on. It's a fearful thing to fall in the hands of the living God, and the Lord vengeance is mine, I will repay. All of that. But because the bulk of it is really coming from Deuteronomy 32, Moses, I want us all to turn to Deuteronomy 32. And if we're able to uh pull that up and follow along, that would be helpful. And Deuteronomy 32. I'm going to really kind of go through the chapter, but I'm going to skim it. I don't want to spend uh too much time. I'm going to look at uh the first four verses and we're going to look at the next two. We'll look at seven to fourteen and then fifteen to eighteen. And then other just chunks at a time, about two to five verse chunks at a time, and I'll make some comments. The first four verses there you can look and see is God basically giving his credentials It says, give ear, O heavens, I'll speak, verse 1 of Deuteronomy 32, and hear, O earth, the words of my mouth. My doctrine will drop as the rain, etc. , etc. Verse 3, because I will publish the name of the Lord, ascribe ye greatness unto our God. He is the rock, his work is perfect, all his ways are judgment. So you you have this Glorious introduction of God making a preamble, I am the Lord, I'm great, I'm glorious. And then in verse 5, it takes a turn for the worse. In Deuteronomy 32, 5 and 6, it says this. It says, They have corrupted themselves. Their spot is not the spot of his children. They were a perverse and crooked generation. Do you thus requite, do you thus repay the Lord, O foolish people and unwise? Is not He thy father that hath bought thee? Has He not made thee and established thee? So here we have now a complaint that the Lord has. And then we aren't already beginning to get into some of the similar kind of troubled feelings we have when we were back in this earlier portion of Hebrews. You know, we might begin to ask the question, to whom does God refer when he says, his children? It says, their spot is not the spot of his children. It's speaking of these people with whom he has a complaint. I like that phrase spot, you know, in the wild. uh certain animals that come forth, the like a cow. Uh when the mother begins to nudge the calf and the uh calf begins to smell the smells of the mother, they there's an immediate bonding and mom begins to know that animal and I can't help but to think that she also recognizes it visually with her eyes that oh this is my child. I see this pattern of colors on this ch this calf. Not her child, but her cat. And so in this context here, his children would refer to the elect, because he's contrasting those to don't who do not have the spot of his children. They're from a different people. In fact it says they're a perverse generation, they're crooked generation, they're foolish people, they're unwise. All of that is language clearly indicating the unsaved that uh we would expect that language we'd expect to hear. Well then God goes on in verses seven through fourteen of Deuteronomy 32 to Basically recall how he brought them out of Egypt into the promised land. He says, verse 7, remember the days of old, verse 8, when the Most High divided to the nations their inheritance? Verse 9, the Lord's portion is his people. Jacob is the lot of his inheritance. Now he's talking about the Jews, because they had a division. God gave them that Verse 10, he found him in a desert land, in a waste, howling wilderness, a kind of a reference to uh Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob wandering around in the land of Canaan. He led him about instructed him, kept him as the apple of his eye. Verse 12, the Lord alone did lead him. There was no strange God with him. He uh made him to suck honey out of the rock, oil out of the flinty rock, butter of kine, milk of sheep. Rams with the breed of Basha and goats, with the fat of kidneys of wheat, and you did drink the pure blood of the grape, referring to the goodness that came out of the land of the Canaanites when they finally came through Egypt, and he fast forwarded right to their homestead in Israel. So God is recalling that whole glorious deliverance of the seed of Jacob, all of uh Abraham's descendants and how he brought them into that promised land. We're looking historically here because we're going to get to 32 verses 35 and 36, to chapter 32, 35, and 36, where our quote comes from. And we're trying to understand this vengeance business here and this judging of the people of God. He says in verses now 15 to 18 This is the very next portion of Deuteronomy 32, but Jeshuran, that's an interesting phrase, it's a slam on them. Jeshuran means the upright one. But the upright one, Jeshuran, waxed fat and kicked. Jeshuan here is a referral to this whole nation, all the nation of the Jews. Now he's referring to them nationally. Jeshuran waxed fat and kicked. We continue to read. He says, Then he forsook God which made him, lightly esteemed the rock of his salvation. Verse 16, he provoked him to jealousy with strange gods, seventeen, sacrifice to devils, and eighteen of the rock that beget thee, thou art unmindful And so now we see, okay, God is upset with those whom he beget. Now he's upset with the ones that God made. And now we start to have some troubles again. Is this referring to the elect? Uh certainly you would begin to question. Wow, it certainly sounds like it because earlier It says these are perverse children that don't have his people are those that uh are are uh that have his spot, and there's a group of people that don't have his spot. No, I believe God here is referring to them as a nation. He's referring to it the by and large the larger nation. This is the people that uh became a nation only because of God's physical deliverance. He gave them a physical salvation from the Egyptians. He gave them a physical deliverance. fed them physically. And I believe that is what's going on here in the first instance. Let's just take it to the first audience for the moment. And then we see in verses chapter 32, 19 and 20, it says, when the Lord saw it, he abhorred them. Because of the provoking of his sons and his daughters. Oh my, that's a pretty strong language here. He said, I will hide my face from them. I will see what their end shall be, their very froward generation, children in whom is no fear. Faith. Oh my. That's a very bold statement here. And then we jump down to 35 and 36 as God continues to Give his complaint in the subsequent verses between 20 and 35. Again, I'm trying to move quickly through Deuteronomy 32. He then gets to the passage that's quoted back in Hebrews as we know him. Well, to him that they know, he says, to me belongeth vengeance. Verse 36, the Lord shall judge his people. My, that's tough language. And repent himself for his servants, when he seeth that their power is gone, there's none shut up or left. It now drives us to ask the question, well, to whom is God referring when he says his sons, his daughters, his people? Normally we think of the elect of God. We're inheritors. We're brought into that community. The book of Hebrews is written to the Jews, to the Jewish people. And he is the one who obviously made them a nation. I believe his people here refers to those who were only corporately associated with Moses' covenant. They were experiencing the salvation that Moses wrought through God's miraculous work through Moses. Bringing them through the Red Sea, drowning Pharaoh's army, keeping them alive through the wilderness, bringing them into the promised land. Many temporal blessings they received. And yet, lo and behold, They were truly were not his people. This is that mixed multitude, these spiritual Egyptians, Babylonians, Sodomites that came out with them Who have no faith. Notice it said, children in whom is no faith. They, as it were, fulfill that parable of the sower. They fulfill that where they they they they spring up for a season. They seem to have an interest in it. But in fact When the going got tough, they turned to other gods. They turned away from the true God. And he even brought them into that. You know, a verse that comes to mind speaks in the book of uh Peter. It's in 2 Peter, I believe, chapter 2. We'll see if I can pull that up here. 2 Peter chapter 2. And Yeah, 2 Peter chapter 2. Speaking, the whole chapter, 2 Peter 2 is just a glossary of terms God uses to refer to false converts, to false prophets, to false teachers. And he makes an interesting declaration in verse 20. 2 Peter 2. 20 it says, For if after they, that is these false converts, these are the the ungodly. If after they have escaped the pollutions of the world through the knowledge of the Lord and Savior Jesus Christ, they are again entangled therein and overcome The latter end is worse with them than the beginning. Well, that's interesting because it says here they have escaped something. They experienced some kind of a temporal salvation. You know A man or a woman can clean up their act, they can quit getting drunk, they can get a little bit of religion, they can get some basic life tips that help guide them on a better path, and we can say that there was a deliverance of the Lord for that But it's not the deliverance of salvation. They have become corporately associated so that they can be called his children in a corporate sense But they've never been saved because they're children in whom is no faith. They do not bear fruit. And Jesus says this in the Sermon on the Mount. Not everyone who says to me, Lord, Lord. Signor in the kingdom of heaven. He even talks about those who are going to claim that they did miracles in his name. He says, I never knew you. And so it ultimately points to a heart work. We as New Testament Gentiles get that distinction of a heart work versus an external uh manifestation of some sort of deliverance. That wasn't very clear as the New Testament was continuing to be written in those early days, and I think that's what's going on. Just to prove my point. Let's turn now to Ezekiel 34 because I think you'll see that language is a little clearer. It's a little obscure in Deuteronomy. But in Ezekiel 34, we have a most telling section of Scripture that I do believe helps illustrate this same concept that I'm talking about, that there are this mixed multitude in the larger body of Christianity that would claim Jesus as Lord, or as among the Jews, that would claim Jehovah as Savior. We read, for instance, beginning in Ezekiel 34, I'm going to start at verse 11, where we're going to read about the good news for the sheep. There's good news for the sheep in Ezekiel 34, 11. So it says here, For thus saith the Lord God, Behold, I, even I, will both search my sheep and seek them out. Well, that's a good thing. As a shepherd seeketh out his flock In the day that he is among his sheep that are scattered, so will I seek out my sheep, and will deliver them out of all places where they have been scattered in the cloudy and dark day. And I will bring them out from the people, and gather them from the countries, and bring them to their own land, and feed them upon the mountains of Israel by the rivers. And in all the inhabited places of the country, I will feed them in a good pasture. And upon the high mountains of Israel shall their fold be. They shall lie in a good fold, and in a fat pasture shall they feed upon the mountains of Israel. This is all positive language. He goes on. I will feed my flock. I will cause them to lie down, saith the Lord God. I will seek that which was lost, and bring again that which was driven away, will bind up that which was broken. Well, strengthen that which was sick. Praise God, he does that. I will destroy the fat and strong. All right, well, let's just pause. Whoa, whoa, whoa, let's stop. We've had good news up to this point. This is really good news for the sheep. And then right smack dab in the middle of 16, we find bad news for another group called the fat sheep. Have you ever heard the term fat cat used to refer to perhaps a wealthy and corrupt businessman? Oh, he's just some fat cat, meaning he's getting wealthy off he's been stealing other people's goods, and that's why he's so fat. God's got bad news for the fat sheep, and spoiler alert, these are goats that look like sheep. He says in the last part of 16 through 25 and again I'm going to try to move uh a little bit here, not to tarry too long. He says But I will destroy the fat and the strong. I will feed them with judgment. As for you, O my flock, thus saith the Lord, behold, I judge between cattle and cattle Now he uses the same word there. Isn't that interesting? I'm judging all this cattle. Cattle would be in uh Archaic English word in this context to refer to any kind of four-legged animal that you raise in a pasture. That would include sheep I'm judging cattle and cattle. As far as he's concerned, he's looking at all sheep. They all look visually the same. But he says, I'm going to judge between them. I'm making a distinction here. He says, I'm going to judge, he continues, between the rams and the he-goats. Verse 18. Now he's going to direct his attention to the fat sheep. Seemeth it a small thing unto you to have eaten up the good pasture, but you must tread down with your feet the residue of their pastures? And to have drunk of the deep waters, but you must foul the residue with your feet. This is where we hit our term, you're muddying the waters. If you ever had a business conversation, you're in a meeting and everybody is speaking clearly and somebody jumps in with something so far out in the left field, it just muddies the water, it adds confusion, it sends everybody down a path of confusion. And that happens among the flock of God. You can have some voices in the congregation that begin to muddy the waters. It's a mixture of truth and lies and errors, and it begins to steer people in a weird way, and they sit around confused and they're not sure. Yeah, that's what he's complaining about. He's complaining about these fat sheep that are muddying the residue of the deep waters with their feet. Verse 19, feet by the way is an instrument of of of walking. Typically works. It could be something they're doing. Something they do. They may say one thing and But their feet over here, they're behaving very differently over here. They have a confusing message. They can confuse people that way too Verse 19, as for my flock, he continues his complaint, they eat that which they have trodden with your feet, they drink that which you have fouled with your feet. This is speaking, God's saying, look what you've done to my good sheep. Therefore, thus saith the Lord God unto them, the fat ones, behold I even I will judge between the fat cattle and the lean cattle. Because you have thrust with side and with shoulder, boy those reprobator mean They they really come at you hard. They can all of a sudden the fangs come out and they can get really nasty. They can snap at you, they can push at you. All of a sudden that soft, tender uh uh hand reveals an iron fist behind it. Because you have thrust with side and with shoulder, and have pushed all the diseased with your horns. Here you have some Diseased sheep, they're weak. They're just weak. They're not dead. They're just diseased. You know, we get spiritually weak at times. We can fall into a sin. That's a disease. And boy, these people, they thrust with the horns, and the horn is a picture of authority. Picture of authority, picture of rule, and boy, out come the rule books, and they prosecute you for the smallest thing. And you can be cut out for the smallest thing. He says that's what they're doing. Until you have scattered them abroad. This is what the end result of what they do. Therefore, 22, God says, Will I save my flock? And they shall no more be a prey. I will judge between cattle and cattle. And so here I think I have good basis and good reasoning for why there is a distinction the distinction being made here. Alright, what is that Long-winded explanation, Vince. We've read Deuteronomy 32. Where are we going? I thought we were in Hebrews. Well, let's go back to Hebrews. Let's go back to Hebrews now. Hebrews 10 and 30 and 31. Because the passage opened with, for we know him that hath said. Well, we're Gentiles. We're maybe not as intimately familiar. with what we just covered in Deuteronomy 32 and in Ezekiel 34. Deuteronomy 32 is where you find this warning Where he says, vengeance belongs to me. I will repay. The Lord shall judge his people. So when he says judging his people, they would understand That God is going to judge this collective group that is in a covenant, and he says, hey, I understand what's going on in here. There's some bad actors in this midst. And I'm going to deal with it. That is the exhortation. It would be very clear and obvious to the Hebrews who were Maybe on the fence about Jesus Christ, or maybe converts and needed some some encouragement to keep going in a good way. I believe this passage in Hebrews is designed to sorely threaten and to warn the reprobate that are in the midst of God's people, starting with the Old Testament and has application to the New Because they are the ones who are the apostasizers that are spoken of in the earlier verses that we covered last week in 26 to 29. The Lord will judge. He is in the midst. He is going to deal with this. You know, it does have application in the New Testament, and I can find a good verse for that, and that would be in 2 Thessalonians 1 and verse 8. In 2 Thessalonians 1. 8, I love the apostles' letters to the Thessalonians. We find here in 2 Thessalonians 1. 8, if I can get to it reasonably. quickly. It speaks of when the Lord Jesus is being revealed from heaven with his mighty angels, and what does he do? It says, in flaming fire, taking vengeance on them that know not God, depart from me, I never knew you, and that obey not the gospel of our Lord Jesus Christ. These are, again, that language, taking vengeance. He's going to take vengeance on these people. Wow. All of this talk, Brother Vince, you might say All this talk of wrath and judgment discourages me. Why would we follow a God who is so harsh? And that's a legitimate question. I get that question. It's absolutely a difficult thing. And there really isn't an easy, simple answer, but answers do exist if you would but consider God's stated purpose for his redeemed elect. God tells us what he intends to do with his elect. He is conforming them to the image of Christ. I have talked about that for years, but it hasn't been but for the past eight to ten years that I began to get it, if I could put it that way. This business of God being conforming his people to the image of Christ means you might want to look at how Jesus lived. You might want to look at what happened in Jesus' life. You might want to think about what he endured and what he put up with. And why did he put up with that? And why would they do all of these unfair things to him? But you can also look at what he gained. You can look at the tremendous gain that he made. The scripture also makes it clear, not only are they being conformed to the image of Christ, but Christ is going to be glorified in you. And his way in doing that is to show great power and might that often involves putting you in a position of great weakness. Such that when you eventually rise up, it can only be attributed to your name. Excuse me. It can only be attributed to his name. So now I turn back to the building example. You know, gloriously tall buildings require extraordinarily deep foundations, which are hard to get out. You have to go to a lot of mud and dirt before you get to the rock. So if I'm going to glorify my if my name's going to be glorified, if God's going to glorify my name Along with Jesus Christ, and if my name is glorified in him in this life and in the life to come, you've got to think how that's going to happen It's no big deal if I get healed from a disease. Doctors can help with that, but it is a big deal if you get healed from a disease that no doctor can cure. Or when you die, you're resurrected again unto everlasting life, and they are resurrected unto eternal damnation. You see how God operates? He has a trump card called a resurrection that will will win by default That's why I use that illustration of Judgment Day, where you just obliterate the whole city and there's one building left. The church of God is going to win by default. God has the very, very long view in mind. And indeed, that's the path that he has us on. The mature Christian recognizes the need for purging in themselves. and willingly submits to God for this, knowing it will not be more they can bear, and trust, and this is the key word, trust, that it will yield the peaceable fruit. righteousness. So this is our meditation and our thought for uh Hebrews ten, when it speaks about the Lord judging his people. Let's close in prayer. Father, we thank you for the reminder. And you are a God, and though we endure tough things, yet you do deliver us. We ask all your blessings in Jesus' name. Amen