Turn in your Bibles with me, please, to the book of 1 Peter and the second chapter. The second chapter of 1 Peter. And initially I would draw your attention to one verse. I would not necessarily say it's our text for the day, but I believe it is our theme verse for the chapter. And that is the fifteenth verse of this chapter. Not to in any way disparage textual preaching where you just preach on one verse. There are times when we do that. But I love to look at a chapter in its entirety and find the context with it within the chapter for the one verse. And then expand from there to other verses of Scripture which augment that which we consider. And so today we're going to begin With just one verse, and that is the fifteenth verse of the second chapter of 1 Peter. For so is the will of God that with well doing ye may put to silence the ignorance of foolish men. Let me read it to you again. For so is the will of God that with well doing ye may put to silence the ignorance of foolish men. Let us pray Father, now we pray that as we approach your holy word, you would open your word to our hearts. And O Lord, open our hearts to receive thy word. Father, I believe the burden that's on my heart this morning has great application to our daily lives. Father, make us more like Christ. Conform us to his image. May our attitudes, may our behaviors, may our actions in this world be a reflection of our Master. And we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. They say that in good public speaking you tell the people what you're going to say and you tell them And then you tell them what you just told them. Well, I'm gonna give you the outline from the very beginning. The title you have there in the bulletin is putting the silence, the foolishness of the ignorance of foolish men. The message is about the believer's testimony. How are we to live in this wicked world? And how are we to put to silence the foolishness of ignorant men or the ignorance of foolish men? Well, first of all, we're going to see our testimony before the rulers of this world. In verses thirteen and fourteen we read this, submit yourselves to every ordinance of man for the Lord's sake, whether it be to kings as supreme. or unto governors as unto them that are sent by him for the punishment of evildoers and for the praise of them that do well. And so we're first of all we're going to consider the testimony of the believers before the rulers of this world. And then secondly, from verse 12, we're going to consider the testimony of the believer in the marketplaces of this world. The marketplace. That's where the rubber hits the road, folks. That's the daily living And in verse 12 we read this, having your conversation honest among the Gentiles, that whereas they speak against you as evildoers They may by your good works, which they shall behold, glorify God in the day of visitation. And then thirdly, we're going to see from verses 7 and 8 the testimony of the believers before the stumblers of this world. Verse 7, Unto you therefore which believe he is precious. But unto them which be disobedient, the stone which the builders disallow, the same is made the head of the corner And a stone of stumbling, and a rock of offence, even unto them which stumble at his word, being disobedient whereunto they were appointed. But before we can really get into these three areas, our testimony before the rulers of the world, our testimony before the marketplace of the world, and our testimony before the stumblers of the world, we've got to know And so let's go back to the beginning of the chapter and verses one through three. And there we find, wherefore laying aside all malice and guile and hypocrisy and envies and evil speaking As newborn babes desire the sincere milk of the word that ye may grow thereby, if so be that ye have tasted that the Lord is gracious. We're talking about believers here. We're talking about those that are born again. We're talking about those who desire the sincere milk of the Word. And the reason they desire the sincere milk of the Word is they've tasted of it already. They've tasted the Lord and found He is gracious. You see, the wicked rulers of this world and the evil men that we meet in the marketplace and the stumblers of this world are different from us for one reason. We have grace and they don't. We've been arrested by the grace of God as certainly as the Apostle Paul was arrested on the road to Damascus As certainly as Peter was taken away from his worldly occupation with the fish and made to be a fisher of men. And so first of all, we're the children of God. Secondly, we're living stones Look down to verse 4. To whom coming as unto a living stone, disallowed indeed of men, but chosen of God and precious, ye also as lively stones are built up into a spiritual house. We're not dead rocks anymore. Because God has taken away the stony heart and has given us a heart of flesh to believe. And so the people that we're talking about that are to have a testimony before the w world are living stones because we've come in contact with the living stone, with the chief cornerstone. And thereby we've been made alive. When it says that he was a living stone, it means a life-giving stone. And then also who are we? Verses nine and ten. We're a chosen generation, we're a royal priesthood, we're a holy nation, we're a peculiar people. Let me read the verses to you, verse nine and ten. But unto you But but ye are a chosen generation, a royal priesthood, a holy nation, a peculiar people. Why? That ye should show forth the praise of him who hath called you out of darkness into this marvelous light. Which in times past were not a people, but now are the people of God, which had not obtained mercy, but now have obtained mercy. But not only are we born again children of God and living stones and chosen and precious in a holy nation, but we're strangers and pilgrims. Verse eleven. Dearly beloved, I beseech you as strangers and pilgrims abstain from less fleshly lust which war against your soul. You know what? We don't belong here, folks. We're here because God put us here. We don't belong. My father used to say if the world's a round hole, you better be a square peg. And how true that is. We don't fit. One's SAE and the other's metric. You cannot put them together. It won't work. We don't belong here. We don't fit here. We should not expect to be loved here. The locals always have a negative view of those that don't belong. Think about that. The locals. They don't like the newcomers. They don't like the different ones. They don't like the ones that don't fit. The person on the block that paints their house bright pink. Is it well liked? Because they're different. And you're ruining our property values and this, that, and the other. Well that's the way the world looks at the believers. In Acts 16, I won't have you turn there, but I'll just read it to you quickly. Acts 16, verses 19 and through 21, just portions of the verse. And they caught Paul and Silas and drew them into the marketplace under the rulers and brought them to the magistrates, saying, These men being Jews do exceedingly trouble our city, and teach customs which are not lawful for us to receive, neither to observe, being Romans. These Jews don't belong here, they were saying about Paul. Well, you know what, in this nation, which was once called a Christian nation, and pardon me, but it was never a Christian nation. It had some Christian leaders along the way. It had some godly men here and there. But we were never a Christian nation. That's a that's a misnomer. But this land which once was called a Christian nation, more and more is hating Christians. We don't fit. We don't go along filling out medical forms for a surgery upcoming. And I won't say which one, but one of the major hospital systems on there. What is your gender, male, female? And then it gave about six other options. And then the next question, what are your preferred pronouns? And I didn't think about at the time, but I wish they had to put Your Royal Highness so they would have had to call me Your Royal Highness when I walked in the door. Either that or a man with enough sense to know he's a man. Folks we don't fit. Woe unto you when all men speak well of you, for so spake they of the false prophets which were before you. And yet we find here in this 15th verse that so is the will of God. This is what God wants, folks. We talk about what's the will of God. This verse is pretty clear. So is the will of God that with well doing ye may put to silence the ignorance of foolish men. Folks, isn't that ignorant? Foolishness. Yes, it is. Well, I think I'm a man. Not quite sure. This is the will of God. And so the first thing we want to consider this morning from this marvelous chapter. is the testimony of the believer before the rulers of this world. We're not in charge, folks. There are others in charge. And so what is to be our attitude? What is to be our position? What is to be our response? To the foolish rulers of this world. Look at verse four thirteen and fourteen. Rebel yourselves. Oh, that's not what it says. What's what's the first word? My glasses are fogged up. Submit yourselves to every ordinance of man for the Lord's sake, whether it be to kings as supreme. Or to governors, as unto them that are sent by him for the punishment of evildoers, and for the praise of them that do well That word submit isn't a fun word, is it? Don't think that's on our list of favorite words this morning. Submit yourselves This word submit or submit yourselves unto every ordinance of man, that ordinance of man comes in, it literally means submit yourselves to every creation of man Submit yourselves to that which man has created or that which man has structured. The ordinance of man is man's law It's not God's law. Okay, now we know what the law of God is. This book tells us what God's law is But here, Peter is saying to the strangers scattered abroad, submit yourselves to the created laws of man. Submit yourselves unto that which they have structured as the rules of society. It also can be translated as earthly legislation or ordinances, okay? They're laws. Submit yourselves to every human creature. Basically, what it means is obey the law, folks. Obey the law. In Titus 3 and verse 1, put them in remembrance to be subject to principalities and powers, to obey magistrates, and to be ready unto every good work. Turn with me to Romans 13. The 13th chapter of Romans, and I want to read there for you verses 1 through 7. That's why I'm having you turn. It's a little bit longer passage. Verses 1 through 7 of Romans 13. There we rebeginning in verse 1 of 13 of Romans. Let every soul be subject to the higher powers, for there is no power but of God, the powers that be are ordained of God. Whosoever therefore resisteth the power, resisteth the ordinance of God, and they that resist shall receive to themselves damnation. For the rulers are not a terror to good works, but to evil. Wilt thou then not be afraid of the power or that which is good, and thou shalt have praise of the same or do that which is good, and thou shalt have praise of the The same, for he is a minister of God to thee for good. But if thou do that which is evil, be afraid For he beareth not the sword in vain. For he is the minister of God, our revenger, to execute wrath upon him that doeth evil. Wherefore ye must needs be subject not only for wrath, but also for conscious sake. For this cause pay ye tribute also For they are God's ministers, attending continually upon this very thing. Render, therefore, to all their dues Tribute to whom tribute, due, uh to whom tribute is due, custom to whom custom, fear to whom fear, honor to whom honor Remember, Christ said, render unto Caesar that which is Caesar's, and render unto God that which is God. What is this passage talking about in our relationship to human governments? If you look closely at what Romans is teaching us, it's talking about civil order. It's talking about the police, and we pay our taxes to pay their salaries. And the purpose of the police, the purpose of the courts is to punish evildoers. When someone breaks in, they should be punished. And so we pay our taxes, we participate in our society in the social order But what if man's creation, remember the laws, the ordinances are the creation of man, what if the creation of man and his laws are not in agreement with the creation of God and his law? Then what do we do? And I believe Scripture very clearly gives us that answer. Look at verses 16. Let's start at 15 again in 1 Peter 2. And I'll read down through verse 17. So back to 1 Peter chapter 2. The verse, which is our key verse, verse 15, for so is the will of God that with well-doing ye may put to silence the ignorance of foolish men as free. And not using your liberty for a cloak of maliciousness, but as the servants of God, honor all men. Love the Brotherhood, fear God, honor the King. What is the most important portion, do you believe, of verse 17? Fear God. Fear God. Fear God. How are we to obey the laws, verse 17? Verse 16. We obey them as free Yet not using your liberty as a cloak of maliciousness, but as the servants of God. Don't misunderstand what I'm about to say. But the child of God is free from the law of man. Okay. If I tell my dog shit I have a dog, by the way. But if I tell my dog sit, your dog doesn't have to sit. Because the demands for my dog. I'm God's dog. And I don't have to sit when the world says sit. However, a good dog, a well-trained dog, when you say sit, it doesn't matter who says it, they'll still sit. But they're not compelled to do because they have a different master. And so what this is telling us about the law of the land is when the world's laws say sit. And it's okay with God that we sit, then we sit. So we're free from that law. But for conscious sake, verse 5 of Romans 13. For conscious sake, because God instructs us to keep the laws of man, to be subject to the ordinances, we are subject. And the best way to illustrate this is to go to Luke chapter 2. So turn over with me to the second chapter of Luke. And here we find a 12-year-old creator. In the temple. We find the God who said, Let there be light, and there was light, wrapped in the body of a twelve year old. And in Luke 2 and verse 48, and when they saw him, that's Jesus, they were amazed. And his mother said unto him, Son, why hast thou thus dealt with us? How could you do such a cruel thing to us? Behold, thy father and I have sought thee sorrowing. We spent two days. Where's our boy? I think those of us that with children have had a child missing in a store for 30 seconds and have panicked. Well it's been days. And he said unto them, How is it that ye sought me? Wist thou not that I must be about my father's business? This is the creator of the universe. Speaking. And they understood not the saying which he spake unto them. Verse 51. And he went down with them and came to Nazareth and was subject unto them. But his mother kept all these things, these things in her heart. That was subject, is the first time in the New Testament we find this exact word submit, our word in 1 Peter. What took place there? Here's the creator of the universe. Here's the giver of the law. Here's the maker of all things. But he willingly subjected himself to Mary and Joseph. And so that, folks, is the stance of the believer before the world. We're as free. And yet For conscious sake to God, we willingly submit ourselves to the laws of man as long as God's law and man's law are in agreement. Because man's law is man's creation, and God's law is God's creation. And so we have a higher master. So what do we do when man's laws violate God's laws? Well, the Hebrew midwives will not kill the babies. Rahab hid the spies. Obadiah hid prophets from Jezebel in a cave. Daniel purposed in his heart that he would not defile himself. Daniel disobeyed man's laws and prayed anyway. Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego disobeyed man's laws and would not bow down to the king's image. And so folks, when they say that we have to call he she, no. From the beginning God has made them male and female. When they say that this used to be a man but now it's a woman, we say nonsense. And by our well-doing, we put to silence the ignorance of foolish men. By our testimony. But are we allowed? Are we permitted to ridicule these people? Are we permitted to point out their folly? There are some that say, oh no, no, no, we can't speak out. We've got to be quiet. We got to keep it to ourselves. But we find in Scripture, in 1 Kings chapter 18, and verse 17 and 18 these words And it came to pass when Ahad saw Elijah, that Ahad said unto him, Art thou he that troubleth Israel? Doesn't that sound familiar? It's the Christian's fault. The reason that things are going wrong is because we just aren't accepting the queers. The reason there's not peace in society is we just won't accept their nonsense of foolish men. Art thou he that troubleth Israel? And he that Elijah answered, I have not troubled Israel, but thou and thy father's house. And that he had forsaken the commandment of the Lord and have followed Balaam. And notice what it was he had forsaken. The commandment of the Lord. You see the comparison there? Here is God's law. Here is man's law. I will not obey man's law when it violates God's law. But some people, one passage we need to deal with, some people will point to Exodus 22 and 28, which is a very uh interesting passage. It reads like this, it's a short verse. Exodus 22-28 Thou shalt not revile the gods, nor curse the rulers of thy the ruler of thy people Thou shalt not revile the gods nor curse the ruler of thy people. And some people have said, well, this means that we can't really speak out against the wickedness in government. First of all, what's the context? Well, Exodus 22 is the children of Israel murmuring against Moses and Aaron. Okay. There was a problem that was taking place. And God said, Look, this is my anointed one. This is my chosen one. You are not to revile the gods, nor Curse the rulers of the people. The gods there is a t re reference to rulers. It's not gods, gods of small g. Nor curse the rulers of the people. In that context King Saul was God's anointed. He was God's chosen rule of the people, and David would not revile King Saul. Even though David now was to be king, he refrained himself. And then again, David was God's chosen, and those that reviled him, Doeg and others, they didn't fare well. But Scripture is always the commentary on Scripture. And so if you really want to understand How we're to apply Exodus 22, 28, we need to go to Acts chapter 23, verses 2 through 5. In Acts chapter 23, we find the Apostle Paul has been brought into the marketplace before the Jewish leaders and before the Gentile court. Okay. And in Acts 22, verse, 23, sorry, Acts 23, verse 2, and the high priest Ananias commanded them that stood by him, that's by Paul. The high priest command Ananias commanded him that stood by him to smite him on the mouth. Then said Paul unto him, God smite thee, thou white wall! For sittest thou to judge me after the law, and commandest me to be smitten contrary to the law? And they that stood by said, Revilest thou God's high priest? Then said Paul, I wish not, brethren, that he was the high priest. For it is written, Thou shalt not speak evil of the ruler of thy people. Isn't that beautiful? Paul gives us the commentary on Exodus 22. Paul was reviling and rebuking Ananias. But once he realized that Ananias was God's high priest, he backed- Oh no, I'm sorry. Ah, I did not know who I was talking to. So what Paul is showing us there is that the ruler of the people is God's anointed ruler. It's not talking about Gentile rulers. It's not talking about the rulers of this world But rather the clear application, Paul had no problem reviling Ananias until he knew that Ananias was God's anointed priest. And once he knew, uh-uh, I have erred, brethren. This is God's anointed. I did not know it. And he backs off. And so that is the context of that verse. So not only are we allowed to speak out against the wicked that rulers this world, we're supposed to Ahab showed us that. I have not troubled Israel, but you've troubled Israel. The Christians are not the problem. The homosexuals are. Amen. That's right. The Christians are not the problem. The wicked people in the streets are. That's right. We have the solution. And so To further go one other thing there, Paul gave Timothy the the instruction in 1 Timothy 5 1, rebuke not an elder, but entreat him as a father, and the younger man as brethren. What's the set what is the status of the elder? Well he's anointed. He's ordained to that office. And so Paul makes the application to Timothy as well. Don't rebuke the elder because he is God's chosen, God's anointed. And so that is our relationship to the rulers of this world. We're gonna hold the light, folks. We've got to stand up against evil. As as they always say used to say, you know, you gotta call a spade a spade and I I don't know what I guess it's from from cards or something, so it's probably not a good illustration to use. But call a man a man and a woman a woman. There you go. Doesn't that one make sense? And by so doing, it is the will of God that we put to silence the ignorance of foolish men. But then the second thing we need to consider this morning is what is the testimony of the believer in the marketplaces of this world? By marketplace, you can put in a lot of things there: your employment. your dealings in the supermarket, your business at the hardware store, your interaction with your neighbors What is to be the attitude of the believer? What is our testimony before them? Go back to verse 1 of our chapter. Wherefore, laying aside all malice and all guile and hypocrisies and envies and all evil speaking, okay, we're to be honest in our dealings. And we find that further in verse 12 Have your conversation honest among the Gentiles, that whereas they speak against you as evildoers, ye may by your good works Which they shall behold, glorify God in the day of visitation. The day of visitation there is the day of judgment uh that that their day of salvation may come, which is a judgment day. Paul faced a judgment day on the road to Damascus. And it may well be that your good works before them may be the pricks that they've been kicking against. when they come to Christ. But the day of judgment also, the day of visitation also refers to the final day of judgment. And it may well be before the great white throne judgment, the judgment of God, that they glorify God and they say, Yes, I'm a sinner, and he was right all along. And then verses 16 and 17 again as free, yet not using your liberty as a cloak of maliciousness. We're not to be clothed with maliciousness, but as the servants of God honor all men. And so our Demeanor in the marketplace is supposed to be that which reflects reflects the glories of Christ. Now, where do we get that from? Go down the chapter further to verse 18. Verse 18, servants, be subject to your masters with all fear, not only to the good and gentle. but also to the pro word. For this is thankworthy if a man for conscience toward God endure grief endure grief, suffering wrongfully. In our modern context, we can substitute employers for masters. Your boss. You may have a good boss, or you may have a very wicked boss Who's a very foolish person whose ignorance needs to be put to silence by your well-doing. And all of your malicious clamor Verse 1, laying aside malice. And all of your cloak of maliciousness, verse 16, are not going to do anything to make the situation better. Probably just get you fired. But rather, as the children of God, we are with long suffering to endure wrong for Christ's sake. And that's what it says. For conscience sake towards God, verse 19 endure grief, suffering wrongly. Verse twenty For what glory is it if ye be buffeted for your faults, ye shall take it patiently, but if when ye do well and suffer for it, ye take it patiently This is acceptable with God. Okay, we cannot change our workplace. We cannot change the heart of our boss. We know the one who can But in the meantime, we're to suffer patiently. We may have to put up with the foolishness of ignorant men. But the foolishness of ignorant men can never stop our well-doing. And why is that? Well, because we have an example. Look at verse 21. For even unto were ye called, because Christ also suffered for us, leaving us an example that we should follow in his steps. And so in a nutshell, what is our demeanor to be in the marketplace or to be like our master? We're to be like Christ. We are to show forth the testimony of Christ. That's our well-doing in a nutshell. Rather than being the angry employer or employee that's always causing trouble, we should be the cooperative employee that that You know well everybody is the boss walks out of the room, everybody says, this is ridiculous, this is a waste of time. Be the one that says, but the boss said to do it. By our well-doing, we put to silence the foolishness of ignorant ignorant men. I worked for well, probably shouldn't say it out loud, but I worked for a foolish lady for a while. And um she did a lot of stuff that as soon as she walked out of the room, everybody looked around like, can you believe this? This is gonna take all afternoon and we're not gonna accomplish anything. Yeah, we got a stack of papers over here that really needs our attention. But she's the boss. She picks which stack of papers we work on. Even when she's wrong. And so we're to be like Christ. And so continuing in verse 21, for here unto you were you called, because Christ also suffered for us, leaving us an example that we should follow his steps. who did no sin, neither was guile found in his mouth, who when he was reviled, reviled not again. When he suffered, he threatened not but committed himself unto him that judgeth righteousness. Okay, what do we learn? Our attitude in the marketplace reflects on our master. Remember our illustration of the dogs? It's coming back up again. What do you think when you see somebody out with their dog and they say sit and the dog runs? And they say come and the dog looks at them and goes the other direction They're not a very good master, are they? They have not well trained their dog. Well, if we're God's dog, if he truly is our master We need to obey our master because our demeanor reflects on the master. You see, people who do not know our Christ. will determine their opinion of our Christ by our behavior. There's an old saying I learned in college. Your walk talks and your talk talks, but your walk talks louder than your talk talks. Let me slow it down. Your walk talks and your talk talks. But your walk talks louder than your talk talks. You can quote scripture all day long. But if the way you behave yourself doesn't match up the scripture, it doesn't mean a thing. And so the first thing we have to understand is that our position within the marketplace is as the ambassadors of Christ. As his representative. As the reflection of him, he hath left us an example. And so we need to behave ourselves, folks, and it's not always easy. I have a temper like everybody else, and how we love to fly off the handle sometimes, and yet we have to remember who we're representing I think most of us told our children, remember, you know, who your parents are, remember what your who your family is. But we're the family of God. And so, in Ephesians 6, servants be obedient unto them which are your masters according to the flesh, with fear and trembling, in singleness in your hearts, as unto Christ. Not with eye servants, as men pleasers, but as the servants of Christ, doing the will of Christ in your or God in your heart, for with gu for with for with good will doing service as unto the Lord and not unto man. And folks, our labor in the Lord will never be unforgotten. We need to move along, but in chapter four and verse fifteen or chapter three and verse fifteen we're to be ready always to give an answer. And in chapter four and verse fourteen, um if ye be reproached for the name of Christ, happy are ye, for the spirit of glor the glory of God resteth upon you. And so, we've seen two so far. First of all, to the rulers of this world, we obey the laws as long as the laws obey God's law We submit ourselves willingly, just as Christ submitted himself willingly to Mary and Joseph. And yet when the time comes to take a stand, even if it means a fiery furnace or a lion's den, we stand. Secondly, our testimony before the marketplace. We've got to be like Christ, folks. We have to show the testimony of Christ because He has given us an example. But then what about the stumblers of the world, which is our third one? Go to verse 4 of chapter 2. I read these verses, but I'm going to read them again. Verse 4 To whom coming as unto a li living stone, disallowed indeed of men, but chosen of God and precious, ye also as lively stones are built up. a spiritual house and holy priesthood to offer up spiritual sacrifices acceptable to God by Jesus Christ. Wherefore also is contained in Scripture, Behold, I lay in Zion a chief cornerstone, elect, precious, and he that believeth on him shall not be confounded. Isn't that glorious? He believed that he will not be confounded. Unto you therefore which believe he is precious, but unto them which be disobedient the stone which the builders disallow, the same is made the head of the corner A stone of stumbling, and a rock of offense, even to them which stumble at the word, being disobedient, whereunto they were appointed. Okay, and so Christ is to us a living stone. Unto them, he's a crushing stone. Right. He's a fall-down and break your neck stone. He's a stumbling stone. Verse 7. Unto you therefore which believe he is precious, but unto them which are disobedient, the stone which the builders allowed is made the head of the corner. Did I I'm sorry. I repeated there. Verse 9. But ye are a chosen generation, a royal priesthood, a holy nation, a peculiar people. that you should show forth the praise of him who hath called you out of darkness into marvelous light. What's that talking about again? Well, to show forth the praise of him that called us from darkness to light. Isn't that the same thing that our testimony before the kings of this world will put the foolish silence, the foolishness of ignorant men? Is it the same thing in the marketplace that our testimony for God will put to silence the foolishness of ignorant men? And before the stumblers, before those that are appointed to damnation. It puts the silence, the foolishness of ignorant men. Every mouth shall be stopped. Every knee shall bow. And so he goes on to say, which in time past were not a people, um, but now are the people of God, which had not obtained mercy, but now have obtained mercy. And so it is the will of God That by well-doing we put to silence the stumblers as well. You see, some of those that stumble today are not appointed to damnation. Remember Paul? It is hard for thee to kick against the bricks. I think everyone here this morning who is a true believer in Christ will admit that at one time you stumbled at him. When you first heard of Christ, it didn't seem right. It didn't fit. No, that can't be. But the Spirit of God kept working in your heart until the day you believed, and to you he was not a rock of offense. You ran into a living stone and some life rubbed off. And maybe that's not the best way to put it, but You ran into Christ, and his life was given to you, and his death accomplished your life. And so Before all three of these groups, our verse fits. For so is the will of God. This is what God desires. This is God's will. For so is the will of God, that with well doing ye not talking about the world, folks. The wicked kings are going to be wicked. The foolish workplaces are going to be foolish. The stumblers are going to be stumblers. But well by well do ye they put to silence, the ignorance of foolish men. Let me share with you a few verses related to our text that didn't really work into the message, and we'll close. Ecclesiastes 4. 13. Better is a poor and wise child than an old and foolish king who will no more be admonished. Doesn't that apply to our day? Romans one verse two Because that when they knew God, they glorified him not as God, neither were thankful. But there became vain in their own imaginations, and their foolish hearts were darkened. The fool has said in his heart, Psalm 14, 1, the fool has said in his heart, There is no God. They are corrupt. They have done abominable works. There is none that doeth good. Proverbs 14, verse 9 Fools make a mock at sin. But among the righteous there is favor Romans 1 verse 22, professing themselves to be wise, they became fools. 1 Corinthians 4, verse 10. We are fools for Christ. We have a different master, folks. Everything we do in relation to the civil government, in relation to the marketplace, and in relation to the lost is a reflection of Jesus Christ. But a stand for prayer. Father, we thank you for your word. Lord, I thank you for the attention of this body gathered. Lord, it is such a blessing to preach to hungry people. Bless thy word to our hearts this day. Glorify thy Son in our midst. In Jesus' name. Amen.