When thou walkest through the fire thou shalt not be burned, neither shall the flame kindle upon thee, for I am the Lord thy God, the holy one of Israel, thy Savior. Now there's a difference. Well, you know, if you are saved at that one point, if you then take that chip or something, you're gonna lose it then. I've taken it at face value, and you can too, and there's nothing wrong with that. Okay, they're different than children you naturally have. But if you get real good, no kidding, canning jars with this heavy-duty seal on it, this thing can last quite a while. I told my kids, you'll never hear that you say, I guarantee I'll take you to the park tomorrow. Oops, I'm dead in sins and trespasses, and I don't know Christ, and I'm apart from his grace, and now I come back in to the kingdom again. Okay. You're still calling, you're still bringing home. Because if you mess up and make a wrong turn and go somewhere, it's going to recalculate the way it needs to get you back to the path. Father in heaven, we thank you for this great, precious promises that you give us, that you remind us again and again and again that you are for your people, not against them. In verse 23, I have some opening passages that we will look at. For years we no longer get to see each other. Tonight we've got a study that we're going to talk about concerning the perseverance of the saints. And I like the way Pastor Mahan put it, it kind of depends on who saved you. It doesn't teach that. What word or phrase did you hear used repeatedly in these verses? Uh it may be a good thing from God's perspective to send somebody to hell. the time came around they said yep the flight would be there. Fit. He says, My sheep hear my voice, and I know them, and they follow me, and I give unto them eternal life. Yeah, absolutely. They have to jump back in salvation with good grace and then when things are bad they're back into that position again and It's not gonna happen. You know, you've maybe moved from one place to another and the wife's unpacking the stuff and oh where's that crystal that Auntie gave us for our wedding? It's not a 50-50 deal, it's a 100-hundred deal. where the woman should have walked to that side or we know how the man pretty much, you know, would give his life sacrificed, you know And that's just it's in the beautiful picture. Look back at Romans 8. Brother so-and-so is dying. They usually come from a poor more um desperate situation than the family that they're adopted into. The uh ad adopted children are not with their biological parents? Go out to a grocery market and I find some kid wandering around a loss and say, Hey, you're coming home with me now and take him home. Maybe she puts them up for foster care. But he will conform you to the image of his son. I think he's a pretty good guard. You see, blameless is the same concept as being preserved, as being the same concept of seal. Um believe. It's for here and now. It's like a back to back confirmation, you know. I didn't see this till a couple of weeks ago, but uh just like in Genesis when the Lord talks about therefore a man shall leave his mother and father and cling to his wife. uh glorious and radiant, uh doing exactly what it was ever designed to do and doing it perfectly well. Uh total depravity, unconditional election, limited atonement, irresistible grace, and tonight perseverance of the saints. It's a very simple question. One of his promises is that he has obligated himself to protect and to shield and to defend his people. Because ultimately he's the one that works to will and to do of his good pleasure. uh in the Spirit of God, that is God preserving his people. His salvation is not a slipshod job. You know, when we study the attributes of uh Christ, we find that He's our prophet, He is our priest, and He is our King. So by simply using the phrase perseverance of the saints, in some respects it's a kind of a poor phrasing of it. For I have redeemed thee. And he says, I will be with thee. What are some other ways and there's kinds all kinds of different false religions that are out there? False religion tries to show that you can lose your salvation. Getting a chip in your hand. God will knock you up the side of the head and fix that in a heartbeat. You're maybe hurting somebody else in the house, not gonna happen. And the beauty about this is that by design it's really not up to you at the end of the day anyway. Um, it's interesting you say that because it's like it's like that's a perfect analogy. carved you a slice of fresh meat tonight and did a little digging and poke a little further. Of the devil. And God looks down and says, No, you're basically the dead one at the bottom of the ocean. What else? Well, let's just think about this a little bit. The mother who is stuck with the child, the father who knows where he's at, the woman, praise God, doesn't abort the child, but is unable to raise the child. How do you think an adopted child feels at times in his or her new family? Uh some children uh painfully come from uh families that were abusive. Especially if they've come from an abused background, it takes a while for new feelings to develop and a sense of belonging to get there. Because you look at him and you think, well, he's he's called a father. teaching at some point in life. one who has adopted a great many children, and he knows precisely where their weaknesses are. And now you're maybe concerned, well maybe the Lord did or didn't say this, and you wonder and can I trust everything he says? A lot of high-powered words there. describe an experience perhaps you've had with a good canning experience and a bad canning experience. You see all the different illustrations that God uses when he talks about how he's going to persevere in his saints, how he will bring you to his heavenly kingdom. Just uh what is it all worth in this life and what what's it all about? Pull it in. You know, the scripture says if in this life we have hope in Christ only, we are of all men most miserable, because our hope goes beyond this life So all of that language is just wrapped together. Paul says in Ephesians 5, for we are members of his body, of his flesh, and of his bone. Uh he's gonna care for it, he's gonna nurture it, he's gonna feed it what it needs to to be fed with, he's gonna clothe it, protect it, he's gonna do everything he needs to keep that body. Look look at Ephesians 5, Chris. Yeah, we are powerless to do that. And we pray, Father, that as you also give life, you give desires, good desires of the heart, to desire things that are good. And as I was reviewing the things I've been covering uh with this group in particular for the past, oh, two and a half years, it's hard to believe it's been two and a half, three years, but uh it really has been As I consider these things, I went over and looked and found some areas that I just simply hadn't covered in depth, and this is one of them. This is something you've got to absolutely have solid in your repertoire of Bible knowledge, if God forbid for some reason, uh in the next months or weeks. That's how 1 Thessalonians ends. To keep you from falling and to present you faultless. before the presence of his glory, with exceeding joy, to the only wise God our Saviour, be glory and majesty, dominion and power, both now and ever. defends us. Let's see. It's quoted a couple of times in the book of Hebrews, an earlier section that refers to this very same covenant. If you could read Jeremiah 32. I will never never leave you. God's going to make an everlasting covenant and he in fact will not turn away from them. I gave Egypt for thy ransom, Ethiopia and Seba for thee. Too fond of and I really wanted to go home. Does God ever want something and not get it? So when you read these passages and he says, I will not turn away from them, that's a valuable promise. So the first aspect of the perseverance of God's saints is that you have the will of God behind you. Some teach the idea of soul sleep, and we've done a study on that. It's eternal. not doing the will of God, they're off in sin, they're in the world, they have no interest in the things of God. They say, you know and that plagues actually, you know, people who say they believe in Christ because they're like, Wow, I didn't pray this morning and all these things and I don't I I guess I'm not saved and The creature, the one who's received the gift of salvation, somehow has failed to do something worthy to keep it. Maybe we can have somebody read that. As it is written, for thy sake we are killed all the day long. nor powers, nor things present, nor things to come, nor height, nor depth, nor any other creature. shall be able to separate us from the love of God which is in Christ Jesus our Lord. Who shall separate us from the love of Christ? What God has joined together, let not man put asunder, let not man separate. from her husband. Who shall separate us? He will insomuch go so far as to even take all of our sin debt upon him, saying, no, it's not your fault, it's all my fault, thousand percent my fault, and pay for it on the cross. And by design, zero possibility for being separated from his people. There's a treasure mine in the scriptures, if you'll just poke at it a little bit. See, God is listening to things that are real threats. You know, we have a dear sister at church, her name's Lisi, who's struggling in her aid for her unsaved Catholic aunt. Talking to her of the gospel out of Ephesians 2, and this woman starts screaming at the top of her lungs. Hardened. Well, let's look at another passage. you know, to main like certified that child actually belongs to you. they will retain some rights over who can or cannot have those children. Noisy, maybe cold, boring food, not much love and care, kind of institutional. And there's still an affection there and and they still want to be with mom and dad. Maybe they're probab actually they're probably glad to be out of the old condition. in Ephesians 1, that God predestinated us, in other words, there's a bus unto the adoption of children. The Lord's home. Because you're being adopted into a new family. And to fall back to duties and responsibilities, and to fall back to whatever that old false gospel was. that an adopted child can feel alienated into the kingdom of his grace. What is the only way for canned goods to spoil? The lid didn't pop. What is the sealant for the soul of the believer? You're kept, literally is preserved by the power of faith and of salvation. And all of this is designed to encourage us, because we've all come from a bad background. He gives you everlasting life, life that doesn't end. He tells us that it's his will, it's not the Father's will, that one of these little ones, and that's who a child of God is, a little one, should perish. Because when we have periods of doubt and despair, when we have days of darkness, when we have days that we question and wonder, just Think about Peter. And the Lord came around and came back to him. take you finding another route to take into the destination. And so with that I close out and uh we'll wrap it up in uh in prayer. Um so but God has said I'll guarantee. He uses the illustration of a body that we're connected to that body. And we're grateful for that. Oh Father, there was a day when I didn't rejoice at these sounds, and I I know what that was like. Things that are good and useful and helpful. Cover some verses and then I'm going to spin the camera and ask questions and we get to discuss it and talk about it. Many true Christians still lack the assurance of God's grace. Yeah, God's will. Yeah. I remember one time I was stuck at an airport. is able to pluck them out of my father's hand. You know, and and somehow in all the moves it got lost in a box somewhere, uh, you know, and surely the husband just got careless and threw it away in a box and it's out in the trash dump somewhere And uh what about the family that takes them? Just just put yourself for the for for a moment into the mind that I've been in some government facility that's You know, it's interesting. You know, a works gospel, frankly, is also a highly abusive home. That's the word that I'm looking at. What do you ladies know about canning garden goodies for the winter? Now, Roy earlier mentioned that there's an expiration date. But if Christ saved you, you see, that's a different story. Isaiah chapter 43 and the first three verses of this marvelous section of Isaiah. Isaiah forty-three says this, but now thus saith the Lord that created thee, O Jacob, and he that formed thee, O Israel, fear not Notice this language in Matthew 18, 14. And he uh uh is speaking about this national redemption they had, but we find in the New Testament that there's a greater Israel that God has in view, the Israel of God, those who have been circumcised in heart, the true Jews, those whom God has made a difference. And notice he says, I will be with thee. God is will God's will is good for humans? The key part is everlasting. You know, there's a uh question that comes up from time to time that people ask, and that is, you know, when when a believer dies, what happened? Oh, I'm a I'm a Christian, but I'm backslidden. Yeah, the uh good works bucket. You've all pretty much hit the nail on the head of this point. Even you're not powerful enough to knock yourself out of his grace. You can't throw away eternal life. Let's turn now to the next topic of no separation, and let's go to Romans chapter 8. And so there's this concept that you get from the scriptures that God has zero intention. And indeed, there have been those historically who claim that an angel came to them and gave them new revelation. You know, he mentioned angels. Yeah what else? The biological parent fundamentally says, I either am unable or unwilling to care for this child. You know, the future is like unsure and trying to find the terminology, but here. Sure. In whom also after that ye believed, ye were sealed with that Holy Spirit of promise. for all the uh air to come out and then it it feels it to be a top as it has a lid sink and uh tightens Alright, so you said a magic word. And the last two verses of the book of Jude, Jude 1, 24 and 25, know unto him that is able. So when we talk about the doctrine of the perseverance of the saints, it starts with a P, and so it kind of makes the acrostic fit, tulip. You know, these Old Testament prophets have some really good stuff in them. John 6. And then all of a sudden, when they come around and they come back, and there's an interest, a serious, deep interest in the things of God, now they become saved. Now, look back at John 10. Thank you for that. It's used in 1 Corinthians 7 in verses 10, 11, and 15, talking about the woman who departs. There's a key word I'm looking for, and I'm not talking about the for Christ. Harsh, but I think there's a measure of wisdom to it because the passing of time tends to actually produce a greater, more hardened heart rather than somebody softer No, my works, no, she's literally clinging to her works in the Catholic Church. How official is that? When he uses that language, I think he's certainly bringing in all of the range of ideas that come with that whole concept of adoption. It's a highly abusive spiritual relationship to be in, to come out of a works gospel. It's an amazing, amazing thing. Which is the earnest, the down payment of our inheritance until the redemption of the purchased possession unto the praise of his glory. He absolutely intends to make sure that it positively will come to pass. He's cleansed you, and because he knows what he has done, he is therefore pleased to dwell with us, God with us. Not have a spot or wrinkle or any such thing, but that it should be holy and without blemish. People get hung up and make false accusations against the doctrine. So I'm going to reiterate a couple of things here. The idea is that whoever has eternal life, whoever has it, never ceases to exist. Nay, in all of these things we are more than conquerors through him that loved us. It shows up in reference to a divorce. There's an investment. That in fact the relationship continues. You know, when you're married, you certainly learn a lot about relationships. And starts to preach to her of the grace of Christ. But here it says, having predestinated us unto the adoption of children by Jesus Christ to himself according to the good pleasure of his will. So what's the difference between kidnapping and adoption? A court, a judge, the law is the land. Walk me through that. It can be very difficult. Because you could never measure up. You know, and when the seal breaks, what basically happens? And so see, you and I have a seal set upon us, nothing less than God the Holy Spirit So I hope you have a better appreciation for the words in the Bible when it talks about preserve. To their nature. A fit. When you carry things out with all the different pointers and tips and guidelines that God gives in the scriptures, yea, dare I call them directives. into a knowledge of grace. Yeah. And I will make an everlasting covenant with them, that I will not turn away from them, to do them good, but I will put my fear in their hearts that they shall not depart from me. Um he will um I think it's taken from the book of Ezekiel or is the book of uh it may or may not be a quote, but uh you're right. No power. I want to ask some questions now about these two passages. As Christians, the church, the bride of Christ, we're married to the perfect husband, so we can never find fault with him. Death, life. I have some questions. What else? The Lord that makes you faultless and blameless? Let's turn now to John chapter 6 and verse 47. Turn a few pages over to John chapter 10. Sealed. Yeah? And the very God of peace sanctify you wholly. My father, which gave them me, is greater than all, and no man is able to pluck them out of my father's hands. This time of sojourn on this planet as a child of God doesn't fall off the cliff. Ephesians chapter 1 and verse 5. Adopted children um are pretty much different from children that, you know, we naturally have. Probably the best way to do this is we're just going to have some reading assignments, so I'm going to go around. And uh now what are some other ways that false religionists say that you can lose your salvation? Bacteria, moisture, and it begins to contaminate. He is able. John chapter six and verse forty-seven in the concept of everlasting life. And I think the short answer is no. Don't give him enough money. What ways are listed there? It's that word depart, who separates from her husband. They have no say as to what family they go to. That's a really good analogy, uh Edward for for those on online who couldn't hear it. God's will never changes. I have a smirk on my face. Separate. Oh, they said they saw an angel. Those are all good ideas and good thoughts. 47 really is a simple verse. I don't have that kind of power. A man doesn't hope for that which he has. God preserves his people. Because Jesus says, I give them eternal life. You need to go see them. See any problems with God? That's a good good analogy. A temper tantrum, right? It never ceases. The Lord says, seek the Lord while he may be found. You're saying this child now is in an adopted family? And then um you put the canning lid that has a um a gooey seal or rubbery seal that um uh things on top and and wait. And you might know a shortcut that we send the GPS or cut it and not give up on the destiny, we still want to take it to the destination. Blameless unto the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ. Rather, it teaches that all true believers continue in faith, though there may be periods of doubt, but they're secure in Him. Well, they're nuts about that. I mentioned that it can take a while if that child has been in an abusive relationship. All right. And he hauled in a huge load of fish. In the old time that was what the kings would do. To sin, to their nature. One is in complete bondage, one is completely free. I'm not able. There's no way listed there, is there? I think you'd probably find a mixture of joy and uncertainty is what I came to. The devil's got plenty of minions out there running around filling up the world with all kinds of bad ideas. Lord, if there are any who don't know you, we pray, Father, that uh your grace would work. I have called thee by thy name, thou art mine. Which says, grieve not the Holy Spirit of God, whereby ye are sealed unto the day of redemption. Yeah, Hebrews 13, 8. That means he's going to do that without fail. Yeah, right. There's some other goodies in here. Sure, what else do you know about them? Is the list of things in Romans 8, 38, and 39 similar to Y'all's list of false religions reasons? The part I'm focusing on is, in whom after you believed, you were sealed with that Holy Spirit of promise. You're in a good spot there. I just wanna report that. Another family willingly and legally takes that child as their own. Means it's sealed. What do these passages tell you? He says, nope. So uh when we talk about adopted children, we're talking about biological family doesn't want them, whoever their mother or father is, too often in our land. At some point you hear the lid pop. Yes, Edward. That's a common popular Baptist idea. And brothers and sisters, I would tell you tonight that even your own will can't pull you out of the Father's hand. Yeah. So there could be some alienation from a child. And God puts you on that bus and that's where you're going. That's the word that's repeated in these passages. He is able. 29 for a moment. You know, people on their deathbed, they say, oh, so-and-so will have a deathbed conversion. So somebody who knows something about God's will contrasts God's will to man's will. I really wanted to get home. They flashed up the announcement on the screen, nope plane will be here tomorrow. I gotta keep that bucket filled. I want you to look carefully at this passage. You're being brought to made uh into one just exactly like his own child. He went back to his day job. We rejoice, Father, that you have brought your word to us and worked it in our hearts, and that we can rejoice at these sounds We just listed a handful of ways here that some people say you can lose salvation. When you do that, even if to a small extent, and you carry some of these things out, the relationship works. The Holy Spirit is a sealant? I don't think he's going to allow even the slightest thing to get in and to contaminate you. Thank you for that. It's a very consistent view of scriptures that God will never leave nor forsake his people, though we may be tempted to. It's a nothing but a complete success. What does that mean? Eternal. They're not dead for two weeks and then alive again. Who's going to bring about this matter of a divorce between Christ and his church? Let's keep running with it. Turn now also to the book of Jude. Uh-huh. My will was to not stay there. So I offer that for you, if that may be your case, because we've all had a sojourn, it seems, through some kind of false I'm going to read verses 13 and 14, in whom ye also trusted. They were never interested in coming to the church when they were alive. So talk about that family that takes the adopted child in. Yeah, you're not giving enough money. Who shall tribulation, or distress, or persecution, or famine, or nakedness, or peril, or sword? How would that feel if you were the adopted child? Let's now look again at Ephesians, and I'm going to close with these two verses. We pray, Father, that uh that you would give us all a sound mind uh and uh give us uh that faith to believe all that you've spoken. At least you can say you heard from my mouth, and I can give you pointers to material that you've heard, certain things that are well established in the scriptures. 40, I'm going to read Isaiah 43. The Lord says, Verily, verily I say unto you, he that believeth on me hath everlasting life. Yep. Ephesians 5. I will never leave you nor forsake you. Yeah. That's a good one. Yes, right. You know, I did a little poking into that word separate Do you think an angel could shatter your idea of hope of salvation? And he hit him with the same thing he hit him with when he first called him. See, we underestimate this great gift of salvation that God's given. And if that works even among us here down below, Okay? Yeah, Bidel. In Jeremiah 32, it says, I will not turn away from them. It may not be good to that person, but uh it's a just and right thing for God to do that. Well you see this with little kids, two year olds, one year olds. But it's a it's a deeper spiritual thinking if you think about it because what they consider is that That's a perfectly legitimate translation. You know, the Bible instructs husbands to learn to dwell with them according to knowledge. And it can take a while to get used to the language of grace and the kingdom of grace and a gracious Lord and a gracious master. Um I'm thinking of uh my um today's analogy like a GPS. It does not teach that if we completely quit believing Christ, that we're still Christians. Others have a false assurance who really aren't God's sheep at all. I was on a business trip. By grace you save through faith, and that not of yourself. In other words, it's a legal official relationship, right? I find so many analogies that are used in the scriptures that it's very hard to get around the idea that God intends, in fact, to save his people to the uttermost. And man's will they want to do whatever they want? Cannot be improved upon is my point. Also, Paul says, though we are in an angel from heaven, preach any other gospel unto you than that which you have received, let him be accursed. That's how I as we um God really have you, I'm not going to give up on you, I'm trying to take into the destination. Hardly. Yes it is. Give me some basics. Yeah. Very official. So this is given to get you through this time. Repeat the question? It doesn't happen. The eyes were always on you and you were the problem. They would defend their subjects. It's in the book of Ephesians, chapter 1. I had an old spiritual father. That's because they use really cheap seals. 27. Even so, it is not the will of your Father who is in heaven that one of these little ones should perish. Thank you. You are now in an adopted family. It's basic expiration date. When the seal breaks, outside air comes in, and with the air comes what? Romans 8, 35 to 39. Right. This isn't hard folks. I'm going to pick at another phrase. I don't find any way that somebody can pluck them out of the Father's hand. Isn't it interesting? And when you think upon the fact that God will preserve you to his heavenly kingdom, that he's able to keep you from falling, that he's will present you blameless. The thing that you'll find in common from all of this is very simple. Can't happen. Maybe the future starts to look a little brighter. Isaiah 43, God says, I will be with thee. Uh when the uh beast comes or whatever and everybody's gotta have a microchip in their hand and you can't buy anything from Amazon unless you got the If it didn't seal correctly, okay. Peter knew absolutely. It's the Lord that makes you faultless and blameless. He keeps and he protects them. This is a clear section of Scripture that refers to what the New Testament calls the New Covenant. Let's take a look at that. It is a beautiful picture and I really hadn't appreciated that until I Holy Spirit. No. If you saved yourself, no, you're not always saved. It just goes to show you that, you know, you really think you might know a passage and it might be even a familiar passage. Now earlier y'all gave me a list of false religions' ways to lose salvation. Man just elevates himself too much. Yeah. Um, have you uh ever wanted so bad to do something but you just couldn't do it You see, it's a gift of God. But what was the problem with my will at that point That was oh so yesterday, but today I gotta keep filling the bucket up. For the sake of time, I will just kind of cut this sentence in half because it's a very, very long sentence. They bear the family name. And you know, dads can do a lot wrong, uh, but they're still the dad. And he's the head, we're the body. So it all depends on who saved you That's correct. The Bible talks about everlasting life, not punctuated life. What are some of the ways they say you can lose your salvation Uh getting a chip in your hand Call upon him while he is near. But sometimes mom and dad do some horrible, horrible things, very bad, evil, wicked things, and the child is therefore given up for adoption. You know, this isn't my home. How does that work? What does that mean to you when the lid goes pop? Uh it says that he might present it to himself a glorious church. Meaning I'm not able. Because you see the Bible teaches that God's elect are kept by the faith of God. When thou passest through the waters, I will be with thee, and through the rivers they shall not overflow thee. Can anybody think of a New Testament passage which speaks about Jesus not turning away from us? Is there some way to improve on this promise? There's quite a few churches that teach that. It's like the husband and bride. They pretty much don't have a say what family they go to. And that documentation is submitted to who? Nope. There's two of them. Giving up. You know, and that verse where you said the earnest, but like the guarantee They'll say, well, it is referred to as once saved, always saved. That's how some people I think view God, that he has a temper tantrum, that he's just not getting what he wants. God's will is never frustrated. It's up to God to bring it through. But he's a good master. Now, if that's true for your soul, it's also true for your life as a believer now. Right, yeah. It's a pretty good indication they were never safe to begin with. As you look at that passage, tell me what ways exist for man to pluck you out of the Father's hand. My question is really very simple. You're going to the Lord's home. He went back fishing. I will not say that. When God, in fact, intends to do something and he carries it out and he begins to work in the life of the person, it's going to come to pass without fail. It's laughable. God Almighty went to the cross and redeemed your soul. One of my kids gets out of line in this house, I guarantee you they're in my house, I'm gonna do something about it. Here, God says he's he's asking the rhetorical question. He says like a GPS that uh and I really like GP I really like that feature in the GPS too Just blind, just dark, didn't understand, didn't appeal to me at all. As I've mentioned before, I'm going through a series of doctrines that I'm persuaded are something that you need to master. Notice the next verse though. Right, right. Uh and the plane was delayed and by the time It's in Matthew 19 and Mark 10, where it's rendered put asunder. I hope you're following me here, okay? Uh back to a separate word um that you brought up Yeah, um I guess you know if you're not doing a certain set of amount of good deeds and you know He always wanted me to do something, so I guess this one does too. And so that's why this is a a great blessed teaching. In the last part of 1 Thessalonians 5 and the book of Jude, what are these passages telling you? Forever. What verb is in there a couple of times That's kidnap right there. And I pray, God, your whole spirit and soul and body be preserved. They would gather together their knights, they would go to a battle front and their job was to defend the people That's just a reiteration of that very same thing. Can you find some ways to improve this promise? Oh, you may get stupid and foolish and decide to do some sinful act. There's nothing wrong with the way the translators rendered it. I don't know if you're done. It's a highly abusive former life. It's a one-chapter book. We are accounted as sheep for the slaughter. If you bring it in, the agency may give restrictions on how you can treat that child. Now I have a question for you ladies or men if you do some of these kitchen cooking type duties. Is there a better sealant? God's will never changes. This is one of them. So turn with me to a couple of Old Testament passages and one in the New. Yeah, one's in complete bondage, bondage to what? This one relates to everlasting life. I want you to think about the idea of everlasting life. It says, My father which gave the me is greater than all no man. God is listing here the things that are true threats to what you and I might consider to be something that could cause us to lose salvation. I'm not interested in seeing them on their deathbed. That means whoever their mommy and daddy is, they're no longer with them. Yep. She refuses at that age to turn. You're adopted into that family. It's the same idea of God with you. Yep. But I'm thinking about the idea of not turning away from them. What is adoption? I I just wanted things to be better at my old home, but oh this couldn't happen, or my parents died, or And so to come into a gospel of grace can be hard. It's uh it's just gonna relentlessly put you on the path to get to where you need to go. Yeah, so He guarantees it. You're stuck with him, praise God, for the rest of your days. You don't have any power. How would you feel about it? Well that's Let me um talk about that there a little bit there Let's pray It's the gift of God, not of works, lest any man should boast. Okay? And now I've been brought into a new family. And it kind of rings with what Adam had first said to Eve that Eve that the Lord had said They if it's a good family, they have the same rights as the biological children. And the longer you're in it, the harder it is to come Without blemish. Um let's see. What does everlasting life mean? There's some famous people in the news that pulled that stunt, you know. This is a woman who can barely breathe. Let's turn this around to the spiritual picture because the Lord here says that God the Holy Spirit. When it says he will not separate, that seal is not going to separate. Whatever they want. And you learn that all marriages require investment in the relationship. There's another way that shows the connection. Forever. He gives you something that's eternal. Maybe I'll lean on Brother Dan to read that. It's like a divorce He thinks he's really the powerful one. And he will not suffer you to be tempted above what you're able, but will with the temptation make a way of escape that you may be able to bear it He's he's still pursuing 1 Thessalonians chapter 5 and verse 23 and 24. And they've lost it Because they really do believe you can lose it by doing some deed of your own Right. I know Pastor Mahan says I'll say I try. They become a member of that family. You've been brought into a good home. This isn't difficult, right? And those really cheap seals they know are going to go bad after a while. You know, it might take a while to get used to the new family, wouldn't it? And so when you look at yourself, all you looked at was a problem. And he says that God's will is say that again. He's making it very clear that regardless of what happens, his will and his desire is that he would not turn away and he means business. There's no way that you can improve that. And they'll write it down. While he is near means when there's a time you can actually seek Well that's kidnapping I really think it's better referred to as the perseverance of God in his saints Yeah, will He really wants something and he can't have it. For I am persuaded that neither death, nor life, nor angels, nor principalities Yeah. If there's That was his name, Emmanuel, God with us. And so so the believer, the child of God, has a good hope. Faithful is he that calleth you, who also will do it. This is one of those, if you will, covenant promises that God has made when it comes to this business of salvation. Jeremiah 32, I will not turn away from them. If someone's quote unquote backslidden, meaning they're It's like a man when you know, a woman get out of the car, usually a good man will open the door for her or walk in that side of the street We all by nature, like Adam, want to sow leaves, fig leaves, to cover our own selves, and it won't work. Turn with me, if you will, in your Bible to 1 Thessalonians chapter 5 He always gets what he wants without fail. It's up to Christ to pay for it, it's up to the Holy Spirit to secure it and bring you home. So there's nothing to do with that. Some way to find something better than God's will? It's always lasting. Somebody else takes them. Uh you gotta get the ingredients really, really hot. These promises are there to get you through this time. Okay, I'll I'll sort of run with that. God himself is standing and saying, who? What do you know about adopted children? It's recognized as legal and legit by the land. There's all kinds of ways. Man's changes often. Hand, singular. And I want you to tell me what word is repeated twice in that passage. You're going to be adopted into that family. Just a tiny bit. It's the P in tulip. So I'm stuck at an airport overnight and I really didn't count on being so I get to sleep in an airport overnight. Yeah, good, good, good crack at it. And they shall never perish, neither shall any man pluck them out of my hand. I've mentioned one. What ways are listed there that says you can lose salvation? Oh I can't find it or Let's turn to Ephesians chapter 1. No. Cast your net out on the side of the boat. Lord, it's uh you the one who works in the hearts of people Faultless. This is speaking, of course, in the first instance, of a nation called Israel, formerly known as Jacob. The element that's common is that somehow it relates to the fact that man has failed to do something. I'm not worried about you. Okay. That Bible you've got has got problems with it. Same chapter, chapter one and verses thirteen and fourteen, and we're going to look at this concept of sealed. You know, he just threw in the towel. Parents. He's our prophet, He declares unto us the Word of God, He's our priest, He intercedes in our behalf, and He's our King. John 10, 27, 20, to 30. It's an exceptionally powerful gift, it's an enduring gift. Yeah, sealed up tight, though you're getting that. Chris, if you don't mind. And the doll if you could read Matthew 18. Are they just going to be asleep for a while or and then they wake up That's the teaching of being backslidden. If he's with you, God can't dwell with wickedness. Meaning I'm not able, yeah. It's altogether appropriate. They usually come from a poor, more desperate situation than where they were at. And on the title of that bus says It'll have plenty of strength, plenty of energy. The cadence for tonight, that's my new word for rhythm, uh, will be that I will Romans chapter 8 and verses 35 through 39. If your mama saved you, you're not always saved. All right, yeah. The child is basically giving up Yeah. Yeah, sea salt kind of Yeah. Boy, you know, the devil comes as an angel of light. Guarantee is such a strong word or to be earnest. Neither is this doctrine identical with the doctrine of assurance. Are there some ways to somehow make it better? There's an obligation, men, on our parts, to learn to dwell with our wives according to knowledge. If it's not sealed, okay Nope. The doll, did you have Matthew 18, 14? Right. There's not a pause and then it stops I don't see that my will can do it. Yeah, you got it. And the native reaction of the young spiritual child is to fall back to works He uses the social term God's not going to sever his head from the rest of his body. It has to do with God's perspective in terms of who He intends to save. I and my father are one. After that ye heard the word of truth, the gospel of your salvation It doesn't stop. You're not quote unquote backslidden and then eventually come back in. He's not about to lose it. And they are what? They become a member of that family, okay It has a bright future that's getting brighter every day. Oh, not turning away. How are they different? Okay, now we're starting to get somewhere I like. No! Okay. And and it's the promise, the Holy Spirit of promise, yeah. Boy, I don't know how far you can run with that word, but I think you can go pretty far with it. What problems might there be with this sealant? It doesn't take much What else? So what does he do? It just doesn't get better than that. Hardened. Isaiah 43 Okay, an allergy of the GPS? Tulip stands for Straightforward, simple statement of truth. Who's powerful enough to do that? Yep. Sense of gratitude? The woman's nigh into death. Somebody tell me about adopted children. Mm-hmm. In fact it says that His will is wholly, perfect, and just You're the problem. Maybe a little alienation, you know, this isn't my old home. What are some other differences between God's will and man's will Have you? He throws a Now skip a page or two ahead to Ephesians 4 and verse 30. Swept away, and they follow this false teaching. No! It there's a place in Hebrews Matthew 18, it's not the will of your Father which is in heaven that one of these little ones should perish. Yep, not turning away from them It never ceases. Had no appeal. In the book of Hebrews. When he says, I will be with thee. Oh, the ministry's gonna fall apart if I don't have a million dollars right now. There's a flavor and a sense to that word which I find very interesting. I don't see that backsliding can do it. And somehow you were supposed to get hope and comfort out of that He has a great hope, a hope that is intended to help us in this life. But if you go poking a little bit more, you might just uncover another gem. Uh okay, yep. I'm going to go all the way to 30. He's anchored it in his very character and who he is You're the one that needs to be brought in Right? Okay. Okay. Amen. It continues. Yeah. 14. Maybe insecure? Try as you might to get away, it won't work, yes but don't There's all kinds of laws associated with it, right? If the preacher saved you, you're for sure not saved. You sort of can't lose it. Yeah. A sense of gratitude, yes. No matter where you pass or what other routes you did, so Always lasting. Not doing enough good works. I'm gonna hey, you're hurting yourself If you try to adopt children from, say, a different government. Right. And that without fail. That's not going to happen Okay. I think she's in hospice You're not sure. He's not going to leave or depart any time soon. Is there a way to improve that? We ask this in Jesus' name. Uh it's got to be sealed up tight, okay. He's given you his Holy Spirit. So my first question is this. And it says And he happens to be Um It's There's not this period where If uh you're a child of God, it's not gonna happen. Okay, you gotta get the ingredients really hot and okay, yep. We read as follows. He also intends to bring home. How many of you ever lost something really valuable? Sometimes it's to the point of being annoying. Is that true of God? Yeah What are some other ways that Okay, same rights to biological children. Okay. Yeah Sealed You cannot go and autopilot. He Amen. No matter how whatever Something I wasn't Can I just