I'm sure uh how many of you even know the story of Rahab and her rescue from the city of Jericho? How many of you are familiar with that? All right, how many of you are well, I know my audience fairly well. I uh am not talking to people who are novices to the Christian faith. You've been around the circles for a while, you understand certain things And I want to ask with a few basic questions. Start with a few basic questions. Do we find have you found any shortcomings in God's plan of salvation? Any holes? Has anybody ever discovered any of those? Anybody ever discovered any gaps in his plan of salvation? There's something missing Maybe we've got to fill in the blanks. No, we really haven't found that. Does God's plan of salvation involve covenants? Has he involved covenants? Does he make covenants with his people? Yeah, he has. We looked at a covenant that he made with Abraham, and of course, if you be Abraham's seed, then you're heirs according to the promise. We are with him. Are there any secrets in God's plan of salvation as he unveils and as he rolls out his gospel in this world? Are there secrets? Deuteronomy says the secret things belong to the Lord our God, but the things that are revealed belong to us and our children. The gospel does in fact have secrets. The Apostle Paul refers to it as a mystery. That there are mysteries in the kingdom of God. Does God cut any corners on his plan of salvation? Does he use errors and lies? No, he doesn't. Those are some pretty basic questions characteristics. And I ask those for a reason because there's uh some curious debate that one can get into when you're dealing with Rahab the harlot. Again, I'm going to ask some questions just by way of introduction to kind of get a familiarity, get some understanding as to where your level of comfort is with Rahab. What do you know of Rahab? Anybody? Just tell me anything you know about her. She was a scarlet. She was a harlot and she and uh you could say scarlet, you know, I guess that's that's a polite way of scarlet harlot. That's right. What else about Rahab She had heard what God had done for the other nations. She had heard? Okay. Who was she? Where is this woman even located at? Jericho. Jericho. Okay, Jericho, uh, which was a what's Jericho? Large Canaanite city just across A large Canaanite city just across the Jordan and it was a uh was it just a little old plain average city with some tents set up or what was the nature of the city? A walled city. How significant were the walls? Huge. Yeah, big enough for whole houses uh to to be on the side of. Um it actually was a double-walled city. They would have what was known as a casemate wall. You had one wall and you had another wall and that space in between sometimes you'd have for storage or sometimes people would live on the upper part. So it was a very heavily fortified city and it was a very significant city. What else do you know about Rahab, who lived in this city? My question's about Rahab actually. What else do you go about her? What's her what's her fame? She's famous for something. She's famous for hiding the spies. Okay, that was the historical record, and we'll read that in a bit. Uh if you want to locate your place in Joshua chapter two, we'll eventually get there. Uh she hits some spies. What else is she known for? Yeah, she was a harlot, but she's famous for something. There's a couple of things that she's famous for, Joe, then. She's an ancestor of David. She is an ancestor, that is correct, in Matthew one, when the um apostle um uh was Matthew an apostle? Yes, he was Levi, he was one of the called ones. was recounting the history of the lineage of the Lord Jesus Christ as he's tracing back showing that he's from the right kingly roots. He writes in Matthew 1. 5. 6 And Solomon begat Boaz of Rahab. And Boaz begat Obed of Ruth. And Obed begat Jesse, and Jesse begat David the king. And of course we know that the Christ was David's son. as well as his Lord. So, lo and behold, Rahab shows up in the lineage of Jesus Christ. Interesting. It's as if though God had to make a detour to pick up Rahab on the way into the promised land. She had to be the mother, great-great, great, great grandmother of uh David and that lineage. What else do we know of Raya? What else is she famous about? Her scarlet chord, yes. Now what's the oh I'm sorry, Brianna, you had raised your hand for something and I skipped over you. Oh she's singing um a soul She did. She saved some Christian soldiers. There were two of them. And the two men were coming into the land to spy it out because they were Jews. They were Israelites. And so she's going to spy out the area and figure out what's the what's it like here, just to kind of give some good intelligence to the Jews before they come in. One of the things I think that she is most famous for, I'm sorry, I think Penny, you were starting to say something, and I cut you off. No, is found in the book of James. So keep your finger in Joshua turned out of the book of James. If you don't have a Bible, look over at your neighbor's shoulder. In James chapter 2 and verse 20, we discover That Rahab is held up right alongside Abraham as an example of how your faith, faith that actually saves, is demonstrated by your works. God holds up Abraham, whom we would hold as the father of faith, and we speak much of Abraham, but you know what? The Bible puts Rahab on the a pedestal right next to him, which is really quite shocking when you think that her name throughout Scripture is called Rehab the harlot. So we read in James 2 in verse 20. I'll just read through 25. But wilt thou know, O vain man, that faith without works is dead? Was not Abraham our father justified by works when he had offered up Isaac, his son, upon the altar? Now when he says justified by works, he doesn't mean that he was declared righteous before God. It was a showing faith, not a saving faith. We knew that Abraham was righteous by how he lived and what he did in his life. And so because he believed God, he went all the way up to that mountain, Mount Moriah, to offer his son Isaac. Seeest thou, we continue, how faith wrought with his works, and by works was faith made perfect. The scripture was fulfilled which saith Abraham believed God, and it was imputed unto him for righteousness. So see right there in the text, it's very clear. that his righteousness was an imputed righteousness. But something else was declared by Abraham's act of offering his son. It declared, I'm a righteous man before God because I believe him. We could see Abraham believed God by what he did It goes on. You see then how that a man by works is justified and not by faith only. And then verse 25, look at this. Likewise. Also, was not Rehab the harlot justified by works when she had received the messengers and sent them out another way. Hebrews says that she received the spies with peace. Points out two things that she did. She received these messengers, the two spies, peacefully and sent them the two spies out another way. That's very interesting. That is held up as prima fascia evidence, prime grade evidence that eminently easily declares that she was justified by faith. Alright, well let's go now and look at the historical narrative of Joshua 2, and I've got some more questions. And we're going to read it and I'm going to ask some questions about what we've read. So try to pay attention. It's an interesting account. It's going to be kind of hard to miss unless you're really sleepy this morning. Joshua 2, 1 to 7, we read this. And Joshua the son of Nun sent out of Shetim two men despise secretly, saying, Go view the land, even Jericho. And they went and came into an harlot's house named Rahab and lodged there. And it was told the king of Jericho. One of these days I'll figure out how to shut that thing up permanently. And it was told the king of Jericho, saying, Behold, there came men in hither tonight of the children of Israel to search out the country. And the king of Jericho sent unto Rahab, saying, Bring forth the men that are come to thee which are entered into thine house, for they be come to search out all the country. This is a very difficult test for Rahab, is it not? She doesn't have the best reputation in the city to begin with. I'm sure as far as the king is concerned, she's expendable He's very concerned about his city. And so he sends men with a direct order, bring out those men. He's not even asking, are they there? He's already been told they're there. He knows they're there. There's no question in his mind And the commandment to her is, bring them out. Verse 4. And the woman took the two men and hid them, and said thus, there came men unto me that much she acknowledged was true. But I wished not, I knew not, whence they were. And it came to pass about the time of the shutting of the gate when it was dark, that the men went out. Whither the men went I wot not, I know not. Pursuit after them quickly, for ye shall overtake them. But she had brought them up to the roof of the house and hid them with the stalks of flax, which she laid in order upon the roof. Now don't think slanted roof, right? I mean They're not going to slide off. This is a Middle Eastern roof where they have flat roofs and it's not uncommon that as they would build the house they'd have a flat roof. As the family got larger, they'd put another structure on top and they would kind of keep going. And on the rooftop is where you could do stuff, it's storage. and so forth. That's where she hid the men. Basically in the storeroom. She hid them. Verse seven And the men pursued after them the way to Jordan unto the forwards, and as soon as they which pursued after them were gone out, They shut the gate. So the men could enter in because the gates of the city were open during the day for commerce, for trade, for the animals to go out and graze in the field to come back in at night, so marauders wouldn't steal them, they'd be in protection. And this is how life was in the ancient days. When the gates were shut, it was it was secure, but you also couldn't come in and go out. So it worked both ways. If you were inside, you're stuck inside, and if you were outside, you couldn't get in. And then we skip down to verse 12. We're going to read 8 to 11 later, passage concept Joe mentions. So now she is speaking to the two spies, and in verse 12 she says, Now therefore I pray you swear unto me by the Lord, since I have showed you kindness, that you will also show kindness unto my father's house, and give me a true token. That you will save alive my father and my mother and my brethren and my sisters and all that they have and deliver our lives from death. She is asking them to do something What is she asking them to do? Step one. What she asked them to do? Look at the first verb that you read in verse. Thirteen. Swear. When you're asking somebody to swear, you're not asking them to curse. What are you asking them to do? Make an oath. Promise is correct, but oath is stronger. You get the sense of the strength of that. I want you to vow to me. I want you to make an oath. I want you to make a, I want to go as far as saying a covenantal oath, but it certainly has shadows about, doesn't it? Make an oath. It's strong. If you just say, oh yeah, I'll be over there at such and such a time, you haven't made an oath if you miss it. But if you make an oath, you're you're duty bound, you're in the sight of God bound to carry it out. And how is she acting in verse 13? What is the nature of her request? What does she want? Kindness. Shout out to her and kindness, they'll bring her a box of chocolates. Okay, that's kind of not what I think she's looking for. Sparing our lives. Sparing the lives of who? Her and her family. Now, the text doesn't say whether or not the family is there. But this woman is deeply concerned about her family, isn't she? She's acting a little bit as an intercessor. She's interceding on the behalf of her family. Oh, I suppose you could say she's opportunistic? Gee, here's an opportunity for all of us to be rescued. Not a bad idea. I think I'll take advantage of it. You ladies know what that's like being opportunistic. That's why you like to shop all day at the store. You're looking for opportunities. I understand. I'm beginning to understand, Mrs. Ross. It's taking me a while. And the man answered her, verse 14, Our life for yours, if ye utter not this our business. Now how do they respond? Our life or yours if you utter not this business. What does that sort of mean? Help me unpack that. What does that statement mean? What do you think it means? Exchange in life Okay, there's an exchange of their life for her life on what condition? If they they don't uh promise, if the if their promise does not Okay, you're close. They said, if you utter not this our business. She keeps there. Yeah. He's asking a woman to do something hard. Keep your mouth shut. Keep your mouth shut Don't say anything to anybody. And it's doubly hard for her. Why? Why is it even more hard for her? Because she would do this. No, she probably had a lot to do with a lot of different people, mainly men. She knew a lot of people? What does the king know about her? She's being commanded to reveal. The king has already come to her saying, we know these men came to you. So now the men, the pursuers have gone out. They hadn't found what they're looking for. If I were the king, I'd say, okay, go shake her down. Find out more information. What do they look like? What's the height? What's the height? Any discriminating marks She's being bound by an oath that you cannot tell anybody anything about us. She has to keep a secret. By the way, I want to congratulate you. Ladies, because um in the early days of the uh of World War II, when America finally cracked the code of both the Germans and their Enigma machine and then later the Japanese There were some ladies that were going to be busy processing the working the machinery to decipher the codes and they had to decipher it daily because the codes changed daily so in order to keep up with the message communication traffic They had to crack it daily. And it involved a lot of feeding of paper into the machine and writing down numbers and hand calculating. And there were several hundred ladies that were involved in running this machine, and they were taken to a room And they were said, they were put under an oath, this is top secret classified information. If you disclose this You will be at risk, and your houses, and your family, and yea, all of America could be at risk. Not one of those ladies said anything about what they worked on until the day they died. And you can learn about that interesting story if you go visit NSA's Cryptologic Museum, which is free and open to the public. So yes, ladies can keep a secret. When threatened within an inch of their life. And that's exactly what these men did. You and your house will die if you utter this or business. He's making them swear by an oath, you can't speak You can't talk. And they've got to keep that. What what makes you want to keep an oath other than Life or death. I mean why would somebody want to to to cling to that? What what does that betray? What does that say about a person who keeps an oath? Don't they? Trustworthy. A trustworthy. I like that word trustworthy. Yeah, a trustworthy. Um and uh and behind that trustworthiness it it betrays something else as well. It reveals something else of their nature Dependent. Dependent, but it also reveals they actually believe the person that made them swear. I believe you're correct Remember, she's never met these men. She doesn't have any relationship with them. The text doesn't give us any, other than they showed up in the city and they said, we're Jews. She hides them. She covers them She sends the men of her city away. She deflects the king of Jericho in his request, but she's hiding and protecting these men. Do you see what she's doing? Where is this woman's allegiance? Her allegiance is with the spies. If it wouldn't get her killed, she would probably hang a Hebrew flag outside of her door, not a Jericho flag. And her heart, she is now connected with the people of the Hebrews. That's where her heart is. And we continue reading to our text. Verse 16. Oh, 15. Then she let them down by a cord through the window, for her house was upon the town wall, and she dwelt upon the wall. And she said unto them, Get you into the mountain, lest the pursuers meet you. This is the sending out the other way. And hide yourselves there three days, until the pursuers be returned, and afterward ye may go your way. The man said unto her, We will be blameless of this by an oath which you have made us swear. Behold, when we come into the land, you shall bind this line of a scarlet thread in the window, which thou didst let us down by And thou shalt bring thy father and thy mother and thy brethren and all thy father's household home unto thee. And it shall be that whosoever shall go out of the doors of your house in the street His blood will be upon his own head, and we shall be guiltless. And whosoever shall be with thee in the house, his blood shall be upon our head, if any hand be upon them. And if you utter this our business Then we will be quick, we will be innocent of thine oath which thou hast made us to swear. And she said, according unto your words, so be it. And she sent them away, and they departed, and she bound the scarlet line in her wing. She happens to be on the city wall. What a strategically convenient position, because there's a way that she can let them out of the city. Archaeologists have uncovered the city of Jericho, and it is an interesting excavation. uh the diggings that have file uh found some interesting things. We all know the walls fell out, but what was interesting was the construct of these walls. Don't think flat plane with two little walls up. Think small hill that rises about 100 100 and 200 feet. Walls at the top of that double. And when the walls fell, they fell out. And with the rubble, the men of Israel could climb up the rubble and get into the city. So it was a very significantly fortified city. What's more interesting is how these men were let out. It was by a scarlet rope outside her window. All she happened to have at the time. And she's on a wall. They can't jump. The wall is too high. And besides, as soon as they hit the ground, it's on a slope and they're going to go tumbling down. It would have killed them. So she saved these men with this rope, allowing them to go down and escape from the city. Nobody would see it. There weren't sentries posted. They were by the gate looking through the crack in the gate. Inside the city taking care of the fires and the animals and they weren't looking on the city wall, so she was in a strategic position. The archaeological remains have discovered that all the wall fell down except for one little section One little section didn't fall down. I think they have found Rahab the harlot's house. That part didn't fall down. True story. Really true story. That part's still standing Then we get to let's go now to chapter 6 and let's read the account of how they came. And we're just going to look at three verses in chapter 6, beginning at verse 17. You know the story. The Israelites came, they marched around the city seven times, they blow the trumpets, and the last day they blow the trumpets and the walls fell down And so now as their uh uh as their uh uh as the uh event has occurred and they're compassing the city and they're blowing the trumpets We read in verse 17 of chapter 6, The city shall be accursed, even it, and all that are therein to the Lord. Only Rahab the harlot shall live. She and all that are with her in the house, because she hid the messengers that we sent, the whole basis, the whole reason for the Jews to save her life was because of what she did That's why she and her house were saved, because of that action that she did to hide these messengers. And I can't find any other way that she could have hid them when the king knocked at her door with a direct request. And she even had to acknowledge, yes, these men came to me. Verse 23. We skip ahead. And the young men that were spies went in and brought out Rahab and her father and her mother and her brethren and all that she had. And they brought out all her kindred and left them without the camp of Israel. So she was rescued. She was pulled out, but they're Gentiles. They have to stay outside the camp. But all of them city were destroyed. Verse 25, and Joshua save Rahab the heart alive, and her father's household, and all that she had, and she dwelleth in Israel even unto this day, because she hid the messengers which Joshua sent to spy out. Jericho. You know, Rahab is always known throughout the Bible as Rahab the harlot. I'm not quite sure. No, I'm pretty sure. I'm very sure I would not want any of my progeny to be known as such and such the harlot. Not a great name Not a great reputation, that's a horrible identity. But that's what the scripture labels her as, interestingly enough With whom else does she join company? Who else in the scriptures has a similarly bad identity? That's a saved person. Ruth the Moabites, the Moabites were cursed. They could not enter into the congregation of the children of Israel to the tenth generation. She probably would have been that 11th generation. She was a Moabitess. She's always known as a Moabite. Who else does she join company with? Thomas the Doubter. Doubting Thomas, right? We call him that. Scriptures don't labor as such, but we call him that. We'll let him sit and the rest of that. Jezebel? Jezebel was certainly bad, uh, but she wasn't saved. Uh yeah she has a bad identity. Good good remember. Good good memory. Mary out of whom were cast cast seven demons? Yeah, Mary out of whom seven demons were cast, yeah. If this man knew what manner of woman was, it was at his feet, he would if he were a prophet, he would have known what manner of woman this was. I think about the thief on the cross. We don't even know his name. He's just known as the thief on the cross. He was a thief. On a cross, he's being executed. You know, there's some pretty rough uh identities we have in the scriptures. Simon the leper, you know, to be known as a leper. Why do you think God saves somebody like a Rahab and lets their name stay that way. What does that say about his gospel? It's truthful. It's truthful. Yes it is. Yes it is. Yes it is. I get your point. Yes, that's right. That's one big reason I believe this book is it declares things about man that you're not ever going to read in any newspaper anywhere. It's not very flattering of the human race. It's not flattering. Came to call sinners to repentance? Yes. Because it says the gospel can save anybody. Nobody can say I've done something so bad, surely I'm beyond the Lord's mercies. Oh no. Oh no. It's a faithful saying and worthy of all acceptation that Christ Jesus came into the world to save sinners, of whom I am chief, the Apostle Paul wrote Keep your finger in Joshua because I will be coming back to that passage in the second chapter. But look at Matthew chapter 9. Matthew chapter 9 and verses 10 to 13. Matthew 9, 10 to 13. Jesus is being invited, and I think I have a note in my Bible that says Jesus has poor social manners. He would get invited to dinner meetings and he would uh well let's just say give people the old stick in the eye every now and then. He was he was not trying to be a man pleaser by any stretch. Matthew chapter 9 and verse 10. It came to pass as Jesus sat in meat in the house. Behold, many publicans and sinners came and sat down with him and his disciples. And when the Pharisees saw it, they said unto the disciples, Why eateth your master with publicans and sinners? Really? I mean, come on, Jesus, why are you eating with such terrible people? But when Jesus heard that, he said unto them, they that be whole need not a physician, but they that are sick. Makes perfectly good sense. I love the way Jesus breaks this down, super simple. so that the feeblest minded among us can get it with a little bit of cogitation. But go ye and learn what that meaneth, I will have mercy and not sacrifice, for I am not come to call the righteous, but sinners to repentance. Boy, that's a passage worth memorizing if you're a young person. They that are whole have no need of a physician, but they that are sick. Sick. What kind of sickness do you think Jesus is talking about here? Sickness of the heart. Yes. Sickness of the heart, sickness of the soul, sickness of the mind, and of course sickness of our strength is but a reflection of all those things, the wages of sin. is what produces physical death. Later in Matthew, if you want to turn there, you can, but I'll read Matthew 21, 28. What think ye? Matthew 21, 28. And a certain man had two sons, and he came to the first and said, Son, go work today in my vineyard. He answered and said, I will not, but afterward he repented and went And he came to the second and said likewise, and this son, he answered and said, I go, sir, and went not. Whither them Twain did the will of his father? They said unto him the first. It's an interesting question. He's got two sons. Go work in my vineyard. One says, I will, but he doesn't go. The other one says I won't, but he does go There's there's something real about that too, you know. This just uh He he gives very good illustrations and we can this isn't so far out in the left field that you can't imagine this ever possibly happening. Uh We'll not name names. Jesus saith unto them, Verily I say unto you that the publicans and harlots go into the kingdom of God before you. John came unto you in the way of righteousness, and you believed him not. But the publicans and the harlots, they believed him. These people over here believed him. And ye, when you've seen it, repented not afterward that ye might believe him. Now, rehab is a great picture of God's mercy and grace to sinners. Boy, don't miss that. This is the only thing you catch from today's simple message is that God has mercy on sinners, sinners of all kinds, sinners of all types. And the saints of God can fall. They can fall really far. I should say the elect of God can fall, and they fall very far, and when God comes in his saving grace He rescues, he redeems. When they're saved, rehab didn't continue being a harlot. Ruth no longer, in her mind, was a Moabitesh. I Uh I am with thee and I'll die with thy people, I'll be buried with thee, she said. She would she would not be separated from them. They didn't continue in their sinful ways. I misspoke when I said how far the saints can go. Of course we have David on the books, but this is a separate topic. Rahab is also an example of faith which comes by hearing. And now we go back to Joshua 2 and we read the little portion of this discourse that she had as she was talking. to the spies who came into Jericho. She is an example of faith which comes by hearing. Why is it this woman who's never met these men before, never met a Jew in her life, never met somebody who never ate pig? Why is it that she would believe these two people? I mean what gives them credibility? Um it can't I just can't imagine what would do it. But we read in the scriptures what gave them the great credibility. So when they walk in All of a sudden, regardless of what they looked like, whether they were tall or short, skinny or fat, whether they were of a different or similar or dissimilar skin color than hers, hair was different than the men of the city, it didn't matter They had great credibility in her eyes. Why? Joshua 2, verse 8. And before they were laid down, she came up unto them upon the roof and said unto the men, I know that the Lord hath given you the land, and that your terror has fallen upon us, and that all the inhabitants of the land faint because of you. For we have heard how the Lord dried up the water of the Red Sea for you when you came out of Egypt, and what you did unto the two kings of the Amorites that were on the other side of Jordan, Sihon and Og. Whom ye utterly destroyed. Those were two famous Old Testament kings. And as soon as we heard these things, our hearts did melt. Neither did there remain any more courage in any man because of you. For the Lord your God, he is God, in heaven above and in earth beneath. As you read this account, what is her testimony? When did she hear of the Israelites' fame? What does she say to these men? Previously. She had previously heard of these of these of the fame of the Israelites. How much earlier? Anyone know? Put a bound on it. Four years. The event of the destruction of Sihon, king of the Amorites, and Og, King of the Canaanites, I'm getting the Bashanites. Og king of Bashan, right. There was no height in there. occurred 40 years earlier. 40 years ago. What battle do we know of in America that was 40 years ago closest one I think is probably the maybe the Korean War. It was in the fifties. Um I mean that that just we're just I mean or the uh the Gulf War uh was in the nineties. Vietnam was even earlier than that. Desert storm. Desert storm, yep. So that was about how many years ago that was that was fifteen twenty. That was uh Desert Storm. That was early two thousand, so after Oh yes, okay. Oh yeah. So uh uh fifteen to twenty years ago. You know, when you think about battles far that far away, that far removed And to still have a fear in your heart for the nation that, for the group of people that actually conquered them, that's pretty significant. And we don't know where you have its age. But um her age. So it may have been before she was born Could have been. Yep. We've heard. This was a terrifying event. This is a terrifying event. What else is incredible about this woman's testimony? And she says we know that God's giving the Lamb. We know God's giving you the Lamb. She's got a pretty, in her mind this is a done deal. Israelites coming, Jericho, King, Walled City, she's looking around saying, no, this can't this cannot stand up This cannot stand against the people of God. This cannot stand up against what God is doing for them. Somebody look at that very last sentence that she said and and tell me about what she's what her testimony is. What's your testimony? Saying the Lord is God, heaven and earth Yeah, and notice that she says the Lord is God. And uh it says, For the Lord your God. Now that word Lord, what do you what do you know that I'm going to point out about that in your King James Bible? What am I going to point out It's all capitalized. She's saying she's using the name of the Hebrew God for Jehovah. So now she actually knows the name of their God. You see, Ag king of Bashan and Sion king of the Amorites, they had gods. Jericho had gods. Man is a religious creature. He has a religious void in his heart. Missionaries go all over the planet, and every single one of them report. Correct me if I'm wrong. Every single one of them report, yeah, they're worshiping there. There's some worshipers there. Problem is they're not worshiping the right God. They're worshiping a God of the vain imagination, something they made, something they saw, some creature, the host of heaven, but they're worshipers. That's because God made man to worship him. And because of the fall, he worships the wrong thing every time, except God intervene and reveal himself. So she's worshiping Jehovah God, and she believes Jehovah God. She says we she hears, like Noah. Noah, moved with fear, built an ark to the saving of his house. She was Move with fear to make an oath, her life for the spies, if she She's got to she can't say anything because she hid them with peace. She sent them another way And what these people were afraid of, I don't have a lot of time to read it, but you can read about the account in the book of Numbers. Numbers 21 speaks about how Israel smote Sihon, king of the Amorites, with the edge of the sword. They took all their cities. They dwelt in the cities of the Amorites. And in Numbers 21, 33, when they tackled Og, King of Basha, they smote him and his sons and all his people until there was none left alive. It was a complete conquest. These were very, very powerful kings in that land in those days. And here are these bunch of desert rat Jews with zero warfare training, they were the descendants of And how can it be that they would be so terrified? It's because they know the only way, the only way these people could conquer is because their God Being superstitious as they were, which is why the other people of the land fear, their God is stronger than our God, but Rahab had taken it a step further. She said, I will plant my flag with Jehovah. This is where my flag is. King of Jericho, you're a losing proposition. You're dead in my eyes. There is no value to you. You're gone, you're toast. I'm here just for a brief season. Because I know my city will be destroyed. What a picture of believers and faith in Christ in miniature do you find in Rahab Do you believe that our country, our world, has no lasting value when Christ returns? Do you believe That when he returns on the clouds in bright flaming fire, it says in flaming fire, taking vengeance on them that know not God and obey not the gospel Do you believe that this world has a chance of standing up against the God of the Bible? He came as the suffering servant, he returns as the conquering king. Do you for a moment think that there's any hope? It says in Revelation that the rich men, the kings of the earth, will hide themselves in the rocks and the caves, crying out, Fall on us, kill us, as it were. They're seeking suicide. In that day men shall seek death and it shall flee from them. Fall on us, hide us from the face of the Lamb and from the wrath of him that sitteth upon the throne, for the day of his great wrath has come, and who shall be able to stand? Do you think for a moment that this world has any chance of giving God the Heisman and succeeding? Not gonna happen. And that's why she's held up as a tremendous picture. Of one who believes God. She's a believer through and through. Through and through. Who taught Rahab her fear, which led to her strong belief in God's victory over her city? Who taught her to fear that? Twas grace that taught my heart to fear. As the songwriter put it, 'twas grace that taught my heart to fear. John 6. 44, Jesus says No man can come unto me except the Father which has sent me, draw him, and I will raise him up at the last day. It is written in the prophets, and they shall all be taught of God. Every man therefore that hath learned and hath heard and hath learned of the Father cometh unto me. Their fear came from God Almighty. He taught her heart to fear. She heard, she believed, she feared, she acted. She cast her allegiance with the Jews. Turn to Proverbs 11:13. Proverbs 11, 13. Now I could be wrong on this, but I'm so excited about this story. that I don't like to get into the quibbling discussions about whether or not Rahab lied and whether it was justified and so forth and uh uh when she lies to the king and to his men and so forth, it were not to lie. And I know that is a a matter of conscience for a great many people, because certainly the Ten Commandments say, Thou shalt not bear false witness I don't think that's the axis on which we are to view Rahab because the scriptures doesn't speak about that. Now again, I'm not saying everything about her life is justified. certainly is not something we would want to emulate in our Christian lives. But I think the axis on which to evaluate Rahab When I asked about does God have secrets and this concept of holding secrets and so forth. I think Proverbs 11 verse 13 is most helpful for understanding this account. It says, A tail-bearer revealeth secrets, but he that is of a, watch the careful language, he that is of a faithful spirit. concealeth the matter. That word matter is the same word, this our business, that was used in Rams. The word devar is oftentimes rendered word, sometimes it's thing, matter, business, and so forth. But a faithful spirit concealeth the matter. You know, one who's a big blabbermouth that doesn't really love somebody. And I've got a silly story about when I was a big blabbermouth. Um as a little kid I was over at my neighbors and they were saying such and such about um their own family and I came back over and I told my mother what I heard from my neighbors and she said, Oh well I wouldn't listen to them, they're such and such So I said, okay, so I ran back over and told the neighbors what my mother told me. Wasn't the smartest move. Mother strangely was on the phone for 30 minutes with the neighbor after that to have some spleening to do That wasn't my finest moment. And then we get to Rahab's cord, her scarlet cord. Where was that cord to be placed? Outside the window. Outside the window. Who had to see the cord? I know I'm in first gear here, folks, but this is real basic stuff, but it's it's I hope it will encourage you greatly. You ever doubt your salvation? I know Christ died on the cross. I know he accomplished payment for sins. But did he accomplish it for me? And that plagues people sometimes. So here's this car on a cord, and I happen to have a window behind me. The cord's hanging outside the window, but the cord is not for me to see. It's for spies outside to see. They gotta see it. And the point is this that cord represents the blood of Christ. When God sees the blood, he'll pass over. Not if you see it. I wasn't at the cross. I wasn't there 2,000 years ago. I didn't see that. I didn't see his Gazing, comforting look. As if God sees it. Because if God sees it, he's satisfied. If that cords over my house, he's protected that house. For instance, in Exodus 12, when God's going to pass through to smite the Egyptians, when he seeth the blood upon the lintel and on the two sideposts, the Lord will pass over the door. And not suffer the destroyer to come into your houses to smite you. When the conquering army of the Jews come up and they see the cord, They'll spare your house. When they see it, when God sees the blood, they'll pass over you. That cord of scarlet. Scarlet cord is a glorious picture of the atonement of Christ and how it was effectual And marking that house, this is a saved house. Don't touch this house. In fact, our life for yours if you touch this house. There's a covenantal curse if any harm was to come upon that house. Because of that scarlet cord. That's the only reason. Simple scarlet cord. Nothing more glorious than that. Her family would be safe where? You gotta be inside the house. They can't be near the house. They can't walk around, well, I'm, you know, Rahab's cousin, I'm Rahab's, you know, they can't flash a little badge and let the conquering army nope. Nope. Not in the house. You're dead. It was a real simple command. All of us cramped up in that house. I mean, these are small houses. I mean, we're sweating. We work in the field. You're in the house, you're alive. Outside the house is death. It's a real simple formula, folks. It was not complicated. God's gospel is not complicated. It's also not convenient. It's simple, it may be a little discomfortable, but that's how he wants it done. Because he says, if I see that cord, if I see the blood. I'll spare that house. I'll spare that family. Aren't you glad God's gospel saves families? In these shall all families of the earth be blessed. Yeah, and her family believed her too. She they believed her testimony. And they also entered into her oath. Very good point. They would have had to enter in and not other the king's business. They would have had to been In the same allegiance with her to stay in. Excellent point. Excellent point. The Jews who were invading had already gone through the Passover, but this was in a way the first Passover for that pass They were inside with the scarlet cord inside the unflood. Yep, it's a form of a personal Passover for an early Gentile that had to be picked up. On the lineage to Christ. I leave you with one last verse, 1 John 5. 11. Her family is only safe in that house. I end with this: this is the record that God hath given unto us eternal life. And this life is in his sun. That's the only place life is, in the sun. If you're in the sun, you have life. If you're in the sun, God sees the blood. If you're in the sun, God's satisfied. If you're in the sun, God says, oh no, oh no, that's burnt ground. You can't touch anything there. Leave it alone. They're safe. Bring them in. Bring them into the family. They're family. Don't touch them. Isn't isn't Rehab story marvelous? There's just so much on that on that vine. Oh, it brings me to tears. Just wonder Wonderful. Joe, would you close us with prayer? Our great and gracious Father, Lord we thank you that the plan of salvation is sure and certain. Just as Rahab certainly knew that this was true and that salvation was found in Jehovah, so you have taught our hearts through the scriptures to know this is true, this is sure. Father, we thank you for the security that we have in Christ, that those in Christ's hand cannot be plucked out, and the Father's hand cannot be plucked out. Father, we thank you for the warning that this story gives us, Father. May we ensure that we are indeed within Christ and that we have truly believed in his saving grace. Father, bless these words to us, Lord. May we never be forgetful hearers. May we continue and meditate in that which we've heard in Jesus' name, amen.