Study and something that's got some high contrast to it. I'll read the text and then I'll pop her question and I trust that you were able to receive it and think about it. We read in Hebrews 11. 31, that by faith the harlot Rahab perished not with them that believed not when she had received the spies with peace. Only a one-liner for her. And our verse is presenting three points of focus. She perish not. By faith, she was among them that believed not, and she received the spies with peace. Those are the only three things which Holy Writ draws our attention to. And I thought probably 20% of this study's time of investigation to determine a good question for it. And so our discussion question is this. Imagine for the moment, and this is kind of a personal dream really, that you have a 10-acre plot of land that you've inherited from your great-great-grandfather And over the years, you, your children, your children's children have all been able to build up their own little houses, maybe even some very special friends. On this 10-acre plot of land, you've been able to carve out little bits and pieces where they can all live, and you've got a nice little tight-knit enclave, a nice little community of family, just right there. Wouldn't that be nice Now, the question though is this, and remember I said contrast here, so what would it take to convince you To walk away from that little environment with literally only what you can carry, to walk away and leave it behind. What would it take to convince you to do that? Anybody? Just hypothetical, I know. War. War So the now why is it the war would convince everybody else to stay, but for you to leave? You're walking away from them. They stay there, you go away. war would certainly cause me to leave that whole thing, right? It happened in the Civil War. Okay. Describe that. Um two totally different worldviews. The two totally different worldviews. Are you suggesting that that's what split maybe some families and some families just had to part ways because they didn't see it the same? Any other ideas? What would cause you to walk away from that nice little enclave? Clear call of the Lord. A clear call of the Lord. Yeah. That's what missionaries do. A clear call of the Lord. They say, you know what? I've got to leave this behind. Any other thoughts? Did anybody else have any ideas? Or they didn't like the question Some of my questions are painful. Well, keep that in the back of your mind as we deal with our subject of Rahab. You know, um Rahab is an interesting person in Scripture. You I it it's astounding to me for how much good the Bible speaks of her, and yet I have yet to meet any Christian parents who named their daughter Rahab. They will name them Abigail, they'll name them Elizabeth, they'll name them Mary, boy, lots of Marys. None of them name them Rahab But she is considered, and she's placed right there in the Hall of Faith, in a prominent position. She's in fact placed alongside some figures you might not expect Anybody to be placed alongside of. She is elevated on the pedestal right next to Abraham. Did you know that? That she is considered to be just as important of a figure as Abraham. In fact What she did is considered to be as significant as what Abraham did when he sacrificed Isaac his son. We read about that in James 2. 21, and I direct your attention to the bulletin before we turn to our main text of Joshua today. James 2. 21 says, Was not Abraham our father justified by works? Now, James in this chapter, as our brother Anton has been covering in Wednesday devotions. Is pointing out the difference between saying faith and saving faith. You may say this, you may say that, you may say the other thing. But real faith is made right, is validated, if you will, by your works. Not that your works justify you before God, but it justifies you before men. And so it says Abraham's faith. We know it was a real faith because of what he did. And then it goes in verse 25 of James 2 and says this. Likewise also was not Rahab and divine author Holy Root says, tack it in there, you have to tack it in there. Likewise also was not Rahab the harlot justified by works, and then it clarifies the works that are in view, when she had received the messengers and our tax spies and had sent them out another way. Wow. She's held up right alongside his Abraham. It's as it were God reaches out and slaps you and says, Look, you know that faith is justified by works. Here's two examples. Abraham and Rehab. What is it about those two you don't get? Abraham, we see Rehab, we just kind of Oh, we'll just jump over that real quick and move on Matthew 1. 5 discloses another very fascinating fact about Rahab, because it turns out that There was a fellow in Judah named Salomon. We would pronounce it in English salmon after the fish. The Jews probably pronounced it Salomon. I'm not exactly sure how. Salomon begot Boaz of Rahab. In other words, Salomon married Rahab and they had a son. His son's their son's name was Boaz, the mighty Boaz of the Book of Ruth. If you're familiar with that, he is a huge hero in the book of Ruth. And from that marriage, he married Ruth the Moabites He likewise married a Canaanite woman. And what came from that marriage? A fellow named Obed. And who did Obed bear? Jesse. And who did Jesse bear? David the king. And so Rahab is in the lineage of the Lord Jesus Christ. I don't know, folks. She's sounding pretty impressive to me. And yet the irony is that she never loses that stigma. You know, in the Old Testament, that phrase, Rehab the harlot, that Old Testament Hebrew word for harlot, some have said, well Uh this is some an article I read in biblical archaeology that said, well, you know, uh uh that word has a wide range of meaning. It could have meant innkeeper, that she was an innkeeper. And uh Uh and so really she didn't have quite that negative connotation. I suppose the range of that meaning of that word might have that, except when you get to the New Testament It unmistakably uses a word that means harless, the word pornay, from where we get our word pornography, which, you know, we obviously associate it with that icky oldest profession in the world, she can't get past that stain, and so it's rightly translated Rayab the Harlot. It's astounding. So that's who Rahab was. I think the James passage also gives us a bookend because the Jews held Abraham in such high regard. And he was justified. And a harlot on the other end of that spectrum, and she was justified. And so, you know, I think justification is the is one of the keys there. That, you know Abraham the righteous, Rahab the harlot, but both justified. She is a curious character in that she is used by different writers to do different things. And I believe that stigma is brought in to, as you point out, show some of the range. It is a study of contrast. And I'm tempted, of course, to go off into other rabbit trails, but I'm really going to try to tie myself to these three points of Hebrews eleven thirty one. She was she didn't perish because of faith She was among them that didn't believe. And the deed noted is that she received the spies with peace. And that's what we want to look at. Well, we looked at who Rahab is at a high level. I want to look at what she's not She is not a Hebrew. She's clearly a Canaanite woman. She's in the city of Jericho. She was not a chaste woman. Now I would say prior to conversion, I don't believe she continued her profession. Obviously she would have stopped it. There was prohibitions by the Jews of marrying such and she would have converted. You know, we also find out that she was not a woman with much history. In fact, Joshua chapter 2 is the only chapter we have that discusses anything about what she said or did And so I think we really need to spend some time there to refresh our memory with Rahab. So let's turn now to the book of Joshua in your Bible, to Joshua chapter 2. It's not printed in your handout because it's too long of a section. And I'm going to summarize it in two, four, six, about seven different chunks. I want to Go through, read a few verses, make some comments, and then ask some questions. So most of my questions are going to be as we read through Joshua chapter 2. First, uh we get to the first verse. Reading now from Joshua 2, verse 1. And Joshua, the son of Nun, sent out of Shetim, this is where they camped at the edge of the wilderness before going into the promised land. Forty years are over, they're about to head in. He sent out two men to spy secretly, saying, Go view the land, even Jericho. And they went and came into an harlot's house named Rahab and lodged there. I find it fascinating, the arrival of these two spies at the Harlot's house. And um you know, it's curious, I see, that Providence has to be somewhat involved in this. These fellows don't know the town. They don't know the town. They may not even understand the writing of the town if they had writing. They could communicate, so there was some proto-Semitic language that they all perhaps commonly spoke because the spies are able to speak to Rahab. But uh you know, in all of that town there was only one friend of the Israelites that was in Jericho. And that was her house. There was only one friend who could be trusted. There was only one person who was a fellow God-fearing Jew circumcised in heart, and that was Rahab the harlot. Only one The only house they could have arrived at, and do you not see the hand of God's providence placing them there? These are chaste young men. Joshua sent them secretly. He himself was a spy back in the day. He and Caleb had done that. And so now, rather than send them out openly, he sends them out secretly. Go check it out. Lest something come back and perhaps spoil the mood of the people. We also find that um uh that uh if these two men were to go there because of her uh profession, it would not arouse suspicion if they went there. And furthermore, those of such professions know all the talk of the town. They know everything that everybody's saying. You know, in wartime, uh it's not unusual that spies will go into bars where liquor loosens the tongue and they begin to hear all kinds of information. There's an old World War II saying, loose lips, sink ships. That was plastered on the walls of secure facilities to let people know. Zip it up. But not so with Ahab. Everybody spilled all the beans to her. They didn't care. Let me ask a question. To the king of Jericho, what were these spies? Is not Jenny for us, all is saying. Jericho is not Israel at that time. Jericho is Canaanite territory. It is a Canaanite stronghold at this point in history. And there was a Canaanite king in charge and the city was straightly shut up. It was about to be straightly shut up because of them They were enemies. To the king of Israel, they were enemies and they were feared. So these two spies were feared enemies? Were they considered to be You're gonna give them welcome, open arms, we're gonna bring them under the protection of the laws of the land. No, they were illegal aliens. These people were not supposed to be here, they didn't have any business being here And if found, they would either be killed or kicked out, probably the former. Well, we now read in verses 2 through 7. Where we read this, it was told the king of Jericho, saying, Behold, there came men in hither tonight of the children of Israel to search out the country. Whoops, their cover is blown. The king Knows this. It's not a mystery to him. He knows they're there. And the king of Jericho sent unto Rahab. He seems to also know with strong suspicion where they're at. saying, bring forth the men that are come to thee. He wasn't guessing. He says they're here. Which are entered into thine house. He knew precisely which house they were at. For they be come to search out all the country. He knows why they're there. And the woman took the two men and hid them, and said thus, There came men unto me, but I wist not I knew not whence they were. And it came to pass about the time of the shutting of the gate when it was dark that the men went out. Whither the men went, I wought not, I witness not, I know not. That's an old English word. We still use the root of it today. A witness, you have a witness in court. Pursue after them quickly, for ye shall overtake them. But she had brought them up to the roof of the house, and hid them with the stacks of fly flax, which she had laid in order upon the roof. And the men pursued after them to the way of Jordan and to the fords, and as soon as they which pursued them were gone out, they shut the gate. Well, this is the king's demand, and this is her response. Let's think about this for a moment. This kind of gets back to my earlier question, right? It wasn't an accident I said you owned a 10-acre plot. The archaeological excavations of Tel S-Sultan, which is the modern day site of what used to be ancient Jericho, and from which Professor John Garstang and Kathleen Kenyon had done excavation work said it was about An eight to ten acre, twelve acres if you count some of the uh surrounding cemeteries and the like, it was about that large of a plot of land. If Rahab were caught, what crime might she be charged with? Death. Death? Conspiracy? Conspiracy? Treason. Treason. Oh, those are pretty heavy charges. One illustration I thought to use was the Hiding of the Jews, some of you know of the movie The Hiding Place, where some uh Is Israelite sympathetic people in Nazi Germany and just outside the borders of Germany hid many of the Jews trying to flee the Nazi regime. And they did so at great peril to their own lives. And they went through exotic lengths to craft and fashion hiding places, uh ways to transit them out of the country. Uh it's quite a a human tragedy. And you know, frankly, many of them who were seeking to hide the Jews went back to this story of Rahab for consultation as to how to deal with the rulers of their land. And I don't know what I would do in that situation. I would not want to be pressed into that. It would be a scary situation to have such pressure put on you. You know, let me ask you this. Pretend for the moment you're Rahab. I'll chop off the title of the harlot. I don't want to ascribe that to anyone. You are in a house. You have two men. They were Jews, were come to you seeking shelter. How would you have hidden the spies? How would you have done it They worked for me. They worked for me. They cleaned my deck. They cleaned my deck. They painted it. They fed they refilled the bird feeder. I paint them and off they went. It doesn't matter. Everybody speaks this. I like that answer. That's that's a pretty good answer, yep. And and actually have the men do a little bit and then quick send them away, yeah. So that's put them to work a bit. Put 'em to work. Put him to work, of course. Well that's very clever. I like that. Okay. How else how would you have done it? Well um we did this in in a high school play. um with the Academy of Arts, the uh Christian school play uh organization. And uh and there they betrayed it when the captain comes, where are the men that have come to you? And Rahab, the character Rahab says, Many men come to me. You know that, Captain. So she could have just customers that came and left. Uh interesting. Yep, she could have leaned back on her profession. But it's interesting. You know, I really appreciate you bringing that up because she could have fallen back to that explanation, but she didn't Right. It almost seems like at that point she has indeed begun to perhaps distance herself from that profession. That's very interesting, you know. Thanks for that. You know Get looking back on verses 2 through 7. This is the first time we hear Rahab speak. What does it say about her? Look at her answers. What does her answer tell us about herself? They came over. Yeah, she said they came over and left and and so what what does that say when when somebody says that what does that Telling us about that person, about their their heart. What's it telling us about their heart? What's it telling us about their motivation? She was more aligned with the people of God than with her own people. Yeah, she seems to have changed her allegiance to the people of God. You know, consider the boldness uh that she took upon herself. Um you know, you could cast it in the most harsh light possible and say she just out and out lied to this king. You know, there's a variety of answers she could have given. Um if the king didn't if the king's men didn't accept it, what's it to them? That I say push her out of the way, we're just gonna go ransack this house. It's just a stupid harlot's house. Who cares? The whole city's at risk. The king is at risk. It's nothing to them to ransack her house. Could have done that. They could have said you're lying. They could have arrested her. Could have killed her on the spot to look. This is a king. This isn't a This is long before the Magna Carta. There was no division of powers. This is absolute despotic power of the king. Have you ever done something that risky before? Mrs. Ross, you've been in some interesting situations and I uh I'm gonna put you on the spot, but I know you love these sorts of things because you told me about them that when your husband would take you on international travel, because he was an internationally acclaimed scientist and sought out by many in the community And I recall you saying and pardon me if you don't mind me repeating this, but I think he said he never knew when he came back it was from his assignment whether he find you in jail or not. Especially in communist countries. Use a certain risk you take when you're I always said God with matter. Yeah, yeah. There's a faith element to it as well. There's a risk involved when you're in communist countries. dictator controlled places, you know, there's the spirit of rehab I think lives on in many of the North Koreans who are converted and they they leave the country, they escape, yes I'm out, and then they go As they mature in faith and they get into some good doctrine, they're anxious to go back. And they willingly, willingly go back as a counter spy into their very own country to share Christ, which if it lands in the ears of somebody doesn't want to hear it They could pay an ultimate price. So this is quite the bold risk that Rahab is taking. You know, in a way you can see that In a way, and again, God paints pictures in the Old Testament like shadows. You don't see the fullness, you don't see the precision Sometimes you have to look past the gory parts which make it such a dark setting, but do you not see that he who knew no sin became sin for us? that we might be made the righteous of God in him. She was willing to take upon herself guilt and risk and shame. That these men might be protected. There's an interesting contrast being presented here, isn't there? Look at Rahab's demand now in verses 8 to 13 of Joshua chapter 2 Joshua 8, Joshua chapter 2, verse 8. And before they were laid down, she came up unto them upon the roof. Apparently they were going to sleep there. They weren't going to go, man, this is this kind of Crampy, you know, you got a more comfortable bed. Oh no, they were staying in the stalks of flax. And she said unto the man, I know that the Lord hath given you the land. And that your terror has fallen upon us, and that all the inhabitants of the land faint because of you. For we have heard how the Lord dried up the water of the Red Sea for you. when ye came out of Egypt, and what ye did unto the two kings of the Amorites that were on the other side of Jordan, Sihon and Og, whom ye utterly destroyed. Apparently these were pretty notable kings, Sihon King of the Amorites, Og, King of Thacian, these were power brokers. These were mighty, mighty powerful men. Verse eleven. As soon as we had heard these things our hearts did melt. Neither did there remain any more courage in any man because of you. For the Lord your God, he is God in heaven above and in earth beneath. Now therefore, I pray you. Swear unto me by the Lord, since I have showed you kindness, that you will also show kindness unto my father's house, and give me a true token And that you will save alive my father and my mother and my brethren and my sisters and all that they have and deliver our lives from death. You know, before I ask some questions here, she speaks of three events that made a profound impact on all of Jericho and her in particular. Crossing of the Red Sea, the defeat of Sihon, King of the Amorites, and the defeat of Ag, King of Bashan. Folks, do you know those events that occurred 40 years before? It was at the beginning of the wilderness sojourn. She and everybody in that city heard something that God had did for his people 40 years ago. And I want you to stop for a moment to think, what did you have for dinner 40 years ago? What did you do of significance 40 years ago? It's nine it's 2025. That would be 1985. What did you do in nineteen eighty-five? I can tell you what I was doing. I was failing in college. I got an app in statistics. That was a note of I was chasing penny. You were chasing penny, not failing statistics. I'd say you had a better you had a better year than I did. Oh my goodness sakes the lie. Forty years ago, and they have been trembling in their boots ever since they'd heard that. It made a deep impression She note also observed that she makes them swear for an oath and demands, quote, a true token. She makes them swear and I want you to swear on your Hebrew Bible. I want you to swear before your God of heaven that you will do something for me. This is the second time we hear Rahab speak. This is only the second time. We don't Here a lot of discussion. She doesn't show up in Ruth saying, well, my grandmother used to say, we don't have any of that stuff. We have it right here. This is the only time we hear Rahab talk. And it's held up in James. She's noted in Matthew. Hebrews points her out. She's a big deal. So we have to strain at this because there's something here that God wants us to pay attention to. The second time we hear her speak. What does this tell us about her and what does this tell us about the inhabitants? Now, if you want to hint, go back and look at it and make a distinction between when she says I And when she says we, what does this tell us? When she says I or when she says we? Did she get married? Well, not at that point in time. Then I don't know. She's changed teams. She's changed teams for sure. You know, she she's associating herself with Now how did you come to that? That's correct. But how how did you come to that? Well, you know, um she's no longer operating as an individual. Um she she she Or maybe she should say she is operating as a you know we we were afraid of this, we were afraid of this, but I have separated myself from those that feared. You know, a new fear, new allegiance. Yeah, it's interesting because they all feared there was a fear of doom to everyone Except to Rahab. In her there was a fear of the Lord. And what do we know in the Proverbs about the fear of the Lord? It's called the beginning of wisdom. She's taking a different path. Everybody feared in that place. They heard. And frankly, I would too. Here's this immovable, impregnable fortress about to be struck by a divine, unstoppable force. And sparks are going to fly, to put it mildly. And it's not going to turn out well. It was catastrophic to her as well as to everybody else in that town But there was a difference in fear. They feared death and death alone. She feared the God of death, the God of the Hebrews, and she was willing to do something to be on that side. Sovereignty of God, I tried to do something about basic the gift of God. She believed only because God gave her the sovereign The sovereign working of God. But notice the use of the word as well. We heard. It's something she heard, a message of doom and destruction forty years earlier. And it brings to mind another prophet named Jonah, who went to the great Assyrian capital of Nineveh, and he had a very simple message as he walked around, yet forty days. God will destroy you. He had a message of doom and gloom. And everybody repented. It was a phenomenal nationwide conversion. God could have done the same to Jericho. They had the same kind of message Jericho didn't repent, and they were utterly obliterated because of it, except for one who did hear, and who did change, and did whatever she could to align herself with the people of God. I I was kind of hating the same way Penny was. I don't believe the spies were sent to spy out Jericho. I believe they were sent sent to deliver Rahab. Because they did not bring back any information that helped at all with the conquest of Jericho. You didn't have to be inside to walk around the walls and they fall down. Yeah, they they they provided no military benefit. either spine, but God sent them to deliver Rahad. Yeah, in a in a sheer tactical kinetic force, where do I put the bombs type of thing, they didn't bring any thing back. But what they did report we'll read at the end. Right. They they reported that people were afraid. Which is a tremendous military significance because it encourages the hearts of the people. And at the end of the day this is a heart battle. Right. So it's about the will of people to do it, yeah, which uh was successful. They didn't. That was not the thing that right. The militarily uh they they seemed to have had a twofold purpose, a big one of which was to rescue raids And unbeknownst to them. Right. They were simply sent on a message by Joshua to go out. This fear of the Lord is that beginning of wisdom. Hebrews 2 fifteen speaks about delivering them who through fear of death were all their lifetime subject to bondage. Imagine these inhabitants of Jericho just fearing, just fearing, wandering. Are the Jews still wandering in the wilderness? Where are they at now? Where are they at? I mean, they had to be on some kind of high alert. They had to have known that the Hebrews were near. I mean, there's upwards of a million plus people wandering around, and he knows when two Hebrews enter into their town, perhaps by their haircut, perhaps by their clothes. You're wearing forty year old Egyptian clothes. Uh something tipped 'em off. She light We're going to ask that question in a minute. We're going to ask that question in a minute. We're going to get to that. Let's look at the spies' response of verse 14. And the men answered her, Our life are yours if you utter not this our business. And it shall be, when the Lord hath given us the land, that we will deal kindly and truly with thee. Well, this is the spy's response. Now, she had requested earlier, she demanded a true token. So what token are the men offering to her? She wants proof that They're gonna honor her request. What token do they offer her? No, that doesn't co that doesn't show up in this verse. What was the token they said? I she says I want a true token. That was the token for her to the men. She wants a token from the men to her. What are they offering her her? They just she says, I want you to spare my family and I, all of us. Now you have to give me a token that you're gonna do good on your word. What is that? Our life for yours. Their very lives. They said if if uh if anybody if any injury comes to you then it'll come upon us. Our lives for yours They're offering their very lives. They're committing their lives to this woman. That's a pretty heavy token to put your own life on the line. Now, what do these men demand of Rahab? In verse 14. What are they demanding of her? That's why I said you're going to need this in front of you because the questions are about this very passage, the very few scant places we hear Rahab speaking with the mammoth. Not yet. Now look at verse fourteen. Pull it up and read it real quick. What do the men demand of Ream Don't give us the lamb. If you utter not our business, don't give us away. Don't turn us in. And the Lord give us the lamb that we will deal Yeah. But this is what the men are demanding of Rahab. They're demanding ongoing secrecy. Ongoing secrecy. Now, we know later what the ruse is. The men are going to be running around three days. I'm pretty sure they're going to come back. I'm pretty sure they're going to report to the king. Well, king, got bad news for you. Didn't find them. If you were the king and these three men came back to you and said, we didn't find them, what do you think you might do? Kill who? The man that didn't find her? Yeah, you could kill the messengers. That would be the Greeks later on. Just forget about it. It's all good. Pull a Luke and Bach Texas on. It's all good. Probably not gonna work in this situation. There'd be a congressional committee and there'd be a special counsel appointed and Rahab will be called to testify before Congress. They might go knocking on her door again. You sent us on a rabbit trail. What happened? I'm sure they knocked on her door a couple of times. Tell us more about this. What did they look like They're gonna continue to drill her. I'm betting they will, which is why these men say they're not stupid. They know what it's like to live under Pharaoh. They know how nosy the kings are, they know how paranoid they can be. And so she would be placed under ongoing secrecy. You know, folks, there are times when secrecy can be a life or death matter. It says in Proverbs 11, 13, a tail-bearer reveals secrets, but he that is of a faithful spirit concealeth the matter. There are times when shutting your lips is the right thing to do. As Solomon said in Ecclesiastes 3, there's a time to speak and there's a time to refrain from speaking. A fool is known by the multitude of his words. A fool's voice, he just runs his mouth at all times. He doesn't have any He had the engines and the transmission are tied. He didn't have a clutch. He can't release it. It just runs that motor mouth all the time and can never shut up. Scripture doesn't commend that because a fool's voice is known by the multitude of his words. A prudent man conceals knowledge, it says in Proverbs 12. 23, but a heart of fools proclaimeth foolishness. I'm running out of time. I've got to get going here. Look at Rahab's parting instructions, verse 15. Then she let them down by a cord through the window. This is where the scarlet cord shows up. For her house was upon the town wall, and she dwelt upon the wall. And she said unto them, Get you to the mountain. Lest the pursuers meet you. And hide yourselves there three days until the pursuers be returned, and afterward may ye go your way. And the men said unto her, well, we'll get to what the men say. This is her parting instructions. And then the spies' parting instructions were this. Verse 17 to 21. The men said unto her, We will be blameless of this by an oath which thou hast made us to swear. Behold, when we come into the land, you shall bind this line of scarlet thread in the window which thou didst let us down by, and you shall bring thy father, thy mother, thy brethren, all thy father's household home unto thee. And it shall be that whosoever shall go out of the doors of your house in the street, his blood shall be upon his head, and we will be guiltless. Lock that door, don't go out, you have no good reason to be out to strict curfew. And whosoever shall be with thee in the house. His blood shall be on our head if any hand be upon him. They're enforcing, they're reminding her, yes, we are vowing our lives for your safety. We are pledging our lives for your safety if any of your family members. And if you utter this our business, then we will be quit, we will be free of the oath which you have made us to swear there under oath. And she she has been placed under oath to ongoing secrecy. She has been converted to them. She's a spy just like them. And sometimes a spy does his job, but he has to remain incognito until he can be rescued out of the country. So we read in the last part of the passage, verses 21 to the end of the chapter. She said, according to your words, so be it. She sent them away. They departed. She bound the scarlet line in the window. Notice she did it right away. She didn't tally. Tarry. She didn't dilly-dally around And they went and came to the mountain, abode there three days. The pursuers sought them throughout all the way, found them not, so the two men returned, descended from the mountain, passed over, came to Joshua the son of Nun, told him all things that befell them And they said unto Joshua, Truly the Lord hath delivered into our hands all the land, for even all the inhabitants of the country do faint because of Well, I have a little bit of time and I want to get to the spiritual observations from all of this. What are the faith lessons we draw from this spectacular account, this dynamic contrast of extremes here The first, and there's some fill-in-the-blanks for you here. The first is that Rahab depicts sinners. Who truly desire salvation from the wrath of the Lord? She accepted Joshua's plan of rescue as presented. She didn't try to change it. She didn't say, well, let me roam freely in the city, but I'll have this cord around my waist or I'll wear a red outfit or something. But I still I may be, you know, doing my daily shopping at that time. She didn't try to change it She didn't argue with it. Said bring them all in and shut them in and don't leave. That's isolation. It probably was a small area. For all the family to come into that one room, but she didn't argue with it. And so it is. The Lord Jesus Christ says He is the way. It's a straight and narrow road. And people want to widen it. They want to bring a whole truck full of sin with them. No, you can't even get one shred of clothing through that narrow gate. You've got to come stripped and naked. You've got to come defiled. You've got to come empty to be filled. It's how they uh been uh they believed what what she's saying, or what you say, what they said. It's I don't know how how you could believe it. Mm-hmm. Rehab your nuts. We're not pointing out. Yep, she could have said that. Another interesting point here is that God conceals truth from unbelieving God haters. Because all of Jericho heard and feared, but only one believed. God only opened the eyes of one, and that was Rahab It's the glory of God to conceal the thing, but the honor of kings to search out a matter. In 2 Thessalonians 2, the Apostle Paul speaks about them that Perish because they receive not the love of the truth, that they might be saved. For this cause, God shall send them a strong delusion, that they might believe a lie That they all might be damned, who believed not the truth but had pleasure in unrighteousness. They didn't believe the report. That's a yeah, I know what happened to Og. I know he parted the seas. Not going to be a problem here. That's a vain vision The God of the Bible is expert at killing people. He's never lost a battle. He's never needed a military council. He's never needed a good right-hand man or a wise man to help him. You know, God can spare even a harlot exalting them to prominence. And boy, she also goes in the hall of faith right alongside the thief on the cross, doesn't she? You know, the Lord Jesus said unto them, them in Matthew twenty-one, being the chief priests and the elders, Verily I say unto you, He says that publicans and harlots go into the kingdom of God before you. I think that's one reason why Rahab still has that moniker attached to the end of her name. For John came unto you in the way of righteousness, and you believed him not, but the publicans and harlots believed him, and ye, when you had seen it, repented not afterward that you might believe in him. I would assert from this passage here that Jesus makes belief and repentance hand in hand. Surely she had stopped her profession. She would have given up her occupation. And you know what folks? You can be saved from your sins, but some sins are so grievous that the stain of them may continue with you for a season, and you may still have that lingering reputation. It may still cling to you. Believers deal truly with each other. They really do. Saints deal truly and faithfully with each other, as we saw in Joshua 2. 14. Lying lips are an abomination to the Lord, but they that deal truly are his delight. Now, speaking of lying lips, there's the big question, did Rahab lie? You know, I know some good, God-fearing Christians who assert that she absolutely lied. She was a young Christian, she just did what she knew, uh, but I would have done it differently. That's why I asked the question up front. Well, how would you have done it differently? And if you want an extended study on this, you can go to holdingfast. net and look up did Rahab Sin But the Bible is actually silent of any condemnation of her deceptive ruse. The Bible also doesn't approve bearing false witness. That's one of the Ten Commandments in Exodus 20, 16. You know, others in the hall of faith had some sins. You know, Moses was a murderer. You know that, right? He killed an Egyptian, slew him, hit him in the sand. Bible doesn't seem to bring that back up. We all know of David and Bathsheba, but the thing that God falls David with is the death of Uriah the Hittite, not so much capturing Bathsheba. Abraham and Isaac told their wives to tell a half-truth to the king when passing through the land. Not going to use that passage in any marital counseling or marital advice. I mean that's just not something we would render and apply today So we don't embrace the Shia Islamic doctrine of taqiyya, which teaches it's not a sin to lie to infidels. We don't embrace that. Believers deal truly with each other. And even Ephesians 4. 25 says we speak the truth every man to his neighbor So I think good and godly people can disagree on whether Rahab lied or she was acting as a spy, which of necessity involves some form of deception. But what I will say is this, the Bible kind of doesn't get into that point. The Bible does get into the element of saving faith, and I think you need to look for that. Where is the element of saving faith? She's known as Rahab the harlot, not Rahab the liar, for a reason. There's a different point that's trying to be our have our attention brought to. In fact, Rahab fittingly joins in the hall of faith. She left it all behind, like Abraham. She left it all behind. She walked and talked in a way that showed true saving faith. That's exactly James' point. She served as a spy like Joshua. She abandoned her kindred to join the people of God like Ruth. And boy, what a heart-rending account to read, a tear-jerker of a statement Ruth makes in Ruth 1, 16 to 18. She saves her whole family like Noah. And like the Philippian jailer in the book of Acts, she helps the faithful escape over a wall like Paul at Damascus, who was let down over the wall in a basket. She places her life at risk for the safety of God's people at a critical time, like Barnabas and Paul. He says, we hazarded our lives. She became a matriarch in the lineage of Christ, the Messiah himself, as the mother of Boaz, who married Ruth the Moabites, great the grandmother of Obed, great-great-grandmother of Jesse, great-great-great-grandmother of King David. And I think she stands along other faithful women in Scripture, like the Virgin Mary, Ruth, Elizabeth, Abigail, and others I think rehab is given short shrift, and I think we need to have a greater respect to it. Well let's close with that. Oh yes, please. Just one more comment to add to. I mean you're you're spot on and love it Um but she also modeled the Passover. Um, you know, the whole family brought in the one house and the scarlet fle thread, the the blood upon the door Interesting, yeah. Yeah, there were Passover elements. It was the gospel. And and the the spies and what they told her to do could remember back to the Passover. Mm-hmm. Yeah. Yeah. A lot of interesting detail. Anton, could you close us in prayer, please? Father in heaven, thank you for preserving your word, Lord, that your sheep could feed on it, grow by it. That you would continue to sanctify us. uh by your truth, of course your word is truth. We uh thank even of this uh account of Rahab and pray that we would be found faithful as well And uh what an amazing teaching. Yes, Rahab. Simply a harlot, and yet she made such a confession of faith. and act it out boldly. Pray that you would work the same in us. Work in us, Lord, indeed, to will and to do of your good pleasure. Bless us in this upcoming season of worship and service, Lord Jesus. We ask it all in Christ's name. Amen. Thank you, Brother.