Turn with me to the book of Acts. We're looking at verses one through eleven. I don't often use any of my seminary Greek, but I will today. The book of Acts is called the Acts of the Apostles. And the Greek word for acts is practice. Practice. We get the word practice. So it's really if you're if you're a uh Greek and you're looking at your Bible somewhere and you say, oh the practice of the apostles or the acts of the apostles. So it's uh just one of those cognant words that matches the English so well We're looking at Acts chapter 18. The reading I chose was because Corinth was a Miserable place to live. It was so full of carnality. And um I want you to I I drew a little map here. I'm not very good at maps. But uh You see, if you're in the Mediterranean, that's the white, and this is the the foot of Italy, and over here in the center is Greece. And you'll notice Greece has uh it almost is an island, the southern part. And today it is because they cut a passage through Corinth. And uh oh back in 508 BC, even before Rome was in charge, they wanted to cut a Panama Canal through that area. It was a real shortcut from Rome, from Italy, through the middle of Corinth and up into Turkey and Ephesus. And what they did they found was impossible to cut that Panama Canal. It's hard rock. But what they had done is they made it like a railroad. When the boats came into the bay, they put 'em on tracks, smaller boats, and they just railroad them across it's only about a four mile area. And they were back in the other sea and on their way to Turkey and it just saved them a lot of time. And consequently, Corinth became the hub. of uh prosperity. Uh it was it was just a a real rich place. Uh Rome loved it when they came along uh using that track as well. Commerce was due to the trade route, the shortcut of a trade route And it was the at Corinth, Lake of Panama Canal, and Corinth became rich and it attracted rogues and robbers and rabble rousers and the rude and the crude and the lewd and It was just the worst place to go for a ministry because it was just as as carnal. They called him a corinth You know, it's it was just that bad. And so I want us to just be aware of that and you can forget about the terrible map or look at it later on But today the Panama c there is a canal. Today the bullshit go right through it. Just back and forth. They they did finally cut it out in about eighteen ninety-eight, I think it was. But they saw the the uh you know just the the the the great use that it would be to have a canal all the way through. So we're introducing ourselves here to Corinth this morning. Fir chapter 18 verses 1 through 11. After these things, Paul departed from Athens, that's just north of Corinth, and it's in the northern part of Corinth, or the northern part of Greece, and he came to Corinth in the southern part of Greece. And that was quite a seaport in his day even. And he found a certain Jew named Aquila, born in Pontus, but lately come from Italy, with his wife Priscilla. Because that the Emperor Claudius had commanded all Jews to depart from Rome, and now Paul came on to them, Aquila. and Priscilla. Verse 3, and because he was of the same craft, he abode with them and wrought or worked for by their occupation. They were tent makers, Aquila and Priscilla, and the Apostle Paul by trade was a tent maker. Uh any good Jewish father, whether it's fun that was going to be a Pharisee or a Sadducee or a priest, he gave him a trade to work because he knew sometimes It might be a small congregation of people and didn't want people to have to uh depend on uh you know the the what the money that would be brought into the synagogue And so oftentimes they had a trade that they worked. And Paul's trade was a tent maker. It was a great thing to have. As a tent maker, he could reach out to the shepherds who might want these leather tents and he could read out the Roman soldiers who also used the leathern tents. So he he had an access to the whole community wherever he went and that was advantageous for him also. But in verse four, we're told that he's a tent maker and he's going to be making tents with the Cola and Priscilla, and Paul says he reasoned in the synagogue every Sabbath and persuaded the Jews and the Greeks And and they don't agree on too much, but he was Paul was quite a persuader. And when Silas and Timotheus, that's Timothy, uh were come from Macedonia Paul was pressed in the Spirit, and he testified to the Jews that Jesus was Christ. And when they opposed themselves and blasphemed, he shook his raiment. And said unto them, Your blood be upon your own heads. I'm clean. And from henceforth I will go unto the Gentiles. And he walked he walked out of the synagogue, just shaking his garments. I'm through with you. And he departed thence, verse seven, and he entered into a certain man's house named Justice, one that worshipped God, whose house joined hard to the synagogue that Paul had just left. So even if he's not going to be preaching the synagogue, if he's preaching loud enough, they're still gonna hear it, aren't they? And Crispus, the chief ruler of the synagogue, oh what's he gonna do I mean, Paul has had to leave. The chief ruler of the synagogue, verse 8, believed on the Lord with all his house, and many of the Corinthians hearing believed. And were baptized. So not only did Paul walk out, he was so upset with them blasphemy in Christ's name and God's name, the chief of the synagogue walked out and joined Paul over in the house of justice. That's that's that's quite a trophy to get the chief chief there were several rulers in the synagogue, but the chief ruler And then spake the Lord to Paul in the night by a vision. Be not afraid to speak, and hold not your peace. For I am with thee, and no man shall set on thee nor hurt thee. Well that's good, because Paul had already been stoned back in Acts already, and he'd been beat with whips and you know he'd had a pretty rough go of it. So now he said, Be of good courage and and be not afraid They will not hurt thee, for I have much people in this city. In Corinth? This carnal place? Yes, the Lord says, I do. And he continued there a year and six months, teaching the Word of God among them. And that's one of the longest times Paul stays anywhere, is Corinth. All right. A year and a half is a long time to stay and to get a church up and running So Paul comes to Corinthians and he finds the Jew named Aquila with his wife Priscilla because Claudius, the emperor of Rome, had kicked him out, commanded all the Jews to depart from Rome. And I've labeled the mention the reasonable expectations of a believer. I know the bulletin says of the faithful, but sermons change from the time that you Give them to the the bulletin people and so that's a minor change, but you're gonna see this repeated several times. The expectations of a believer And so here's Paul, and he's making tense of the colour and Priscilla in chapter two, because they've had to leave Rome. And they're not given much time. You can imagine. You've got to get out of Dodge, you've got to go now, and whatever you can carry on your back, or maybe a little cart, that's it. And so what we learned first is that faith cost Aquila and Priscilla their home. They had to get out. And it probably cost much of the contents of their home. They had to get out. Emperor says go and you go now. Not well how about I get the Zelda House first and you know and maybe I can get some uh uh some money and No, you go now And so the first expectation of the believer is this. And they were believers. It's going to cost you something. Right. It's gonna cost you something to profess that you're a believer. That's what got the Jews tossed out. There were Jews that were believing, there were Jews that weren't believing. But it was it was so confusing that the Romans and uh Claudius, he just said, get 'em all out. And you know, uh the hardships uh that come against Christians in this country, the Mormons get pounded too, and the Jehovah's Witnesses get pounded and and uh a lot of other faiths get pounded And they can't sort them out. They don't realize that Christians are so different from the other faiths. And that we're the one true faith. And that's what happens here. So what are you willing to give up for your faith? What are you willing to give up your faith? The reasonable expectations of a believer in Christ is that it will cost you. It will cost you. We're not promised a rose garden or a garden of Eden. We're promised a Ghassemi. Reasonable expectations. Uh in Acts chapter 8, or right Acts chapter 18 as we have here, in Romans, in 1 Corinthians and 2 Timothy We read more about equilarine for silver. They're not just a fly-by-night fan during the page here we're not going to see them anymore. We could do a real study on this husband and wife. I I wish we had more time for that. Uh maybe at another time. But they're mentioned all through the New Testament. Paul mentions them, Luke writing in the book of Acts mentions them. I mean they're mentioned a lot, even in the book of Timothy. Um And the reason that they're mentioned so much and what you learn about them as you read about them is they had a good marriage. I mean, can you imagine if they didn't have a good marriage Akrula might uh Prisola might say to Akrula, Oh, you got us Buddha out of Rome. Got us Buddha, you just kept your mouth shut, you know. We could have been a quiet Christian, we could have been a Quiet believer. Oh no, you gotta be telling everybody to send shear easy soul. It didn't happen that way, though. She she was a part of this She was in total agreement with this. And when they get into Corinth, they run into the Apostle Paul. And she could again have said, or he could have said, You know, you're right, I shouldn't have said so much. No, we're not going to make sense for the Apostle Paul. We don't need that headache But no, they do. I mean they these they are in agreement. This is a solid marriage. They're they're really, really in agreement. And as we read through these uh verses in Romans and Corinthians and Timothy, not today, but it's something you should do Uh when you read through these things and and you see all this, you find that Christ was the center of their life. Christ was their their marriage was just rock solid. because Christ was the center of their marriage. And uh they they lived as we see here today. They lived and they worked with the Apostle Paul, making tense. And later on we'll find that they traveled with Paul. A year and a half of Paul wasn't enough. They traveled with him to Ephesus. and get into more trouble. I mean, this is a this is a marriage that's a we whatever it costs. And it's gonna cost. And I want you to know that this morning, it's gonna cost you. It's gonna cost you. And uh Paul here he writes of Priscilla and and Aquila, and he says, They were my helpers in Christ. We read about that in Romans 16, 4. They were my helpers in Christ Then you say, Well, okay, I guess they donated some money and I guess they showed up for most of the services and uh but uh he says more Paul says, Priscilla and the cool, they are my helpers in Christ who have for my life laid down their own necks. Romans 16 and 4. Things got, you know, whether whether it was in Corinth or in Ephesus or wherever it was, they were traveling with Paul There was a situation that got really dicey. There was a situation of life and death. And a quarter of Priscilla, they jump in, they stick their necks out for Paul. And they could have their heads chopped off and they were ready to die for Paul I mean is that a is that is that a Christian that that's different from some that call themselves Christians today for sure. And so they were you know some of you might be willing to give the shirt off your back for another Christian, but they were willing to risk their lives. For the apostle Paul said they they were laid down their necks for me. And this is another reasonable expectation of a believer in the first century. Greater love of no man than this thing laid out his life for a friend. They, this couple, were willing to die in a heartbeat for the Apostle Paul And I suspect they'd have done it for Timothy, and I suspect they'd have done it for Dr. Luke, and I suspect they'd have done it for any Christian that was in trouble. In the first century, Christians knew that not only would it cost them something, they would lay that that was a realistic expectation. It would cost them something. It might even cost them their life. This couple works for Paul in Corinth, because Paul's there for a year and a half. They worked for them there. And later on in 1 Corinthians 16 and 19, if you look there sometime, there's Aquila and Priscilla popping up again. Paul is writing the church at Corinth And he and he's writing them, he says, oh he said, and by the way, uh Priscilla and Aquila, and the house, uh rather, and the church that meets in their house, they greet you also. So here's Paul in a house church. Here we are in a house church. I mean I was almost tempted in this message to to leave what I'm doing here and go through the scripture of all the house churches. You know, when things were bad in the Roman day that they didn't it wasn't a great love for Christians or or for the Jews. And people didn't you know they didn't meet in the synagogues very long. They were off in the woods, they were in the caves, the caverns, they're meeting in homes And as things get worse and worse, perhaps in this country and around the world, there'll be more and more house churches. And so he commends them. He says that uh i that that they're I I want to greet you and an acquaintances and the church in their home. Isn't that something Are you starting to feel like a quill and pressilla and not just a well that's a pretty name to name your daughter or something? I mean i th these these people should There should be more written about them. There's so much that that is in the scriptures. It takes a lot to get your name in the scriptures, you know. A lot of great people never got their name in the scripture. You know, James did, but he had to have his head cut off to get mentioned. John the Baptist mentioned, they got his head cut off too. And they almost got their heads cut off. And they're here for that. Are you willing to risk your life for Christians in the days ahead? That's a reasonable expectation of Christians in the first century. That should be the reasonable expon expectation for us today as well. So they worked with Paul for a year and a half, and hospitality was their middle name. I mean, I don't know if they were newlyweds, I don't know how long they've been married. I suspect they weren't newlyweds. Because you've got to have a pretty solid marriage when you start saying, I don't care what your Emperor Claudius says, I'm gonna witness these soldiers over here, and I don't care what the Emperor says. We're We're in Corinth now and not that we're safe here, but we're gonna we're gonna work in the Apostle Paul. That case of marriage has been around for a while. It's been over a few hills and a couple of gullies and probably a few uh tit for tat and uh it was your fault, no it was your fault. They they've they've been through all of that. And and and they're solid and they're ready to go. And they are a hospitable, hospitable couple. Uh we when you say, well how do you say hospital? Well they took in the Apostle Paul for a year and a half in Corinth. He lived with them. How many people here want someone to move in their house for a year and a half that you've just met And and he's a troublemaker. I mean I mean Caiaphas Caiaphas and the Sadhedron and the Pharisees, they call him a pestilent fella and they want him taken to Rome and tried for for uh capital punishment put to death and you're gonna take this guy in. But Paul loved the Lord. An advantage might have been you got sick, called Paul because he fit not feeling good today for silver. No problem I mean even heal people. I mean yeah there's there were the positives too. But I mean you know but the reason why expectations would you take someone in would you be that hospitable Uh when you look at the life of of uh Priscilla and Aquila here, it reminds you of Gaius. Paul writes in Romans 16, 23, Gaius, my host, uh Paul would live in other people's homes There weren't many people who want to take him in, but Christians would. Paul, I said, Gaius mine host, and he's the host of the whole church. Gaius didn't just take any apostle Paul. Gaius was always taking people into his home. And I suspect that Priscilla and Aquila were always taking people into their home as well. And I've got to tell you, uh having been in the ministry, what a blessing it is when you take in an evangelist, maybe that comes to visit your church or a missionary. uh or maybe some a traveling brother from another church for a few days. Uh the the I I hope I can leave you with a reasonable expectation of the blessings. Sometimes there'll be a team that will come like from Bob Jones University and we would take him a whole team. Our house You know, one time we had to give them our car, their car broke down and they headed out to West Virginia. And uh we we said, Well, when will we see our car again? In a week or two, we said, Okay, and they brought it back. You know I mean it's You but there is a blessing in doing that. Uh we took in the missionaries, we took in Judith Collins, we took in uh Reverend Leroy, we took in um Reverend Cole Carlson. I wish I kept a list of the people. Some of them are uh just it would have been wonderful but the the the adventure y when that when the missionary comes to church they give up tell it they tell you about the work in Africa, tell you about the work in Brazil. And they tell you about the things that they need, you know, the things they've run through and they've they've had lack of. But when they're in your home they sit down and they say, Okay, now what's really going on? And here come the blessing. Judith Collins sat down, said, Well, the last time I was at your house, when I got back home, I'd been robbed. Robbed? What did they take? She said they took everything. I said, Now come on, Judith Give us a night. What do you mean by everything? She said they took the toilet off my floor. It was bolted to the floor. They took every they took my watchdog. They took everything She said they're my favorite shoes. And Judith had these bright red shoes. Oh my goodness, they're a bright red shoe. And Judith's the big lady. And she's uh English and and her her feet are not the size of the typical Kenya, the person lives over Nairobi, Kenya. And some oh about a year or so later she runs in the lady wearing her shoes. They're bright red. And they're big shoes. I think I hope Judah isn't hearing this. But Judas says, Yeah, I got big feet. That's what she said. And she says, You've got my shoes, you stole my shoes, you give me back my shoes You know, and and she's in Kenya surrounded by all these uh people from Kenya and and here she's a big tall white lady yellow at this little black lady and the little black lady takes her shoes off and throws them at Juth and takes off running. And Judith picks up her shoes, says, How can she even wear them? And Julie tries to put them on when she couldn't. They were stuffed with newspaper because they were too big for her feet. with the mill Reverend Leroy stayed with us. Reverend Leroy said we had kids come out from I don't know if it was from Bob Jones or Pensacola, it's from one of the Christian schools. And they came down to Brazil to work with him in the summer for a couple of weeks And so after they'd done a lot of little jobs, they sent him down in the bri into the city. I don't uh do you remember what the big city was he lived near Sao Paulo? Probably Sao Paulo, yeah. So he sent them down there to handout tracks. So they're down in San Paulo and the hand out tracks. Reverend Libra doesn't go with them. He said that that's a good little job to do and and they'll go get the handout tracks to a Catholic community. And so they're handing out the tracks and a couple of priests come out of the Catholic Church and are watching us and they start throwing stones at 'em. And the kids had to leave. And they came back to the Reverend Leaders, Man, they threw stones at us And Reverend Levi says, Oh man, to be stoned for the gospel of Jesus Christ. Oh I missed it. I missed this. I've been here for forty years. I've never been stoned for Christ. He was so upset. You don't get those stories in the pulpit. Well you do hear mission Bible stuff. But I mean there is a blessing in taking these people in. Now just give you one more sample example. Reverend Howard Carlson He's over in Israel. Boy, there's a lot of stories about it. I'm not sure. So anyway, they're there during the Six Day War, uh 1967 Uh I I can remember that. I was in Vietnam at the time, but it was a six-day war. And um this last one was eleven days that they had. Uh Israel doesn't do nineteen year wars. They don't do twenty-year-old or six-day they just knock it out in about a week, week and a half. We could probably do that if we wanted to, you know. Save a lot of lives and not not on both sides really. But anyway, he's there, he's there in the Six Day War. And they're living on the West Bank near Jordan, which is kind of just east of Jerusalem. And uh And it's bombing and mortars and rocket and explosions and machine gun fire. And finally it's it's it's uh it's really getting bad. It must have been near the end of the week, the end of the six days But it's just getting closer and closer. They looking out the window they see the mortal rounds coming, you know, right towards them and it goes boom boom boom boom and and as they got to the house it jumped over the house and on the on its way to go again. But you know the roof's caving in, things are really bad and they're just you know Hey, you get scared. Anybody tells you they were in combat, Vietnam, Korea, and they weren't scared. Okay, you've met a liar, all right? You have met a liar Uh but anyway they're scared and they're under this big like oak table. You know, like the big table we have here. And so when the roof collapses on them and so forth, they'll be all right. And uh it's still noisy out there, machine gunning, the mortaring stop, and you hear a door, bang, bang, bang, the rifle button on the door. Come on out, come on out and they're speaking in Hebrew, they're speaking in forest. They don't know who's in there. They're speaking in all different dialects and t languages. And Howard's Howard gets off another table and he goes out, he opens the door and says American missionaries, American missionaries, American all, American missionaries. And the guy with a rifle pointing him says He he says to him, Really now? I'm from Brooklyn. Where do you be from? And he was a Jewish young kid who'd come over to help fight the war. So you know, there are blessings. I mean The reasonable expectations of taking Christians into your home, oh, it's a blessing. It's a blessing. Hospitality has its rewards. And we ought to be hospitable. And I can imagine Paul in his house telling stories like this. For a year and a half you're living in the home of Aquila, oh, come on. They had to ask him, hey Apostle Paul, can you Tell us, you know, what it was like when you were going down the road to Damascus. We heard the story, but we'd love to hear it from you. We'd just love to hear from Paul. You know, and and and and you know Paul and we heard over in Philippi had some problems there. He got arrested, put in jail and chains, and and they said you were singing at night in jail? I mean And Paul says, Oh yeah, yeah. Do you remember when a big earthquake hit, you know, a couple of years back? I mean, Corinth is not that far from uh up north by Philippi. I mean you'd feel it everywhere. And i you know, when you go the extra mile, take people in. I mean you're gonna you they're gonna share things with you. Oh, hit his Escape in a basket, remember that story? And uh how about uh you know Paul could say that, well, you know, uh uh things have been kinda quiet. I know you laid your necks on the line for me, if everybody had your head stopped off, but I've had some tough times too. I've been stoned, I've been beaten and Uh with many stripes and he he could go on to all that stuff. Oh well tell us from the beginning. Tell well you know he said I start at the feet of Gamalia. Wow, I'd like to hear that At the feet of Gamayah, the the doctor of theology among all the Pharisees and Sadducees. I was trained at the feet of Gamelia. Oh, I'd love to have heard that. And then I met Christ on the road to Damascus. And when I went back into Jerusalem to see the apostles Oh, how'd that go? How'd that go? Cold reception. I've been killing Christians left and right and putting them in jail. And I go back to them, man, I'm born again. I love the Lord. I want you to welcome me open arms. And they're all like, I don't think so, you know In a cold reception. Oh, to be hospitable, to bring people in your home, missionary. I just encourage you to do it. It is so much fun. So much fun. And um And I know those things that happened in the Benson home and the things that happened in the Houth home, Cluth home. Uh having people here there are blessings in it. Hard work, a lot of hard work, but there are blessings in in that as well And Paul he says in verse 4, he reasoned in the synagogue every Sabbath, and he persuaded the Jews and the Greeks. And when Timothy and Silas were come, Paul was pressed or compelled. in the spirit and he testified that Jesus was the Christ. Jesus was the Messiah. He was the miracle worker that we'd all been waiting for. I mean he was so you know these men came there and the presence of Timothy and Silas It was an encouragement to Paul. He had been preaching and beating his head against the Gentiles and the Jews, and some receptive, some not, some questionable. And boy, he said, you know, and he's laying it down about there, he was virgin born and He was born in Judah and he was born in the uh born of the tribe of Judah and uh the line of David and and they're kind of come along and and he said, Well boy, when when Timothy and Silas come in, he's press in the Spirit. I'm not holding back anymore. He said, Jesus is the Christ. He's the Messiah. You've been waiting for him. He just he just hit him with both barrels in and he was so so compelled to do so. The presence was a big encouragement to Paul of Timothy and and Silas Fire. He mean he Paul was just pumped. He was just pumped Okay, what's the reasonable expectation of us when we're around Pastor Joe and Bench Cluth and so on? The reasonable expectation ought to be that we would encourage one another. That we identify one another, that we lift one another with our with our presence, an email, a phone call, that we encourage the pastor, encourage the flock. The reasonable expectation of believers is that we bear one another's burdens Galatians 6. 2. We edify or refresh and build up and embolden one another, Romans 14 and 19. When do we do that with a verse we've read in the Bible through the week? or that we've been praying for them, or joining together in psalms, hymns, and spiritual songs, Ephesians 5. 19. The gathering of Christians on Sunday. I mean think about it. For most of us now, see see if this fits your scenario. It fits mine a lot. Uh I've been walking around for a week before I get here And everyone around me is the walking dead. I mean I'm there just walking. Oh well hold on. Sometimes I don't okay. Here's here's how here's how most of the people I see are And they don't even know that you see that guy he just passed what I passed. I just see him. They're the walking dead. They have they don't know the sun is shining. They they don't know the breeze is blowing. They don't go to a church or nothing. I mean they are so dead in trespasses and sins. And after been walking around for a whole week of the with the zombies of this world, that's what they are As the with the walking dead have no interest in Christ, they're not born again, they're not been quickened by the Holy Spirit. After all of that, I love coming here where people are alive. I mean I look at your faces and there's there's somebody in there. I mean I can see it. It's not that blank's there like they've been smoking pot for a week or so. I I you know just it's just so different. It's just And so we come here and we should be an encouragement to one another, lift one another up. And uh does your presence encourage others? Does your presence strengthen others? That's the reasonable expectation that we are to do that for one another. Well, I could tell you stories and I'm not gonna do it now, but how people would come into church on Sunday morning and I'm gonna ready to go to the pulpit and they walk up, I just want to set you straight on one thing. And if and if this next message isn't any better, I'm walking out that door. Well thank you for the encouragement. That really compelled me to want to grab him by the neck. Anyway Pastor Joe can use encouragement. So can dance. So can gym. And uh Vic Victoria we well we all can, can't we? No, Marissa's kinda new this year. Maybe she doesn't need any encouragement yet. But once you're married, you'll need encouragement We all do We know Anton pretty good. No, you got a great guy, but I'm gonna tell you what. Nobody gets married and within a couple of months, this isn't the guy I married. This isn't the girl I married. And about a year later he says, Oh I'm so glad I married him. Oh this is what a what the best choice I ever made in my life My wife's the best choice I've made. Since I've turned my life over to Christ. I mean it's just but so anyway. Uh so he's been reasoning. Among the people in Timothy the and Silas Common, they encourage them and and uh we can encourage people to with prayers. Um we We ought to be encouragers of those in the ministry. We ought to be encouraged of those who are who are new Christians, old Christians, uh Christians who've got ailments. We need to do that. I mean, why should Satan have the best and the most vocal servants in the world? Why why shouldn't Christ have the best and the most vocal servants as our Savior? I mean, really So I I just want to say as we're approaching verse 6, not to be discouraged, not to be dismayed, not to be depressed, not to be distressed, not to be disheartened. Even if things are really happening that aren't so great And it did in verse six to Paul. Some used to say to me, Well, uh, if things are really bad, just just uh you know, think about it and uh pray about it and and things could be worse, you know. And so I thought about it and I prayed about it. He was right. Things got worse. And that's what happens here in verse six with Paul. When they oppose themselves, they begin blaspheming. And Paul shook his raiment, he said, Your blood be on your own head. I'm no longer accountable for your own your own sins and I try to talk to you and you're going to hell. I am clean. I am I am clean. You can't blame me when you get to hell and no one told you the truth about the Savior. Your blood's on your own heads. You've been warned Henceforth I will go on to the Gentiles, he says. There's another reasonable expectation. The gospel of Christ, this might shake some of you, this might might surprise some of you, but the gospel of Christ It's not always well received. It's really not always well received. Not even when it's the Apostle Paul preaching. Somebody used to say, oh, we want to get Billy Graham there to speak to him, that this person would get saved. I said Christ was speaking to Judas Iscariot. What happened there? Reasonable expectation. The gospel of Christ will not often be well received. Does blaspheming Christ's name ever grieve you? It says Paul said he had ever opposed himself, you're blaspheming. Paul said, Shakes his raiment again, you said, I'm out of here. Man, I hear you talk like that. I gotta get out of here. Everything said about the Lord Jesus Christ, blasphemous things, did you get up and walk out? Practical application here. I'm not going to ask for raise hands on how many seen Batman movies. Okay, at least one. There was a Batman movie I did not see. I stopped seeing them after a while. I saw a couple of them. Most of them were on TV when it was just TV shows. But here's a practical application, if I can. Aurora, Colorado, july twenty. 2012. It was called the Aurora, Colorado Movie Theater Massacre. Playing there was a Batman movie. The title of the movie in itself ought to just because it's there's about to be a massacre. 17 people killed, 84 people shot, uh 100 and some more that had to be hospitalized. It was horrible The name of the movie was The Dark Night Rising. And the movie opened at midnight. All the things that just kind of bring in the satanic evil feelings that kids get they like to just kind of get on the edge of and play with a little bit That movie blaspheme God's name and the Lord Jesus Christ three times I never saw the movie, don't plan on seeing the movie, but I am told that within the first 20 minutes, the blasphemy starts. The shooting didn't start for 30 minutes The guy walked out of the theater after twenty minutes, got all his gear on, came back in. And I've often wondered if it's right that they were blaspheming within the first thirty minutes of that movie, God's name, Christ's name. Three times they say Did anybody like the Apostle Paul get up and walk out and not die? Or at least not see the carnage of it? When you hear people blasting the name of blasting the name of Christ, it's time to move. It's it's just time to get up and to get out. That's the reasonable expectation of a Christian to move in the presence of blasphemy So Paul we finally reach with justice and he's in his house. He entered a man's house, it says in verse 7 justice that worship God whose house joined hard to the synagogue, and Crispus the chief ruler of the synagogue, believed in the Lord with all his house. Whoa! The chief ruler of the synagogue, and everyone in his family believed, and got out and joined the Apostle Paul. When you look at the list of people that got saved in the Apostle Paul, and that's why we read that Galatians this morning And in Corinthians it has even a larger list. Corinthians says that under the preaching of Paul, fornicators, idolaters, idolaters Thieves, effeminate, that that's the homosexuals, uh drunkards, extortionists, that's the shortlist. These are the kind of people that are getting saved I mean Paul says, Of whom thus of you were? So we we know that an adulterer and a drunkard and an effeminate uh that they can really get saved And become a part of the active church. Because Paul said of so of whom some of you were. And who's he talking to? The Corinthians. This is the body of people that made up the church In the house of Aquila and Priscilla. Oh my goodness, I got this town drunk over here. And there's a guy that's been committing adultery on his wife for ten years. Why? He's and now he's here. And you know, uh these feminine characters are coming but they're professing Christ and they say their lives are changed. I mean, this is the kind of people that are coming into a court of Brasil's house for worship Mm-hmm. You only know how much you get a pretty good idea if people have really saved her aren't, don't you? And they were. They really were. And now the the the chief ruler of the synagogue walks in Oh what's he gonna do? Well I left the synagogue. Now he's walking. What's he gonna tell us about tear down just this house and run us out of here too? He said, I want to be with you, I brought my family, you're right Christ is the Messiah, eh? I mean what a what an amazing time this is. And when when things are really going good like that, you ever have days when things are I mean things are popping, you get your you get your raise and the baby's born healthy and the the kid graduates top of his crowd. Things are going so good in the Christian school where you got your kid or in the homeschooling whatever the atmosphere is. Things are just going great And and you just got engaged to this wonderful Christian girl, you know, back here. I think they're going so good. And and tell me you haven't said, Oh boy. Now the shoe's gonna drop. Now the other shoes are gonna drop Something's just around the corner. Something bad is gonna happen. There's a valley coming. And you were always right, weren't you? See you can't have a valley unless you're on top of a mountain If you want another mountaintop, you've got to go down to the valley and then be another mountain. I mean, you just know that's what's going to happen. So here's the Apostle Paul. And he's got he's got the the these fornicators and adulterers and thieves and drunkards and extra they're all getting saved And they're coming and they're following him and they're meeting the house. And in comes the chief ruler of the synagogue with his whole family. And Paul's got to be thinking, This is great. This is great Oh man, what's gonna happen next for me? I mean Satan's gotta be so mad. He's gonna he's gonna pour it on. It's gonna come, it's gonna happen. You ever worry about those kind of things? What the devil's gonna throw at you next? That's a reasonable expectation. Is that a believer? Mm-hmm. You know, when you start leading people to Christ and doing things with the Lord, reading your Bible, sharing with other people It's a reasonable expectation that Satan's not going to be happy with you. He liked you better when you were drunk. He liked you better when you were carousing. He liked you better when you were swearing. And so do most of the people out there like you better until you got this Jesus thing in your heart, you know. And Paul had to be thinking, Oh boy, this is going so good. It never goes this good. I mean I've been stoned back in Leicester and I've been beaten with stripes and uh I've been threatened with prison and uh I've been in prison, you know, and uh I this is just so unusually nice and I I'm really enjoying it, but it just can't be oh man, what's coming, what's coming, what's coming And God in chapter or in verse 9 says, Then spake the Lord to Paul. He had to know what was going on in Paul's head and heart. He says, be not afraid. Oh, you can tell? Yeah, I can I the Lord says I can tell. Things are going great and I think what's gonna happen next. What's she's gonna draw? Yeah, be not afraid. You speak, he says. Speak And Christ repeatedly tells that to us because he knows that sometimes the reasonable expectation of us is that sometimes we're afraid of things. Mm-hmm. People are afraid of locusts flying around out there right now. I just think they're cute little buggers. I I was gonna wear a couple of them come in this morning at Apple's or something. Um So he he he speaks and he says be not afraid Christ knew that of his followers. Christ said, Fear not, you are more valued than many sparrows Matthew ten, thirty one. Fear not, little flack. Luke uh twelve and thirty-two, right? Fear not, Revelation one and seventeen. I mean it it's it's common for us to wonder what's around the corner, what's gonna happen next Jeremiah twenty, nine and thirteen, he said, Well he got to the point where he was afraid of things too. He said, I said, I will not make mention of him, nor speak in his name anymore. Mary got him down in a septic tank basically. They talked to him Uh Jeremiah's down a septic tank and he's floating around down there trying to keep alive. I mean he said what what more can they do to me and and uh you know he's just he's I'm not gonna speak any more his name. But his word was in my heart, Jeremiah says His word was in my heart as a burning fire shut up my bones. And I was weary with forbearing and not speaking. I could not stay shut up. I had to speak And he says to Paul, Be not afraid, Paul. Speak. Jeremiah spoke. You're going to speak. I want you to speak, and be not afraid. And then he says that verse 10, I am with you. I am with thee. And Christ, Hebrews 13, 5 says, I will never leave thee nor forsake thee. I'm in that fiery furnace. I'm with you in the fiery furnace. I'm with you in the lions, then Daniel. I'm with you through the Red Sea of Moses. I'm on top of the stormy Galilean Sea. I'm with you through the sea. I'm with you on top of the sea, Peter When we're walking out, and I'm with you when we walk through the valley of the shadow of death, thou art with me. Be not afraid. Nothing can separate us from the love of Christ. Not angels, principalities, powers, creatures, death. The list goes on And so Paul not only speaks, he declares, I will not shun to declare unto you all the counsel of God. I'm going to give it all to you. The good, the bad, and the ugly. I'm going to give it all to you. Feed my church. Take heed to feed my church, Paul said. I have not shunned the the whole council of God and to feed my church. And so we're to feed the church of God. And I I it's a house church here. I think we have a great church here. Do you know in this church what we do? We give the whole council of God. We preach from the whole book of Mark, including the ending. We don't leave it off. It's got a good ending. I don't know why they want to cut that out. We preach in the whole book of John. When John talks about the woman taking adultery, a lot of things oh we can't preach that. That doesn't belong there. Well it talks about the angel coming through the water And Christ comes in there and and and heals a man. Well, we don't preach that. They pick and choose all kinds of stuff that John wrote. John the beloved, he gets attacked by More than anyone else in the Bible. Oh, get rid of this, get rid of that. Preach the whole council of God, Paul says. Feed the cheap sheep. So we're going to feed them at the end of Mark. We're going to feed them all the quotes of John. All of them Pastors afraid to declare all the counsel of God. Acts twenty twenty-eight. Pastors afraid to declare the council of God in season and out of season, 2 Timothy 4. 2. Step aside if you're afraid, and let somebody else fill the pulpit up. In fact there were a lot of anti pulpits over the last year. Nobody was failing some of the pulpits. Wish you could have got into one of those. But there wouldn't have been anybody there, so. The reasonable expectation is this. Paul says teach declare all the counsel of God, the in-season and out-of-season. And there's a reasonable expectation expectation of Christians and pastors is that we ought to obey God rather than man. It may irritate man, but we're going to preach it anyway. If God put it in here, it's meant to be mentioned. Mm-hmm. Right. I mean he didn't have these words written down through the Holy Spirit's inspiration and and then we gotta hide it somewhere or hide certain passages or verses or books or just not preach on those things. Oh no, I never preached on that. We ought to obey God rather than man. Acts 5. 29. I remember last year, the diabolical decrees that were issued One of the early ones was church services couldn't have more than ten people in them. Remember that? Think about that. No more than ten. Here's the Lord Jesus Christ. He's coming up the upper room for the Passover. Oh, sorry, only I ought to have ten. I'm the tenth. Nine of you can come and see which three of you are not going to have Well Jesus is scared to put him up first. Can't do that because he's gonna fulfill scripture that night. I mean how do you tell Christ that he's gotta get rid of three of his disciples? Only ten in the service. Wow. And people obeyed that. We we went a little over that here. Additional decrees followed. No singing in the church, and churches are still not singing. See when you if you sing With your mask even with your mask on, it's gonna infect everybody. So you can't sing in the church. And uh additional decrees, uh no resurrection Sunday, we were told that back here this year. Didn't want any Easter Sunday or Resurrection Sundays, couldn't do that. Uh you know, and the Christmas service were cast out too. Really? Really? I mean think about this No singing the church, no communion services. Oh no. Can't have the hand touching the cups and the bread and passing around and passing the plate. I guess it even wants to pass the collection plate Although I didn't hear that one was not allowed, but I can see the handprints on it. They were doing all this stuff. And our response here from our hearts was, remember the Sabbath day and keep it holy. Mm-hmm. No, I'm not going to skip Easter service. This do in remembrance of me. No, we're not going to skip communion service. Do this as often as you come together and break bread. You do this in remembrance of me. We're going to do it Holy Scriptures take precedence over political decrees. That's right. Even the Supreme Court, which Is not always there for us. Even the Supreme Court has come on now and declared that the recent diabolical decrees were intrusive on the churches and a violation of the First Amendment freedom of religion Wow. Finally. And other judges have been saying the same even before the Supreme Court got to it. Scripture trumps political decrees. And I say that sometimes we're afraid of things, but we shouldn't be frozen with fear to where we don't do anything. They hear me so far they couldn't move. I'm I'm so scared I can't move. We can be afraid, but we still that that's what makes heroes. That's what wins Congressional of Honors. They'll say to God, man, you charge the machine gun, that's you do this, you did that And he said, weren't you afraid? He said, of course I was afraid. Well then why'd you do it? He said, You gotta keep moving. You can't let you can't let fear freeze you. We're all gonna die. And so we are not, we may be afraid sometimes, but we are not frozen with fear by some pilot like Pontius Pilate like proclamation? Or are we either afraid of the pestilence that walketh in darkness? Psalm 91 and 6. Are any of those going to make us so fear and so frozen that we don't go to church We don't go here, we don't go there. No, we're not going to be like that. Christ is the head of the church. The first century church would not have let a pestilence Of fear frees them from going to the synagogue or going to some house church. Or not to have the Passover. Tell us you we can't have the Passover, right? Or tell us we can't have the Resurrection Sunday communion service. No. We're not gonna do that. Forsaking the assembling of ourselves together. Hebrews 1025. We're not going to do that. The first century, the reasonable expectation of the first century Christians was they would go to church. They would sing praises to God. They would take communion Nothing would stop them. Not the Pestilence, not Pilate, not Claudius the Emperor, not Caesar, and we'll continue to this day. Praising him in song, worshiping, and breaking bread in remembrance of Christ. We'll continue to obey God rather than man. Will we not? I'm afraid we will. Beyond God you know another reason why we should do it It's a reasonable expectation of the world. The world would expect us, the believers. Let's not disappoint them. Doors of church are open, we're there. The doors of church are locked, we bust the lock off. We're there. We're there. Oh Lord, we just talked to you this morning and share with you what's on our hearts, what you've done for us. We're so grateful for the testimony of Christ that uh what's going on this last year has been uh just very detrimental to the church. It's hurt the church, it's hurt uh the support of the church, it's hurt the numbers of the church The boys brought some good ones out. So that's it's made it known to the world. The churches that mean business, the Christians that mean business, that we're still we are still something to be contended with. The only thing they haven't caught on to yet, Lord, is that we're small. Well we don't need but three hundred or less as Gideon. They may not fear us because we're small, but they should fear the God fearing man. That's the reasonable expectation that we are worth being considered and we should be feared when it comes to taking away our worship time. We will not stand for that. We pray this all in Christ's name for his glory. Amen.