I uh am laboring under a sore back and weary mind today, so I pray that uh today's lesson will not be hindered by the Weakness of the hose. But we're going to cover what I think are six reasons why the sun is better So if you will, open your Bibles to Hebrews chapter 1, and we'll be looking at verses 3 and 4 I truly would like to not drag too slow through the book of Hebrews. There are many fascinating and interesting sections to it, but these opening verses have just been so packed that they have arrested me and it just seems to be um unjust to whip over it so quickly. This is not something you would read in the front pages of the news. This is rather something that is unique in the universe, quite frankly. Well, from the first two verses we read God who at sundry times and diverse manners fake in time past unto the fathers by the prophets, hath in these last days spoken unto us by his Son, whom he has appointed heir of all things, by whom also he made the worlds. That was a broad scope of work that he had done. It's a very sun-centric introduction. Starting with that sun-centric introduction, We then get into six points about the sun, six noteworthy points. But I have a question before we get into it, so we'll begin to perhaps appreciate a little bit. You know, when you have a meal, you have an appetizer or something to kind of open the palate. get you ready for the rest of the meal and I have an opening question. It may seem a little off topic, but what are the kinds of things that people think about when they're trying to make a resume? What would you want to put on your resume? Skills. Skills? Sure, yeah, suction that list skills. What else might go on there? Qualifications. Qualifications, okay. What are other things that people tend to put on a resume? Experience. Ah, experience, yeah. Now in the experience section, what are the things that people try to put in there or rather you would hope to see put in there? Put yourself on the other side of the table. You're looking at somebody's resume. Accomplishments. What did they actually do? Something I would tell a lot of my uh employees uh as to how to write a good resume. I said, look, you're always looking for your next job And whether it's in the company or out, let me help you write your resume. And they appreciated that. Very few folks left my group because they liked the fact that, hey, if you better opportunity comes along, here to support you. And they're like, yeah, I don't want to hang on to this guy But in the accomplishment section you want to put what your responsibilities were, what were you responsible to do, and then you want to write down the specific concrete actions that you took. Now if you're part of the team, you better say you're a part of the team and what your role in that team was. Don't claim credit for the entire team. And then the very last point needs to be, and as a result, what goodness came from it. awards, promotions, letters of commendation from the customer. What came of it? What was the result of those things? That's a very powerful point to put in anytime you're making a resume. Just a free tip in case you're tuning yours up. Well, what we have here are the most relevant, the most important, and the most impressive acts of the Son of God Himself that he covers here in this opening part of Hebrews 1. So let's read 3 and 4. But to get an overview, then we'll go one at a time into the six reasons why the Sun is better. Speaking of the Sun in Hebrews 1. 3. Who being the brightness of his glory, and the express image of his person, and upholding all things by the word of his power, when he had by himself purged our sins, sat down on the right hand of the Majesty on high, being made so much better than the angels By whom? Oh, as he hath by inheritance obtained a more excellent name than they. It's quite a loaded uh sentence. It's actually only half of a sentence. I don't like to do this too often, but I was really struck with the particular Greek words used in this. So I'm going to kind of dive a little bit into that. Now I've never taken formal Greek. I looked it up just like those who teach Greek. Nobody is a native Greek speaker because nobody speaks Koine Greek today. So they're all looking it up. It's all been well documented. You can go to Strong's Concordance. There are all kinds of online tools to help you see what the words are. And in fact many of Greeks' words have made their way into the English language. And we'll see some of that today. That word glory is there is the word doxa. We get our word doxology from that. When we sing a doxology, we're singing a song of glory to the Lord The brightness of his glory, it says, speaking of Jesus Christ. He is the doxa. He's the brightness Of God's glory, the brightness, the effusion, the rays that are beaming out. He as that brightness. You know, there's a light bulb here in the kitchen. And as I look at that over the dining table, there's the bulb that's emanating some some lumens, but there's a brightness that's coming out. It says of Christ, he is that brightness You know, you, I'm sure, are familiar with the Mount of Transfiguration. I'll read the opening two verses of Matthew 17 in the Mount of Transfiguration. It says, After six days, Jesus taketh Peter, James, and John his brother. The three and bringeth them up into a mountain apart. It says a high mountain apart. And was transfigured before them, and his face did shine as the sun. That's mighty bright, folks. You can't look at the sun without being blinded. And his raiment was as white as the light. Every bit of him shone forth. So there was an earthly example. of the shining of the Lord Jesus Christ. You see, when he came here he laid his glory down. He turned off the light switch, as it were, because Moses, who saw God on the mountain and was hidden the cleft of the rock, even though he didn't see him face to face, but only the backside of him, just a portion of him When he came off the mountain, they had to put a veil over him, saying, You're too bright. Even that reflection, even Moses as a reflector of the glory of God, was too bright. Jesus is the brightness of his glory And 2 Corinthians 4. 6, your bulletin, by the way, in the insert does have all these verses. 2 Corinthians 4. 6, for God who commanded the light to shine out of the darkness. hath shined in our hearts to give the light of the knowledge of the glory of God. And where does that glory come from? It's in the face of Jesus Christ. Again, so the apostle picks up on this brightness as well and says that he is that The second reason why the sun is better is he is the express image of his person. And I'll tell you, as I looked at this one, the There's not a lot of passages in scripture that have caused the hair on the back of my neck to stand up that this one did. Even now, just thinking about it, I have the same goosebump kind of reaction. This is a fascinating section, folks. I don't know how the translators wrestled with this The express image, and that word image is a little bit marred in our language. It's not a wrong word, but I think we can up the gain on it. You know what that word image is? Character. It's the Greek word character. It's the same word that we have in our language, except we spell it with the second letter is C, the second C is a C. In Greek it's a K. He is the very character of God. If you want to know what God's character is, it's Jesus Christ. Have you thought about that? That's that's a that's a that's a very high standard to place. Uh and that word person, the express image of his person, used the express character of his person. That is a uh the word hypostat uh hypostasis. Uh literally it's confidence. I mean it's rendered confidence many a time. Uh it's literally ofstanding. Hypo And then stasis. Stasis establish you to stand on something, hypo of standing, using the court of law. You come into the court, do you have standing in that court? Some cases are thrown out of a court on technical reasons, meaning you don't have any standing. You're you have a issue at the federal level, you're coming to the state. We can't deal with that matter? Do you have standing? So if you go into a court of law and you have standing, you have confidence, right? I know I can argue my case here. I have a right to be here. I have standing here. So that's that word confidence Right? When you're in the right, you're on that moral high ground. He is the express character of his confidence. We we use the term hypostatic fluid. That term has come over into the medical community. It means the stuff that settles at the bottom If you have a bunch of fluids, it's the stuff that goes all the way down to the bottom. It's the standing, that that which you stand on. This word is used several times in the book of Hebrews. It shows up in Hebrews 3. 14. We are made partakers of Christ if we hold the beginning of our confidence. steadfast unto the end. That word confidence here is rendered person. Hebrews 11. 1 now faith is the substance of things hoped for, substantive. Things that sink to the bottom, they're substantive. They've got gravitas, they've got weight. And what strikes me about this is that you could say that God's confidence comes from Jesus Christ. The confidence of God? Can we really speak that way? That's what he's saying here. That God's character is defined by Jesus Christ. He is the character definer of God. Jesus is that very character of God. And I don't know, you know, the efforts that men have had over the ages, theologians, to try to articulate the Trinity. I believe have unfortunately rendered in our minds somewhat of a pecking order. Because we always start with God the Father. Even the confessional statements start with God the Father. And then there's a statement about God the Son. And then for a couple of hundred years God the Holy Spirit got short shrift, wasn't even mentioned. And then later as the uh uh Chalcedon creeds and other Nicene and the Nicene Creed and the Chalcedon were revised, they said, Well we can't we have to round out the Holy Spirit. But there's somewhat we think of Father one, Son, two, Holy Spirit three. Oh no, no, no. Oh no, no, no. Jesus Christ is the very character of God. He is the express character. of his standing, of his confidence. God Almighty is confident because of Jesus Christ. Have you ever thought of it that way? I've never thought of it that way. So I hope in your thinking that kind of pushes the sun up the ladder a little bit in your thinking. I hope it it it really underscores who we're talking about. And then the third reason why the sun is better. It says he is upholding all things by the word of his power. What is the normal Greek word for the word Word. Like in the beginning was the word, the word was with God. What's the normal Greek word? You all sort of have some familiarity with it. Logos. Yeah, logos. You would normally think that's not the word here. This is not logos Logos is very personal, but this is Rhema. Rhema is the spoken word. It can be spoken by Caesar, by a crowd, by you, an individual, the Rhema. It says he upholds, and that word uphold means to bear up, it's also the word bring. But he He brings he bears up all things through his spoken word. Not through his very person, but by the virtue of the fact that he spoke. God spake. That's what the whole Book starts with God, dot dot dot, spake in time past of the Father's, after these last days spoken unto us by his son See this is a very word-centric introduction. Speaking, speaking, speaking, do you hear the word? It's powerful He says he upholds all things. And that word upholding is a fascinating term. Let's kind of round that out. What does it mean to uphold all things? You know, we could say our government upholds things. It keeps some measure of social order in place through rules and regulations. You might think of Jesus as that uh king is because he set up certain rules in place that he's governing and oh no no no. Yes he's a governor, but that's not how he's doing it That word uphold is very interesting. For instance, look in Matthew 14. We can take a little trip through Matthew 14 where that word uphold is found in the text. In Matthew 14, 10, we have the Gory account where the uh beloved prophet John, the last of the Old Testament prophets. uh at this uh pagan dance festival for the birthday of uh of Herod, one of two birthdays listed in scriptures, both of them on bad grounds. Says he beheaded John in the prison. What a wonderful thing to have noted on your birthday. Yep, I beheaded John the Baptist on my birthday. He'll regret that through all eternity. And it says his head was brought up hold bare up, was brought in a charger. Now it's a gory thing, but uh here's the man's head. They stuck it in a charger. There it is. They're bringing it to them. Okay. Can that head move by itself? Well even the evolutionists I don't think would be able to stretch that far to say the head could Sprout new legs and walk over there. And the charger was given to the damsel, and she again brought it to her mother. That's that word brought that's that word uphold Okay. You see later in Matthew 14, verse 17, where uh there's a multitude and there's a lot of healing that's going on, and he's been preaching, and they're hungry And the boy says, we have here but five loaves and two fishes. He said, Bring them, bring those five loaves and two fishes. Bring them to me. Again, you've got Loaves and fishes. Bring them the loaf and the fish. The loaf doesn't walk over on its own. The fish doesn't swim over its own dry land. It's dead and cooked. That's the sense here Where he upholds all things by the word of his power. Matthew 17, a few chapters later, have mercy on me, on my son, Matthew 17, 15. Have mercy on my son, for he's a lunatic There's a man coming to him. My son is is not in his right mind. Jesus says, How long shall I suffer you? Bring him hither to me. The lunatic can't operate normally. He's out of his mind This passage in Hebrews twelve tells us that he upholds all things. By the word of his power. In other words, his ability to uphold things is like the universe is to him but a dead thing apart from his upholding power. It's dead. This universe would collapse and be utterly lifeless. You know, I've done a lot of bulletin inserts because it fascinates me about biology. A recent doctor visit Angela and I had, he started spouting all some evolutionary nonsense. I happened to know what he was talking about and I hit him back with it. Nope. ATP doesn't generate on its own because you got ATP synthase. That's an engine, boss. Gotta set him back on his heels a little bit. When things die, they immediately decay. They immediately fall into disarray. They immediately can't You you can't jump start it to get it going back again. Not like I got a car. We got some motor motorheads in here who can take very old vehicles and replace this. Replace that part, replace the other thing, fashion a few new ones. You can get it going again. Not so with a living thing. No one has ever resurrected a dead body except he who upholds all things by the word of his power, because he can. And it's by his word. Okay? This universe is nothing but one big dead thing compared to Jesus' power. With him without him upholding it all, none of it functions. If you ever go visit and I would love to do this actually, people say you want to go to Israel? No, I want to go to Luxor. I want to go to Egypt. I want to see the Egyptian temples there because they're quite fascinating. At the temples of Luxor, where Pharaoh was, it was one of his homes Is the picture of the Pharaoh himself, and he's on this big boat, and his hands are up in the sky, and underneath his hands is the sun, the moon, and the stars. And so, just to show you how far politics can go, just to show you how stupid people can be, just to show you how men can really be twisted into thinking ridiculous nonsense. The Egyptians, now these are peoples who have a very multi-thousand year history, right? As a nation, they've been around for a mighty, mighty, mighty long time, far more than the US. Believe that Pharaoh's job was to keep the sun, the moon, and the stars going. Don't bother Pharaoh. He's got big stuff to do And if he doesn't show up in his job, the the moon will fall down, the sun will go out, it's Pharaoh's job. In other words, he was deifying himself He was describing to himself those attributes that God himself alone has. He literally upholds all things, but not with his hand. By the word of his power. He's even more powerful than Pharaoh could have imagined. Pharaoh needed his arms. God just spoke it He didn't need to exercise his muscles. He just spoke it. You see how powerful he's listed as. Colossians 1. 17. He is before all things, and by him all things confessed. Consist is not the word exist. There's a consistency. You ladies make a kick. You're looking for a certain consistency. How it comes together into the way that it's supposed to be. By him all things. And you can wrap as much around that word all as you can possibly imagine. You know, it says the same that that phrase uh to uh uh uh to to uphold, to bear up. You know where else that word shows up in 2 Peter 121, which speaks about the word of God. For the prophecy came, bare up, brought, came not in old time by the will of man. Man didn't bear this thing up. He's unable to do it But holy men of God spake as they were moved, upheld, bared up by the Holy Ghost. You see, God absolutely knows his word is waiting. Mere man cannot hold it. God Almighty has to hold him up to bring forth that word. That's why you see all throughout the Old Testament the prophets would say the burden of the word of the Lord. Those of you involved in ministry understand what it is. The burden of the word of the Lord. It is a heavy message and sometimes it is so heavy It's like, Lord, I'm not so sure I really want to give it to these people today because they'll surely stone me. They will surely reach back out and get me. That was word, that spoken word By the word of his power, that's not authority. That's the word dunamis. We get our word dynamite from that. That explosive, that power, that raw energy and strength Jeremiah 23 puts it this way, Is not my word like as a fire, saith the Lord? And like a hammer that breaketh a rock in pieces? Of course it is! Of course it's that powerful. And of course In Luke 4, man shall not live by bread alone, but by every word of God. That's the word Rhema. That's the spoken word. That's not Logos. That's Rhema. Everything that proceeds out of the mouth of God. is the idea here. They were all amazed and spake among themselves, saying, What a word is this! What a rama! What a word is this! What a spoken word is this! For with authority and power he commandeth the unclean spirits, and they come out. the power of that word. Just that spoken word. This isn't a metaphysical thing. This is a real thing. When God Almighty speaks, planets rend in half. People stop living. Things start living. You know, when Jesus came into the triumphal entry, make thy disciples to be quiet. Make these children to be quiet. He says, oh, if these didn't cry out, even the rocks would cry out right now. Because they know their master. They were created by God. Even they would cry out. What a word of power. Three reasons. Those are three things in his resume so far. Let's keep going. What else do we find? There's no stopping the utterance of God. He speaks, it lives, he condemns, it dies. A boy came into existence because God spoke. There's countless couples that would desire to have children. Not gonna happen. God speaks the word, Mama will have one, two, three. I read a of a woman who had six babies at one time. I'm sure there was some interesting play with the number of embryos to stimulate in her womb. But that's pretty astounding. Still, God had to speak. It says in verse uh the la middle part of verse 3, it says by himself. Purged our sins. And frankly, this is the most amazing work of all. By himself. That's a very big phrase right there. That word purged is an interesting word. It means to bear. or to avenge. You know, you um uh when people become very wealthy and very powerful and very famous, they learn to circle themselves with people much like a hashureris who had uh a hundred and twenty seven governors over the provinces or uh and so he could let that governor bear the brunt of things. In Daniel's king he had twelve that were below him, lest the king should be chargeable in anything, I think is the language used. I may have that incorrectly. But in other words, uh the these are the fall guys. They're responsible. But if there was a bullet coming from the king, you're going down, not me And so they surround themselves with people who will bear the offense of the king. They will be the bearer. They will be the sin bearer. We use it as the word scapegoat, which again is a biblical term, but the idea is you're taking the hit. Here it says by himself, purged, bare, he bore, by himself, alone. This was all illustrated in the Old Testament sacrifices and ablutions in Luke 2. 22. Speaking of Mary, when the days of her purification, according to the law of Moses, were accomplished, they brought him to Jerusalem to present him to the Lord. She had to be purified. She had to be purged. Well the implied implication is that She needed to follow the law of Moses and she wasn't high, holy, and clean as people make her out to be. She just needed to have this purification, it was a ritual purification. 2 Corinthians 5. 21. And I'm not going to go over all the Old Testament sacrifices and water ablutions and blood ablutions and sprinkling and so forth. Those things you're familiar with. 2 Corinthians 5. 21 are one of my most favorite passages in all scripture, the best way to describe imputation, double imputation in fact. He says, He that is God hath made him that is Jesus to be sin for us who knew no sin. God made him to be sin. It's not that Jesus Christ is now as sinful and wicked as you and I, it means he is the bearer. He is the sin offering. Because remember his body saw no corruption in the grave, and so he rose up There was no reason for his body to go corrupt because it was not sinful. So when it says he became sin, he was the bearer, he bore our sins, right? He who knew no sin became sin for us, that we might be made the righteousness of God in him. Likewise, you're not his picture-perfect righteous in your day-to-day walk and life as Jesus Christ, but you were viewed that way from heaven. And so far as the accounting, the record book of God goes, you were viewed that way from heaven. There are strange ways in the stock market to technically own a piece of stock without owning it. There are things where there's called synthetic positions where you can actually own a piece of stock without owning it. I don't know how that works. I just know that it exists. But there is a way in the accounting books, and it's all legal, all up and up. that you can technically own a stock and perform options on it without actually owning it. Even so, in an ac in heaven's accounting mechanism, and I'm not saying Wall Street is modeled after the Bible. It's not. I'm just trying to use that as an example, probably a poor example, because there's probably only one person here who understands what I'm saying. But insofar as heaven is concerned, God Almighty looks down and sees the righteousness of Jesus Christ in you. That's what it means to be a sin bearer. He's taken all the penalty, he's given you all his righteousness. And this is amazing. It's amazing because I think about what is required to do that. I'm going to share with you something I've shared before, and I hope I I footstrop this a lot so you say, oh yeah, I remember Brother Vince saying this, because I think this is a good thing to remember. And I've not heard others say it, and I'm not bragging about myself. God gave me some insight into it. And I think it was one of my girls that pointed this out to me actually. And I connected some dots. What does it say in Psalm 8 in your handout? It says, When I consider thy heavens, the work of what? Thy fingers. The moon and the stars. How much work can you do, not with your hands, but with your fingers? What kind of work can you do with your fingers? What kind of work is done with fingers? What do you do? You can write point So a little bit of sewing. Right. Have you ever gotten real sweaty from working all day long with your fingers? Just fingers? I I mean you work with your fingers. You're at a keyboard. You're pecking the keyboard, right? Now your sweat is mental. It's all inside, right? That's where the blood, sweat, and tears shows up at, yank. The work of thy fingers. Now, what did God fingers create? The moon. The stars. That moon, that same moon that you and I look at is the moon that Abraham looked at when he walked on this earth. Adam looked at that very same moon you and I look at. He saw the same thing That moon continually facing us, we've never seen the backside of the moon, and it continually goes in its circuit by the word of his power. That was the work of God's fingers. He made the moon. The stars. How many stars are there? We don't know. Scientist tells you how many stars are up? No, no, you're off by one. I guarantee you, you're off by one. You haven't counted them all. You're guessing The the fingers are also the element of precision. You you can't be you can't do details with this. No. But use your fingers. Fingers. All this in the heavens that we see, these grandiose things, work of his fingers. But when it comes to real work, what is the kind of work that God Almighty is going to do that's going to cause him to sweat? What causes God to sweat? Well, you read that in Luke twenty two. The Lord Jesus. His sweat was, as it were Great drops of blood falling down to the ground. Already he's becoming a sin bearer. To bear your sins caused God Almighty to sweat. It was more work to the Father, more work to the Son. to pay for your sins, than to create all of the cosmos around you. You understand what kind of work that is? That's a mighty, mighty, mighty big work. And sweat itself is part of the curse. And sweat is it's clear that he was coming under part of the by the sweat of your brow you shall eat bread, and so he's coming under the curse. Good observation, absolutely. So Jesus Christ is the only sin cleanser in the universe, not Mary, not your works, not a deified saint, not you. Question, folks. What might be implied if someone said, Jesus plus someone else is needed to purge our sins? What is the implication? Jesus sacrifice wasn't enough. Yeah, what Jesus did wasn't enough. It just wasn't enough. It went pretty far. But it was insufficient. You see how much of a And isn't that also saying that man can then do something that Christ couldn't do? It says man can do something that Jesus couldn't do, or wasn't willing to do, or was out of sync with what the Father's will is, or he didn't fulfill what the Father wanted to do? Do you see how blasphemous of a statement that is? Oh, but Mary. No. The Mary the Roman Catholics speaking about is not the Mary of the Bible. They have invented a Mary of their own imagination, because the Mary they speak about does not exist in this book. They may point to a name that says Mary in this book, but they're not talking about the Mary of the Bible. The Mary of the Bible rejoiced in God her Savior. The Mary in the Bible had children. Mary in the Bible is a sinner. She pondered these things in her heart. She didn't have a clue about the nature of the Son of God. She was clueless. Well, if he's the mother of God, how is she so clueless? As to what her son is doing and what his purpose is. There's many, many reasons to point out why the Mary of the Bible, who was blessed among women indeed, gave it rather blessed are those who hear the word of God and keep it And the Mary that said to the servants, whatsoever he saith, do it. That's the Mary of this Bible, of this book. But that the Mary, the Roman Catholics have, is a pagan God. She is a deified individual that the Bible knows nothing about and is a fictitious of man. And it's a conflation of pagan Indian theology with the with the scriptures. All right, fifth point. It says we read in the last part of Hebrews 1. 3 that he sat down on the right hand of the Majesty on high. Now, I found a better verse than the one that's printed in your handout, and that's in Acts 2. 34, and you know this one, speaking about the Son of God. David is not ascended into the heavens, but he saith himself The Lord said unto my Lord, Sit thou in my right hand till I make thy enemies thy footstool. Therefore, God hath made that same Jesus whom ye have crucified both Lord and Christ. Sitting down points to something. What does sitting down imply? There's a couple of things I've got in mind. Oh, very good. Resting. Sitting down implies rest. What else does it imply? Completion of the task. Yeah. Work's finished. Work's finished. You know what else it implies? It implies he's enthroned as the king of kings. You know, when the king is seated, who sits in this seat? Who sits in the chair? The scribes and Pharisees sit in Moses' seat. It's not that there's anything magical about the seat itself. It is a position of authority. We respect the office. It says in certain government meetings you have the chair of this meeting, the chair of the Department of So-and-So. We're not talking about a physical four-legged piece of wood. We're talking about somebody who has a seat of authority. That's what Jesus Christ has. He is seated. He is seated at the right hand of Majesty You know what's interesting in the Old Testament tabernacle, getting back to this idea of the completed work? Henry Mahan pointed this out to me years ago. I'm sorry, I've got an itchy nose at the moment. Doesn't mean I'm lying. What was some of the furniture in the Old Testament tabernacle? What was the stuff that was in there? Remember some of the things that were in the. In the tabernacle. There are people that had to carve and make these things. Candlesticks. There's some candlesticks. There was a table, table of showbread, candlesticks there. No, there wasn't a gu. God was there. Close. Maybe that's what you're trying to say. Yeah. He wasn't furniture. He was the real stuff. You know what wasn't in the tabernacle? A chair. Because the priest's work was never finished It was never finished. They had to keep offering sacrifices again and again and again because those animal sacrifices were insufficient. When he had by himself purged their sins He sat down. The work is done. It's totally done. There ain't nothing left to be done. It's finished. There's no homework assignment. He didn't say, well Marissa will carry the rest of the ball down to finish the deal. No, it's it's not it's finished. What did he say on the cross? It is finished. He didn't say it's halfway finished. He didn't say Mary, take it on home He didn't say Lena, you got some work to do. He didn't say that. He said it is finished. It's finished. He sat down. He's enthroned as King of Kings. He is the ruler and the sovereign of the universe. He's purchased a people for himself And then we get to verse four, where it says, being made so much better Then the angel as he hath by inheritance obtained a more excellent name than they. I apologize in your handout, I think I put the word angles there, it's supposed to be the word angels. Can't spell right, either that or I find that Microsoft doesn't like theological terms on one and uh keeps changing things up a lot, so it probably uh messed up my uh I should have cut and paste rather than typing that one. He hath by inheritance obtained a more excellent name than they. Now next week we're going to talk about angels because that really the rest of the section of Hebrews chapter 1 is going to talk about angels. We're not going to talk about it right now And we talked about inheritance last week, that he is he inherits all things because he has done this great work. He inherits and we're joint heirs with him. We join into that. But I am going to reveal a word that's very common throughout the book of Hebrews. It is a very common word. It shows up over, looks to be about eight, nine times. That's the word better. That is a highlight word and a highlight term throughout the book of Hebrews. If you have a Bible and you do not mind marking your Bible, whenever you find that word, better You highlight it and everything in that context. Let's just do a little brief review and I've written it down for you in your little handout He's better than the angels. How powerful is an angel? I'd like to have one on my side. I'd like to have one here permanently stationed at the Cluth House. For all I know I may. Can't see him. Because one angel destroyed the entire Assyrian army, obliterated it. Obliterated it. Didn't seem to sweat much either. Wasn't too difficult. It was a pair of angels that utterly obliterated Sodom and Gomorrah so that it was never built back again. It couldn't be. It was wiped off the map completely. We're still debating exactly where it's at. Angels. He's better than angels. He's better. Hebrews seven says he's he's bringing in a better hope A better hope, there was a hope in the Old Testament of the One to Come. But he is a better hope. How do you improve on hope? I mean, if you have a good hope, that's great, but you've got a better hope in Jesus Christ. It doesn't matter what your hope is for right now. Oh, I hope the stock market goes up because I've got some investments. Yeah, but I've got a better hope. Oh, I hope to meet a fine spouse someday. Yeah, but you got a better hope in Christ. Not against spouses, but you got a better hope. He'll never be to you what he should be, and she'll never be to you what you dream she could be, but you have a better hope in Christ A better hope. Oh, I hope to get a good job. Oh, but Jesus Christ is better. He's a better hope in so many ways He's the mediator of a better covenant. Moses had a covenant in the Old Testament. God gave him one. It was a God-given covenant. And God came along and said, But I'm going to make a better covenant. God improved upon his covenant. It was a better covenant. Why? Because it was established upon better promises. It was anchored upon the obedience of the Son, not upon the obedience of man. Better. Better. You see that's a big word? It's a big word. Better The heavenly were purified with better sacrifices. Oh yes, blood of bulls and goats had to be accomplished, had to be done But Jesus' sacrifice is so much better because it purged your sins completely. Once. One act. And that has all kinds of ramifications. That means God knows the sins you have committed and he knows the sins you will commit. And he says, that doesn't matter, I'll pay for them all. Shall we send the grace may abound? Oh no, he'll send forth his spirit into you, and your stomach will tie into a massive knot when you seek to offend against the Son of God Better sacrifices. Hebrews 11 says we're going to go to a better country. You complain about our country? Yeah, it's rotten. And it's getting more rotten every day, and it's going to keep getting rotten. Because no country, the crown does not endure to every generation. It does not, folks. God's got a better country for you. A better country. They're those who are going to attain a better resurrection A better resurrection. Yeah, they have a resurrection and life. Eternal life. There are those who have a resurrection and eternal damnation. I'm telling you, one of them is better than the other. God has provided some better thing for us. After having read all this, if it says the scriptures, God provided something better for us. Boy, sometimes the Lord speaks an understatement, a better thing. And he's the mediator of a better covenant Of blood of sprinkling that speaketh better things than that of Abel. And so I conclude just that half a sentence in the book of Hebrews I hope your opinion of the supremacy of Jesus Christ has vastly improved. He's the very character of God. He's the express image of this person. He upholds everything with the word of his power. This is This is what's on Jesus' resume. What's on Mary's? Does she have a fraction of these things? That does she uphold all things by the word of her power? Do they even claim that? Are they even audacious enough to claim that? So you want to argue with a Catholic? Do you take them to Hebrews 1-3 and say, does Mary do these things? Does she? Oh, but we're Baptists. We believe in full immersion. Let me ask you about your baptism. Does it does it do these things? Does it? It's just a sign. It's all it is. Why are you hung up in the amount of water? Let them stand out in the rain if you think baptism is a big deal. Let God baptize them. If you're that excited about water. Hebrews 1 3 I think answers a whole lot of questions for a whole lot of heretics, and you get them around the subjects and the things that God's concerned about. And you get them talking about the things that God cares about, and you get them excited about the things that God's excited about, they might come to God's Christ, and they might come to God's gospel. So, I hope you enjoy that. Brother Ann, uh Ivon, would you close us a prayer? Dear Heavenly Father, Lord, we do praise thee, Lord, for all thy works, the works of thy finger, Lord, the works of thy outstretched hand, Lord. Ultimate work and sacrifice of our Lord Jesus Christ to shed his blood for the remission of our sins, Lord, and Father, the salvation of our soul. Lord, uh all the benefits that come with that work, Lord. Uh better hope, better promises, better resurrection, Lord. We thank you, Lord, genuinely for uh the life that thou hast granted us, even life eternal, and Lord, uh We ask that we would continue to seek thee in thy word daily, Lord, to grow thereby, to sanctify, Lord, and to conform to the image of Christ. Until today, Lord, that you do call us to yourself. And uh we do thank you and ask this Lord in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen.