Open in your Bible with me this morning, please, to the book of Jude. And we don't typically say Jude chapter 1 because Jude only has one chapter, but uh Jude chapter 1 if you like to express it that way. And we're going to consider this morning verses 6 and 7. And I'll also be reading from 2 Peter 2 verses 4 to 9. Now I know your bulletin says 9 to 14, and that is also my error. I gave the information incorrectly to Brother Vince and did not realize it until this morning when I was reviewing my notes. But turn with me first of all to Jude And we're going to read verses six and seven, and then turn back just a few pages in your Bible to 2 Peter, and there we'll read chapter 2, verses 4 through 9. Jude verse six. And the angels which kept not their first estate But left their own habitation, he hath reserved in everlasting chains under darkness unto the judgment of the great day. Even as Sodom and Gomorrah, and the cities about them in like manner giving themselves over to fornication. and going after strange flesh are set forth for an example, suffering the vengeance of eternal fire. And then turn back to 2 Peter, probably just four or five leaves, four or five pages in your Bible. 2 Peter chapter 2, and there I'll begin in verse 4. For if God spared not the angels that sinned, but cast them down into hell and delivered them into chains of darkness to be reserved unto judgment, and spared not the old world, but saved Noah, the eighth person, a preacher of righteousness. bringing in the flood upon the world of the ungodly, and turning the cities of Sodom and Gomorrah into ashes, condemned them with an overthrow making them an example unto those that after should live ungodly. And delivered a just slot, vexed with the filthy conversation of the wicked. For that righteous man, dwelling among them in seeing and hearing, vexed his righteous soul from day to day with their unlawful deeds. The Lord knoweth how to deliver the godly out of temptation, and to reserve the unjust unto the day of judgment to be. Punished. Let us bow for prayer as we approach the most holy word of God. Oh Father, this morning, the passages before us are grave passages. They speak of judgment. They express to us the wrath of God. And yet, in the midst of them, we find amazing mercy. For you know how to deliver the godly. Father, help us today. For Lord, I, with stumbling lips and a feeble mind, will try to expound upon thy word, as you have directed your servants so to do. And yet, Lord, you've chosen the foolishness of preaching, but it is your spirit that brings truth, not the lips of man. And the lips of man are prone to error and to misspeaking. But this word before us is without error. And so, Father, may your spirit overrule the foolishness of a man's lips, and may your spirit impart truth to the hearts of the hearers. And Father, may your Spirit be the true preacher in our midst today. May your Spirit expound truth to our hearts. May your Spirit open our eyes to spiritual things. And through your word, may we, your people, be edified, may the lost sheep be convicted, and may the rebel be condemned And Lord, we pray these things in Jesus' name. Amen. We've been studying in this book of Jude, and I hope you're enjoying the study a fraction as much as I have been enjoying it. And I hope you're being fed by this study a fraction as much as I've been fed by it. It's been exciting for me, and uh I I have just thoroughly enjoyed meditating on these verses. I have um Mention to some of you that that I that my preaching many times is sort of a shotgun method, that I you know, this broad. And there's some painters that paint landscapes And there's other painters that paint things in great detail, and I've always tended to take the broad view, but we've been kind of taking a different approach to Jude and And getting down into the nitty-gritty and examining it a verse at a time. And I preface what we're going to look at today by saying that, because if we as we read through This book of Jude. We find here that the two illustrations we're going to look at this morning, that of the angels which fell. And of Sodom and Gomorrah are actually the third in line of three that are set out as examples of those that rebelled against God. The first being Israel in the wilderness. They left Egypt, but they perished in the wilderness because they did not believe. And then we have Sodom and Gomorrah, and then we have or sorry, then we have the angels that fell, and then we have Sodom and Gomorrah. This morning we're just looking at two of them. And so I hope it doesn't seem that I'm kind of pulling them out and taking them from their context, because there is that larger context, but we examined Israel last week. And this week we're going to look at the angels that fell and at Sodom and Gomorrah. Last week we saw that all Israel came out of Egypt, but all Israel did not believe. We saw that all Israel had the law of God, but all Israel did not believe. And we saw that all Israel, the whole company that came out of Egypt, participated in the worship of the tabernacle. But they did not believe. And out of those 600,000 men that marched through the Red Sea, only two of them ever entered the Promised Land. What a great warning that was to us. But that brings us to verse 6, where we find an example of absolute and total rebellion against God. And I say absolute and total rebellion against God. Is there any other kind? Is any rebellion a partial rebellion? Rebellion against God is rebellion against God. And the children of Israel in the wilderness that perished from their unbelief, it was rebellion against God God. But we find in verse six, the angels which kept not their first estate But left their own habitation he hath reserved in everlasting chains under darkness unto the judgment of the great day. Now, a few introductory considerations before we look at these angels that rebelled against God and Sodom and Gomorrah that rebelled against God. First of all, God has ordained and established his order in creation in the Garden of Eden When God created the earth, he ordained and he established his order of the universe. He divided the light from the darkness. That's the distinction. He divided the waters above from the waters beneath. That's a distinction. He created man, male, and female. That's a distinction. He created angels And he created man. That's a distinction. God, from the very beginning, created a world of order and distinction. That's the first principle that we have to posit as truth. As we begin to look at this passage. Secondly, God is the creator, and it is his prerogative to set order and distinction In other words, this was not arbitrary, nor was it outside of God's authority to separate light from darkness, the waters above from the waters beneath And to make man and Eve Eve. It was his prerogative. That's right. It was his royal and just right. Thirdly, Satan from the very beginning has tried to disrupt God's ordained order. Okay, so that's the third one. The first one, God established order at creation. Secondly, it's God's prerogative to establish order. And thirdly, Satan has tried from the beginning to disrupt God's order. Satan came into the garden, and what was the first words we have recorded from him saying? Hath God sent? He doubted. He questioned God's order. And how did Satan, who was an angel of light, become who we know today of as Satan? He rebelled against God. And in Satan's rebellion, he led a third of the angels to rebel along with him. And then Satan comes into the garden. And he tempts Eve to sin, and mankind followed in the same type of rebellion as a third of the angels. They rebelled against God. And so May verses six and verses seven Of Jude stand for us as a warning to those who would rebel against God. Now we read there in verse six that the angels which kept not their first estate And once again, as it seems so often is the case, the Sunday school lesson and the morning message, which Vince and I do not coordinate on these at all, flow right into each other. Remember in scripture we were talking about keeping God's word and we were saying that to keep doesn't mean to do It means to preserve. It means to maintain. It means to cherish. It means to consider something to be of great value. And these angels that we read of in verse 6 of Jude did not keep their first estate. They were created. Beings. They were created for the purpose of glorifying God and being his messengers. What a glorious thing! Can you imagine? Can you imagine the privilege of standing with those angels that cry, holy, holy, holy, Lord God Almighty Can you imagine what a glorious thing that was? But they didn't value it. They didn't keep it Rather, they, created in perfect holiness, wanted more. You see, God did not create the angels to be gods. God created them to be angels He created them to worship him. He created them to be his messengers, his servants. But what did they want? Well, Satan wanted to be like God You see, Satan, Lucifer, a created being, wanted to be like the uncreated son of God. He wanted to be like the second person of the Trinity, who is not created, but who is eternal, who is and was and always shall be. You see, God establish an order. You are an angel. These are your responsibilities. And Satan said, I don't like the order you've established. I don't like how you have made me. Remember, shall the potter, so the clay say to the potter, Why hast thou made me thus? Satan did not like the estate. that God had established. Satan did not like the order in which God had placed him. Satan did not like the role that God had given him. Satan Lucifer self identified as God. He self-identified as God. He was not God, but he thought he should have been God. And so he said, Hey, I can do that. I'm God. And so he goes into the art garden and he begins to tell Eve things that only God could tell her. Only God could say Eve, okay, it's e it's okay. Go ahead and eat the apple. Or whatever fruit. God said don't, only God could say do. But Satan, who was not God, assumed for himself an identity that was not his. And the reason was he didn't like the way God made him. He did not like the role in which God had placed him. The clay said to the potter, you didn't make me right. There you go. You made me this and I should have been that. And I know I look like this, but actually I'm that. And so these angels created with impeccable holiness They rebelled against their state. They didn't keep it. They didn't preserve it. They didn't value it. Look down to verses twenty and twenty-one of Jude, chapter one, as comparison. But ye, beloved, building up yourselves on your most holy faith, praying in the Holy Ghost. Keep yourselves in the love of God. Cherish your relationship with God Protect it. Preserve it. Don't let anything get in the way of it. Don't let anything pollute it. Don't let anything get into this relationship that will destroy it. Keep yourselves in the love of God, looking for mercy, the mercy of our Lord Jesus Christ unto eternal life. But these angels, they didn't keep their first estate. They didn't keep and preserve the way in which God had made them. And so they rebelled against God, and rebellion is as the sin of witchcraft. But then there's more These angels left their own habitation. They didn't keep their first estate. And they left their own habitation. Now this word habitation is fascinating. This is one of the things that that I had never perceived in this passage until I started reading some of the commentaries and and thinking about habitation and and comparing This word it's exciting. It's fresh and new to me. Not that it's new truth. It's just my feeble mind had never had never seen it before. What's a habitation? Well, it's a dwelling place. It's where you live. We have some real estate agents in our congregation. It's a place where you live. This word habitation, hold on, it means house. Duh, you know, we should have should have known that before, but yeah, there it means house. Okay Let me show you that word again in another passage. Second Corinthians five, verses one and two, for we know if our earthly house of this tabernacle were dissolved. We have a building of God, and house not made with hands, eternal in the heaven. For in this we groan, earnestly desiring to be clothed upon with our house, which is from heaven. What do we find about the angels that are still in righteousness with God? Remember when the women come to the tomb on the morning of the resurrection and there are two men in white garments. And what is the image of angels that we find in Scripture when they're revealed to be angels? There's a glowing appearance to them. That's their habitation. That's the house in which they dwell. That is where they live. And today we live in this house, according to Scripture. But someday we'll have a new house in heaven. They'll have a new body. And in this one we groan. But these angels who were clothed in the glory of God in shining garments, we find them. But they left that behind. And then again, to to step outside of scripture, because scripture doesn't give us a picture of demons in this way, but when we think of The evil, the demons that inhabit this world, they're always thought of as darkness. Clothed in darkness. These angels left the glory of God for the darkness. They left the shining garments that we find them in at the tomb. For darkness. It's not a good trade, folks. True. And these are ensembles to us. These are to stand as a warning for us. Because as the children of God, He's taken away our filthy robes of sin and clothed us in robes of righteousness. Remember verse 20 and 21: Keep yourselves in the love of God. Don't let your robe of righteousness get soiled again with the filth of this world. These angels. They left their own habitation. When they sinned, they were stripped of the glorious righteousness of God. And all they had left was darkness. All they had left was sin. And yet Mankind suffered the same fate, didn't he? What happened to Adam and Eve in the garden? The glory of God was taken away from them and suddenly they realized they were naked. You see, when God first made man, Adam and Eve, made them man and woman, we write that they they were both naked and they were not ashamed. The glory of God was the only covering they needed. But when they sinned, the glory of God was taken away from them, and now we have to get some fig leaves. But the fig leaves could not cover their nakedness. For when God comes into the garden, Adam and Eve are clothed in fig leaves. And God says, Why did you hide yourselves? And Adam says, I knew that I was naked. No, you weren't. You had fig leaves. But his fig leaves could not cover. His fidleaves, any covering that man makes for himself, could not cover. But God killed a lamb, shed the blood of a lamb, and out of that he made covering of skins. Can you imagine going from the glory of God to covering of skins? How much like the angels that were clothed in light and now are bound in chains of darkness. And there's more, because remember we saw there in 1 Corinthians that our house is our temple, our dwelling in which we are, and Adam and Eve Before they sinned, were in immortal bodies. But in the day ye eat thereof, thou shalt surely die. And when they sinned, they lost the immortality of the house in which God had created them. And they began from that very moment to die. Ever have a thorn in your finger? Or a splinter? Adam never did before. But oh he does now. Yeah. Oh he does now. I won't ask you to raise your hand if you have arthritis. But every one of us above 20 years old. Oh, and it gets worse day by day. Adam didn't know that until he sinned. And so these angels, they left their habitation. The thirty of these angels. Hath he, he hath, God hath reserved in everlasting chains under darkness. Think again to Isaiah, where those cherubim and seraphim around the throne are crying out the glory and majesty of God. And compare that with the demoniac of the Gadderenes who say, don't send us out into nothingness, send us into the swine. While their brethren are still at the throne. Prime holy, holy, holy. But they fear being sent into vacancy. They fear being sent into nothingness. And so they choose swine rather than that. And all we must remind you of the prodigal son who would have fain filled his belly with the husk that the swine did eat. Oh, it's the lowest form, but I'll take it because it's better than the alternative. These angels, God has reserved. Does God ever miss a reservation? Does God ever reserve anything that is not reserved? No. They're reserved in everlasting chains. It is very popular in the church today to say that hell is not truly hell, that eternity is not truly eternity, that that annihilation of the soul has become a very popular doctrine in some circles that the soul goes to hell and it's instantly burned off. There's no eternity of suffering. That's not what it says. Everlasting chains. And we find in Scripture, in Matthew 25. Then shall he say also to them on his left hand, Depart from me, ye cursed, into everlasting fire prepared for the devil and his angels. You see, the fire of hell to which man goes was not made for man. It was made for the devil and his angels, and it is eternal. It was made for the angels. And if you're going to say that man doesn't go to an eternal hell, you're going to also say that the angels don't go to an eternal hell, and you're also going to say that Satan is just going to be annihilated. But that's not what scripture teaches anywhere. You can't have one without the other. And so They're reserved in everlasting chains. And that word chains there is the same chains again we find with the demoniac of the gathering where they had bound him with feathers and chains they had plucked them from him. He Could pluck away earthly chains, but these are not earthly chains. These are chains which cannot be plucked away. You see the contrast. These are everlasting chains. These are not chains forged by man. They're chains for for chains forged by the one who said, Let there be light. And that was light. They cannot be broken. And they are kept in these chains under darkness. And that word under is an interesting prop preposition as well. I love the way it's translated here. They're kept under darkness. They're kept underneath of darkness. That word can also be translated as of in other passages, chains of darkness. It can also be translated by. It's a general preposition used in many ways. These are chains under darkness. Chains by, bound by the darkness. They can't get out of it. There's no redemption for the angels. And they are chains of darkness itself. They are bound in that darkness. Look down the verse. 13 of Jude 1. Raging waves of the sea, foaming out their own shame, wandering stars, to whom is reserved the blackness of Darkness forever. Stand twice there, the blackness of darkness. I think probably most of us at some time or another have been in the cave and they've turned out the lights and let you s stand in the cave in total darkness. And it's it's it's not a pleasant thing. And I think most of us at some time or another, whether whether we want to admit it or not, have been afraid of the dark. Why are we afraid of the dark? Do you think Adam and Eve walking through the garden at night were afraid of the dark? They had nothing to fear. But in our fallen human nature, we're we're fearful of that which we can't perceive anything. This is a darkness that is unimaginable. And We've just talked in verse 5 about the children of Israel who came out of Egypt and didn't believe. And remember one of the illustrations we used last week was that they had seen the darkness. They had light in their houses, but the Egyptians didn't have light. But as these children of Israel were going through the wilderness, they had light. There was a pillar of fire. There was a a God-wrought light for them all the way through the night. And these angels were angels of light. But now they're bound in chains of darkness. I read the 2 Peter passage earlier, you don't need to turn there, but let me read to you again from verse 17 of 2 Peter 2 These are wells without water, clouds that are carried with with a tempest, to whom the mist of darkness is reserved forever. You ever been out in the mist? You ever notice that the mist seems to be coming up from the ground and coming down from the sky? And you know, it's all around you. It's a surrounding darkness, the midst of darkness. And what do we find in Matthew 22, 13? Then said the king unto his servants, bind him hand and foot, and take him away and cast him into outer darkness. Remember the demonia of the Gatarenes. Don't send us out into nothingness. Send us into swine. Don't leave us in total separation from some form of body. We find that they're reserved under judgment at the great day. And that word judgment is a word that literally means separation. To judge is a separate. When someone comes before a judge, he separates truth from error. Truth from lies. To judge is to separate. The word to use the old English word means to sunder. We don't use the word sunder much in our modern English, but but the Old English word for judgment is to sunder, to divide. And before him shall be gathered all nations, and he shall separate the one from the other, as a shepherd divideth his sheep from the goats. And I've always loved that verse as his sheep and the goats. It's God's sheep and those goats over there. His sheep and the goats. I love the way it's expressed. Look down to verses fourteen and fifteen of our passage here in Jude. And Enoch also, the seventh from Adam, prophesied of these things, saying, Behold, the Lord cometh with 10,000 of the saints. to execute judgment upon all, and to convince all that the uh that are ungodly among them of all their ungodly deeds. which they have ungodly committed, and of all their hard speeches which ungodly men have spoken against him. They've spoken their ungodly words, their ungodly proclamations against him I'm not a woman of a man. I'm not a man of a woman. I'm neither. Just call me it. Those are ungodly speeches spoken by ungodly men against the holy God. I don't like the way you made me I don't think you did it right. This child growing in my womb is just flesh. It's just a blob. I can kill it if I want to. They're reserved to separation at the day of judgment. They will be cast into eternal separation. Why were the angels created? They were created to worship God. Remember Isaiah. Holy, holy, holy. At the throne of God. Remember the demoniac of the Gadarines. Don't send us into nothing. But they will be sent into eternal separation from God in hell. Now that's the first warning that we have here. in these two verses. Now we come to verse seven of Jude, chapter one Even as Sodom and Gomorrah, and the cities about them in like manner, giving themselves over to fornication. and going after strange flesh are set forth for an example, suffering the vengeance of Eternal fire. And the eternal fire there is the same eternal that we find in verse 6. There's not an eternal and a partial eternal. There's not an eternal and a short eternal. There's one eternal. Like the angel of the fell, the sin of Sodom and Gomorrah was a direct rebellion against God. It was a rebellion against the order. that God had established. Just as God created the angels with a specific purpose and for specific responsibilities, so God created mankind for a specific purpose and with specific specific responsibilities. Going back to Genesis, I'll read the verses for you very quickly. Genesis 1, verse 26 to 28. And God said, Let us make man in our own image after our likeness, and let them have dominion over the fish of the sea, and over the fowls of the air, and over the cattle, and over all over all the earth and over every creeping thing that creepeth upon the earth. So God created man in his own image. In the image of God created he him, male and female created he them And God blessed him and said unto them, Be fruitful and multiply and replenish the earth. Okay, what was God's order? Male and female? What was God's purpose? Replenish the earth. But you see, the men of Sodom rebelled against God's purpose and God's order. And today, even some liberal theologians will say that, oh, the the sin of Sodom and Gomorrah, they weren't hospitable. They were inhospitable. The the angels came and they they didn't welcome them the way they should have. They're inhospitable. Look, mentions fornication right in the passage, folks The sin of Sodom and Gomorrah was rebellion against God's established order and God's purpose for mankind. There's no other option. So, God ordained a distinction between man and woman. God created man and woman differently Adam was created out of the dust of the earth. Eve was not created out of the dust of the earth. Eve was taken out of Adam. God took a rib out of Adam and created Eve. And though I'm not a biological scientist, I believe that is why you have to some degree. I realize animals have it as well. But XX chromosome and XY chromosome. They were made out of different substance. Atom from the dust. Eve out of Adam. God made them differently. And God gave them specific roles Before the fall, I realized that after the fall, woman bears the the curse in childbearing and man bears the curse in the thorns the thorns and and and so on instead of his brow But God made distinct roles for them before the fall. Genesis 218 And the Lord said, It is not good that man should be alone. I will make him and help meat. I will make a help meet for him. You see, God gave Adam and Eve distinct roles before the fall. Eve was created to be a helpmeet to God. Now, does that mean that woman is somehow subservient to man? Not at all. My mother campaigned very loudly against the Equal Rights Amendment. That was real big back in the 70s. And I remember my mom saying, I don't want equal rights because it would be a step down. I don't want to be equal with man. I'm superior already. And she was right. Because Adam has a lot of faults. And Adam could not manage on his own. It is not good for man to be alone. And God, when he brought all the animals to Adam to be named, God says Adam needs something to complete him. Adam can't handle this by himself. Adam needs somebody else. And so God created Eve. It's not good for man to dwell alone. He's incomplete. He cannot fulfill God's command. He cannot replenish the earth He needs a mate. He needs one suited for him to make him complete. To fulfill the purpose that God has ordained. And God doesn't bring in seconds. I'm not condemning women here, folks. I'm exalting them. God doesn't make seconds. God didn't make a second best to be Adam's helper. God made a better than Adam. To be his helper. One that would complete him. But God gave him different roles, different responsibilities. You realize the angels aren't all angels. Not all angels are created alike. They're cherubim. They're seraphim, they're archangels, angels of light. They have different ranks and different responsibilities. They do different jobs in God's order. Woman is not inferior to man. She says created with different responsibilities. A different role to fulfill. And just like God divided light from darkness, mist above, waters below. Male, female. That's God's order. But the men of Sodom. Rebelled against the order that God had made. And so it says there that the cities of Sodom and Gomorrah gave themselves over to fornication. They gave themselves over to it. They poured themselves into fornication. The city of Sodom Gomorrah went after strange flesh. That is that which is unordinary, that is which is out of God's order that he established. And they are set forth as an example of suffering, vengeance, of eternal fire Now, I'd like to, at this point in our message, kind of take a little bit of a different track and get to a practical application of the passage before us this morning. What should be the attitude of the believer towards the LBGTQ ABC community? What should be our approach to them? What should be our attitude to them? What should be our stance toward them? Let me begin by saying this. They need help, not hate. That's right. These are people that need help, not hate. They need the gospel of Jesus Christ. They need to be restored to the order that God created, just as I needed to be restored to the order that God created. For all have sinned and come short of the glory of God. We were all as sheep going astray. And now some of us are returned to the shepherd and bishop of our soul. We don't hate. The gay and lesbian community? I know we're accused of that constantly, but we don't hate them. We want to help them. We want to lead them to Jesus Christ. You realize that in the LGBT community, suicide rate is one and a half to three times higher than any other group. These are people that are in pain. These are people that are distressed. There are people that are confused. They're people that need help, and I don't have anything to help them other than the gospel of Jesus Christ. This is the help they need. And so, first of all, what should be the attitude of the church toward the gay and lesbian community? Evangelize! Reach them with the gospel of Jesus Christ, because I can't rescue them, but He can. He can transform them. The wicked are like the troubled sea when it cannot rest. Come unto me, all you that labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. And so we should try to reach them with the gospel of Jesus Christ. Look down in verses 22 and 23 of our context in Jude chapter 1. Verses 22 and 23, and of some have compassion, making a difference. Doesn't say of some hate. It says that some have compassion, making a difference. And others save with fear, pulling them out of the fire, hating even the garments spotted with the flesh. We hate their evil deeds. We hate the iniquity they live in. We despise what it's doing to society and to our nation and to morals. We hate the garment spotted with the flesh, absolutely. But oh, maybe they won't wonder Christ. Because psychology isn't going to help them. Psychology put them in that problem again. Yeah, psychology where the problem began. Their only hope is found in the grace of Jesus Christ. If we confess our sins, he's faithful and just to forgive us of our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. Lot's not a great example on this. We find that Lot went to his sons-in-laws and and said, you know, flee from the wrath to come, and they they thought he was one that that that dreamed or or uh one that mocked. He had lost his testimony to begin with. He was living in Sodom. Mm. He didn't have a testimony to begin with. Maybe if he had been outside the city and had been living in righteousness, though he was a righteous man Maybe if he had been where he should have been to begin with, back with A Abraham instead of having left Abraham, he could have gone to his sons-in-laws and said, come out, and they would have. We don't know for sure. But even Lot tried to reach others. So first of all, we're to try to reach them with the gospel of Jesus Christ. Secondly, practical application, what's your beatitude towards them? We've got to keep ourselves on the spotted for the world. We've got to be careful. Because Satan's a great deceiver. I'm not going to stand here and say I am so holy that I will never sin. And you better not either Because let him that thinketh he stand take heed lest he fall. We've got to guard ourselves and guard our families Against the iniquity that's around us. For again, turning to Lot, we find that that righteous man, in seeing and hearing, vexed his righteous soul. We read that in the passage. And it's easy just seeing and hearing around us and seeing on the news and and all the nonsense that's accepted in our society to vex our own righteous souls. Remember, the angels kept not their first estate, but we're told down in verses 20 and 21 to keep ourselves in the love of God. The Christian has to be on guard. Because there's none of us strong enough to stand up against sin And then thirdly, what should be our attitude towards them? We're to leave retribution to God. Leave the judgment to God. Look down at verse seven Even as Sodom and Gomorrah are set forth as an example, suffering the vengeance of eternal fire. God's going to take care of it. God will bring the retribution, not us. God will bring the judgment 2 Peter 2, verse 9, the verse that we read in the final verses in 2 Peter earlier, the Lord knoweth how to deliver the godly out of temptation, and to reserve the unjust for the day of judgment to be punished. God will do the punishing. God will bring the retribution. We bring the gospel. He'll bring the rest. And so what should be our attitude towards the LGBT community? Towards Sodom and Gomorrah. Try to reach them with the gospel, defend our own souls, and leave judgment to God. Deuteronomy thirty-two, verse thirty-five To me belongeth vengeance and recompense. Their foot shall slide in due time. For the day of their calamities at hand, and the things that shall come upon them make haste. God will bring about the judgment Okay, to conclude our message today, we saw last week the children of Israel who had been blessed with all manner of spiritual blessings. They had seen great miracles. They had eaten manna. They saw the Red Sea parted. They participated in the sacrifice of the tabernacle, but they did not believe. May we be warned. We've seen this morning the angels who were created in the glory of God and clothed in light. But they did not protect, they did not preserve, they did not value that estate in which God had created them, and they left their own habitation. And now they're in chains of darkness. And then the third example we find is that of Sodom and Gomorrah, who they too, just as Israel, just as The angels rebelled against God's established order, and they suffered the vengeance of eternal fire. Rebellion Is as the sin of witchcraft. Rebellion is as the sin of witchcraft And stubbornness is iniquity and idolatry. Oh, may we submit to the will of God in all things. May the love of God rule and reign our hearts. May we keep ourselves daily in the love of God. Because the roaring lion is out to deceive. He's out to devour. He devoured five hundred and ninety-nine thousand nine hundred and ninety-eight in the wilderness. He devoured a third of the angels. He devoured the cities of Sodom and Gomorrah and everything on the plains around them. Oh how we must take heed to the warning of Jude. Verses six and seven. Let us stand for prayer. Our Father, we thank you that you know how to deliver the godly from temptation and to reserve the unjust to condemnation. Be with us your people. Lord, may we be lights in the dark world. Father, may we be true to your word. May we give diligence to the soul. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.