Good morning. Oh boy, I can tell we're all asleep. I'm going to read our finally our section of scripture that talks about Melchizedek. I'm just going to read the scripture. We'll get into our discussion question. And then we will take it from there. In the seventh chapter of the book of Hebrews, we Finally get some more details on this fellow named Melchizedek. I'm going to read the first three verses for you Hear now the word of the Lord. Hebrews 7. For this Melchizedek, king of Salem, priest of the Most High God, who met Abraham returning from the slaughter of the kings, and we're going to go look at that, what that was And blessed him, to whom also Abraham gave a tenth part of all, first being by interpretation king of righteousness, and after that also King of Salem, which is King of Peace. Without father, without mother, without descent. Having neither beginning of days nor end of life, but made like unto the Son of God, abideth a priest continually. And that ends the reading of that portion. Okay. My discussion question to kind of get our minds to thinking. is has to do with losing things or hiding things, which I think are somewhat related. My question was this, think to a time when you lost something in your house, maybe you lost it on your property, could have been on the job. Just had it in your hand, you set it down, you turn around, poof, it's gone. Um and uh eventually you find it, maybe it wasn't the same day. Why is it think to a time has anybody done something like that? Or am I the only one losing things around here? Has anybody just put something down and lost it before? Alright, I'm seeing a couple of nods So um think to a time when you did that. Why was it that it was so hard to find? Why couldn't you find it the first time? Anybody Think to a time when you lost something. Why couldn't you find it? Okay, it's a long story, but I'll make it very brief. Penny left Jamaica with our one-year-old son to go to our her sister's wedding. And I suddenly realized my wedding band was missing. And the last thing I remember doing was pulling some real tall grass that grew on the property. for our rabbits. So I figured I must have lost it, must have come up while I was pulling grass. So I went to that area which was about the size of this room. And I this grass is like three, four foot tall. I cleaned that grass down to dirt in that entire area and did not find the ring, but I knew that I had to have lost it there. Three days later I went to put on a shoe and found it in the shoe. So apparently it had come off during the night and that's all I can figure. But the reason I couldn't find it was I was not looking in the right place. I was sure it must be out there in the grass and it was in the household Okay, yeah. Well that's that's thank God you found it. That's a pretty tough example. Any other examples? I've heard some good ones. You all were very talkative and sharing all interesting accounts with me. Think of a time when you lost something you Couldn't find it right away but eventually did. How come you couldn't find it? What was the thing you lost? Anybody? Yes. I told him it's wrong, an example. of about this similar situation because I have a relative who stay in the hospital a long long time. Once I got a call from the hospital administration, they asked me to show them the receipt I when I paid and the the down payment and say the fees you want to send my fees there that was eighteen years ago And then uh it really took me a very long time to check everywhere to find out of recyc. But I did find it But what's interesting is when I call back to them saying, Hey I'm fine, do you how do you want to see it? Should I send to you or something like that? They call me in the same hospital in the live hall. of my relatives, you know, the room. There are about like fifty six patients there. They told me on the phone, I was the only one who told them I didn't find the receipt. Something like that among the fifty six families. But then I f I find it's very odd because they as a household administration they should keep the record. How they how did they ask me, the patient, family, to show them the receipt That means either there's a poor administration or they try to build some execute, you know, to deny the payment, down payment we have made. Something like that. Every There are a lot of strange things taking place in China. I don't know the situation here, but that's a film. I just feel based on this uh the answer of the question it's not just my fault. How can you uh kill the other fifty-five families they couldn't finally receive Because that's eighteen years ago. Yeah, that's a pretty uh difficult it's not something very valuable. Right. You know why you choose keep it. How come you move? Well thank God you uh kept the receipt. Uh yeah, it sounds like you had uh an agency working against you. Um I'll share one of my examples and then maybe this will get you actually uh we have another one here from Bab. I'll share hers first. She had a good one. Um think to a time when you lost something in your house, why couldn't you find it? She says, I couldn't find it the first time because I'm really good at hiding things from myself. And I think maybe uh we can agree. Can any of you agree with something like that? I mean that's a great example. That's wow that's somebody that's uh the wrong site. Okay, maybe you put something in what'd you say the wrong place? All right, all right. So it gets back to Joe's thing, you're looking where you don't think it's gonna be at Now, this is what I hear is common to men, and I will readily confess this. I will open up the refrigerator and I'm trying to help somebody in the kitchen. What are you looking for? Just give me the half and half. And I open it up Can't find any. We must be out. No, it's in there. It's in there. And I'm looking. Not finding it. And it takes about a quarter of a second for this arm from the kitchen to reach in, look, boom, grab it, boom, there it is. Any ideas why I couldn't find it the first time? Male blindness? No? Once she pointed it out I could see it. Why couldn't I see it the first time? What do you think? What was the mental what was the block? It was right in front of me. It was looking too hard. Okay, yeah, uh Vic i it probably was, yep. I expect it to look like something different. So you have an image in your mind you're looking for and it actually looks different. Yeah. My thinking goes that way because I'm trying to give myself some credit that I'm not a complete moron uh and that maybe I was looking for the half and half that's in the you know uh pink and red bottle but it this week somebody bought it and it was the brown and white bottle and I wasn't I just wasn't reading and looking for colors or shapes, right? So those are the kinds of things that uh happen, as well as other things. You know, it's really frustrating that things are hidden from you, and eventually you find it. Now Let's reverse this situation. Now that I've got you thinking about a more common thing that happens to us all, let's do something different. You wanted to plan a celebration, some kind of an event for somebody, and you want to hide. You want to hide their gift, but you want to hide it, you don't want to go out in the backyard and dig it and put sod on top of it, so they're never going to find it, right? I'm not talking about that. I'm not talking about burying it This is family, this is friends, but you want to hide their gift. Have you ever heard the phrase hide hiding something in plain sight? You ever heard that phrase before? How would you hide something in plain sight Or can you think of some examples? I just said birthday, it could be other examples where things are hidden in plain sight. How does that work, uh Gloria? I have a really interesting example. Every time I hear that phrase, I think it's this example from history. Uh during World War II, uh I forget whether it was French or the Dutch, but basically they were trying to smuggle bicycles out of their country into another one Because the Germans, the Nazis didn't allow bicycles for whatever reason. Um, and so they figured out a really clever way to get them past the guards at the gates They would get on their bicycle and they would put a big sack of flour in the back and kind of make it look suspicious like they're hiding something in the flour. They'd ride it past the patrol and they'd spend hours looking through the flower, trying to find, you know, if surely you're hiding something in here. But there's nothing in there, so they just ride the bicycle right on through. And never even realized it was the bicycle that was being smuggled, not something in the flower. Interesting. Yeah, that's a good example. Okay. So why did that work? You kind of explained it, but yeah, very they were not expecting. Okay. Other examples where you would how would you hide something in plain sight? Make it look slightly different than it is, or s and moderately disguise it. You're an umbrella standing at a big tall plant, you're gonna see the plant, not the umbrella. Yeah, yeah. Moderately up put it I guess you're close to something that looks very similar, uh, but not it but is not exactly the real thing. Yeah. Okay. Well, thanks for that. Good good uh uh uh points. I I was inspired by a uh story Gabriel told me about called cryptos where uh the uh CIA was building out their new headquarter building and at the uh in the lobby they had the um They had they were commissioning an artist, they often do this for big government buildings, to commission an artist to build a bronze statue commemorating it, and they said, well, this is you know CIA, we've got to do something clever about all this. And so what they did and correct uh he can he's running the show, he can't correct me if I'm wrong, but I believe they had a statue uh of a man or an individual or a symbol or something, but in embedded in there were some letters. They were cryptologically hidden. The artists got together with some of the CIA's best minds to embed a message. And to this day, only 75% of that message has been decrypted. It's in plain sight. You can go up and you can look at the code. And it's kind of a battle between a couple of Intel agencies to see who see who can crack it. And they've only cracked 75% of it. A quarter of it, they still can't figure out what it is So that's a very clever little crypt. That's something that's hidden in plain sight. You write an encoded message. If they capture the pigeon or the whatever, they can see the letters, but they don't know how to make sense of it. But that's what I am calling hidden in plain sight, and I think later you'll see why I'm going down that path. Well, our text today and Hebrews 7, I have been skirting around the discussion of this very curious individual in Scripture known as Melchizedek. How many of you have ever even heard of Melchizedek prior to getting to this study? Melchizedek, all right, very good. Yeah, so some have heard of him. He was in chapter five and verse six. If you were awake during that lesson, he was in chapter five, verse ten. He showed up again in chapter six, verse twenty, and I kept kicking the can down the road because the scripture at that point just said he's a priest forever after the order of El Kizedek and they would move on. Well now we get some more insight into this And the first thing we find is that in chapter 7, verse 1, it says this Melchizedek King of Salem, priest of the Most High God. who met Abraham returning from the slaughter of the kings and blessed him. So I thought we would take a trip back to Genesis 14. You'll need your Bible If you have an electronic phone, you can follow along in your uh Bible app as long as you turn the volume down. And we're going to look at Genesis 14. And we're going to kind of walk our way through this ancient historical account of when Melchizedek is first shown to Abraham. It's a fascinating account. So I'm just going to read it. I'm kind of going to give a running narrative of what's going on as I read through Genesis 14. Alright, so here now the word of the Lord, beginning in verse 1 It came to pass in the days of Amrafel, king of Shinar, now Shinar is also known as Babylon. And uh that would be, some have suggested that's in the days of Hammurabi, uh around, and that could have been Hammurabi, around 2100 BC So we're going way back in time here. We are at least three thousand years, four thousand years back, four thousand exactly. So Amrafel, king of Sharon, Ariok, king of Elisar. Now that happens to be the area near Ur, Ur of the Chaldees, where Abram came from. We go on, Chetoleomer, King of Elam, and titled King of Nations. Now this Chetoleomer, I'm sorry if I'm mispronouncing his name, But we find out in verse 4 that they served him. These other five kings we're going to read about, he received tribute from a large part of the region. So he's the guy getting a lot of money. So these four kings, it says verse two, these made war with Berah, king of Sodom, Bersha, king of Gomorrah, Shinab. Shinab, king of Admah, Shameber, king of Zeboyam, and the king of Bela, which is Zoar. So there's these five kings that are uh at at at war against the four. All these were joined together in the Vale of Sidim, which is the Salt Sea. Twelve years they served China Laomer, the thirteenth year rebelled And the fourteenth year came Chedaloamur and the kings that were with him and smote, and he's going to go through this long campaign. So what was the reason for the war? Well, money. It's about money. He was he had made them vassal states. They were supposed to be g paying him money. They said, we don't like paying you money. Forget this taxation business. We're not paying you anything. Phooey on Yui. He put up with it for a year, and the following year he said, Yeah, enough of this. I'm I'm going out to Verwon. And off on a campaign he goes. And we find out who he starts to attack It says he smote the Rephaims in Ashtaroth Carnium and the Zuzims. The Rephaims, if you recall, were the giants, and they worshipped this double-horned god Ashtaroth. Uh that's that that's a common false god name throughout the Old Testament, the god of Ashtra. Uh so these were the old giants he beats up the giants. I mean they weren't even listed in the first five kings, but They seem to be, in his sight, part of the problem. And he pounds them first. Maybe he's sending a strong message. Look what I can do. And he goes on. He's going to def uh defeat the Zuzims in Hab, these are basically desert no nomads, and the Ebams in Shabboth, Kiri, Otham. These are the precursors of the Moabites. So he's he hasn't even gotten to these other five kings yet. And the Horites in Mount Seir, these are the cave-dwellers unto El Paran, which is by the wilderness. He came all the way down to the tip of the Gulf of Akaba. So he starts on a campaign south, and then he's going to go over. It says they returned And came to En Mishpat, which is Kadesh, smote all the country of the Malachites and the Amorites that dwelt in Hazel and Tamar Amazing. I mean these guys are on a roll. They defeat the the giants, the Rephims, he d defeats the uh the precursors to the Moabites, he's uh whooping up on the Amorites and the Amalekite. I mean this was a pretty powerful force. He'd been receiving money all these years. He's a apparently a superpower in the region. Off he goes Verse 8, there went out the king of Sodom, the King of Gomorrah, these other five kings. They joined battle with them in the Vale of Sidim And verse 9 repeats, who is there, 4 kings against 5. Verse 10, the Vale of Sidim was full of slime pits And the king of Sodom and Gomorrah fled and fell there. Apparently the slime pits were like tar pits or whatever. They got stuck in the mud. They couldn't go very far. Um they just happened to do a really wrong and if you've been near any kind of a salty type sea, Southern California has this. One of the Army Corps of Engineers' greatest mistakes was our own salt and sea in California. They misjudged the dam level. And uh and so it just backed up. And so for years it's a salty m mush, you get within 100, 200, 500 yards of the shore, you're sinking in mud. And so I can easily see how they would have sunk in And so the two kings of Sodom and Gomorrah flee and get stuck in the mud. Apparently that turns out to be their benefit, because it says, and they that remained fled to the mountains. And they, this would be Cheddalm and his campaign, these four super strong kings, took all the goods from Sodom and Gomorrah and all their vitals and went their way. And here's the most important part of the whole story And they took Lot, Abram's brother's son, who dwelt in Sodom, and his goods, and departed. So, in the course of all this destruction that's going on And God's record from God's vantage point, yep, it's all about money. Yep, kings go to war, nothing new under the sun. But one individual, the only specific individual named other than these kings, is Lot. And he gets his stuff taken. And that presents the first warning sign as it well alarm to us from scripture. Oops, something bad happened to Lot. Verse 13, we continue Oh, by the way, even before we go to that point, is that at this point we now have four victorious kings and five defeated kings. Five have fallen, they're defeated, some are slaughtered King of Sodom apparently is still alive because he comes back later to talk to Abram. So you have four victorious kings, five are defeated. Alright? That's the scorecard right now out of the nine. Now we go to Verses 13 to 16. This is Abram's special ops forces. There came one that escaped and told Abram the Hebrew. This is the first time we hear mention of Abram's name. The first time the word Hebrew shows up. It's kind of word from the word Eberu. Eber is in a lineage of Abram. Eber was one of the godly descendants in the line of Shem that came off of the ark and that's where Hebrews comes from. Eberu, he's an Eberu. He is from the the the the lineage of Eber. Abram the Hebrew And for he dwelt in the plain of Manu the Anorite, the brother of Eshgal, and the brother of Anor, these were Confederate with uh Abram. Now you remember the Amorites uh were struck in verse 7 and there's a few that are in the plane that apparently were out of the sight of Chedalarmor Alright, so we can see now we find what Abram does. Verse 14. When Abram heard that his brother was taken captive. This would be his nephew, but he is he views him as a brother, brother in the Lord. He armed his trained servants, born in his own house, 318, and pursued them unto Dan. So he has a force of 318. That's his armed servants Plus those he was confederate with, of the Amorites, Eshkel and Aner. And then we find, verse 15, he divided himself against them He and his servants by night, he's doing night special operations, small forces coming from different directions, and smote them. You know, when you're asleep in your tent at night, you kinda are not expecting a battle, so I guess you could call Abram the father of special ops. And pursued them unto Hobah, which is in the left hand of Damascus. So he strikes down these four kings who were all camped together, just a small band of men. led by Abram, and he strikes him down. Verse 16, he brought back all the goods, and also brought again his brother Lot and his goods, and the women also and the people. Notice it mentions the women. They're important. Very important. So now what's the scorecard? Well, you have four defeated kings who were formerly victorious. They're now defeated. Think about that. Abram conquered Chedaleomor, who was a superpower, who had beaten the Rephaems, the Amalekites, the Amorites, all these others. That's a very significant battle. He is a mighty, mighty soldier And then so now we have basically nine defeated kings and Abram. He's not listed as a king, he's just known as Abram or Abraham. Verse 17, we continue. This is where we encounter Melchizedek. And the king of Sodom went out to meet him after his return from the slaughter of Chedaloamur and of the kings that were with him at the valley of Sheba, which is the king's dale, the king's valley area. And Melchizedek, king of Salem, brought forth bread and wine, and he was the priest of the Most High God. And he blessed him and said, Blessed be Abram, of the Most High God, possessor of heaven and earth, that is, God is the possessor of heaven and earth. And blessed be the most high God. which hath delivered thine enemies into thy hand, and he that is Abram, gave him, that is Melchizedek, tithes of all. We'll talk at more length about that in the following study. And the king of Sodom said unto Abram, Give me the persons And take the goods to thyself. So here Melchizedek is a very almost a parenthetical appearance. He's a king. He's not a defeated king. He's a king. He's a king of Salem. Salem is a city. Salem is the precursor to Jerusalem. And he blesses Abraham, and then we go back to Sodom again. And the king of Sodom basically wants the people, not the stuff. We suspect perverted reasons. We already know from Genesis 13 that the men of Sodom were exceeding wicked before the Lord. And we know by the 18th chapter the angels come to destroy Sodom and Gomorrah for their evil. And lo and behold, Abram of course says, I I lift up my hand, the Most High God, possessor of heaven and earth, I will not take a thread even to a shoelatchet, and I can take anything that's yours, lest you should say, I've made Abram rich. And of course he makes a tiny exception for the men who went out to battle with him. But he does not want his household to be perceived as being interested in the stuff. That's a very wise move. The whole battle was about money anyway And so if Abram gets a part of the ties, it looks like no, he he he he did that because he wanted money too. And now he wants to stay free and clear of all the political ramifications of that region. I just want I'm here because I have an interest, and I'm after my interest and my interest only. Very wise move on Abram's part. So the scorecard we have is the only king mentioned who has not suffered defeat is Melchizedek We find that he's the priest of the Most High God, El Elion. The word El is in there twice. And so this is the first time the word priest is even found in the scriptures. The very first time you ever find the word priest is right here. It's the same word used in Leviticus. And he is very unique. He's unique because none others were kings and priests. Only Levi came from the priests. Only from Levi came the priests and You could say the kings came out of the line of Judah, according to Genesis 49, the blessing that was given there. So that's the only thing that sort of stands out about Melchizedek at this point. He just kind of appears You know, friendly king nearby, thanks him. You know, one might suspect geopolitical, you know, hey, you you you saved the day, you you you rendered peace in the land, that's great, thanks a lot. And beyond that we don't see much However, in the seventh chapter of Hebrews, we begin to get further insight. And so now we turn away from Genesis 14 back to Hebrews 7. And we start to look at three divine insights into this fellow, Melchizedek. Three divine insights into him. The first insight is a name insight. There's a reason Joe and I are fascinated by looking at the Etymologies, that is the how the words came about in Scripture, because of this example right here, we find in Hebrews 7. The names actually do bear meaning. They carry a meaning. Sadly, in our day, and I'm sure in the days of others of old, we give names because it sounds cute. You know, oh let's name him, you know, some nice sounding name. Some have tried to be symbolic with the names, and I think it backfires. One father who had a child at a wedlock called his baby daughter Nivea, which is the word heaven spelled backwards. Well, I think I'd rather have my child named Heaven than the backwards of heaven. The backwards of heaven is kind of like leaving heaven, not coming into it, so I'm not sure what the thought process was there. Um yeah, name failures uh would be in mind. So here though we have a name of significance. We have it says he was um uh uh uh yeah it says uh melchizedek is uh the king he says by interpretation king of righteousness and you can kind of see that in his name melchi in the hebrew is the word for king You have it in, I think Arabic Malach is is king. It's the same in Hebrew, very close to Aramaic. So you see Melchi king. And then also you have Zedok or Zedek, which is righteousness. That is the Hebrew word for righteousness. So his name literally means king of righteousness, but he's also called the king of Salem, and Salem of course is answers to the Hebrew word shalom, which we hear today, means peace. He is the king of righteousness. That's what his name literally means. But he's also the king of the city, which scriptures gives us insight. He's the king of peace. So that's a very interesting insight from the name. You know, this is not the only one who has uh significance to his name. Anybody know what the name Noah means? Noah? Noah's name means rest. He will give us rest. Gnome? Yeah. Which rest means rest, all right. So still even in the the Aramaic and the Arabic language. Is that Aramaic or Arabic? That's no. Aramic is gnome, so that's the etymology there. It still continues through means rest. Well, this idea that um you would have uh a twofold king and at the same time also a priest is very significant because in the book of Zechariah we we find that the Lord Jesus Christ is both the King of righteousness and the King of peace and is also a priest on his throne. So for instance, you look at your bulletin there, Zechariah 6. 12. Zechariah 6. 12, we read this Behold the name, behold the name, behold the man whose name is the branch. Even he shall build the temple of the Lord, and he shall bear the glory, and shall sit and rule upon his throne, and he shall be a priest upon his throne. And the council of peace shall be between them both. So here we find Jesus Christ is both that king ruling on a throne as well as a priest. Now in Abram's day, the head of the city would be a king. The head of the house or the head of the tribe would be the priest. And you typically didn't have those united. But here you see this order is being united together. Christ is uniting this king-priest order and power. Think about the extension of power. I can't think of anything in recent memory other than the Roman Catholic Church in the medieval ages, where they would anoint kings. Now they effectively ruled as kings because whatever they said they had to do, but they left they would anoint a king and he would go off and do his thing, and if they Took him out of his throne and put somebody else there, he was out of a job. But here you have someone who is both the king And remember, there is no separation of powers in a king. He's judge, jury, and executioner all at one. He sets the agenda, he reads the laws, he makes the laws, he interprets the laws, and he executes his judgment. So King is very powerful. Now on top of that, Christ is also that priest who provides you access to God. Maybe the closest in history I could think of would be the pharaohs, but even the pharaohs had priests, if you remember the certain land In Pharaoh's day, the they they had priests. The priest of Aon, I think, had a couple of daughters that were given to Joseph. Even they kept a separation there. Christ unites these two. He's both and so has very extensive power. So this is all the insights we get just from the name Just from the names, the name of the city and Melchizedek's own name. So that's one set of insights Scripture gives us. The second is the character insights in verse 3. The character insights, it says that he is without father These are all unique words, very unique to the book of Hebrews. Without fathers, ah pator. Pater, you hear patr, patras, patriarch, that means male without father. It literally means whose father is not recorded in the genealogies. Whose father is not recorded in the genealogies. That's what without father means. Amator, meaning without mother, born of an unknown or a base mother. some unknown woman. That's that's the concept of without mother there. And uh without dissent, meaning an unregistered birth, as the word ah genealogitos. You hear the word genealogy in there? There's no record. Of the genealogy. And in fact, there is a and you say, well, okay, well, what's different with these other kings we read about? Well, they came from certain areas And you can read about those areas in the Table of Nations in Genesis 10, where you have after Noah disembarks from the Ark. and they go out and populate different regions and people groups, you have the different lands and the regions getting established. There is some kind of traceable genealogy there. But not from Lakizedek. So that's very fascinating that he observes his character insight and um And then verse 3 it says, But made like unto the Son of God abideth a priest continually, made like unto the Son of God. Now the key word here is made-like. And maybe some of you might perceive where I'm going with this. Because some have taken Melchizedek and interpreted him in different ways. And I gave this a fair measure of thought. And I've thought about it over the years. In fact, the first sermon I heard about Melchizedek was probably a good Oh, I don't know back in the 94 era. So that's what, 30 years ago Is Melchizedek a theophany? Does anybody know what I mean when I say theophany? That's a pre-incarnate version of Jesus Christ at the second member of the Godhead appears in bodily fleshly form and then disappears. And uh I've heard sermons that give arguments that say, yes, that was a pre-incarnate version of Jesus Christ. That was Jesus Christ whom Abram met Uh and I can certainly see how they come to that conclusion because Hebrews 7 says, you know, verse 3, without father, without mother, without descent, having neither beginning of days nor end of life. I mean it sounds like an eternal creature But I can't hang with that anymore, and I'll tell you why. Not that I really held it tightly, but I'll tell you why, because it says he was made like, and literally means he was modeled after. Melchizedek was modeled after. Melchizedek was a real person. Because after all, if he was eternal, is he still ruling in Salem? I mean he never died. Did he I mean he he would have been around before Salem ex- I mean you know you start to run in you you have to read other things into it to see it and it's okay to see it as a model As it were, God has hidden in plain sight an example, a picture of Jesus Christ, a little reflection. It's a real person, no Kizadek. We just don't happen to have a record of it. God chose not to record it there. And um, you know Furthermore, Hebrews is written to a Jewish audience who understands genealogies as well as being familiar with allegorical interpretations. They would appreciate the fact that Yeah, we don't find a record of Melchizedek. They would appreciate that. They would understand allegorical insights. They're very familiar with the Old Testament. And so God providentially is using this individual in the design of his word to omit certain details about Melchizedek to paint a greater picture He's hiding him in plain sight. Which gets me to my third insight, which is, let's step back for a moment and take a deep breath and think about what we just covered here Look at the hermeneutic insights we get from scriptures, because this is scripture defining and interpreting Scripture for you. I've heard some of the most ridiculous interpretations of scriptures on the air. I nearly drove off the road, and I can tell you the intersection I was at, where I was I didn't have a C D and the plea this is years ago. Didn't have a C D and the re you know, you just want to hear something, lest you keep hearing the sound of the tires. Somebody was doing an interpretation of the parable of the sower. Now Jesus gives the interpretation later, but he just read the parable and proceeded to give his own interpretation. And it was the most goofy thing I'd ever heard in my life. It didn't stick in my head, but it had nothing to do with the interpretation Jesus gave ten verses later. He absolutely adulterated Scripture. It was nonsense. Folks, that's why I use the phrase, you have to marshal all the evidence. When you're trying to understand a portion of Scripture, use the many tools that are available to you. To try to pull together all the information the Scripture has about a passage to draw some insights. Now The name meanings have spiritual significance. You know, we go we can even go back to these kings that we read about and look at their names. Like Arich means lion-like. You can kind of see, oh, he's going to take on a name. I'm like a lion. Chedaleomor, guess what his name means? Handful of sheaves. Of course, this is the guy getting all the money. He calls himself Big Bucket of Money, basically. Um Am Rathel, the Sayer of Darkness. You know, he prides himself on being able to speak. The title means great son. Guess what the King of Sodom's name means? Bira. Literally means evil, son of evil. He boasts of his evil. Bersha means with iniquity. So, you know, just like their cities are, the king, even down to his name, just lines up. There's just such consistency there Now this is holy writ, this is scripture, this is how God communicates to us. Furthermore, I find it fascinating as I look at the insights into Melchizedek. How God is arguing from silence. Now, in our world where we operate It's very difficult for us to argue from science. You can't say, well, I've never heard of blah blah blah blah blah. Well that just means you never heard of it. That doesn't mean it doesn't exist. Or science has never found such and such and such. Well, it may someday, so you can't argue that way, right? But this is not any old book. This is the record of God. And what God says is important. And what God does not say, likewise, is important too. You know, there was a rumor that went about that when Jesus spoke to his disciple John about him, that some rumor went out that said that he would not die. And he points out, no, I didn't say that. So God is very careful about what he says, and he's also careful about what he does not say. And when the Lord God does not say something in scriptures, You can learn from that. And so that is an in fact the book of Hebrews does this quite a lot in the first chapter. Verse 5, unto which of the angels said he at any time, sit on my right hand till he make the enemies the footstool. He says he never said that to angels. He never called an angel a son. That was Hebrews 1. 13. Hebrews 1. 5. He never called any of his angels sons of God, so that gets rid of the nonsense in Genesis 6 that says, oh, these sons of God That went to the daughters of men, those had to be angels. No. No. You never call them angels son of God. You can't go that path. And so you can, from scriptures, Make an argument for silence based on what is happening right here. And I find that to be very fascinating. And the last point I want to make is that comparing scripture with scripture, where where did the penman from Hebrews 7 get any of these insights? Well, it turns out that two other places in the book of the Psalms give insights. And so we'll look at them. In your hand out there, it's in Psalm 76. And verses 1 and 2. It says, In Judah, God is known. I'm just focusing on that phrase. God is known in Judah And it says, in Salem also is his tabernacle. The word Salem is only used three times, twice back in the book of Genesis, the other time right here. God is known in Judah, and in Salem is his tabernacle. Doesn't say Jerusalem. It's the word Salem. Ah, that's the tabernacle of God. So. Penman, of course, under divine inspiration, had access to David's writings in the Book of the Psalms to know that Salem is where God dwells. So that was a Data point, you have to factor into all this. And the other, of course, is Psalm 110, which was quoted often throughout Hebrews, thou art a priest forever, after the order of Melchizedek And he focuses on this order. It was David under divine inspiration. David the prophet. David the king. Both a prophet and a king, very unusual, not a priest. is the one that Cosmo Kizedek as an as an assigned to a different order, a whole different level of business here. So what's my point in all this? Melchizedek's history was selectively captured in holy writ buried in some interesting history to hide a portrait reflection of Jesus Christ. A portrait of Jesus Christ is hidden in plain sight. And I would submit to you folks that it's not the only place God does this. The fact of the matter is, God does this all throughout the Bible. It says in Psalm 40, verse 10, in the volume of the book it is written of me. You know, in Proverbs 25, Solomon said, it's the glory of God to conceal a thing. It is the honor of kings to search out a matter. And that word matter is the word word. If you search for wisdom, search for it as hidden treasure. Right here, search for it. You'll find him. You'll find God. You'll find Jesus Christ in the volume of the book. And there's many, many places where Jesus Christ is hidden in the scriptures, buried in the historical account. Oh, what a wise God we have. He orchestrates all of history and in this large paintbrush and we look, why is he doing this? Why is the king coming down and It wasn't the Amorites or the Amalekites that had an issue, and so we get all hung up in the geopolitical nonsense. No, no, no, no. That's not what God's That's just the noise. That's the camouflage. That's not God's painting a picture of Jesus Christ because he's going to have a different king. A king of peace, not a king of war. War makes no sense. War of, I've been told, is politics by other means. The extension of politics by other means. It's unfair. It's cruel. It's ugly. What Russia's doing, what Israel's doing is old school traditional war. It's just ugly. Every bit of it's ugly. Americans like to be surgical. Oh just hit that one person over there. Oh just hit the that's too much blood stop. No, no, no. This is old school war here, where it's just ugly Yeah, we're ticked off and we're just gonna go kill them everybody we can. That's not the point. The point is Jesus Christ. Look for God Look for the Lord Jesus Christ first and foremost in scriptures, and then you can begin to understand some of the world around you. So It says in conclusion in Colossians that we need to acknowledge the mystery of God the Father and of Christ, in whom are hidden all the treasures of wisdom and knowledge. So like you said, Keramor means handful of sheep, and Abram means eternal or exalted father A handful of sheaves was smoked by the exalted father. And I don't think it's a stretch to say that the handful of sheaves was threshed by the adultery father. It's just really cool to see Yes. Like you said, the names have meanings and really like it's it's meaning that's hidden right there in plain side. Yes, absolutely. Good observation, yeah So I'll get your minds to thinking about it a little differently and give you a few other tools in the covering scriptures. Well let's pray. Father in heaven, we thank you for the insights you give us in your word. Lord, uh we're too stupid and ignorant. Like that dumb husband opening up the refrigerator and can't see the milk. Uh in plain sight, uh Lord, help us, give us plain sight of the Lord Jesus Christ today that we may Honor, bless, extol, and worship him and him alone. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen.