Psalm 72, the great missionary psalm, what glorious words we find. Turn with me in your Bible this morning to the book of Exodus and chapter 6. The sixth chapter of Exodus. And I'm going to read the first nine verses of the chapter. And then we're going to do a exposition of those nine verses. And then we actually have an outline, which will sort of be the application after we have gone through the passage verse by verse, line upon line, precept upon precept. If you have your place now, let us give close heed to the Word of God as I read from chapter 6, verses 1 through 9. Then the Lord said unto Moses, Now shalt thou see what I will do to Pharaoh. For with a strong hand shall he let them go. And with a strong hand shall he drive them out of his land. God spake unto Moses and said unto him, I am the Lord. I appeared unto Abraham, unto Isaac, and unto Jacob by the name of God Almighty. But by my name, Jehovah, was I not known to them. And I have also established my covenant with them To give them the land of Canaan, the land of their pilgrimage, wherein they were strangers. And I have also heard the groaning of the children of Israel, whom the Egyptians keep in bondage. And I have remembered my covenant. Wherefore, say unto the children of Israel, I am the Lord. And I will bring you out from under the burdens of the Egyptians, and I will rid you out of their bondage, and I will redeem you with a stretched-out arm and with great judgment. And I will take you to me for a people, and I will be to you a God, and ye shall know that I am the Lord your God. which bringeth you out from under the burdens of the Egyptians. And I will bring you unto the land concerning which I did swear to give it. To Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob, I will give it you for an heritage. I am the Lord. And Moses spake unto the children of Israel, but they hearkened not unto Moses For anguish of spirit and for cruel bondage. Let's pray Oh God our Father, we thank you, Lord, that your word is so filled with hidden truths. With nuances of truth. Your word is a deep mine. to which your people are instructed to dig daily, to search the scriptures daily, to see if these things be so. Father, we thank you that your word is not simply a printed set of pages ink on paper, but rather it is a living word. It is always fresh. It is always new. Even when we read passages that seem to be simply a series of names. There are great treasures for the hearts of your people if we will only search them out. Father, I thank you for this glorious passage of your word. I thank you, Lord, for the power of it. And Father, I pray that you may bless your word greatly to our hearts this morning. Father, I thank you that the preaching of the Word of God does not depend on the eloquency of a man. You've chosen the foolishness of preaching. Father, today I pray, Lord, that you would indeed visit with your people, that your spirit would be the preacher, the exegete. That you would open your word greatly to our hearts. And Father, may we be blessed and encouraged and strengthened thereby. Lord, we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. The title that I've given to this morning's message is Redemption More Than Just Salvation. Another title we could take for this passage is the last part of verse 9, but they hearken not unto Moses, for anguish of spirit And four, cruel bondage. Folks, every covenant, every promise of God's Word is still in effect. God's promises do not fail. We are the recipients of overwhelming blessing. But we live in anguish of speech of spirit and cruel bondage And we tend to think of our redemption just as, okay, Christ has purchased my soul. But folks, he's purchased far more than just my soul. He's bought it all. And so that's what we're going to see in our application this morning. But before we get there, we just need to take this chapter apart. And folks, you need to read this chapter a hundred times to fully begin to see the breadth of what this chapter is telling us. It begins with that word then In the first word. And that means that something has taken place before, and then it says, Then the Lord said to Moses, now. Don't you love the time markers in Scripture? You put a bookmark in some place? Why? Well because you need to go back to that spot again. So we have two time markers in this first verse. Then the Lord spoke to Moses and he says, now. So what has happened before that sets up the then and the now? Look back to the last part of chapter 5. Probably just across your page. God has sent Moses to Pharaoh and said, let my people go. Pharaoh's response was not to let God's people go. Rather, Pharaoh's response was to take away the straw that they were making brick with. And to send the children of Israel out to get their own straw to make bricks, but don't you dare be one brick short. Make the same number of bricks, but I'm not going to give you the straw to make them because you're idle. Because this guy Moses is saying you have time to go out in the wilderness And so we find there in verse twenty-one of chapter five, and they, that's the children of Israel, said unto them, Said unto Moses and Aaron is of them, the two there. The children of Israel said unto Moses and Aaron, the Lord look upon you and judge. That's essentially a curse. God look at you and judge you for what you have done to us. What have Moses and Aaron done to the children of Israel? All they had done is exactly what God told them to do Because ye have made our Savior to be abhorred in the eyes of Pharaoh and in the eyes of his servants to put a sword in their hand to slay us. Huh. Then Moses said to the Lord. Oh then the Lord said to Moses first Look at verse 22 and 23. And Moses, this is still in chapter 5. And Moses returned unto the Lord and said, Lord, wherefore hast thou so evil and treated this people? Why is it that thou hast sent me? For since I came to Pharaoh to speak in thy name, he hath done evil to this people. Neither hast thou delivered thy people at all So we have Moses and Aaron being cursed by the people, and the people complaining because Pharaoh's now getting harder on them, and then Moses saying, Lord, what are you doing? Why did you send me? You told me to go to Pharaoh and say, let my people go. But since I obeyed your voice, it's all been downhill problems You have not begun to deliver this people. And I share with you sometime in the last few weeks, I don't remember exactly when it was, in a prayer meeting or a message. that I read these two verses as a 28-year-old missionary and and said, Lord, that makes that that I I can understand that because you sent me here And yet you haven't yet begun to deliver this people. And folks said it's so easy to get into that complaining mode. Then the Lord said to Moses. See how important that first word of chapter 6 is? You have to see what happened before to understand the then. Otherwise, you just go past it and it means nothing. But it is monumental. Then the Lord said unto Moses, Now, okay, Moses, you said, Where is God? Okay, Moses, you said, I haven't not yet begun to deliver the people. Okay, Moses, you said I've sent you on a fool's errand. Now, Moses, watch what I'm going to do. Now, Moses, you're going to see that I am God And I am wise, and I am in charge, and I do know more than you do. Now shalt thou see what I will do to Pharaoh. Remember what the children of Israel were complaining about? You put a sword in Pharaoh's hand? God says, no, no, no, no, wait. Now you're going to see what I'm going to do, Pharaoh. For with a strong hand, where was the sword that the children of Israel said he put a sword in the hand? For with a strong hand he will let you go. And he with a strong hand he shall drive you out of the land. The context of chapter five. is God's chosen people, the elect, Israel of the Old Testament, the church of the New Testament. God's chosen people, the elect, who were the recipients of all the promises of God, but their current status was bondmen under the torment of their enemies. Folks, they owned it all. The whole land of Canaan was already theirs. But they're bondmen in Egypt. Folks, every blessing is ours. It's all promised, and God's promises will be fulfilled, but currently we're under cruel bondage and anguish of spirit. We're in the same place. The children of Israel were. Their daily trials blinded them from seeing the blessings of God. The cares of this life had overwhelmed their souls. Just when they expected the greatest blessing, they ended up with the worst disappointment. Moses said, Let my people go, and the children of Israel said, Oh yeah, great Moses is here to help us And then instead their straw is taken away. They've got to make the same number of bricks. And there's a sword in Pharaoh's hand. Just when they expected the greatest blessing, they had the greatest disappointment. Folks, can you identify with that? Is there anybody here? Don't raise your hands Is there any believer that has not at some time or another not known anguish of spirit for cruel bondage? This world is no friend to grace. This world is no friend to the children of God. This world has a sword in his hand. This world is telling us to make bricks, but we don't have any straw. You see, that's where these people are. And here the people have cursed Moses and Aaron, the prophets of God. And Moses is going to God and said, God, why? It's not right. And then God says, then the Lord saith, now, Moses. And so you see how important the second now, second time marker is here. Something good. I'm not going to say something good's about to happen, that stupid little song you've heard before. But folks, something good's about to happen. God is about to do a mighty work. But his children don't see it for anguish of spirit. They don't see it for cruel bondage. I think we can we can identify it. Verse two And God spake unto Moses and said, I am Jehovah. It's the end of the sermon. You don't need to hear any more. That's it, folks. There's the message. Do you have anguish of spirit? I'm Jehovah. Are you under cruel bondage? I'm Jehovah. That's God's answer to all of it. I'm the Lord, God says. I am the Lord. God tells Moses, I am the one who appeared to you in the burning bush. I am the God of your fathers. I am the God who made promises to Abraham. I am the God of the covenant. That's the significance of Jehovah. Verse 3. I appeared unto Abraham and unto Isaac and unto Jacob by the name God Almighty. But by my name Jehovah was I not known unto them. Folks, don't go by that verse too fast. There's a world of blessing in that verse. God made known himself to Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob as El Shaddai, as the God Almighty, the Almighty God, the all-sufficient God The God who has who is the poorer out of blessings is actually the most succinct Meaning of that word. He's the one who pours out blessings. That's the way I appeared to Abraham. That's the way I appeared to uh Isaac. That's the way I appeared to Jacob, I am the God of all blessings. I'm the God of all might, the God of all power. I pour out upon you blessings. And that is The essence of all the promises that have come before in Genesis 17, verses 1 and 2. And when Abraham was 90 years old, and 9 ninety years and nine, the Lord appeared unto Abram and said unto him, I am the Almighty God. Walk before me and be thou perfect, and I will make my covenant between thee and Me and thee, and I will multiply thee exceedingly. So God appears to Abraham and he says, Walk be hot for me, be perfect, keep your part of the covenant. This is my part of the covenant. I will multiply thee exceedingly. I pour out a blessing upon you. I'm Almighty. I'm able to do these things. And then in Genesis 28, verse 3. Isaac is blessing Jacob. And Isaac's blessing to Jacob is, and God Almighty, there it is again, El Shaddai, bless thee and make thee fruitful, and multiply thee, that thou mayest be a multitude of people. And so we find this name, El Shaddai, God Almighty, God the giver of all benefits to the patriarchs, Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, and God was teaching them that I am the one who will give you all these things. I am God Almighty But by my name Jehovah was I not known. And folks, this is glorious. This is beautiful. Because they all knew the name Jehovah It wasn't they'd never heard that. And we find the name Jehovah all through the Old Testament. They were already exposed to that name. It doesn't say you've never heard this before. But God says, I was known to them as El Shaddai, but by my name Jehovah was I not known unto them. What do we have here, folks? Is this a contradiction in scripture because we know that the name Jehovah? No, again, this is beautiful. The name Jehovah is found a multitude of times in the Old Testament before Exodus 6. It was not that Israel had never heard this name. but rather that their relationship to God had been primarily based upon his promises. But now their relation to him will be based upon his person. What is the name Jehovah? It is I am It is the self-existed one. It is me, God and none else. And so through El Shaddai, God had been showing his people all these things that I will pour on you. I'll give you the land. I'll make you a multitude. I will bless in the blessing and curse in the curse thee. I'm El Shaddai. It's all in my containment. Troll, it all pours forth for me. But now, when the children of Israel are in bondage, cruel bondage and grief of spirit, God says, I'm going to show you another bit of me. You have known what I can do. But now I want you to know who I am. And folks, that's often the reason we begin to make accusations against God. We know what He can do, but He's not doing it. We need to know more about who he is. Because you see, when we when we love God not because of what he does, but rather we love him because of who he is. It changes our whole perspective on cruel bondage. It changes our whole view of the problems we're currently facing. And so God tells Moses, Moses, wait a minute, they've known me as Al-Shaddai, but now they're going to know me as Jehovah. You see the glorious truth that's in this little verse. When Jacob was wrestling with God, On the plain of Penial in Genesis chapter 32. You can turn there if you'd like to. I'm going to kind of truncate, pull bits and pieces out of the verses. But in Genesis 32 and verse 24, and Jacob was left alone. And there wrestled a man with him until the breaking of the day. Verse 26. And he said, Let me go, for the day breaketh. And he, this is Jacob says, and he said, I will not let thee go except thou bless me. Verse 29. And Jacob answered him and said, Tell me I pray thee thy name. Okay, Jacob is wrestling with God on the plain of Penial, and he says, tell me your name. And he said, Wherefore is it that thou ask after my name? And he blessed him there. Sorry, wherefore is it that thou dost ask after my name? In other words, why are you asking my name? You Already know Jacob who I am. You know, it's it's sort of a rhetorical question. What are you asking that for? Why are you asking my name? And he blessed him there Verse 30, and Jacob called the name of the place Penil, for I have seen God face to face, and my life is preserved. What has happened up to this point? Jacob has received the blessing. Jacob now has two wives and two concubines. Jacob now has ten sons, or eleven sons by this point. Jacob now has herd so great that he sends him in two and three rows. God has blessed him. He has known El Shaddai But on the plain of Penial, he's meeting Jehovah. He has known what God can do. But wrestling with God, he has come to know God personally. He has known all about God from childhood. But now he knows God. Folks, to put it in our modern religious speech, Jacob was saved. That night on the plain of Penil. He had known about God all of his life. He had received blessings from God all of his life. But now he knows it. And his life has changed, isn't it? He halts upon his thigh. His life has changed from that point. Now folks, take it back to where we are here in Exodus chapter 6. The children of Israel have known about God all their lives. But now they need to know more than just about God. They need to know God. God, why aren't you doing all the things you're able to do? Have you ever prayed that? Don't raise your hands. Where are the promises? God says, you're looking at the wrong way, Moses. You don't need to know what I can do. You need to know who I am. And folks, when we are overcome with the cares of this world in cruel bondage, rather than complaining about what God hasn't done, get to know God better. Who are you? At Penil, Jacob met his Redeemer. At Penil, Jacob's soul was saved. I am Jehovah, the self-existent one. I am the one true God, the great I am. I am the God of the covenant. Because you see Jehovah, often expressed in our King James Bible as Lord all capitals, that's the covenant name of God. That's the name by which he keeps covenant. At the burning bush, in chapter 3 of Exodus, and verse 13 and 14. And Moses said unto God, Behold, this is back in Exodus chapter 3, and verse 13. And Moses said unto God, Behold, when I come unto the children of Israel And say unto them, God, the God of your fathers hath sent me unto you, and they shall say, What is his name? Okay? They shall say, what is his name? And what shall I say unto them? What shall I say unto them? And God said unto Moses, I am that I am. And he said, Thus shalt thou say unto the children of Israel, I am a sent me. You see all it all it all is one story. It's divided up into chapters and verses, but it's all one flowing accounts. You've got to step back a bit and see the whole picture. This has been the theme. These people need to know me. It doesn't matter what pharaoh does These people need to know me. Doesn't matter how much straw they need for bricks, nor how many bricks they're producing. They need to get to know me. What shall I tell him? Shall I tell him to send me? God has been present with his elect. God has blessed them. They came down to Egypt with seventy souls, and now there are a great multitude, over 600,000 men that went to war, plus women and children. El Shaddai has been very present with them through 400 years of bondage. But now Jehovah, the same God. But the personal God has come to deliver them. Verse 4. Exodus chapter 6, verse 4. And I have established my covenant with them. Okay, the covenant was with Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. But now God says I've established my covenant with the them. Who are the them? It's the children of Israel that are complaining The same covenant promises that I made to Abraham and Isaac and Jacob, I've established my covenant with them to give them the land of Canaan and the land of their pilgrimage wherein they were strangers. And I have also heard the groanings of the children of Israel. I'm sorry, I got ahead of myself there. In verse 4, the them is Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. Okay. In verse 4, the them as Abraham and Isaac, I established my covenant with them. And then verse 5, and I have also heard the groanings of the children of Jacob. The children of Israel, the children of grandchildren of Isaac, the great-grandchildren of Abraham And I have also heard the groanings of the children of Israel, whom the Egyptians keep in bondage, and I have remembered my covenant. God says to Moses, I remember the covenant I made with Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob I've heard the groanings of the children of Israel today. That's why I've come. Wherefore say unto the children of Israel. Remember Moses saying, What am I going to tell him? What am I supposed to say? Wherefore say unto the children of Israel I'm here to deliver you. I'm going to do great things? No, what are you supposed to tell them when they're overcome with grief of spirit and cruel bondage? Wherefore say unto the children of Israel, I am the Lord. I'm Jehovah. You know, we where are the blessings? No, I'm Jehovah. Why didn't that work out? No, I'm Jehovah. Why is there a sword in Pharaoh's hand? No, I'm Jehovah. You see, folks, that's the answer to all the problems. See the problems are to drive us to a greater intimacy with Jehovah. Wherefore say unto the children of Israel, I am the Lord, and I will give you, uh I will bring you out from under the burdens of the Egyptians. And I will rid you out of their bondage. And I will redeem you with a stretched-out arm and with great judgments. And I will take you to me for a people. And I will be your God, and ye shall know that I am the Lord your God. Here it is. You're going to know me. Why? Well because because I'm El Shaddai, because I do these great things, because I bring you out from Pharaoh with a strong arm, because Pharaoh will drive you out of the land, because I have so tormented him with ten plagues. You'll know. When you see the workings of Al Shaddai, you will know that I am the I Am, Jehovah. That I am the Lord your God, Jehovah your God, which bringeth you out from under the burdens of the Egyptians. And I will, verse 8, and I will bring you into the land concerning which I swear unto Abraham. To Isaac and to Jacob. And I will give it you for inheritage why I am The Lord. How many times in this passage has it come back to the same theme? I'm the Lord. I'm the Lord. I'm the Lord. Folks, are you in problems? I'm the Lord. Do you are you worried about tomorrow? I'm the Lord. Are you sick? I'm the Lord. Are you what what where does that response not fit in any of your cruel bondage, folks? Where does that answer from Jehovah not bring the bulb of Gilead to your soul? Because none of this seventy, eighty, ninety years of chaos really means anything. He's promised us the land, folks. This is just the temporary little whip of Pharaoh So, our great God has redeemed our souls from sin, Satan, and spiritual death. However, we still know cruel bondage. And we still know grief of spirit. And so, with that overview of the chapter, now I'd like to show us Very quickly, how our redemption is not simply the salvation of our soul, but rather it is all these different things that lead us to know God better. God has redeemed us from our detention. It's going to be all D's, so that was the best thing you can come up with. God has delivered us from our bondage, from our detention, from our slavery in Egypt. Verse 1, for with a strong hand will I let them go. Verse 6, I will bring them out from under their bondage. Going to the New Testament, Christ is speaking to the Jews. And in John 8, 25, then said they unto him, to Jesus, who art thou? Okay? Who are you? They said to the Jews, said to Jesus, Who art thou? Isn't that just what we found? Jehovah teaching the children of Israel? And the Jews say, Who art thou And Jesus said unto them, even the same that I said unto you from the beginning. Okay, the Jews know all about the Messiah, but they do not know the Messiah when he's standing in front of them. Doesn't that sound like the children of Israel under cruel bondage? Verse 31 of John 8. Then said Jesus unto them, Which believed on him, okay, out from among this crowd of blue of Jews, Jesus said unto those Jews which believed on him, If you continue in my word, then are you my disciples indeed. And ye shall know the truth. You'll get personal knowledge of truth of Jesus. And ye shall know the truth, and the Son shall make you free Verse 36, if the Son shall make you free, ye shall be free indeed. Okay, what was the problem that Israel was facing there in Christ's day? They were looking for a Messiah to deliver them from the bondage of Rome. Right? Now your New Testament. They were under the thumb of Rome. They thought the Messiah was going to come and conquer Rome and re-establish the Jewish kingdom, etc. etc. Can any good thing come out of Galilee? This can't be the Messiah. Moses, you came to deliver us and you just made it worse He just made it worse, Moses. And that's what the Jews said about Christ. If we don't do something about he's going to take away our synagogue, he's going to take away our tabernacle. He's going to bring the Romans down on us. They knew all about Messiah, but they did not know Messiah. In Micah 6 and verse 4, For I brought thee up out of the land of Egypt, and I redeemed thee out of the house of servants. Folks, our redemption is not just salvation, it's deliverance from the bondage of this world. He's del redeemed us from the bondage of servants. Galatians 5. 1, stand fast in the liberty whereith Christ has made you free. Matthew 6, 24. No man can serve two masters, either he will love the one and hate the other. He cannot serve God and mammon. First Corinthians 7, verse 23 and 22 and 23 For he that is called in the Lord, being a servant, is the Lord's free man. Okay? He's a servant on earth, but he's the Lord's free man. Likewise also he that is called being free is Christ's servants. Ye are bought with a price, be not the servants of men. Are you enduring cruel bondage in this world? The lowest slave in the world who believes in Christ is Christ free man. Peace deliver us from our bondage. We're redeemed from bondage. And we are redeemed from to keep our deeds going from our detractors. We are redeemed from our enemies. Verse 1 of Exodus 6, thou shalt see what I will do to Pharaoh. Verse 6 of Exodus 6, with great judgments. Listen to these verses. I'm going to read them slowly but quickly. Psalm 106 verse 10. And he saved them from the hand of him that hated them, and redeemed them from the hand of the enemy. Do you have enemies on earth? God's redeemed you from the hand of the enemy. Psalm 107, verse 2, let the redeemed of the Lord say so, whom he hath redeemed from the hand of the enemy. Psalm 136, verse 24, and hath redeemed us from our enemies, for his mercy endureth forever Psalm 44, verse 26, arise for our help and redeem us for thy mercy's sake. Psalm 72, 14, he shall redeem their soul from deceit and violence. And precious shall their blood be in his sight. Jeremiah 15, 21, and I will deliver thee out of the hand of the wicked, and I will redeem thee out of the hand of the terrible. Jeremiah 31, verse 11, for the Lord hath redeemed Jacob and ransomed him from the hand of him that was stronger than him. Isaiah 49, 25, and following. Thus saith the Lord, even the captives of the mighty shall be taken away. And the prey of the terrible shall be delivered, for I will contend with him that contendeth with thee, and I will save thy children And I will feed them that oppress thee with their own flesh. God, someone give them their own flesh to eat. I will feed feed them that oppress thee with their own flesh And they shall be drunk with their own blood, as with sweet wine. And all flesh shall know that I am Jehovah. That I am the Lord. There it is again. Why is God going to do this to the enemies? That all flesh will know that I am. That I am the Lord. All flesh will know that I, the Lord, am thy Savior and thy Redeemer, the mighty one of Jacob. God has delivered us from our detention, from our bondage. God has redeemed us from our enemies, from our detractors, and we are redeemed from destruction. What does it mean to be redeemed from destruction? Well it means the here and now. I will take you verse 7 of Exodus 6. And I will take you to me for a people, and I will be your God, and ye shall know that I am the Lord your God. How many of this morning are are here on weekend release from jail? Raise your hands. How many of you are under indictment for murder? How many of you had to sober up last night to get to church this morning? How many of you are fighting a drug addiction? You know, I would say the Lord's redeemed your life from destruction. Both my grandfathers were alcoholics. Folks, God has redeemed us for destruction. He redeemeth thy life from destruction. And the children of Israel had witnessed multitudes of canes and multitudes of achens and multitudes of hockey's and Phineases. That had their lives were not redeemed from destruction. They went ahead and longed destruction. They knew all about God. They had seen what El Shaddai had done, but they'd never met Jehovah. They never not got to know the God who is the I Am Who redeemeth thy life from destruction? Psalm 103, verses 2 and 3, 2 and 4. Blessed Lord, O my soul, and forgot get not all this benefits. Who redeemeth thy life from destruction, who crowneth thee with loving kindness and tender mercy. Psalm 116, verse 8, for thou hast delivered my soul from death Mine eyes from tear, and my feet from falling. And what keeps my feet in the narrow way, as they say? Not my will. But God day by day redeeming my life from destruction. Psalm 56, verse 13. For thou hast delivered my soul from death. Wilt thou not deliver my feet from falling? Isn't that beautiful? God, you saved my soul. You delivered my soul from death. Won't you keep my feet from falling? All the Father giveth to me shall come to me, and him that cometh to me, I will never cast out. My Father which gave them me is greater than all, and no man is able to pluck them out of my hand. Keep my feet from falling, Lord. Father, I see the temptation which is so great. I see the things which could be the destruction of my life and the destruction of my soul. But he has redeemed my life from that destruction. He has redeemed us from detention, he's redeemed us from detractors, he's redeemed us from destruction. And folks, I think this is the most beautiful one of all these. He's redeemed us from distresses. You see, the children of Israel were looking at the whip of Pharaoh's servants and the lack of straw rather than looking at the Jehovah they needed to know. Verse 5 of Exodus 6, I have also heard the groanings of the children of Israel. When Jacob was blessing Joseph and Joseph's two sons at the end of Jacob's life In Genesis 48, verse 15, and he, that is Jacob, blessed Joseph and said, God, before whom my fathers Abraham and Isaac did walk, The God which fed me all my lifelong, the El Shaddai, the God which fed me all my lifelong unto this day, the angel which redeemed me from all evil. Jacob had been cheated by his uncle Laban Jacob had been run out of his home. Jacob will never see his mother again. But he said, God's redeemed me from all evil. Folks, are you facing evil trials in your life? Are you facing cruel bondage? Is your spirit grieved because of cruel bondage? But God redeemed you from that as well. He healed with all our diseases. You see, God has redeemed us from our distresses. And this is not the only verse. The Phrase there, the angel which redeemed me from all let me read the whole verse. This is this is uh Genesis 48, 16. The angel which has redeemed me from all evil, bless the lads, and let my name be upon them. and the name of my father Abraham Isaac and lets him grow into a multitude in the midst of the earth. But that were phrase The angel which hath redeemed me from all evils, that phrase all evils, is also translated afflictions. That same word, all evil, in uh in the original language is one, but in our English it's all evil here, but it's also afflictions. It's the verse, the same word that's found in Psalm 34, verse 19, many are the afflictions of the righteous. But the Lord delivereth them out of them all. God has redeemed us from all afflictions. Yes, he redeemed your soul. But he's redeemed your life from the bodies of this world. He's redeemed your life from the detractors or enemies of this world that would rail against you. He has redeemed your life from destruction. And he's even redeemed your life from the distresses of this world Casting all your care upon him, for he cares for you. And again when David was declaring that Solomon was to be king at the end of David's life in 1 Kings chapter 1, verse 29 and 30. And the king swore and said, As the Lord liveth, and the Lord there is all capitals, as Jehovah liveth, that hath redeemed my soul out of all distresses. David had some distresses, didn't he? David's own son turned against him. David got run out of the kingdom. David was told, David, you've been a bloody man of war. You can't build the temple. But David said, the God that has redeemed Jehovah, that has redeemed my soul from all distresses, from all the things that would plague me. Hath redeemed my soul. This again is 1 Kings 1, 29 and 30. And the king swear and said, As the Lord liveth, Jehovah liveth, that hath redeemed my soul out of all distresses. Even as I swear unto thee by Jehovah, by the Lord, God of Israel, saying, Assuredly, Solomon, thy son, shall reign after me, and he shall sit upon my throne, my throne in my stead. Psalm 25, verse 17 and 22. The troubles of my heart are enlarged. Oh, bring me out of my distress. Redeem Israel out of all his troubles. Folks, that's a good verse to pray. Lord, the troubles of my heart are enlarged. Bring me out of distress. Redeem me out of all my troubles. We are redeemed from our detention, we're redeemed from our detractors, we're redeemed from destruction, we are redeemed from distresses. But finally, we're redeemed from desolation. We're redeemed from desolation Exodus 6 verse 9 And Moses spake unto the children of Israel, but they hearken not unto Moses for anguish of spirit. And for cruel bondage. They were sitting in desolation, weren't they? Where are the promises? But Psalm 34, verse 22, the Lord redeemeth the soul of his servants. None of them that trust in him shall be desolate. The Lord redeemeth the soul of his servants. None of them that trust in him shall be desolate. Folks, We can't deny this bad. We can't deny that this world has cruel bondage. We can't deny that our spirits are grieved because of the cruel bondage. But we will not be desolate because God has redeemed us from desolation. So, folks, this chapter The first nine verses of this chapter show us a people that were so overwhelmed by their problems. All they could see was what God was not doing. But all they needed to see was who God is. And so may we learn not just to trust the Al-Shaddai, but to know and love the Jehovah God. Stand with me for prayer. Father, we thank you for your word. We thank you, Lord, that it is indeed a rich mine of knowledge and blessing to your people. Bless thy word to the hearts of your people for our edification and strengthening. In Jesus' name. Amen.