Turn with him this morning to Psalm forty nine as we have a communion service this morning a little different from the norm. Psalm 49 was our responsive reading, and we will just look at a couple of verses in that psalm a little more closely. Psalm 49 verses 7 and 8. Titled the message, Redeeming a Soul, or perhaps we could say Restoring a Soul to that which it was. uh in the days of Adam and Eve, or rescuing the soul from sin, redeeming, restoring, rescuing the soul. Let's look at verses seven and eight, if we would, please. Of Psalm chapter 49. None of them can by any means redeem his brother, or give to God a ransom for him. For the redemption of their soul is precious, and it ceaseth forever. It's rather hard when you start to talk about Christ's sacrifice, his substitutionary atonement on the cross. His blood being shed for our sins. It's hard to say anything new or that you haven't probably heard by now. I pray that the Holy Spirit might present it to you in a fresh way. To your minds a state, and it might cause a singing in your heart to the Lord. Now, if it's not you said anything, a singing in the heart to the Lord, what is he talking about? Does that sound like an unreasonable expectation to you? That we will be singing in our hearts the Lord from having died on the cross and saved us from our sins? If that sounds like an unreasonable expectation for you, let me just say that Paul expected that of the Ephesians, for that's what he writes in Ephesians 5 and 19. He expected the Colossians, for that's what he writes in Colossians 3. 16. That we should be singing in our hearts to the Lord for what he has done on the cross for us, how he shed his blood, how he suffered, and died, that we not have to suffer for all eternity for our sins. We didn't read in just now, but we did in our responsive reading. Psalm 49. And it begins, hear ye this, all you people, give ear Now, why would the psalmist say that? Hear ye, oh ye people, and give ear. Well, because Psalm 49 is not a topic which most like to consider, or meditate upon, or think about. So he's having to plead to them, to give ear, to hear, to listen. And we're either going to receive the instructions of Psalm 49 or we're going to receive the destruction at God's hand. which is expressed in Psalm 49 as well. Or as the Bible elsewhere terms it everlasting torment. Revelations 14 and 1. And the blackness of darkness forever. Jude 1 and 13. So you start to get a feel for why people might not want to listen to Psalm 49. So may the words of Christ sink into our hearts today and take hold of our souls today for everlasting torment. Everlasting torment does not describe some soul sleep. Everlasting torment does not describe some annihilation at death. Everlasting torment does not describe just ceasing to exist when we die It draws our attention to the fact that we should be considering this morning what is our destiny? Because life doesn't stop here on earth And where will you spend eternity? Where will you spend your where is your destiny? Somebody here might someday be the hero of the hour. And that's good, and it lasts about an hour. And then the news moves on to some other story. You may win the Congressional Medal of Honor someday in giving your life for others. In fact, the Lord Jesus Christ commended that. He said, Greater love hath no man than this, that a man would lay down his life for his friends. John 15 and 13. So if you become a Congressional Medal of Honor and you lay down your life for your friends, the Lord Jesus Christ commends that. But it won't earn you a mansion in heaven. You can give your life for others. You can give your life for many. But it doesn't earn you a spot in heaven, though it's commended a commendable thing to do If the occasion where you have done some good deeds or some good works, if those good deeds and good works could remove and blot out and erase your numerous and deeply embedded filthy sins, Well that would be a good deal, wouldn't it? But all your good works and your good deeds will not wipe out and for if we were to people love to say, Well you take my good deeds here and my bad deeds here and they balance out Not likely. But it just say you had more good deeds than bad deeds. It still will not blot out the filthiness of your sins There's only one thing that will do that. It's the substitutionary death of Christ on the cross. Christ substituted the cross. Some think it wasn't necessary. Some think that it's uh not it was needless as long as you're pretty good. As long as by their standards, you've got a good reputation, done some nice things out there, uh you'll you'll make it into eternity, you'll make it into heaven. And if that is true Then Christ dying on the cross, what a tragedy that he did something that wasn't necessary. I mean if if there's other ways to get to heaven, why on earth would God do something like that to his son? What what it what a tragedy of immense proportion that God would have his son die on a cross to get some of us to heaven when there were other ways to get there. Less painful, less disgraceful, less horrendous So, is Christ's death the only option? Are there other options? I mean, if there are other options, why didn't God emphasize those other options? People emphasize all kinds of options. They're good works, their tithing. Is Christ's death the only option? The Holy Scripture, written by the inspiration of God, holy men wrote as they were inspired by the Lord, it says that Christ is our only option. The Lord Jesus Christ. He is the all-knowing one, and in case you don't think that Christ is the all-knowing one, our Heavenly Father said He has committed all judgment onto the Son. John 5 and 22. Why would you commit all judgment on the sun unless as the judge of all the world and all the souls he has all the information he needs I mean if a judge is going to make a good decision, if a judge is going to make a perfect decision, and when it comes to souls, it better be the right decision, it better be a great decision That judge had better have all the information. And the Heavenly Father says that he has committed all judgment on the Son. Because he has all the information. He is all knowing And you know what Christ said? The all-knowing Christ. For Christ is God come in the flesh. Christ is a part of the triune Godhead. The all-knowing God, the all-knowing Savior, the all-knowing redeemer, the Lord Jesus Christ, when the Father said, I've committed all judges on you, Christ is good. And the first thing Christ says is I am the way. Singular. He didn't say, I'm one of the ways, I'm one of the options, I'm plan B, and there's also plan C. He didn't say that. He said, I am the way singular. And he says, I am the truth. What I speak to you is truth, and I'm the life. You want life eternally, you want life after death, here it is. It's in me. If you believe in God, he says, Christ said, believe also in me. And then Christ said, who is the all-knowing one? Christ also said in John 14, 6, that no man cometh unto the Father. but by me. That's pretty restrictive. That's pretty narrow. It's as narrow as this Bible You might think you can get there by your Buddhist chance. You may think you can get there by your your your Hindu prayers. You may think you can get there by uh sacrificing yourself and killing uh you know twenty-five Christians or Jews as the jihadists do or the Muslims do? They they believe that that guarantees them eternity, eternal life But Christ said there's only one way. He said, I am that way, and that no one cometh on the Father but by me. And God says that He is the judge of all things, for He has all that information Most of they believe that there is life after death. Most people will tell you that. At least when you go to a funeral home, right? I've never met anybody at a funeral home. They didn't look down the casket and say, well She's in a better place now. They all believe there's a better place than here. Most of them, at least, will say that Have you ever thought about this? Some people in this world have a pretty rotten life. A pretty miserable wife. A pretty Summer, uh Johnny Eric Tada Erickson, she she's she's in pain all the time. And so when she dies, it wouldn't take much for her to go to just a better place, right? I mean what's a better place? Lots of us could get to a better place, and it wouldn't be heaven. It's a better place by their standards. Being good people. They say all good people will go to a better place, but they're good people by their standards. They're not good people by God's standards. A better place isn't much better than where we are right now. And it falls far short of what Christ and the scriptures promise us if we love the Lord Jesus Christ. Uh it falls far short of what God has promised us in eternity if we are saved, if we're born again. It falls far short of that. You you want to be in a better place? Let me tell you what Christ talks about, those who believe in Him and love Him, and that their blood has His blood has cleansed them of their sins. He doesn't describe heaven as a better place. He describes it as a place of pleasures forevermore. Psalm 16, 11. Pleasures forevermore, everlasting joy, Isaiah 35 and 10. Eternal glory, 1 Peter 5 and 10, and 2 Timothy 2:10 Eternal glory, everlasting joy, pleasures forevermore. That sounds like something a whole lot better than just a better place When people say, well, at least it's in a better place, they know nothing about the scriptures, nothing about the promises, nothing what God has gone to prepare for us in his Father's house and where there are many mansions. They know nothing of that Why are so many people willing to settle for just a better place? Why are they so willing to settle for far less than what Christ promises us? If we love him, love what he has done for us, the sacrifice, substitution. He substituted what we should have been on that cross. We should have gone to hell. He is a substitute for us, a substitutionary atonement, a substitutionary sacrifice. If we believe him, trust him, rely on him Sing in our heart to his name. When we sing here Sunday mornings, I wish once a week I should bring one person up here to see what I see. Here's what I see. Got the hymn book in the hand Or or it's well I have this sometimes. Where's the singing? Or sometimes it's We're just singing. Paul says, singing in your heart to the Lord. I guess it's because some of us don't have anything to sing about. I should bring up your so- Oh, and then the faces, the expressions. I've got some people out there and they're smiling and they're singing and I mean they're just rejoicing and you see you just about see their the buttons popping off their chest. They're just so excited to be here and sing Yeah. And sometimes you might wonder why I'm not looking over here while we're singing. It's because we're smiling over here, or vice versa, you know Why are so many so willing to settle for so much less? That's because their beliefs require less of them And they like that. Their belief or their faith is not in the God of the Scriptures, the Christ of the Scriptures, or the Lamb of God that shed his blood for them. Their belief is is is a lot lower on the on the scale. And they like that because their beliefs require a lot less of them. There are no boundaries in their beliefs. There are no moral absolutes. There's no eternal judgment. There's no eternal punishment from their effeminate loving God, because that's what they think God is. That God is all love. And he's easy to move and and he's just kind of an effeminate God. In fact, some of the Bibles and some of the preachers refer to God as she and our mother who art in heaven. They pray like that Their boundaries are very low, very few, little expectations, just as long as they can get to a better place. They readily seem to have grabbed the idea of eternal life from John 17, too. They like the idea that they'll be in a better place for all eternity. For some people, a better place might be Glen Burney. Better place used to be Paris, not anymore. Boy, can you imagine people think they're gonna die and they're gonna go to a better place and to think it's gonna be like Paris? Wow, they're disappointed today. They grasp eternal life. John 17, 2. Don't even know it's in the book of in the Bible, or in John, or in chapter 17. They boldly assert a loving God would never impose eternal damnation, but Mark 3. 29 says he does on those who disbelieve. They say he would never impose, he's a loving God and effeminate God. He'd never impose eternal damnation or eternal fire. But Jude chapter 1 and verse 7 says God will, and I could go on with those verses for quite a while. God will impose eternal damnation, eternal fire, on the non repentant, on the rebellious against a thrice holy eternal God, there will be eternal punishment. Why should punishment be for all eternity? Because you have sinned against an eternal God And when you look at the the the rich man in hell, he's still not down to repenting. He's complaining about he's thirsty, he's complaining about he wants a drop of water. He's still com- he's not repenting, and he's not even praying to God. He says, Father Abraham, he's still praying to a saint. You know, they don't change it. Why the people left in hell forever? Because they never repent. Even while they're in hell, they don't repent. They just complain and murmur and mumble. It's eternal. A repentant soul is necessary to go to heaven A repentant soul is rare that goes to heaven. You know that. You out there on the streets, you're at work. You you move about the stores and so forth. Uh how many Christians did you run into this week out there? I mean you may have walked by some and didn't know they were Christians, but how many have you run into that That it you you you said, wow, I think there's a I heard them humming a little tune, Jesus loves me under their breath as they're walking down the food aisle. I mean the the idea of a repentant sinner is necessary. It's rare and it's difficult because it requires a quickening by God's grace, Ephesians 2. 5 Anyone here who's saved is because God quickened you. You were dead in trespasses and sins. You laid there dead, like I said a couple weeks ago. Like Adam in the Garden of Eden, God has taken his clay and he's formed his body, and now this body of clay, it's dead. And God can sit back and say, well, when are you going to make a decision for Jesus? When are you going to uh sign a decision card? When are you going to get up and walk down the aisle, Adam? Adam is dead. He's just a pile of clay and God breathed life in him and quickened him. And you who are in dead in trespass and sins, if you're saved this morning, it had nothing to do with you. God didn't look down and think, oh he's kind of a cute sinner. God can't look on sin. God chose for his own purposes to quicken some of us, didn't he? He quickens us by his grace. There's no merit in us. What could Adam have laying there in the clay in the Garden of Eden? What could he have possibly done to emerit God's grace? Nothing. And you as a sinner in rebellion against a thricefolding God You've never done a thing that merited his attention or his touching your heart and quickening you and making you alive. And causing you to sing unto the Lord and to appreciate what Christ has done on the cross. And that verse 7 and 8 that we looked at, we finally arrive at. Verse 7, none of them can by any means redeem his brother. You can't redeem your brother. He can't redeem yourself. Says you can't redeem your brother, you cannot give to God a ransom for him. There's nothing you can give to God. You think you can bribe God? You think he can bide God off? You think he'd be tithe, double tithe, triple tithe? By a mascot stacked as high as the Empire State Building, they don't get somebody out of purgatory and get them into heaven. You can't bribe God. There's none of us that can redeem our brother or give to God a ransom for him. There is nothing we can do. But pray, pray, pray, pray, pray. It says here none of them, not none of them, not all of them put together could fund and purchase the redemption of one soul. They couldn't all you got all the friends you ever known together and you asked the pilot all the money they had. They couldn't fund the redemption of one soul, not their soul, not your soul. The price is too great The price for salvation is too great. The antidote for washing away your sins is too expensive. You could have a gold nugget as the large as large as the planet Neptune Which is thirty-four times larger than Earth, by the way. Imagine a gold nugget that big, it couldn't purchase one soul. Or how about a diamond as large as the the big dipper? Whoa, I can't even imagine how big that is. It can't purchase one soul. God can't be bribed. God can't be bought. You can't purchase grace. If you had that nugget, if you had that diamond, you couldn't purchase one drop of blood from the veins of Christ. That's how precious the blood of Christ is That one drop of blood could purchase eons of souls. He shed it all, but he didn't have to shed it all. He could have shed half of it or a third of it. the value of the blood of Christ, it can cleanse a filthy sin out of the dirtiest and oldest of sinners. You can't purchase that antidote. What shall a man give in exchange for a soul? Mark asks in chapter 8, 36 and 37. What can you give in exchange for your soul? Nothing. But Christ could give something and he did. He gave it all. He said all his blood, all his precious blood. What can we give? Mark asked in chapter 8. And the answer is nothing. We're redeemed not with corruptible things such as silver and gold, but with the precious blood of the Son of God. 1 Peter 1, 18 and 19. The blood of Jesus Christ cleanses us from all sin. 1 John 1 and 7. Not the blood of a lamb, not the blood of a bullock, not the blood of some great saint like Peter or Paul. It's not the blood of any creature. It's the blood of the Lord Jesus Christ that cleanses us. In fact we read that the flock of God, the Church of God, hath he purchased with his own blood. Acts 20 and 28. And if you go into the context look again, it's saying that the blood of God, that God he purchased his church with the blood of God. The blood of Christ was the blood of God The blood of Christ was not the blood of some creature. He was the God man. That's what made the blood so precious. What must the angels have thought in heaven? As they looked down on Golgotha and they saw the blood of God coming out of his side and his hands and his feet. I don't think they'd ever seen that before. Angels don't have blood. They're just spirit. They knew creatures had blood, but God bleeding? What must they have thought? They must have been aghast. They must have been astonished. They must have almost been beside themselves. And yet we can say, oh yeah, the blood of Jesus that cleansed our soul. Yeah, I know that. Yeah, oh yeah, I believe that. Yeah, okay. Boy, I don't think any angel ever took that attitude as he saw the blood flow from Christ's hands and his feet. The blood of God? How dare a creature pierce his hands, pierce his feet, pierce his side, strike his back with a whip, punch him, slap him in the face, and pull the hair from his chin. He must have been just ready to rip the earth in half. Some may ask why the The blood of the Lamb of God and John the Baptist called Christ. Behold the Lamb of God that taketh away the sin of the world In the early days Moses would shed the blood of a lamb, it it foreshadowed, look forward to the day when God would send his own son as the Lamb of God, rather than the Lamb of Moses or the Land of Jacob and so forth. But why would the blood of the Lamb of God, why would the blood of his only begotten son? Uh why would why would that be the antidote for our sins? Well, God is our creator. And God is the owner of this vineyard called earth. And God reigns, does he not? He's the king, right? And Christ is the king of kings. God reigns over all his vineyard, and he who reigns and rules makes the rules. Why the blood of his son? Because God, the Heavenly Father. He makes the rules. He made the Ten Commandments, didn't he? For our good and for his glory. And if he has decided that the only thing that will cleanse us from our sin is the blood that courses through the veins of his son, Jesus Christ, that's the answer. And there is no other answer. Why did he do it? He's God. Who art thou to reply against God and ask him why he doeth us? That is the antidote. And for someone to try to come up with good works and good deeds or something else. Christ was the King of Kings, the title he's given. And he agreed with his Heavenly Father, was willing to come down here and sacrifice these sacrifices and be sent. That he declares, is it not lawful for me to do what I will with my own? Matthew 20, verse 15. God can do what he wants with his own. If he wants to cleanse them with the blood of his son, he can do that. If Christ wants to shed his blood to cleanse us, he can do that. He can do with his own as he wants. If I want to save him this manner or that manner, I can do it. I can do with my own as I please, he says. In Matthew 20 and 15. I'll say this slowly to you, but though you be categorized. Though you be baptized, though you be sanitized or homogenized, set apart. Unto good things, it means nothing if Christ's blood hasn't cleansed you of your sin The blood of Christ, it should be of major significance to you Ask yourself on a scale of one to ten. Here comes the question of the day. Ask yourself on a scale of 1 to 10, 10 being the highest and the most significant, how significant is the blood of Christ to you? And oops, because before you even answer, God already knows everyone's answer. Now you wish I hadn't asked that. Somebody said, well, the significance of the blood of Christ to me is a oh it's an eight, seven and a half, maybe a nine. You know what it should be on a scale of one to ten? Eleven or infinity. How can you put a price on it? How can you put a number on it? But some of you answered two, three Six. I'm almost there. Eight. God knows your answer. In verse 8 he says, the redemption of the soul is precious. It costs a lot, doesn't it? The redemption of the soul is precious. And it ceases forever. Or that is, once we are dead, the opportunity of redemption ceases forever. Our opportunity for redemption right now from our sins, forgiveness from our sins being rescued for our sins, it is now. Because once we die, it ceaseth. The opportunity ceaseth forever Repentance is now. It's a re repentance is needed now. Regeneration is needed now. Being born from above is needed now. Being born again is needed now. Psalm forty-nine fifteen says this is your hope that God will redeem my soul from the power of the grave For he will receive me. That is that God if you have regener if you are regenerated, if you're born again, if you've called on God to save you, then he will redeem you from the grave. Your soul will never go in the grave, your body, sure But when Christ comes back, he's going to bring that back up too. But the redemption of the soul is precious. It ceases forever. You either make the decision for Christ today, and now in this moment, or very, very surely, because once your life ceases, the opportunity for redemption ceases also And no amount of tears or prayers or works or ties or how your loved ones might carry on will ever bring you back out of the grave, your body and soul will be condemned for all eternity. Thus through our our body goes into the grave, Christ returns. God will redeem my soul, we read in Psalm 49, 15, from the power of the grave. Receive my soul. Christ had promised that under the thief on the cross, didn't he? You think about that. The thief on the cross And Christ says, This day thou shalt be with me in paradise. Where'd the thief and the cross body go? Into the grave. How can he be this day with him in paradise? Because he redeemed his soul, and it never went into the grave. And if you are saved, God will redeem your soul. And that will not go in the grave. That goes into a heaven, where Paul says that to be absent of the body is present with the Lord. Christ, the creator of life on the first day, is the redeemer of the believer on your last day Let me say that again. Christ, who the Bible tells us in Revelation 4:11, that He is the creator of all things. Christ, the creator of life on the first day, is the Redeemer of the believer on his last day. If you believe. Are you a believer? Then you'll be admitted into the third heaven, 2 Corinthians 12, 2. Are you a believer? Then you'll be before the throne of God where the six-winged serapin are singing and praising God. You'll be there around the heavenly rainbow and the encircled throne and temple and altar, Revelation 7-15. You'll be in the presence of the Thrice Holy God Where the seraphim and the elders and all those in the in the heaven and are under the altar, the believers are singing, Holy, Holy, Holy, Lord God Almighty. Is there a song in your heart at all? For any portion of the gospel? For what Christ has done for you? You think you're gonna be standing in heaven someday like this? There's nobody like that up there. The description is that they're all singing. We're all alive in Christ. Any volunteers next week to stand up here with me and look at the crowd out here? Got one. He's up here every week. Our song. He knows what I'm talking about. Why would we be in the presence of God singing, holy, holy, holy? Because Christ's blood, the Lamb of God, which taketh away the sin of the world, John 1:21, has cleansed us. And he's made us fit for a holy place that we would never be fit for if his blood hadn't cleansed us, sanitized us. Made us fit for the holy place. He made us so fit that Exodus 12 says he's made us so fit for heaven that he will not suffer Satan, the destroyer, to smite us. Have these verses spoken to you at all this morning? Has God spoken to you? His Holy Spirit touched you? He has. We welcome you to the communion table. You don't have to be a member here. You don't have to have been baptized on this church. If you believe with all your heart, all your soul, and all your might, and all your strength that Christ died for your sins. And you are so grateful. You'll never be grateful enough. You have to acknowledge that, but that you are grateful. We invite you to partake this morning in our communion supper. Doing this in remembrance of me, Christ said. Ask for the elders to come forward, please, and our deacon, uh Mike.