Turn in your Bibles with me this morning to Psalm 33, the thirty-third Psalm. And uh as Brother Vince mentioned, that hymn was written, the not the words, the words are from the Psalms, but the music was written by Franz Jovis Joseph Haydn. And this morning we're going to see a psalm of great joy, a psalm of praise, a psalm which calls on God's people to praise. And the Fourth line of the first verse of the psalm which we just sang. This psalm actually comes from Psalm 135, but the fourth line comes from Psalm 33. And it says there, The Lord is good, his praise proclaim. Since it is pleasant to praise his name, it is comely so to do. We're going to read in the Psalm. And I'm kind of getting ahead of of The order in which I was going to mention things this morning, but let me read to you something that Haydn said. He was once asked why the music that he wrote for worship was so joyful. And you notice how much movement there was in that s that hymn, the tune that we to which we sang that psalm. So when he was asked why his worship music was cheerful, fear fear so cheerful, he said, I cannot make it otherwise I write according to the thoughts I feel. When I think upon God, my heart is so full of joy that the notes dance and leap, as it were, from my pen. And since God has given me a cheerful heart, it will be pardoned me that I serve him with a cheerful spirit. And I actually requested uh that hymn for this morning because that uh Fourth line of the first verse corresponds to the first verse that we're going to read in Psalm 33 this morning, and that will actually be the text to which we return. So in your Bibles, now in Psalm 33, I'm going to read the entire Psalm. Follow along with me. Psalm 33, verse 1. Rejoice in the Lord, O ye righteous, for praise is comely for the upright. Praise the Lord with harp. Sing unto him with psaltery and an instrument of ten strings. Sing unto him a new song. Play skillfully with a loud noise. For the word of the Lord is right, and all his works are done in truth. He loveth righteousness and judgment. The earth is full of the goodness of the Lord. By the word of the Lord were the heavens made, and the host of them by the breath of his mouth. He gathereth the waters of the sea together as a heap. He layeth up the depths in storehouses. Let all the earth fear the Lord. Let all the inhabitants of the world stand in awe of him. For he spake, and it was done. He commanded, and it stood fast. The Lord bringeth the counsel of the heathen to naught He maketh the devices of the people of none effect. The counsel of the Lord standeth forever. The thoughts of his heart to all generations. Blessed is the nation whose God is the Lord, and the people whom he hath chosen for his own inheritance. The Lord looketh from heaven He beholdeth all the sons of men. From the place of his habitation, he looketh upon all the inhabitants of the earth. He fashioneth their hearts alike. He considereth all their works. There is no king saved by the multitude of a host. A mighty man is not delivered by much strength And horse is a vain thing for safety, neither shall he deliver any by his great strength. Behold. The eyes of the Lord are upon them that fear him, upon them that hope in his mercy, to deliver their soul from death, and to keep them alive in famine. Our soul waiteth for the Lord. He is our help and our shield, for our heart shall rejoice in him Because we have trusted in his holy name. Let thy mercy, O Lord, be upon us, according as we hope in thee. Let us bow for prayer. Oh Father, we thank you for this glorious, joyful, rich text, rich psalm that is before us. Father, may you open your word to our hearts and cause our hearts to cry out joyfully in praise to our God. Father, this morning, may we see the beauty, the majesty, the power of your word Father, this morning may the exposition of your word be unhindered by man's imposed outline upon it. Father, today, indeed, may the word of the Lord have free course and be glorified. May you create the fruit of our lips. May you cause us to truly worship you in spirit and in truth. And Lord, we pray this now in Jesus' name. Amen. Rejoice in the Lord, oh ye righteous. For praise is comely for the upright. How can we possibly expound such a text? What comment can we make upon it that befits the beauty and the majesty of the Word of God? Our only resource is to let Scripture speak for itself, to compare Scripture with Scripture. And I've outlined this chapter for us this morning, and my prayer has been, I guess, beginning on Wednesday, Lord, don't let the outline mess up your text. Don't let my attempts to try to expound on the passage hinder the passage itself. As I read that psalm again in your hearing this morning, it preached to me. It is a sermon of itself. I will endeavor to preach a sermon this morning, but as I've said to you many times in the past, I have nothing inspired to say. But we have read a divinely inspired sermon this morning. It's glorious. It's interesting that this psalm does not have a title. That is unusual. Most of the psalms have a title, and the title is included in our text because it is included in the Hebrew text. And so it has been carried over into our English Bibles. But this psalm has no title. It's unusual Uh many of the biblical scholars believe that the last verse of Psalm thirty-two Is properly the first verse of Psalm 33. And if you read Psalm 32, the last verse doesn't seem to fit well with it, but if you read Psalm 32, 11, be glad in the Lord, and rejoice ye righteous, and shout for joy all ye that are upright in heart. Rejoice in the Lord, O ye righteous, for praise is comely for the upright. You see there is a good connection between the two, and in the Hebrew text they are together with no with no division, no title between them. The first thing I would have us to consider this morning Is that this verse one, rejoice in the Lord, O ye righteous, for praise is comely for the upright. Is that a suggestion? Or a command. First thing I believe we have here is a command to rejoice. Rejoice in the Lord, O ye righteous! For praise is comely for the upright. Praise is fitting, praise is proper, and praise is expected from the upright. It's comely. We're commanded to rejoice. And we find this command expressed in multiple ways. Through the entirety of Scripture, both Old Testament and New Testament, we find it again: rejoice, rejoice, rejoice, rejoice in the Lord always. And again I say, rejoice. We're commanded to rejoice. We're commanded to be glad in the Lord. Look down to verse 11 of the Psalm. I'm sorry. Verse I'm getting ahead of myself. And everything give thanks, for this is the will of God in Christ Jesus concerning you. We're commanded to rejoice. But what does it mean to rejoice? What is this word rejoice here telling us? Well it's interesting that that this word that is used here of rejoice in this first verse Is more often translated as Singh. It is translated Singh Sing aloud, sing for joy, shout for joy, and cry aloud And so rejoice is what we would call the minor translation. In other words, this word is translated in other ways into our English more often than rejoice. And so the best method for understanding what any passage of Scripture is trying to tell us is to compare that passage with other scriptures which use the same terminology. And so I'm going to have you turn to several passages here. Turn back to Job chapter 38. Job Chapter Thirty Eight Here, as you come to the end of the book of Job, God is now speaking. Job's unfriendly friends have spoken. Job has replied, but now God is answering. And in Job 38, I'm going to read verse 4 and then verse 7. God says to Job, Where wast thou when I laid the foundations of the earth? Declare if thou hast understanding. Verse 7, when the morning stars sang together And the sons of God shouted for joy. That phrase sang together there is the same word we have: rejoice. Now think about this. When God created the earth, when he spoke the stars into existence and then continued by speaking into the existence the earth and man The angels shouted for joy. They've just been created. They've just come into existence. And the first thing the angels do The morning stars, they shout for joy. And it's the same word rejoice. And so we see right from the outset that what this Psalm 31 or 33, verse 1, is telling us. Is that there is to be a bursting forth of praise? Rejoice, O ye righteous! The praise is comely for the upright. And I won't have you turn to all these for sake of time, but when Aaron and his sons were being anointed for the priesthood. And the worship of God was being formulated there in the wilderness. In Leviticus chapter 9. And verse twenty-four we read, And there came fire out from the Lord before the Lord, and consumed upon the altar the burnt offering and the fat And when the people saw it, they shouted and fell on their faces. The priesthood is being established. God is setting up his worship. And they had the f the altar there, but there was no fire put on the altar, and the fire comes out from the Lord, and when the people see the fire come out from the Lord, they shouted before the Lord. And it's the same word, rejoice. And so we see this word is used in creation. We see this word is used in the establishment of worship. Rejoice, O ye righteous, for praise is comely for the upright. And then again, when the ark of God had been taken by the Philistines, and now David is bringing back the ark in 1 Chronicles 16, verse 33. David is giving a beautiful psalm there in 1 Chronicles of praise as the ark has returned to its rightful place. And in verse 33, David says, Then shall the trees of the wood sing out. At the presence of the Lord, because he cometh to judge all the earth. And so there had been a break in the worship. And the ark had been taken, but now the ark has returned, and the trees shout for joy. They sing out, they rejoice at the worship. And then in Psalm 51, when David has sinned, David has betrayed the trust of his God. David has betrayed the trust of his people. David has committed adultery with Bathsheba, and he has ordered the murder of one of his choicest servants. And in Psalm 51, when David is praying for forgiveness, he says in verse 41, Deliver me from blood guiltin, O God, thou God of my salvation. Then shall my tongue sing aloud. And it's the same word, rejoice. When we have sinned, when we have broken the law of our God, and we find that forgiveness and that peace with God. Sing out, rejoice in the Lord, O ye righteous For praise is comely for the upright. And you see, when David found forgiveness, he was again made righteous before God, and his upright status before God was restored. Rejoice in the Lord, O ye righteous. And then when David Was running from Saul, and Saul had sent his spies to watch at David's house to catch him. And David is delivered by God in Psalm fifty-nine, verses sixteen and seventeen David says, but I will sing of thy power. Yea, I will sing aloud. And it's that same word, rejoice. I will sing aloud of thy mercy in the morning, for thou hast been my defence and my refuge in the day of my trouble. Unto thee, O my God, my strength, will I sing, for God is my defence. And the God of my mercy. Oh, when we've been through great trials, great testing, and we found in great trials great deliverance. I will sing out. It's the same word, rejoice, that we have in Psalm 33. And then finally, before we move on, when David was hiding in the wilderness, when David was running for his life. Read in Psalm 63 and verse 7, Because thou hast been my help, therefore in the shadows thy wings will I rejoice. It's the same word. Uh David's running. David is scared. The enemy is on his heels, but he said, I can still rejoice. Because my salvation is of the Lord. And then again in Psalm 84 and verse 2, again David in the wilderness, he says, My soul longeth for thee, even fainteth for the courts of my God, my heart and my flesh cry out. for the living God. And it's this same word, rejoice, that is in Psalm 33. Rejoicing is not an option for the people of God. And I believe we've seen by following this word through multiple passages that it's it's good for all occasions. It's good for worship. It's good for repentance. It's good for deliverance. It's good right in the middle of the problems. It's not an option. Rejoice. And what was the great sin of Israel in the wilderness? Well there were many, but the one for which God most often condemns them is their murmuring. Is they're complaining. And in uh Exodus sixteen, when they were complaining because they didn't have the leeks and garlops uh garlics and they were complaining about the manna and God sent the quail into the camp. Moses there tells them, you're not murmuring against us. That's against Moses and Aaron. You're not murmuring against us, but you're murmuring against the Lord, and the Lord has heard your murmuring. Their great sin was the sin of complaining. But Paul said, I've learned whatever state I'm in, therewith to be content. Brethren, I'm preaching to my own sins this morning because how easy it is to complain rather than to rejoice. But rejoicing is not an option. And why is it that rejoicing is not an option for the people of God? Why is it that we're to rejoice in all things? And we know, not we think, not we hope, and we know that all things work together for good. To them that love God, to them who are the called according to his purpose, for whom he did for know he also did predestinate to be conformed to the image of his Son, that we might be the firstborn among many brethren. We know that all things work together for good, and if you follow that through there in verse twenty-nine, that's Romans eight, twenty-eight, and twenty-nine. If you follow it through in verse twenty-nine Whom he did foreknow, he did also did predestinate to be conformed to the image of his son. Everything works together for good for the believer, because everything is conformally to the image of Christ. Brother Vince talked uh in Sunday school, either last Sunday or the week before, um about refining and and the cutting away of that which is unnecessary. A diamond in the rough doesn't sparkle. It doesn't sparkle until everything that's not sparkly is cut away. And so it is with the life of the believer. God is in the process of cutting away that which should not be there and polishing that which remains. To conform us to the image of Jesus Christ. And therefore, rejoice in the Lord, O ye righteous, for praise is comely for the upright. Is that which should engage us? And so first of all, we see a command to rejoice. But the second thing I would point out in this text is the company that rejoices, or the company of rejoicers, to coin award. Who is it? That rejoices. Rejoice in the Lord. Oh, be righteous. For praise is comely for the upright. The wicked has no cause to rejoice. Oh, he may take pleasure in his sin. But there's a way that seemeth right unto man in the ends hereof are the ways of death. The ploughing of the wicked is sin. But for the child of God, we have cause to rejoice, for I am unrighteous, I am unworthy, I should be condemned, I should be. Be in hell right now, but God has been merciful to me, and though I stand before you as a man, yet I stand before God as his son. And though I stand before you and I confess before you that I am a sinner, yet as I stand before God, he sees me not as a sinner, but he sees me as righteous. He sees me as upright because Christ has imputed to me his righteousness. He has clothed me in his robe of righteousness. Rejoice in the Lord, he is upright. Rejoice in the Lord, ye righteous. The wicked have nothing in which to rejoice. And do the righteous have anything in which to complain? Huh. It is the righteous Made righteous by the grace of Christ that rejoice in the Lord. Look down to verse eight of the psalm. That all the earth fear the Lord. Let all the inhabitants of the world stand in awe of him. And yes, there is a godly fear, and yes, the righteous and the upright fear before the Lord in that sense. But the passage goes on to go of God talking about bringing to naught the counsel of the heathen. You see, the unrighteous, they fear. And though the righteous have a godly fear and a reverential fear, the righteous rejoice. The righteous shout for joy. Praise is comely for the upright. It's befitting of the upright. Those that are not upright, those that are not the children of God, they do not and they cannot bring praise to God. Oh, they use his name. But not for praise. They speak that beloved name, but not in worship. Just to take a real quick sidelight, there are three ways in which the word name of God should be used. In prayer, in praise, and in proclamation. We use the name of God in prayer, we use the name of God in praise, and we use the name of God in proclamation. And any other use is taking it in vain. Rejoice in the Lord, be upright. It is the upright that rejoice in the Lord. Therefore, being justified by faith, we have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ, by whom we also have access by faith into this grace wherein we stand. And rejoice in the hope of glory. And it's not the same word there. Going between the Hebrew and the Greek. But the idea, the concept there is brought forward for us. It is the righteous who are the company of rejoicers. And the best illustration of this is Job. God said of Job in Job 1:8. The Lord said unto Satan, Hast thou considered my servant Job, that there is none like him in the earth, a perfect and an upright man, one that feareth God and escheweth evil? Oh, wouldn't you love for God to give that kind of a report of you? Wouldn't you love it if God could say, have you seen this one? He's upright in his generation, he hates evil, and he loves righteousness. Ah, I wish God could say that about me. But Job was an upright man and a righteous man, as this Psalm 33:1 is calling to. Who suffered far more than any of us have ever suffered, and I pray ever will suffer. And yet he rejoiced. Yet he still worshipped. He's still praised. And so we see a command for rejoicing, and then the company of rejoicers. But then what is the cause of rejoicing? And I've already touched on one. We rejoice because we're redeemed. We rejoice because we're brought into this fellowship. But there's a far greater one than that. Rejoice in the Lord. Rejoice in Jehovah, oh ye righteous I rejoice in the Lord because I'm not an idolater. You look at the cultures of earth And man throughout the history of the world and throughout all the regions of the earth has created God after God after God after God. There are thousands and hundreds of thousands of God's small g that man has created And the archaeologists are constantly digging up little statues and little icons and little images We have no statue here. And God said, when I appeared on the mountain, ye saw no similitude. I rejoice in Jehovah because he's delivered me from idols. And I don't believe we have any professing atheists here this morning. And I know that we don't have any actual atheists here this morning. Because there has never been an actual atheist. There have just been a lot of professing atheists. But I don't even profess to be an atheist. I believe in God. Why? My grandfather, that I never knew. I was about seven months old when he died. But everything I've heard about him has been bad. Apparently, he was an extremely vile man. Why? Am I not like him? Why was my father not like him? Why were the sins of the fathers not visited on the children? Because of the Lord. Because of the Lord. The first cause For rejoicing in Jehovah. This is Jehovah. Rejoice in the Lord, for He has made me righteous. Rejoice in the Lord, for in spite of who I am, by nature I am upright in him. You see why rejoicing is not an option? It's an absolute obligation upon the child of God. I rejoice this morning because God has not sent me a strong delusion that I can believe a lie. But rather, Jehovah has revealed his truth. But let us go specifically into the Psalm itself. If you go down with me to verse four, it says, For the word of the Lord is right. And all his works are done in truth. Isn't that a good reason to rejoice? God's word is right. All his works are done in truth. Satan is a liar and the father of it But God's word is truth. And all of his works are done in righteousness. Look at verses ten and eleven. The Lord bringeth the counsels of the heathen to naught. He maketh the devices of the people of none effect. The counsels of the Lord stand forever You see a contrast there between verse four? The word of the Lord is right And his works are done in truth, but the counsels of the heathen will perish. We see a lot of counsels of the heathen around us, don't we? We see Rainbow flags which take the symbol of God's promise not to destroy the earth again with water. And use for iniquity which we won't even mention. Those that fly the rainbow flag will be brought to understand the counsels of the Lord. And their counsels, verse eleven, will be brought, or verse ten will be brought to naught. Isn't that called to rejoice? God's word stands forever. God's word is right, and all his works are done in truth. Look at verse 16 and 17. There is no king saved by the multitude of a host. A mighty man is not delivered by much strength And worse is a vain thing for safety. Neither shall he deliver any by his great strength. Behold, the eyes of the Lord are upon them that fear him. God's word is right, and God's works are done in truth. It doesn't matter how many tanks and B-1 B-52 bombers and M sixteens and atomic bombs you may have. They are a vain thing for safety. But the believer rejoices because God's word is always right. We rejoice, verse five, because the earth is full of the goodness of the Lord. He loveth righteousness and judgment, and the earth is full of the goodness of the Lord. That doesn't sound right, does it? Hold on, hold on, hold on. Hang on, Pastor. That's that's not right. Where is the goodness of the Lord in Arab? Yeah, I I don't see it. Where where where is it? Where where is this goodness of the Lord that you're talking about? It's all around us. Why do the heathen rage And the people imagine a vain thing. The kings of the earth set themselves, and the rulers take counsel together against the Lord and against his anointing, saying, Let us break his bands from us, let us cast his cords asunder He that sitteth in the heaven shall laugh. Brethren, in spite of all the evil around us, and in spite of all the turmoil we see, the Lord loveth righteousness and judgment. That goes back to verse 4, his truth and his works. And the earth is full of the goodness of the Lord. Remember David in the wilderness, and he used the same word rejoice. Remember David running from Saul and he used the same word rejoice? Remember Job when everything was falling in on him and his children were were dying and his crops and his uh donkeys and his camels and his servants and even his wife saying, Curse God and die. And he can still rejoice. We rejoice because he's of the Lord. We rejoice because we're made righteous. We rejoice because we have his word, and we rejoice because the earth is full of the goodness of the Lord. And we're commanded to do it. The earth is full of the goodness of the Lord. It is all around us. How many of you had to buy air this morning? Where'd you come from? The goodest of the Lord. How many here have ever missed a meal when we weren't dieting? God has been so abundantly good to his people. Is there anyone here this morning that is in hell? Is there anyone here this morning that's that does not deserve to be in hell at this moment? But we're here. And the earth is full of the goodness of the Lord. Let the righteous rejoice, for praise is comely for the upright. Fifth, we rejoice because we serve the Creator, God. Verse six of the psalm. By the word of the Lord were the heavens made. and all the hosts of them by the breath of his mouth. He gathereth the waters of the sea together as in heap. He layeth him upon the depth uh layeth upon the depth in storehouse Let all the earth fear the Lord, let all the inhabitants of the world stand in all, for he spake and it was done. He commanded and it stood fast. We rejoice because we serve the Creator God. He made it. It belongs to Him. He is its Lord. It obeys his voice. He speaks, and the water stands forth. He divided the dry land from the seas. He said to the Red Sea, Stop right there. And it stood up as a wall. He said to a raging storm, Peace be still. And there was a great storm. The world doesn't like the Creator God. The unrighteous The non-uprights deny creation But the child of God rejoices in it, because the heavens declare the glory of God, and the firmware showeth his handiwork. Day unto day uttereth knowledge. Why do we have twenty-four-hour days? Why does the sun rise and set? And I know they don't rise and set, we move, but you understand the terminology. Why Because my God of order makes it happen every single day. He upholdeth all things by the word of his power. Oh, but the seas are rising. But he commands the shores. He tells the ocean where to be. Oh, but an earthquake or or Mount St. Helens, the whole mountain blew up and came down. Yeah. So My God created it all. Isn't that a cause to rejoice? Does not that give the child of God reason to shout for joy? God made it all. Paul expounded on his on God's judgment of those that reject the Creator. In Romans 1, professing themselves to be wise, they became fools and changed the glory of the uncorruptible God into an image like unto corruptible man. into birds and four-footed beasts and creeping things. Do you ever think of that verse in terms of evolution? Man was made in the image of God. Evolution changes the image of man, the image of God, which is the image of man, into four footed beast and corruptible things. It came from a blob. Well Uh you know, the old old children's song, I'm no kin to the monkey, the monkey's no kin to me. You know, some of these scientists you wonder if they'll have more in common with monkeys than men. But God created it. Paul continues, wherefore God also gave them up the uncleanness through the lust of their own hearts to dishonor their bodies between themselves, who change the truth of God, Romans 1. 25, who change the truth of God into a lie. You go into public education today and they'll tell you that the story of creation is a lie. They may not use that terminology, but they oh that's just you know that's just tradition. That's that's not true We're wiser than that. Thinking themselves to be wise to become fools. Isn't it cause to rejoice because we're not evolutionists? Isn't it cause to rejoice because we believe the truth, regardless of what man may say? I don't need the rocks to prove it. I don't need a pile of bones to prove it. I knew it without a rock or a pile of bones. God said it, I believe it, and it doesn't matter if I believe it. You know the old saying, God said it, I believe it, that settles it No, God said it, that settles it. It doesn't matter if I believe it or not. It's forever settled in heaven. Rejoice in the Lord, O ye upright, O ye righteous, for praise is coming for the upright. Sixthly, because we believe in creation. We believe it is true. We rejoice because we are under God's perpetual care. Look at verses 18 and 19. Behold. Don't tell that word behold in scripture. It grabs your attention. Hey dummy, look. Behold! Behold, the eyes of the Lord are upon them that fear him. Upon them that hope in his mercy to deliver their soul from death and to keep them alive in famine Isn't that cause to rejoice? God sees me. I love that verse with Hagar, thou Lord seeth me. God sees me. Again, remember David fleeing from Saul, David in the wilderness when he could rejoice. God sees me. God's eyes behold me. Oh, what a great cause to rejoice. He will deliver my soul from death. I shall not die, but live. I know that my Redeemer liveth, and though after this body worms destroy my flesh, yet in my flesh shall I see God. I'm not quoting exactly there, forgive me. But you know the verse. And he'll keep me alive in Bammon. Oh, rejoice, ye righteous. God sees you God knows all about you. Ah, what terror to those that are not righteous God sees you. The eyes of the Lord are in every place, beholding the evil and the good. But rejoice in the Lord, O ye righteous. For praise is comely for the upright, because your God sees you. And he'll save your soul from death and he'll keep you alive in famine. He's not just watching without passion. But rather he is watching with boundless love. And then the people of God have cause to rejoice. Because we are his people. Look at verse twelve. Blessed is the nation whose God is the Lord, and the people whom he hath chosen for his own inheritance. Oh my friend, the nation there is not the United States. And the nation there is not national Israel. It was spoken to national Israel. But the people, the nation there in that verse, relates to the people. The nation is the people whom he has chosen for his own inheritance. Jew, Gentile It is us. We are the nation whose God is the Lord and we're blessed. Rejoice in the Lord, O ye righteous, for praise is coming for the upright. I'm his Hallelujah. I should shout for joy because I'm his. That's right. Thank you, Lord. He's chosen me for his own inheritance. He's broken down the middle wall of partition and made of twain one new man in Christ. And so we have cause to rejoice. We which were not a people at that time are now a people we find in 1 Peter 2, verses 9 and 10. And so we've seen this as a command to rejoice. We've seen the company of those that rejoice. It is the righteous and the upright. We've seen multiple causes for our uprightness. But oh, the comeliness of rejoicing. And I didn't say much about that word comely at our outset. What does comely mean? It means beautiful. It means right. It means fitting. That word comely is finds most of its uses usages in Song of Solomon. Where the bride is speaking to his beloved, and the beloved is speaking to the groom. And he's comely, he's beautiful, he's pure, he's fitting. Ah, rejoice in the Lord, ye righteous, for praise is beautiful for the upright. Praise is purposeful for the upright. Praise is befitting for the upright. Oh, it is comely. We don't use this term much in our English language today, but oh what a beautiful word. The rose of Sharon The lily of the valley, the one whom we love is comely. And oh, how befitting it is that we worship him. And in this psalm, we find beautiful expressions of what this comeliness is. And I would like to go back to verse 11 of Psalm 32, which again You know, some of the commentators say it's directly connected to Psalm thirty-three. I don't know, but they do fit together. In verse eleven, be glad Isn't that a happy word? Isn't glad a happy word? Isn't it a comely word? Be glad in the Lord and rejoice, ye righteous. Shout for joy. All ye that are upright in heart, rejoice in the Lord, O ye righteous, for praise is comely for the upright See the words are used there. Joy, glad, rejoice, shout. Aren't those things befitting the glory of our God? Aren't they comely before God? Verse 2. Praise him with the harp when King Saul Was distressed, David would bring his harp. A harp uh is not a drum. A harp is not an organ. I love to hear a drum well played, not not what the world plays, but a drum well played. Uh at Harper Christian we had a a percussion instructor for many years. It was just amazing the the music that he could get out of the the drum section of the school's uh band Well played. A drum is beautiful. I love the thrilling majesty of a of a well-played pipe organ. But the harp. The harp is a soothing, quiet, melodious, comely instrument. Praise him with a harp. Sing unto him with the psaltery. We're not sure exactly what the psaltery is. Uh most people believe it is is most similar to a dulcimer. Uh a dulcimer also is a beautiful instrument. family comes from the hills of North Carolina and I have always liked that more country style of music. Well well played, not just strummed, but Picked and all the various tones and sound. It is pleasing, it is comely, it is beautiful. An instrument of tin strings, the the uh music people recommend that this was something Almost like a classical guitar and again not strummed but picked, but with tin strings and beautiful, pleasing sounds coming forth. Oh, how comely Sing unto him a new song. You cannot sing a new song if you are not righteous. You cannot sing a new song if you've not been made upright. This is not the song of the nightclub. This is not the Beatles' greatest hits. This is the Song of the Redeemed. I believe the new song referred to is the same song that will be sung around the throne of God, and they sang a new song, reading our election. And I searched through several commentators and different ideas to try to define a new song, and uh it defies our definition, but the best one I came up with it was this. It's your great grandmother's bread recipe. Have you ever made your great grandmother's bread? I think most of us, most of the ladies anyway, probably have some recipe that's been passed down through your family and you make grandmom's stew or whatever. Well it's not grandma's stew Grandmom didn't make it. It's the same ingredients over and over again And yet it's fresh, a fresh pot. It's a fresh loaf. It is new. The new song of the redeemed is all the old ingredients. All the promises of God, all of his blessings upon his people, all that he's done for his people. But it's put together again. And it's as fresh as the first time it was baked. It's not day old bread. It's not stale. It's a new song. It is the song of the new man crying out to the Creator. Hallelujah! What a Savior! Shout for joy! Cry aloud! That's the meaning of the word, rejoice! And oh how comely it is When the people of God sing a new song unto the Redeemer. But then there's one more element there. Play skillfully with a loud noise. This is not worship that's haphazard. There's been preparation for worship here. Most of us have had a child in our home who learned an instrument. And we've endured hours of less than skillful playing. Yeah, if you want to really get even with your neighbor, give your kid a violin. It's a beautiful instrument and play skillfully. It is wonderful. But it's not played skillfully the first time you pick it up. There's a lot of squeaks and squeals in that thing. But here the people of God are told to play skillfully, not offering to God, well, this is what a God. But oh Lord, you are deserving of the best. And therefore, if this is to be for you, I will commit myself to preparing To playing skillfully. And young people don't misunderstand me. If you play in our worship and there's an error, that's not a problem. We we you know, hallelujah, we rejoice with you. But the point here is that this is for the Lord. And it's beautiful when God's people prepare themselves for for worship. And that is why we bow in silent prayer before we begin. And you know, I try to regulate what I do on Saturdays. Uh yesterday I I said to Penny early in the morning, I said, let's let's take about a three mile walk today. And then about noon I said, You know what, I've got to preach tomorrow. I I don't I I can't be sore And I don't mean to hold myself up as an example. We need to prepare ourselves for worship. Prepare our hearts. Prepare our minds. Prepare our repentance. Play skillfully with a loud noise. Oh how comely that is. And I mentioned in prayer the woman there at the well of Samaria Where Christ said, the day comes and now is when the true worshipers will worship in spirit and in truth. For the Father seeketh such to worship him. God's looking for this kind of worship. Well I know I know I've probably gone way past my time and I'm thankful we don't have a clock up here. But one other thing I would point out to you as we close. Who hath believed our report? And to whom is the word armor the Lord revealed? For he shall go up before him as a tender plant, and as a root out of dry ground. Yeah, we formed our covenants. Mm-hmm. Mm-hmm. Christ The one who is ever his father's delight gave up comeliness. He hath no form nor competence. And when we see him, there is no beauty that we should behold him. He gave up his comeliness, comeliness, for our salvation. And so rejoice in the Lord, O ye righteous. For praise is comely. The upright. Let us pray.