Good to see everybody. We're in our thirteenth chapter of Hebrews in the seventh verse as we're walking our way through this chapter which has a lot of exhortations. Hey good morning. How you doing? All right. We read in verse 7 the following, and we're just going to cover this one verse. Remember them which have the rule over you, who have spoken unto you the word of God. whose faith follow, considering the end of their conversation. And that is our passage. This chapter actually has three verses that direct our attention to rulers and we'll cover them as we get to them, but we'll just deal with this one in particular today. Alright, our discussion question I was able to send out, hopefully Uh some of you got to see that uh in advance. I I realize that doesn't always work that way. But uh the question was this, what would you think about grown children who forget their parents What might cause them to do such a thing? We had an online listener write this. Grown children who forget their parents, uh pride, arrogance, shame, evil influence, that's a pretty good one. Gross misunderstanding, that's pretty intelligent. uh in a good good sense there. Uh another individual uh wrote this, I think grown children who forget their parents I assume you mean caring for them and about them are wicked. The reason is generally sin. They do so because parenting questions are very difficult to be around and try to help which was the case in a previous house church. Um what are some of your thoughts about um why uh you might find uh Grown children who forget about their parents, what would your thoughts be? People who have a bad relationship. Oh yeah, they have a bad relationship. It was never good to begin with, and later on they just decided, you know, I there's no I see no need to keep this up. Yeah, that could be a very real reason. Another example we I put out here just to get us to thinking through certain things. This is a different scenario. What about the employee? He begins to think he actually owns the company. He forgets his boss, he ignores him, and he walks around like he actually runs the business And it's a simple question. Would the boss be inclined to look out for a career path for this employee? Why or why not? More likely say bye-bye until we're somewhere else. Rifboxes aren't going to welcome. Yeah, they would the outcome may be they get thanked and dismissed from duty. Why? You said that bosses don't appreciate that, which is true. Yeah, the boss is the one in charge. And he doesn't want anybody userting his authority. Ah, okay. Not to usurp the authority. What about the uh tenant who believe who thinks that um you know this is actually my house? I really don't have a landlord, I'll do what I want here. What might the landlord do to that squatter? Try and find a new tenant. Try to find a new tenant, yeah. I think you're seeing where I'm going with all this where In a relationship that ought to be pretty straightforward and clear, it's actually upside down. And I illustrated these things with, you know, worldly illustrations because we do have a spiritual one in front of us now. And that's what we're going to look at. So I've split this verse in half. Remembering rulers. Well excuse me, who are these rulers? We're going to look at who these people are to begin with. Massaba, we're in Hebrews 13, 7 if you're trying to find it in your Bible. Bible. Who are these rulers? We're going to look at Old and New Testament, and then we're going to consider what's actually exhorted, and there's three things exhorted there. So the first is who are they? You know, we do have an exhortation. elsewhere in scriptures such as Romans 13 to remember the secular rulers who are over us. But this is really referring to church rulers like a pastor, an elder, a bishop. a deacon. It says, quote, who have spoken unto you the word of God. My congressional representative has not spoken unto me the word of God. The president of my nation is not. Now I'm exhorted elsewhere to be in submission to such, but that's not the exhortation here. It also talks about whose faith follow That word rule is has come over into our language as the word hegemony. And the sense here is that you rule or lead. In context, they're ruling or leading by speaking. who have spoken unto you the word of God. So they're ruling by speaking. It can refer to the chief speaker in Acts 14. 12. The ruler was the chief speaker. But our stro our passage, I would point out, strongly implies that the reader of this passage, in fact, has a spiritual ruler over them. It says, remember them which have the rule over you. The implication is that you have a spiritual ruler over you. And so I put the question, why might people today, young or old Not like to have a spiritual ruler over them. One of the reasons why people just don't want a spiritual ruler over them. Thoughts? Um I think it just allows you freely to kind of do whatever you want. Like the burger team gospel people say so you can have a your way if you don't have a spiritual order. But you don't really need to need to listen to offensive right or wrong or somebody pointing out in the scripture where you need to go. A Burger King gospel. You can have it your way. You don't if you want a ruler over you, great. If you don't, yeah, that's fine. Absolutely. The spirit of independence. You know, I'll just practice and worship God uh by myself. I don't need a a ruler over me. It's really not necessary. What are some other reasons why people might not want or have a spiritual ruler over me? What do you think, Masaba? What have you seen? Anybody? Joke? With with young people I'd say the folly of youth. Yeah, young people really think they've got it all figured out And um you get older you realize, no, I haven't figured out that Yeah, the folly of youth. Okay. What about congregations, uh Joey, where maybe you don't have a good pastor or a good elder in it to begin with? Kind of like what Rick said it's free to do whatever you want. Liberating, I guess, does that. Mm-hmm. Yeah, there are those who I think find themselves at times maybe they've been in a congregation or they've been in a church and the leaders there turned out not too to be to their benefit. In fact, it there is a betrayal of trust, and you can think of various ways in which trust can be betrayed. I'm of course not thinking about a faithful spiritual ruler, but there's plenty of Men slash women, unfortunately, who claim to be spiritual rulers, but in fact are not there for the betterment of the sheep. They end up being to the worse. You know, I think about Eli's sons in the Old Testament Book of Samuel, uh, the horrible things they did, and these are just the sons of the minister, and lo and behold It turns out that what those young men did, uh Hophney and Phineas, uh had turned to be that which caused the people of God to abhor the offering of the Lord. Why would we go here? This place is full of, what's the word? Begins with an H. It's full of Hypocrisy, hypocrites, right? Isn't that an oft-slung phrase against the Church of God? I don't want to submit to these rulers. They're hypocrites. I saw this firsthand when I was handing out tracks in Mexico and I don't want to get off track. You have a very large, impoverished population with large, glorious Roman Catholic edifices and buildings. They're fleecing these people from their money to build these incredible buildings, and I mean incredible buildings, what hypocrisy to claim that they are there to support the poor when they're fleecing them with every last nickel, the the widow's last mite to erect an edifice. Certainly That would make worship of God or even a desire to be underneath a ruler uh to be a thing of naught. Turn, if you will, in your Bible to Exodus chapter 18, because we're going to look at some Old Testament examples. of rulers. I want to continue answering this question. Who are these rulers? They're spiritual rulers. But turn to Exodus chapter 18 and we're going to begin looking at verse 13. Exodus chapter 18. I'm assuming you're looking at Exodus, not your email. Exodus 18, 13. And I'm going to begin reading there. This is an Old Testament account that deals with the the patriarchal rulers, it was the norm for the Old Testament people of God. We read in verse thirteen And it came to pass on the morrow that Moses sat to judge the people. And the people stood by Moses from the morning into the evening. Now he's probably got Quite the line. Verse 14. When Moses' father-in-law saw all that he did to the people, he said, What is this thing that thou doest to the people? Why sittest thou thyself alone? And all the people stand by thee from morning into evening. You talk about poor customer service. This is quite the line. Moses said unto his father-in-law, Because the people come unto me to inquire of God, when they have a matter, they come to me. I judge between one another, I make them know the statutes of God and his laws. Moses' father-in-law said, The thing that you do is not good. Thou wilt surely wear away both thou and this people that is with thee, for this thing is too heavy for thee. Thou art not able to perform it thyself alone. Hearken thou unto my voice. Now listen to the advice here. I want to focus on 19 and 20 for a moment. I'll give thee counsel, God will be with thee. Be thou for the people to Godword that thou mayest bring the causes unto God And thou shalt teach them ordinances and laws, and shalt show them the way wherein they must walk and the work they must do. So, his father-in-law's advice, and it seems to be God ordained good advice, was your role is to be the intermediary between the Lord and these people. You need to mediate. He speaks with you. Why not? And you need to be the one that teaches them. Don't have them come with every silly question. Teach them. Give a man a fish, you feed him for a day, teach him how to fish, you feed him for life. That's the same spiritual concept here. Teach them. And then you have in verses 20 and 21 the next level of organization Moreover, thou shalt provide out of all the people able men such as, notice the qualifications here, we're talking about elders now, such as fear God. Men of truth, hating covetousness. Those are the three primary criteria, and place such over them to be rulers of thousands, and rulers of hundreds, rulers of fifty, rulers of ten. Let them judge the people at all seasons, and it shall be that every great matter they shall bring into thee. It would be like the Supreme Court to resolve these things. But every small matter shall they judge, so shall it be easier for thyself, and they shall bear the burden with thee. Now what impresses you about this setup? What's your first impressions? You think it was a good idea or a bad idea? Shaking your head, yes? Divides the work. Yeah, it divides the work. Yeah, far less tedious. Um What else is impressive about this arrangement from, say, Moses' perspective? There was a requirement that the men involve human character. Okay, so it wasn't a willy-nilly arrangement. Pick, you know, people that you cared to, you know, members of your family, right? Yeah, Joey? Very similar to the structure we were given for the modern church Very similar to the structure given for the modern church. Yes, that is correct. The modern church does have a bit of a relationship in terms of how we interact with each other and there is some benefit to dividing the work, absolutely. Um responsible again. Yeah, let's talk about the responsibilities given. Now it says, notice you have rulers of hundreds and fifties and tens. What does that imply? How would you rank or three? Like a rank, yes. There are some people who are just very good at being a ruler over um ten people who themselves rule over ten. By the way, in management school, that is one of the common uh criteria identified many times over the year that the right ratio of support from supervisor to employees, I think they make it 9. 5, but you and I know it's 10, right? It's a 10 to 1 ratio You can't supervise more than ten individuals effectively at any one time. It's just too hard. Um and to supervise other supervisors also takes some effort and you keep going up the chain. It uh It also provides kind of a career path. It provides a safety net. There's just so many benefits to it. What are the benefits to the people? Accessibility? Yeah, accessibility. Great day. Far more accessible. You're far more likely to get in line. You know, how many of you like shopping at Aldi standing, you know, 13 rows back You know, even though the guy's slinging things through quickly, there's only one or two there, versus, you know, shopping at a Harris Theater where they open up lines in a heartbeat and you can get through more quickly. Um that is a real thing for the people. Would you want to even go to the rulers of God if the line is too long to even get there. I would venture to say probably not It's cold today, it's windy, it's dusty, who wants to stand in line, I'll be last or whatever. It's just far practical for many, many reasons. We're in Hebrews 13. 7, by the way. Excuse me, we're in Exodus 1820 and 20, 19 through 22. We just uh described something. We're about now to turn to 1 Timothy 5, 17, so I'm sorry I'm flipping you all around here Our base text is in Hebrews, our springboard. So this is the Old Testament. And the book of Hebrews is written to Hebrews, to Jews, people who are Israelites. So they would understand this concept of rulers, and notice the exhortation is to remember rulers. We would understand that, the Gentiles, to be pastors to be elders, to be deacons and bishops. The New Testament continues this norm. Look at 1 Timothy 5 and 17 and 18 We also have the exhortations to remember as well. The Apostle writing to Timothy says this: Let the elders that rule well be counted worthy of double honor. The implication is there are some that rule, they do their jobs, but there are some that rule really well. They're amazingly productive. They're just You're just tre you just feel that they're a treasure to have? Well, they ought to be worthy of double honor. It's okay to pay them a little more. It's not a problem. Especially they who labor in the word and doctrine. I think in memory of uh A fellow named Dean Burgon, who wrote a 600-page plus document comparing and contrasting the received text against the up-and-coming hideous critical text. He pointed out all the issues with Cinaticus, Vaticanus, Alexanderus showed that they lacked agreement and he did he paid meticulous attention to it. He did the service a tremendous favor. His work is still held out to this day. By the way, he was at um I believe I'm sorry, I'm mixing up with another one. Let me continue on, not go down that path. For the scripture says, 1 Timothy 5. 18 For the scripture says, thou shalt not muzzle the ox that treadeth out the corn, and the laborer is worthy of his reward. So this is the norm that we find carried forward in the New Testament. Joey gave the segue, that boy, that Old Testament model sure sounds like the New Testament, and he's right, because how God appropriately handles the oversight of the Old Testament people of God. Shock and surprise is no different in many respects than how he handles the New Testament. There is one fundamental change. The Old Testament was a theocracy. It was both a secular government as well as the spiritual. In the New Testament, that's split. It really is a theological, spiritual ruler and overship rulership and overseeing, depending on, of course, what country you're in. Then you submit to the authorities that are there in that country. Well, another sense of this word in Hebrews 13. 7, that word ruler, remember the rulers, because we're trying to figure out who are these rulers Another sense of the word is to go before you. To go before you. I have a silly joke about the French general who says, uh, show me my people that I may catch up to them and lead them. He's always behind the curve, right? That is not the sense here A leader is just that. He is in front. He's not driving them from the back. He is in the front, clearing the way, identifying the The smooth paths and the pitfalls and he's walking his way through it. He's that pathfinder. He's that pioneer, that prototype He is the one that goes before you. And by implication here, he's going before you in the scriptures because he's reading unto you the Word of God. He's gone into the text ahead of time. I can remember visiting churches when I was very early in the faith. God had saved me about 30 some odd years ago. And I was always amazed when I would ask a minister a question, they'd say, well, here's a good book that you could read. By the way, that book wasn't the Bible Very few could gift thus saith the Lord. It wasn't until I met my mentor, Brother Bernie, who would stand there. He had a smaller Bible. I don't want to illustrate it. I'll maybe do it with this. And he had a bad back, so he's always kind of stooped over. He had his back, his his Bibles kind of waving behind his back as he's sitting here talking to me and say, you know, Bernie, God loves everybody. What? Turn to and he would just identify ten or fifteen verses of scripture to have me turn to and say read this and as I'm reading it he's reading it with me from memory And you say, turn to this passage, and what do you do with this? And turn to this passage and what do you do with that? I'd never met a man who actually knew the Bible. Can you imagine meeting an attorney? That he doesn't know the law of the state of Maryland. Would you want him to represent you in court? He says, Well go go read some of these other books. Are you kidding me? In what profession other than Christianity do we accept this kind of nonsense? The minister is the one who has to go before you. He goes before you in the scriptures. He knows the book. He's of no value to you if he doesn't know the book. So I think Rick, one of the other reasons people don't Bothers submitting to the rulers because they don't go before them. They don't actually go before them. They don't rule. They're not ahead of them in the scriptures. They can't even answer basic Bible questions. We just jumped off here and you're reading the passage of first community, those who labor in the Word of Jocely and as a pastor's right I see that and I appreciate our pastor, my husband so much because he does this day after day when it's hard wrestling not against flesh and blood, but against principalities and powers. Absolutely. You know, even the Apostle Peter, writing in Second Peter, says of the Apostle Paul, he says, quote, writing in them of some things which are hard to be understood which they that are unstable do rest, meaning wrestle to their own destruction. And so yes, there are Passages in scripture that frankly you you struggle with. What does this mean? And you know, to be honest, sometimes there's been passages I've looked at and I thought I had a good understanding, and then over time As I begin to look more and more and more at the scriptures, wow, it's it's not an easy thing. There's book there's 800,000 words about, more or less, in the Bible. That's a lot. And it's an integrated whole. And it has signs, shadows, types, figures, metaphors. Uh we'll hear some of those later in the message today, which I'm sure you'll delight yourself in and in It's a go before. You know, another way a minister goes before in a congregation is they identify issues that need to be addressed. And I don't have time to turn there, I want to get to the the applications, but the Apostle Paul in First Corinthians uh wrote to the church. The church wrote to him about some marriage issues and he wrote back and addressed a whole bunch of other things with them first. One of which was that there was a man in their midst accused of such uh uh There's fornication among you, such fornication is not so much as named among the Gentiles, that one should have his father's wife. Horrible, horrible type of thing to hear. He deals with it in the letter. He's gone before. He's like, you people are not handling this. One of the rules of a minister, and I would say the corollary in business as a project lead or project manager is they go off and discover and find problems and make them bleed uh bleeding and red. They need to cause some alert to them, attention. Hey, you need to pay attention to this. This is your problem right here. Why do we go to doctors? Because you've got a problem you can't solve. Is it better to go to a doctor? That you've never seen before, just cold? Or is it better to go to a doctor with whom you have an established relationship? They know you They know your history. They know your recent blood work. I mean, I think I'm seeing from your heads, you obviously want to go to somebody who with whom you have a relationship And that argues for being in the presence of and with a faithful ruler. I'm not saying stay with an unfaithful ruler. Get out of that situation. It's not good for your soul. I don't care how great the music is, how lovely the building. If there's not a faithful ruler, you need to hit the eject button and go find something else for the benefit of your soul. Well, we then continue to the exhortations that are given back in Hebrews 13. 7. It says, whose faith follow, considering the end of their conversation, and of course the introductory phrase, remember them, remember them. So there's three things exhorted to remember them, follow their practice of faith, considering their end. I'm going to talk about each of those three. Remember them. This is more than if somebody asks what church are you at, uh such and such, who's your pastor? Um I don't know. I think it's I had somebody tell me that Hey. Now it was a lady in a church not church, a lady at a grocery store parking lot asking for money and I said, Well You may have an issue, that's fine, but I tend to work through I said, Do you go to church? She says, Oh yes, I go to church. What church do you go to? And then she mentioned her church name. I said, Well I only work through churches. I'll talk to your church, have your pastor call me, and whatever your deacons can't handle, we'll talk and see what can be done. Uh who is your pastor? Uh bah you know. the the British siren tone. Turn to First Thessalonians five, twelve and thirteen, because it's more than just remembering their name and their birthday, though that's useful. That's that's nice. It's kind of thoughtful. 1 Thessalonians chapter 5 and verse 12 is where we're going to look at. 1 Thessalonians chapter 5 and verse 12. And there we read this. And we beseech you, brethren, to know them, which labor among you, notice that, labor among you, and are over you in the Lord, that's the second point, and admonish you. That doesn't mean they're taking a stick to your backside every Sunday, but they're giving you some encouragement and pointers. To esteem them very highly in love for their work's sake and be at peace among yourselves. You know, if they lead and bless you in holy writ in the scriptures, you know, they must benefit from God's leading you into your blessings as well. We read earlier you shall not muzzle the ox that treads out the corn. You know, if you get a financial windfall. Well, don't go thinking about how you can go get a new car right off the bat. Remember them means to honor them, to think I get a financial windfall. How could I benefit the pastor, the teacher from this? You think about them, you remember them, remember the benefit there Uh observe that the pastor needs something. You come in. If he were a good page, better suit. His shoes would be in better shape or whatever. Go get him some new shoes for crying out loud. Go get him a gift certificate for shoes. This is how you remember you think of you know he needs new glasses or consider how to help him out. Here ask Go to his wife. Hey, what does he need? What can we do to help? Think about him. Or here's a more practical one. You're in conversation with others. You know Freddie, you know this. You've been in business. You can have 99 attaboys at work and one oh shoot and your name goes down the toilet. You could preach fifty-one wonderful sermons all year long and one kind of misfires or strikes you wrong, and we're just gonna roast him over lunch that day. I didn't agree with that. I don't like this. Oh, this is rah-bra-bra-brah-bra-bra-bra Especially among family. Maybe family have been trying to get to come to church for a while. Why don't you remember the 51 times that were a great message? Maybe that message wasn't for you, because it's not all about you. Maybe it was for somebody else. I can speak to myself as well about these things. Obviously, you pray for them. Don't trash your preacher. You're beating up your own team. People saying they don't need a pastor if they're in Christ, if they're in the body of Christ, is like the body saying, I don't have n I don't have any need of the head. Are you kidding me? That idea is dead from the neck up. Literally. You have to have a head. We call headless bodies decapitated and newsworthy and you hide them quick. Because they're they're dead. You have to have that One of the best comments I ever heard when it comes to counseling, and if you're going to be teaching counseling comes with the territory, one of the best pieces of advice I've heard about counseling is this. I mean it's it's a gold star comment Counseling begins in the pulpit. Courtesy of Pastor Joe. That's where I heard that from. He's spot on target on that. It's those little reminders. You can fix the problems in marriage and relationships when they're young and when they're small. Well great day. If you come to me when Humpty Dumpty's fallen off the wall, the egg is broken, the shells are in pieces, the crows have pecked out all the remnants, and you want me to put this back together again? Yeah, I I can't do resurrection. Sorry. way beyond repair. But oh my sometimes in God's grace and his mercy he uses his servant, the speaker, to speak a word from the pulpit to address perhaps a very issue you have in your home that you're struggling with. And You never brought it to him and the wife goes home or the husband goes to the wife and says, Did you were you talking to him? Because he was talking to me. No, didn't. Nope, that was the Lord. And that's how God admonishes and corrects. You know, little tiny course correction. Driving down the road, you make little tiny course corrections along the way. You don't lock your steering wheel in one position until you're off in the field in the mud and then try to get back on track I think you get the point. Second is this, um, following their practice of faith. Well, number one, this assumes they have faith. Number two, their faith is observable, and number three, their speech is worth following. That is the presumption there. The Apostle Paul said this in Philippians 3. 17. And I want you to turn to this. It's just one passage. One passage. Philippians 3. 17. Because if I were just a static, you might think, well venture talking heresy here. I'm following Jesus and that's it. I just follow Jesus. But look at what the Apostle Paul writes in Philippians 3. 17 He says, brethren, be followers together of who? He says, me. The Apostle Paul exhorts people, look, follow me. Follow this. I'm not walking the vain walk here. He proceeds his merchandise as good. And mark them which so walk so as you have us for an example. If you find an individual who in fact is faithful, and you can determine from scriptures that their practice and their their basic tenor and tone of life is sound in the faith, you mark that individual. You consider them. Don't be quick to dismiss them. Look, they're sinners. They're imperfect people. We get that. We're all human. You know, we have in fact a, if you have a redeemed leader in your midst, it's a tremendous blessing of God. And all the more reason to remember them, to encourage them as well, to help them along the way, because they need help and it and assistance too. They need some encouragement. You know, the lack of a people is the the the I'm grossly paraphrasing an Old Testament passage, but Bible teachers can't exercise their gift if they don't have an audience. Pastor can't exercise his gift if he doesn't have anybody present. And hey, if you're watching online, you're in the Rockville, Durwood area, stop by and join us. You know, if you find yourself worshiping alone right now, you might ask yourself why. I understand there's unique reasons You're too far away. I gotta go to work ten minutes after services are over. You might want to try to get a different job, but you know, there's a benefit to being with the people of God. Somebody's gonna have a comment over him? No. Okay. Jesus said this in John 15, 20. You don't have to turn there, I'll read it to you. He said this: Remember the word that I said unto you: the servant is not greater than his Lord. If they have persecuted me They'll also persecute you. We shouldn't be surprised if it comes. We should be surprised if it doesn't come. And then he goes on to say this. If they have kept my saying, they'll keep yours also. There are some things that There are useful phrases that a minister may encounter over time that are very helpful to you. And you can use those. And you can use them to your benefit. You know, it says, prove all things. Hold fast that which is good. There are some good things in scriptures. Oh, there's none that doeth good. No, not one. Well We're exhorted to be lovers of good men. There are some individuals that are good by virtue of their position in Jesus Christ. They're faithful ministers. I also want to give you an example I had years ago of a PCA elder, one of the first churches I went to. Yeah. Looking at Freddie and get you been to the PCA church, you know exactly what I'm talking about. Uh some of these elders just Tall, handsome, you know, they could be on the pages of GQ magazine. You know, they're successful in businessmen and you know, big squared up jaw, nice and tall. Uh they just you know wonderful. Uh uh they uh Have a nice house, they're successful in business. They even have 2. 4 kids right in the line with everyone, the the complete average. It's, you know Uh in church this individual appeared very strong to others. He was mostly quiet, seemed very he was on time, dressed nice. But I was shocked one day when I went to his house. There was a church event. I kind of got there a little early to help out. This man had a potty mouth at home. I was kind of surprised. It really took me aback that he had such vile speech at home Uh it wasn't fluid and and frequent, but it was enough that it was quite that was a a strange note, a strange tone Um and frankly the more after that I began to detect that the word really wasn't fitted in his lips. He didn't really spend a lot of time in scriptures. In fact it was his wife who was more Spiritually minded and she was the one that did more of the spiritual talking. Well, I'm telling you right now, you don't follow that. You don't follow that. That's not worth following. Hold fast, the apostle wrote, the form of sound words which thou hast heard of me in faith and love which is in Christ Jesus. You know, well I have a few minutes here. Think back to times past, perhaps, of a pastor or teacher, present company accepted. uh for this question, who had a remarkable practice of faith? Maybe some of the old timers you've read about or some that you've known. What was it about their course of life that impressed you? Well I think for me it was mainly just the teaching showing sort of how to read the Bible, how scripture supports itself. I think that kind of just helped me go on my own journey so when I go home, I don't necessarily feel like well I still need the pastor obviously, but I'm going home and I'm taking the teaching with me and I can kind of Read the scriptures on the room and paradigm. Yeah, one who imparts to you some of the he's willing to share with you the tools and tips of the trade, how to actually search the scriptures yourself And that is always a sign of a faithful pastor who will say, Don't believe me. Search out the scriptures to see whether these things be so. He's not saying, don't believe me because you don't like it. He's saying you have to see is it aligned with scripture? What he's saying is, you know, reasonably faithful to scriptures, you're responsible to pay attention to it. Others whose practice of life you've seen was marvelous. His voice had lost strength of youth, so he spoke in a very quiet, calm manner. But one of the deepest Bible teachers I've ever encountered. Every every word was so uh well prepared inscription. I think uh it's a good example. It's a good example. I think about ministers who towards the end of their life uh face some exceedingly difficult circumstances, medical circumstances, things in the hospital. Pastor Gabriel Terrell uh from a uh Reformed Baptist church in uh California, died of cancer. And towards the end of his life, he still sent out little encouraging snippets of scripture. Uh I think the day of or within twenty-four hours of his death, uh they had him a picture, someone took a picture on their phone of him in the hospital, smiling, thumbs up And giving an encouraging passage of scripture and then off to glory he went. He was always one, even in the midst of trial and difficulty. Even in the midst of the pain. Could still encourage others. And that's a testimony that this man followed a God worth following. He was listening to and speaking a message worth listening to So those are ones that you follow. And then lastly, I have three minutes left to consider their end. Considering the end of their conversation, Old English word for conduct. Just consider it. Watch what they go through and consider it. You know, sometimes the ruler endures hardships for a divinely designed purpose. It's designed to demonstrate their faith. It's not that God's mean to the servants. We wouldn't have the book of Job if what had happened to him had not occurred. Otherwise he would have just been a very successful man. He would have been a titan of his day, and life would have just gone on Instead, we have the powerful testimony of faith wrenched from his lips, driven out of the depths of his heart, that in the extreme circumstances of his life you could get such wonderful, glorious, Christ-honoring teachings from the book of Job. And I'm telling you right now, if you ever find yourself in the depths on the throes of great difficulty, turn to the book of Job. It is well designed to serve the people of God throughout all generations. Again It's not all about just you. It's about the body collectively. And God oftentimes sends his most faithful servants through a most difficult situation. It's for their edification, for the encouragement of the Lord's sheep. Peter says this, we're not lords over God's heritage, we're examples to the flock. It's very different. God's word chart is upside down. The minister is down here, and the sheep are up here. They're being supported I used to collect organization charts as they flowed down freely in corporate America. The last five years of my employment I got an org chart. You know what I do with it, Freddie? Hit delete. It made no difference in my life. All it was is bragging points. Look at look at my empire. Fred Santon, look at my empire. That's an old shit. My empire. You know, deacons can give a powerful testimony as well. Think about Stephen, the first deacon. He gives this marvelous verbatim. He didn't have his scrolls in his hand. record of the Old Testament pointing out how you stiff-necked and uncircumcised in heart and you do always resist the Holy Ghost. He gnashed upon him with his teeth. And they stoned him. And as he's being stoned and dying, he kneels down, cries with a loud voice, Lord, lay not this sin to their charge. And when he said it He fell asleep. As he stood there, he saw Jesus standing at the right hand of the Son of God, and that was just more than they could handle. There was somebody else there too. Saul of Tarsus, holding the coast, observing and consenting to the death of Stephen. And when God saved him, he had observed that faithful testimony to that dear brother's very end. And it left a deep, humbling impression upon him that humbled a mighty stall of Tarsus. Folks God does what he does on purpose. It's for the betterment of the entire flock. To the extent that we follow what God has for us and outlines and exhorts in scriptures, your life will be far more productive. It will be far more fruitful and beneficial. You will see spiritual fruit, and you ought to expect spiritual fruit. You'll see it. You'll see yourself walking on water in time past and you weren't able to do it. You'll see great deliverances in situations that God would be pleased to deliver. And I have a closing comment. And This is somewhat directed to myself, but I say it also to all who would dare stand in this position behind the pulpit. You know, preachers, if God is directing the sheep to remember you What are they gonna remember? The joke of the day? My political commentary What are they going to remember? Are they going to remember an insightful spiritual point? There's so many things that vie in the mind for attention, and our sinful minds will latch on to the weakest first. And it ought to be a minister. It ought to be a removal of foolishness. As dead flies cause the ointment of the apothecary to send forth a stinking saber, so does the little folly, him that is an honor for reputation. Reputation of honor. So I leave that for those who would ever seek to come into a position to feed the people of God. Shall we close out now? Antonio, would you close the prayer, please Father in heaven, we look to you. Thank you for your scripture, which is our uh our guide, a light to our path. to give us wisdom with uh this uh consideration of of rulers over your church. Help us indeed to remember those that have to rule over us. Thank you, Lord, for uh even the rulers here in Mission Bible Church, Pastor Joe and Mother Menth that they have a care for your word. more than a care for numbers or salary, whatever it might be. Yes, and please Lord, keep them faithful, keep Mission Bible Church faithful and and help the the congregation to uh to be a support, to be a help, to keep in remembrance as as as your word commands us. And may it all be even to the conforming of your body to the image of Christ. We ask all these things in Christ's name. Amen.