Before we get to that, I'll read the passage at hand so you can have that portion of scripture in front of you. And I'll back up a little bit. We're in Hebrews chapter 10, and I'm going to start in verse 30. We know him that hath said, Vengeance belongeth unto me. I will recompense, saith the Lord. And again the Lord shall judge his people. It is a fearful thing to fall in the hands of the living God. And boy, that was a very tough passage we looked at last week. But now we finally pull out of this uh very difficult valley that we've gone through. We've kind of gone over the waterfalls And we get to uh our verse 32 and 33. But call to remembrance the former days After ye were illuminated, ye endured a great fight of afflictions, partly whilst ye were made a gazing stock, both by reproaches and afflictions and partly whilst you became companions of them that were so used. Well, what was it like when God first saved you? The passage says, call to remembrance the former days. And it speaks about a day when you were illuminated. What were those early days like? Anybody? This is kind of an opportunity to share a bit of a testimony. Well, I may be talking to a room full of people who are familiar with Christianity and haven't had a road to Damascus experience. So What about when grace became amazing to you? There comes a point in time, being in a Christian home, when grace becomes amazing. I went through a time of great struggle and doubt and um really searching my soul and searching the scriptures in parallel. And praying for God to prove Himself and His Word through the Word alone and not by what this man says or what this man says, etc. But just the word of God. And um came to John six, all the Father giveth to me shall come to me, and him that cometh to me I will know as cast out. And found both great assurance and great peace that it was all God's work. It wasn't dependent on Me being good, it wasn't dependent on my background. And um the the big difference I saw was a burden for prayer. Hm. That I had you know I I realized I was just drawn I had prayed all my life, but was just drawn to prayer. Hm. You know, ding ding ding ding ding something's different here. Yeah, yeah, yeah. For me personally it was of course I had been in a you know, quasi-Christian home. We were not atheists per se. We weren't uh God haters. Uh and there was expectation in general that if you had nothing else to do, you went to church on Sunday Of course Dad and I would try to find excuses to get out to the country and uh go fishing and hunting and that was more up my alley The Tuesday night church activities with the youth group were nice. There were individuals there, I think, who cared for my soul and others that were there, I don't know why they were there among the leadership. Fast forward through college and all of my bad habits and then coming out and the bad habits continuing into my first job And it was a Kaiser Permanente psychiatrist who said, well, why don't you try a church? She said church and I thought Bible. Because when I was uh looking uh well I was in my church days, and I don't know why I thought Bible as opposed to church. I just remember thinking, I didn't have all these problems back then. I didn't have anywhere near these kinds of problems. Where is my Bible? So I went And I never really studied the Bible as a youth in church. It was present, it was there, I took it with me to church, I made notes in it, I can show you all my notes. The notes were for the most part reflective of some fairly conservative theology But I opened the Bible and for the first time started reading through the book of Matthew, and I was blown away by the time I got to the seventh chapter And uh it really, really began to deepen. Finally I was reading what God said and I can remember thinking, I don't ever remember anybody telling me that Jesus said this. I don't ever remember Jesus saying these things. Not everyone who says unto me, Lord, Lord, shall enter the kingdom of heaven. Many will say unto me that day, Lord, Lord, have we not done many uh uh miracles, many wonderful deeds. And he saying to them, Depart from me ye that work iniquity, I never knew you. I was like, wow, Jesus said that, and I thought he just loved everybody like Santa Claus What a shock to me. And so I can honestly say since then I've never really put the Bible down. That was an amazing change. And I wandered around just reading my Bible as much as I could every day for a long season before somebody got The boldness to invite me to church. And uh I heard a pastor preaching about man is not on the ocean floundering looking for a ocean liner to save him. He's gone under twice, looking for a third time to grab a the the life raft, but rather he's soaked. He's at the bottom of the ocean. The sharks have eaten his heart out and poor I could just remember uh yeah, that was me. I could identify with that. By grace you save through faith. Ephesians 2. That was a road to Damascus experience. And I'm always interested, what are those first passages that hit you? Pastor mentioned John 6. To me it was random. by the but God spends his love toward us is that why would we get sinners can die for us? 'Cause I was raised in a Christian, no. But it was a message from that verse when the Lord has convicted me of my sin and I saw how awful my sin was in comparison to what Christ has suffered from me and the love he had shown to me and I just went really Yeah, I I'm always impressed by the different verses God uses to crack open the door. Any others? And then we'll go on to actually. I thought that I m I I was Christian and all my life it's uh uh but I went to uh I was in a church next door And the pastor was saying, if you say that you never sin, you're a liar. That's what the Bible is uh he was vivian. Yeah. And I I cannot say that I thought I say ha raise your hand if you want to. Yeah. Yeah, so that's how it was like renewal for me that uh I know that I was very active in the church and the elder fell, but uh that thing has affected me not. Yeah. Yeah that is that that's a good one. Yeah, first John five. If any man say have no sin, he's a liar and the truth is not in him. Yeah, that is a slap in the face. you know, uh, to a uh a religious person. In fact there was those kinds of statements Jesus made that were quite offensive to the Pharisees Um how say ye, you know, we're in bondage. We've never been in bondage to any man. They knew history. They knew about the Romans. They're talking spiritual. And yeah, that was uh That was an interesting case. Genesis 1-1 was interesting all of a sudden. I I mean, who haven't heard about Genesis 1-1? All of a sudden, it had some men. Yeah, that's that's that's impressive that even from that opening chapter, that very opening sentence, uh, God hits you. Yeah. And what I'm hearing in all of these is reading the Bible for the first time to peop by people who had read the Bible many times before. But but suddenly it it just came to life. It came alive. It it meant something. the Bontrager family and if you don't have one of their CDs I highly commend it to you. I'll send a link. If somebody inquires, I will be happy to send it to them off the top of my head. Bond B-O-N-T-R-A-G-E-R Bontrager family. They have a uh marvelous, marvelous recent uh music album. Uh they're farmers, but they sing and they're good musicians. They play all kinds of instruments and they have a tune on their latest album. I can't remember it right now. When Grace Became Amazing to Me. I really love that title. I like it a lot. And we're going to look at some of that because the scriptures here here that we're looking at And I want to make this more interactive today is to the best of that I can. It says, call to remembrance the former days in which after you were illuminated You know, this indicates these are religious people. They're Hebrews. They know something about Moses. They know something about the Old Testament. They're Christians. They've heard the message of Christ, and they're becoming persuaded that yes indeed the Messiah has visited us. They're kind of that very first generation of religious people the Jews to make that hard right turn to say no to Moses, yes to Jesus. That's a mighty tough shift Moses is the spine, the backbone to their entire raison d'etra, their reason for existence, why they're here. And so it says to call to remembrance the former days, and uh the bulk of my time studying this really was just meditating and thinking And I've got an example here of the conversion of what I would call and what theologians refer to as a covenant child. The conversion of a covenant child. That is somebody who grew up in a Christian home. They've always heard about Jesus. There are some of you here who can testify and say, you know, I never knew a day in my life when I didn't know about Jesus that they've been blessed to have that heritage, that godly privilege. Elias and Hezekiah will be able to declare that. Yet they still have to be born again uh there there has to be a second birth and God does have a higher percentage of that I believe in Christian households. Well there's a conversion of a covenant child and this this may be a stretch but I think it's a good stretch And that is in the life of Jacob. And if you'd like, you can turn in your Bible to Genesis 32. I've just got a couple of key passages in your bulletin. But I in Genesis thirty-two we have the account Where Jacob is very fearful. He's older now. He's married. He has wives. He has children. You know, he kind of deceived his Uncle Laban in terms of how he was going to operate on the ranch. Uh he ended up with all the ring straight cattle. He seemed to prosper better And of course he deceived his brother out of the birthright, he had respect to that. And Jacob's life, frankly, is one where you look at and you go, um Why is it that God had mercy on him? Because he was such a scoundrel. In many ways, he really looked like a scoundrel. Well there we have finally Jacob's reunion with his twin with his twin brother Esau. And he's afraid. Because when he last left Esau, Esau was bent. He was very, very angry to the point of desiring and openly verbalizing, I'm going to kill this guy. How can that be in a family that brothers can get so angry with each other they're ready to kill each other I don't have another brother, I I uh you know uh that's a a bit of a mystery to me. But indeed this is the account of scriptures. And we have in Genesis thirty-two As Jacob is planted by a river about to cross over, and he's going to go meet Esau the next morning, that there met him a man. Verse 24, Jacob was left alone And there wrestled a man with him until the breaking of the day. All day long Jacob is wrestling with this individual. He's just wrestling with him. And this is a night-long thing. I don't want to get too far into the physical aspects of the account because I don't believe Holy Writ records that for us to say this is a you know productive nighttime activity. That's not why that's there But I do believe it's there to illustrate to us there comes a point in time when all I believe, even in the covenant family, especially in the covenant family, have to wrestle with God. They've just got to wrestle with God. They've got to say, I know what my parents taught me. I know what my pastors taught me. Yeah, I've heard it a million times. I'm sick and tired of hearing that. Is this thing real or not? And you've got to wrestle with God. And He will wrestle with you. He's a good wrestler. And he wrestles with you through the Word of God. Now, in these olden times, God had more direct interventionary means, and he's wrestling with Jacob all night long. And at the end, towards the end, Jacob says, I'm not going to let you go until you bless me. Well, why is he requesting a blessing? He doesn't want to let go of God until there's a blessing. You've got to have a blessing poured out. You've got to he already had the birthright right and yet he wants to have an assurance, he wants to have faith I want to believe this thing because if he can believe God and believe God is with him, then this business of encountering his murderous angry brother Esau may not just seem to be such a stretch. Because as far as he knows, he's going to meet his death. And he wrestles with God, and God touches him, and he's halting upon his thigh, and the children of Israel don't eat that portion of the thigh to this day. And God changed his name from Jacob to Israel, for you have wrestled with God, and as a prince you have prevailed. Therefore your name is Israel, Prince of God. And so then we find that Jacob is astonished, and he calls, as in verse 30, and Jacob called the name of the place Penil, for I have seen God face to face. And lived. And lived. I'm going to call upon mom in a second because you've got a great mom, you've got a great well she's maybe her ears aren't turned up. I'll tell you her story. Go ahead Throughout scripture, you find with the patriarchs, your father's God, your father's God. But at Paniel, it became not Jacob's father's God, but Jacob's God. Yeah. So there does come a wrestling. You know, um uh your covenant youth will encounter times where they will be posed with questions and the devil I don't know how he managed to pull this off, but He manages to sling the one question that never came up during your entire homeschool raising, your entire Christian pilgrimage in a Christian household. That one question that never got addressed satisfactorily somehow comes up And they just vacillate on that. And maybe my and it hits mom and dad when they're ridiculously busy, they really just can't get to it. It's all providential because God is wrestling with them. What about this question Is this the one that's going to plunge you into unbelief? Is an insufficient answer perhaps at this moment in time, enough for you to throw your faith away? You know, Jesus turned to the twelve disciples and said, Will you leave too? He had pushed a whole bunch of them away in John 6 and he finally turns to them and what about you? You're gonna go on, well, God does that. He gives a little push every now and then. Let's let this touch you. Is this going to make you go away? Because that's what our context in Hebrews is talking about There are various afflictions and difficulties that we will face in life that do shape the faith. Praise God, not all afflictions are like that. Maybe you have a financial challenge And God sees you through it, and no, I'm not going to lose my faith because of that. But maybe it's a medical issue. Or is it where you feel like God is just dipping you under the water more and more and you just dipping under the water and you're not sure if you're going to make it up this time and he's just kind of toying with your life and you begin to wonder, why are you doing this to me? Are you going to take me away in the midst of my days? God is a perfectly, He is a master at testing you precisely at that location in your thinking where you need to be tried. But you will wrestle with God, and praise my soul, if you're one of his, you'll come out stronger. You'll come out as a pillar in the house of God because he will become your God And you'll quit leaning on your understanding and you'll latch onto him as the pillar so that when the bigger trials in life come When there aren't ready answers forthcoming. At the very end of Jesus' life, Father, if it be thy will, let this cup pass. Nevertheless, not mine but thine be done. The answer from heaven was Silence So that you're strong enough to go through a time even when God's not answering. He's there. He's there. So grace has got to become amazing to each and every one of you at some point in time. There's another great illustration of conversion. It's in Luke 23. It's the thief on the cross. Here's a guy that's known nothing about God all of his life. Here's a man that's the polar opposite. And we know from the Bible that the reason the Jews would push the Romans to crucify a thief is if he was a stealer of men That was the only form of robbery where you steal a man and force him into slavery. We would call it human trafficking today. By the way, that's going on in spades. And that's one of the greatest devastating legacies of the Biden administration is that hundreds of thousands of children are being trafficked over the border, sadly, into this country I fear a great many of them are winding up someplace in Baltimore or Chicago or Los Angeles or Houston and they're being trafficked for unimaginable unspeakable and unimaginable horrors. Children. Well, that was cause for death penalty back in the Jews' day. So there's these two Human traffickers hanging on either side of Jesus Christ at the cross, and both of them were throwing, casting the same, railing against him, casting the same into his teeth, that the Pharisees were saying, but one of them, one One. God is merciful to and saves. And listen to what he says. This is all we have. We don't know his name. All we know him is is the thief. That was his reputation. The other answer and rebuked him, saying, Dost thou not fear God, seeing thou art in the same condemnation. Number one, he had no problem with understanding he's a sinner. All of a sudden Here's a basically a criminal under execution, prior, moments prior, is not believing that he's guilty. You would think That a man in prison would own up to the fact, yeah, I'm here because I messed up. I've known several jail wardens, and their testimony is that, yeah, most people in prison will not confess that they've done anything wrong They really don't think they're sinners. That's how twisted the mind can become. We're very good at saying no, calling good evil, and evil good. And so you do that again and again and again, it becomes part of your routine. You keep doing it well enough and you get a media behind you, you can make it to the White House. But this thief on the cross says, Do you not fear God, seeing thou art in the same condemnation, and we indeed justly? So he declares the judgment against him was correct. He's not arguing against the the Roman state. For we receive the due reward of our deeds, and here's the most glorious part of his confession. Alright, so he's acknowledged he's a sinner. Wonderful. You up there you to belong belong on that cross. That's great. Pay your dues, bye. Get out of here. And then he says, but this man. But this man hath done nothing amiss. This man doesn't belong up here. He's not talking about the other thief, he's talking about Jesus Christ. And he said unto Jesus, Lord, remember me when thou comest into thy kingdom. That's the most profound insight of all. What could this man have believed? Well, number one, he believed that Jesus was Lord. Number two, he believed Jesus was his Lord. Number three, that Jesus had a kingdom. Number four, that Jesus' kingdom was not of this world. Number five, that Jesus would rise from the dead because dead men don't own kingdoms. The faith of this man is astounding. That one sentence alone betrays a deep understanding. Dare I call it an illumination. That God gave him and his life changed. You know, Christ predeceased him The others were left hanging there. Later his legs would be broken, not Jesus, and he would be left there to die. And while he's there, do you realize he had to live out the rest of his days by faith? He just heard seven statements come out of Christ's mouth, and that's it. Now the Savior is dead. He's hanging there limp, a dead body. And he's about to die. The rest of his life he's got to live by faith that everything Jesus said was correct. Though Jesus is not answering him, not going to give him an answer. And Jesus said, verily, today you'll be with me in paradise. Is he going to lose faith? Tell you what, Jim, when we get there, we're going to see the thief on the cross with Jesus in paradise. He is there. Absolutely, he's there. Call to remembrance your former days. Every believer has a story. Every believer has a testimony. And one that we received multiple times, in fact, I might count three in scriptures, comes from none other than Saul of Tarsus. And of course you know what great fight and of afflictions that brother had. We read in 920 that after He was healed by Ananias so that the scales fell off of his eyes. In Acts 9. 20, it says, and straightway he preached Christ in the synagogues. Well, that didn't buy him a lot of brownie points with the local leadership because from then on it was a hard row to hoe. In fact, God told Ananias, I must show unto him what great things he must suffer for my name's sake. The conversion of a covenant child and two blasphemers. What a fascinating, fascinating account. Paul said he was a blasphemer and injurious, but he did it ignorantly. I unbelief. The thief on the cross, railing and blasphemy against Jesus Christ, God converted him. As a change. He had to live the rest of the He didn't fall off that cross right away and go walk home and live a merry life and go play a game of golf. No, he stayed up there And he had to live out the rest of his days that way. What do we mean by illumination? Well, the Apostle Paul uh in giving one of his testimonies, because he gave his testimony quite a lot, before kings and before rulers, before Felix, before Agrippa, all of them. And in Acts 27, Saul is recounting what Jesus tells him, now named Paul. Acts 27, 17 says, Delivering thee from the people and from the Gentiles, unto whom now I send thee. To open their eyes, to turn them from darkness to light. Well, that's the best part right there. From the power of Satan unto God. That tells you what it means to be in darkness. Sure, the power of Satan. He's the Prince of Darkness. He's the Prince of the power of this air. That they may receive forgiveness of sins and an inheritance among them which are sanctified by faith, that is in me. They've got to believe in Christ. There's no entrance into heaven apart from belief in Christ. He doesn't like any strap hangers. It's him and him alone. My point, folks, is you cannot miss a resurrection. When Lazarus was lying in that tomb and Jesus cried out, Lazarus, come forth. There were a lot of people in the tombs. If Jesus had simply said, come forth, they all would have come out of the grave. But no, God called out Lazarus. Lazarus, you come forth. Lazarus had been lying, dare I say, comfortably in that position, all wrapped up. He wasn't feeling much pain. He was in complete darkness. There really wasn't problem he wasn't worried about taxes. He wasn't worried about finances. All that was gone. And all of a sudden, he hears a voice. He can't explain it. It's not in the place you'd normally expect to hear a voice. And he comes forth, and Jesus said to them that stood nearby, take off the grave clothes. Loose him, set him free. And that's what believers do for brand new believers. They take them grave clothes off. All that stuff in the world that had been tying them down. Brother, you don't need that. I remember a man coming out to me. Um he was a baby Christian himself, maybe spiritually older than me, a few years, and caught me listening to some old rock music, says, man, what are you doing listening to that? You don't have any part with that. Christians shouldn't listen to that. And just like that, it died. Like, hmm, yeah, you're right. It didn't take much. Those old grave clothes just didn't have the power over me they used to. Lazarus couldn't remove them. But when you're alive you can. They can fall off. And he came forth. You can't miss a resurrection. Elimination in this text is not about learning a new mathematical formula a new way to solve a differential equation for those of us physics majors in the midst. It's not a technique, it's a soul-changing, heart-enriching, deep and profound insight that never leaves you. It's called salvation, pure and simple. Well then we read in Hebrews 10 as we continue in our text after we call to remembrance the former days, it says You endured a great fight of afflictions, and he tells you two classes. You were made a gazing stock, it's an interesting term. Uh the only time that word used here in the Bible, you were theaterized, you were made a theater, a spectacle, you were Imagine being drug out on stage, ladies. You're not ready for it. Your hair is a wreck. There's no makeup in sight. They just drug you out. And here you are right on stage. The spotlight is there And now everybody's mocking and making fun of you, right? A woman's worst nightmare. You're theaterized, you're made of gazing stock You know, they do this with criminals sometimes. They will, uh, when a foreign country would invade and carry away captives, they would take the princes and shackle them and parade them through the streets of the city They were made of gaze these stuff. It's an embarrassing thing. It's a shameful thing. It's uh it's not an enviable position. Let me tell you what You become a Christian. Don't be surprised if you're made a gazing stock. If you're being hauled about to saying, well look at these science deniers We've got a ton of science and truth on our side. Don't don't fall down on that one. Look at these ne'er do gooders. These are the ones that are problem It was Hitler you know, they've even rewritten history so that Hitler was a fine Christian man. Yeah This and there's another way that you can have an affliction. If you're not the one that's the gazing stock, it says partly because you became companions of those that were so used. You know there's um a thing that's called being in the wrong place at the wrong time with the wrong people. You just happen to be a bystander? Well we read about this. We read about this, and I'm going to give you some examples, but I want to hear from you first. So, you know, this this great fight of affliction. So after you were saved, Did you recall anything bad happening? Any struggles, any trials? Did things become a little more difficult at some point in time, shortly after salvation for you? Uh Well that's a good question. Actually the things that happened, I didn't see that there was something that I needed to worry about or think about Because I want to be honest with you, when I first got seen with all the people guys I knew, I made up my mind. Anybody that can't come along with me Get out of me out of my life. I'm serious. So I never got into trouble out of very many people about anything And sometimes I wondered I said when they're gonna turn back on me and nobody would. It's not that we didn't have our differences But it was always uh calm way of speaking and oh okay, then it old person's going back on business. But you lost a bunch of friends. But you know, I can't say you know what I'm like I don't know if I can call it I lost them. I just didn't want to be around them if that makes a difference. So it wasn't like I said, you know, don't ever come around me anymore I just slowly just moved out of the what was going on. Mm-hmm. But see my whole salvation thing come from one recognition of something, and that was sin. Come to me all that I will lift will lay it and heavily laden, and I will give you rest Now sometimes people may look at that and saying, I'm just tired of working, tired of doing this thing. I'm tired of being around sin. That was it So that's why I didn't need the people around me that I knew that's what they what they were gonna do, so I I'm out of it. Just call tell me, just know that I'm out of it. Right. Period. Right. And then Hello, uh yes Victoria. Jim account. I know growing up for me obviously grew up in a Christian home. But um I did experience a small form of slight ridicule and disdain from my peers in our home school group Even though it was a Christian umbrella group, there were still some children there who were adopted from other countries, so they weren't brought up in the faith. And then there was others who their family were nominally Christian, so they called themselves Christian, but the children themselves were not actually Christian. And I just remember we were doing different things and and sometimes the answers that I would give to different interactions would always make them kind of screw up their face and look at me like I had two heads or they would And I I remember one child was like, Well that's just weird or oh, you just you're just a Bible weirdo or you know, just little comments like that which really make you feel belittled, you know. But I I do remember experiencing that. Yep, small size afflictions for those young in the faith. Very briefly. Um when I when grace became amazing, it w coincided with a realigning of my faith in reg regard to regard to do regards to doctor's grace. And um we lost a supporting church over it. And um my my cousin's husband, who we're good friends today, but um they backed away from us for several years. because of that. Yeah, it uh is maybe not as pronounced in this country, loss of so-called friends Uh maybe you're not in the in crowd, you don't get as many invitations or Christmas cards as before. Uh you uh you you uh don't get as uh uh uh you know, as as as much accolades that people just kinda generally say, Oh that's nice, nice move on, shake somebody else's hand, you know, just pat you head. Other countries it's much more severe. In fact we're going to look at up one. One's in Acts 17. This is a great account of one who faced affliction just because of association. Sometimes just because you associate, you know, you're not the mouthpiece, you're you're not the bold, you know, uh vibrant one, but you're there. You just kinda hang with these people. Yeah, I like being with the Christians, they're fine Listen to this account in Acts 17. It's really fascinating. Paul had been preaching in a synagogue, and this stirs up a few people as is common for Paul It says, But the Jews which believed not, moved with envy, took unto them certain lewd fellows of the baser sword. I love that description. And gathered a company and set all the city on an uproar and assaulted so I mean this is a big mob here, assaulted the house of Jason And sought to bring them, the people that were inside Jason's house, out to the people. And when they found them not, they drew Jason and certain brethren Not leaders, brethren, unto the rulers of the city, crying, These that have turned the world upside down are come hither also whom Jason hath received. He's aiding and abetting the enemy. He's opening up his house for these ne'er do gooders to come in. And these all do contrary to the decrees of Caesar. That's ludicrous. Saying there is another king, one Jesus. Now that can be a death penalty Why why do you think these afflictions happened to Jason? He was a threat to democracy. Point made, move on. Yeah, absolutely. Yeah, there's nothing new, is there? Nothing new. Nothing new There's really nothing new under the sun. There's another great account I have in John 9. It's the account of the blind man we heard about him Wednesday in the devotional. And this is a very telling comment Now there was the man who was blind from his birth and they ask him, is this man blind because he was a sinner or not? And Jesus says, No, because you're going to see the glory of God in him. Jesus heals him. The Pharisees are questioning him Trying to convict Jesus, and it's a very strange account, really, when you read it, it's the most goofiest exchange, until you understand the beautiful poetry of scripture that this is a discourse between two blind people. One who used to be blind, known as the blind man, but now he sees And the Pharisees, who claim to see that they in fact are spiritually blind, and so therefore they ask really stupid questions because they don't get it. And so they finally go to the parents to ask the parents about him, and they're a little nervous, and they answer like this These words spake his parents because they feared the Jews For the Jews had agreed already that if any man did confess that he, meaning Jesus, was Christ He, the confessing individual, should be put out of the synagogue. Therefore said his parents, he is of age, ask him. So that's a very telling comment because it does indicate, at a minimum, the parents are facing persecution because of the conversion of the blind man They didn't have anything to do with his conversion. They didn't take Jesus to the blind man, nor did the blind man say to his parents, Find me Jesus, that I may be healed. They were what the military would call collateral damage. Just happened to be in the wrong place at the wrong time. But they knew they would be kicked out of the synagogue if they confessed that Jesus was the Christ. And second point is, I can't help but to wonder if that would have been their confession. They knew their son. They knew his state. All their days they were, I'm sure, hoping, wishing, seeking, this is not true is their way to fix it, and finally coming to the sad realization, no. Our son is simply going to be blind for life, and now he can see? Would that not, as a parent, overjoy your heart? Would you not have great respect To any man, especially the Messiah, who in fact healed your son. I think those parents would have no difficulty whatsoever saying, oh surely this is the Christ. He's healed our son. Surely they would. But they couldn't do it because of the fight of afflictions. I think this is an example of some quiet believers A testimony, even their silence for fear. New believers, I think, newly, newly confessing. And then of course the man himself that was blind They called, this is verse 24 of John 9. Then again called they the man that was blind, said unto him, Give God the praise. We know this man is a sinner What does sin have to do with it? I'm just he just healed this guy. What does that have to do with anything? He answered and said, whether he be a sinner or no, I know not One thing I know, and that's all he had to know. And this is the testimony of all of you. Whereas I was blind Now I see. Illumination. I was blind before. I thought these idiots I was hanging out with were good people to be with. I thought this stupid activity I was doing was a way to fun and happiness. I thought this False Nigerian prince was the way to go in life, and it turned out to be a disaster. But this thing I know. Once I was blind, now I see. And that's the testimony. Well, didn't the angels announce peace on earth, goodwill to men? Why aren't others happy that you become saved? Why aren't they happy about it? You think people would be ecstatic? You think the the county would say, oh, let's bring more Christians in here because they feed the poor, they help their own, they're they're peaceful, law-abiding people. Why? They're not gonna do that because it's convicting them. They're not gonna do it because it convicts them. That's right. It's condemning of them. Why aren't you following it? Right? Yeah. Well, Jesus said in Matthew 10, think not that I am come to send peace on earth. I came not to send peace, but a sword. I am come to set a man at variance against his father, and a daughter against her mother, and the daughter-in-law against her mother-in-law, and a man's foe shall be they of his own household. Can you imagine? Sometimes there are family divisions because you have unsaved people in that family and saved people in that family, and as it becomes and it goes, just like Jacob and Esau, there's this rustling in the womb There's two nations in there, two spirits, two kings, constituent members of two different kingdoms. Jesus said, These things have I spoken unto you that in me, Jesus said, in me you'll have peace. In the world, you shall have children. Not you might Now don't be surprised that you shall have tribulation, but be of good cheer, I have overcome the world. So Even our closest family, by blood, if they remain in original sin and darkness, will be neither pleased nor impressed with a new resident having a renewed mind. No, no interest in it. No, they don't like it. The unregenerate have a false peace based on a false premise and lies. God's peace is based on God's truth, and that truth is eternal. It just doesn't change. God doesn't need to fix it He doesn't need to go back and say, oops, I said something in Isaiah, I gotta say something different here. No. He doesn't have to do that. You can't have two truths. One is correct, the other is incorrect. So your embrace of God's eternal truth, thank you, Lisa, is a condemnation to them. Offenses will occur of necessity, but it really doesn't shake God's children because they actually know that they have the way, the truth, and the light. Yeah. They actually know that. Alright, well we close there. Jeffrey, would you mind closing this prayer? Thank you. Oh Father and Heaven, we're better than I was to be counted amongst. Him who came to save his people from their sins. Oh Father, thank you for this word this morning. I pray that it uh uh sinks deep in the heart and for everyone and feeds the soul. And we look forward to even more of uh your good word And uh in the minute to come in Jesus Christ.