For those of you who were in the Sunday school class today, we We had some good questions uh dealing with free will. And we have a brochure in the back as you go out the double doors. That's why you have to be turned on a little bit uh you'll find on the music stand, uh Free Will or Election it's a good little track. And they'll be in the uh pamphlet area as well and maybe we'll do an insert next week. But it covers a lot of the verses that were used today and you might want to pick one of those up. So Just let you know that. Turn with me this morning to Second Samuel. Second Samuel chapter twenty two. Sometimes there is a rhyme and a reason. I try to make there a rhyme and a reason always for the responsive reading and the songs we choose. This week is is no exception. In fact, if you're in 2 Samuel 22 and you want to follow us verse by verse, You may also turn to our responsive reading this morning, Psalm 18, because they're identical. Very, very few changes in it. Second Samuel twenty-two is called the Psalm of David, and so it is. There's slight variation in sa uh Psalm eighteen. For those of you might you've got a husband and wife, maybe one can go to Psalm eighteen and the other can be in uh second Samuel twenty-two. The slight variation they believe is that this was the historical account which David gives us in chapter twenty-two. And Psalm eighteen is when it was set to uh uh liturgical or or for singing. And so when you take a history and put it to music, some of the words will change. But that's that is this basic difference. So for some of you who might want to follow with us and just to see how close it runs, uh go to Psalm 18 as we read uh verses one excuse me Versus one oh boy excuse me I'm having this I think I swallowed a feather. Gotta change my last name. Guys are quick this morning. If you're in Psalm eighteen, it's gonna be verses one through fourteen, if you're in sec uh second Samuel twenty-two It's verses one through fifteen. So beginning of twenty two and verse one And David spake unto the Lord the words of this song, in the day that the Lord had delivered him out of the hand of all his enemies, and out of the hand of Saul. And he said, the Lord is my rock and my fortress and my deliverer. Psalm 18 and verse 2 says the same. Verse 3: The God of my rock, in Him will I trust. He is my shield and the horn of my salvation, my high tower, my refuge, my savior. Thou savest me from violence I will call on the Lord, who is worthy to be praised. So shall I be saved from mine enemies. When the waves of death compassed me, the floods of the ungodly men made me afraid. The sorrows of hell compassed me about, and the snares of death prevented me, or were expecting me In my distress I called upon the Lord, and he cried to my God, and he did hear my voice out of his temple, and my cry did enter into his ears And then the earth shook and trembled. The foundations of heaven moved and shook because he was wroth. There went up a smoke out of his nostrils and fire out of his mouth devoured coals which were kindled by it He bowed the heavens also, and he came down, and darkness was under his feet, and he rode upon a cherub and did fly, and he was seen upon the wings of the wind. And he made darkness pavilions round about him, and dark waters and thick clouds of the skies. And through the brightness before him were coals of fire kindled. The Lord thundered from heaven and most high they uttered his voice. And he sent out arrows and scattered them, lightning and discomforted them. Anybody here follow us in Psalm 18 on that? Ain't probably pretty close, isn't it? Psalm eighteen or David's Psalm as we find it in 2 Samuel chapter 22. Says that David spake the song. As we read this We see and as we look at Psalm 18, there was a song in his heart. There was a song on his lips in the day that the Lord delivered him. Not just in the day the Lord saved him, and that shall put a song on our lips and in our hearts as well. But he was delivered from enemies and from uh plagues and from all kinds of problems that that that were he experienced all through his life. And uh he he says here, the David spake the song and the day the Lord delivered him. He was quick to acknowledge on the very day that God had done something great for him He acknowledged it. And I just wonder how quick are we to acknowledge and thank the Lord when he delivers you from one of your trials? You ought to be done then and now and in that moment and in that day We are filled with more exuberance. We are filled with more thankfulness and more earnest and more fervently in our prayers that we just stop, whatever we're doing, and thank God when He delivers us. When he saves us, when he removes the trial in our life. First thing we see here is the phrase is We we we should sing praises while the mercy is fresh on our hearts and on our minds. The second thing we should note is that a grateful heart is never a silent heart. If you're really saved You should have a grateful heart. People say, How do I know if I'm saved? You have a grateful heart. How do I know I'm saved? You praise God for it. You talk about it. You're pleased about it. You're happy about it. You rejoice about it You have a grateful heart. You sing about it. And third thing, look for Christ as the deliverer. Romans 11, 26 says that Christ is the deliverer. And David, you go through these almost staccato, like firing off of the titles he gives for God. And one of there is the deliverer. We need to look for God in our deliverance. Too often we look to the I had a great doctor and boy he really took care of me. I had this worst flu and he just gave me the right medicine. Or it's you have an infection and they give you the right antibiotic and and you're praising the medicine. You praise God That he directs you to the right doctor. You praise God that that doctor had enough of a mindset to recognize that that particular infection requires this particular medication. And you praise God where that medication works because because depending on our genetic makeup, some medications don't work. Some people will swear by Advil, some will swear by ibuprofen Some will swear by aspirin or anison. We know that it doesn't all affect us the same. It doesn't always work for some of us. Praise the Lord. You praise the Lord. That's what David is doing here. If a stranger comes along and helps you with a flat tire, you can thank the stranger as you well should, but you thank the Lord that someone stopped in the cold, wet, rainy night on a busy highway and risked his life to help you change a tire. You thank God for that. See God in your deliverances. And that's what David was doing here When there's a weather, farmers know this, you're going through a drought, and you're going to lose your entire crop. You may lose your farm and and the farmers pray for rain And the drought is stopped and the rain comes, and they don't say, boy, I'm glad that weather man was right. Boy, I'm glad they seeded those clouds. Boy, I'm glad that that cold front came in from the west and brought rain. No, you you praise God for that. Your deliverer, whether it be you be some of people will only see this medicine. Some people will see this uh good fortune that some stranger came along with a with a tire wrench or a spare tire for you Well that the reversal of weather, it is God. These are only instruments in our life when a stranger steps in our life and helps us The medicine is only an instrument of God in curing us. He says here as David spake the song in the day, the Lord delivered him. And the the term deliver is of course a term for Christ. But note also that the man of faith, it says he has many foes, for David said he delivered me out of the hand of all his enemies. David had lots of foes. A man of faith is going to have some enemies. How do I know if I'm saved? You're gonna have some enemies. You're gonna irritate some people. It won't take them long to find out that you don't agree with them on a lot of social issues. A lot of things you're not very politically correct upon. You're going to have a lot of enemies. And it says here David had them. And he was delivered out of the hand of all his enemies. When we are delivered from much, we praise the Lord. A lot. Much. The more the Lord delivers us from things, the more we love him. And the more bold we are to share what he has done for us with others. If you're really saved, how can you not share with others what God has done for you? Taking you out of the hand of your enemies and diseases and tribulations and trials of life We should be praising God all the more if we are saved because saved people, they see that that instrument in their life, that stranger in their life, the changes of the weather, it's all of God. And that's where David is this morning here. He is just he's just bursting with praise for the Lord. It's a rapid delivery of the intense passion he has for the numerous mercies all through his life. He talks about all the enemies. And he had him the Philistines, the Amorites, the Moabites, the Jebusites, uh Saul himself, his own son Absalon. I mean we can give you a long list. And some of the shoes will uh remember this day. But he is just filled with an intense passion over the numerous deliveries in his life. And so he starts in in verses two and three and he just calls upon God, he says, the God of my rock upon which I build my hope, of course, the God of my fortress, the God who is my deliverer, the God who's my shield when I'm a target of the enemies, the whore of my salvation. And that's the title used for Christ in Luke 1 in verse 69. The God is my high tower, my refuge. He can put me up there so high I'm out of the reach of my enemies. He just goes on and on here. And he says, My Savior. All these are titles of the Lord Jesus Christ. That's why when they shouted hallelujah as Dav as the Lord Jesus Christ entered the city of Jerusalem, they called him Hallelujah. Praise the Son of David. They called him the Son of David And David called him his savior, his shield, his deliverer, his high tower, his fortress, the horn of my salvation. Wow. Have you ever prayed that God would strengthen your faith? Faith is strengthened by being exercised. You want strong biceps, strong triceps, strong pectorial muscles, you know, you go through the whole normal strong bones, you have to exercise. If you want the Lord to increase your faith, he'll exercise your faith. You know how he exercises your faith? With trials. With tribulations, with plagues. Someone said the one time, oh, I want God to give me patience. Oh boy, you pray for patience. He'll give you trials. You want God to increase your strength, increase your faith? He will exercise your faith. And when your faith is exercised Boy, you know what it's like to exercise? You'll exercise your faith, and that means there's going to be some strenuous moments in your life. Verse 4, David says, I will call on the Lord. Now when you call on the Lord for anything, that is already an exercise in faith. Why call on the Lord unless you already have faith that He can do something about it? I mean, if we say, oh Lord, save my son, save my daughter, save my spouse, save my family. When you call on the Lord, you are already implying faith that God can do that. That's an exercise in faith. Calling on the Lord before God has done anything, you're exercising faith, you are believing that He can deliver. You call someplace for a pizza. You give them your credit card number. Oh, that's scary. But you believe that they'll deliver the pizza, that they're that they can generally do something And when you call on the Lord in prayer that he would do something for you, you believe that he can deliver. And it's a show of faith that you ask God for something and you praise him for it before he's even done it. The Lord is worthy. I will call him the Lord, the Lord who is worthy to be praised. David is even praising him before he delivers him. He is worthy to be praised. We have hymnals, we have Psalters, but we got a red magic hymnal, we got a Trinity hymnal. You know, seven hundred songs in here and seven hundred songs in the Red Majesty and some of them are repetitious. I titled the Meshade Repetition. Repetition is good. We got Psalm 18 and we got 2 Samuel 22. Repetition is good. For some reason, God wants to read this chapter twice when we go through the Bible. Repetition is good. Our teachers used to tell us that And we got the hymnals, and there's often songs that are repetition because they're good songs. They're hymns that are favored. A mighty fortress is our God. You'll probably find that one in every hymnal. And it says it's good to praise the Lord. I I went on on Google this week and I and I tried to find out how many hymns are written to glorify the Lord Jesus Christ, the scriptures, God, salvation, the gospel. And yet, what do you think? How many how many how many think there's 5,000 hymns out there that are written? This is to see a show of hands. Somebody think there's less how many think is less than 5,000? Okay. How many think it's more than 5,000? How about more than 10,000? How about more than 2 I mean, it is good to praise the Lord. Did somebody take this pretty seriously? Oh yeah. Isaac Watts wrote 900 all by himself. Isaac Watts Fanny Crosby, she was blind, so she probably didn't feel like writing as many hymns as Isaac Watson, yet she did. She wrote 8,000 hymns And Charles Wesley, he wrote 9,000 hymns. And I could not find out how many hymns have actually been written. But we're up to like 20,000 hymns, and I'm only talking about three songwriters It is good to praise the Lord. At least Isaac Watts thought so, Fanny Crosby thought so, Charles Wesley thought so, David thought so, and Mike, they took this verse, and did they carry to the extreme? You can't carry praising the Lord to extreme. I couldn't find out how many tens of thousands. I quit at 20,000 after just looking up three of the writers of hymns. I will call upon the Lord. The Lord is worthy to be praised. Wow. There's a lot of hymns. And where's Gil sitting? Gil Siler. Where's Gil? Oh, there he is. Now Gil might have close to 10,000 or 20,000. He's got a lot of hymnals back home. I don't even know. Do you have any idea how many hymns are written? He's looking kind of like he doesn't either. But he's got a lot of 'em. He would have probably guessed five or ten thousand The Lord is worthy to be praised because He does deliver us. He delivers us from our enemies. He delivers us from our plagues, from our diseases, from our trials and our troubles, emotional, physical, spiritual, psychological. He is the great deliverer. He is worthy to be praised, David is telling us here. And as David looked back on his former mercies, and that's what he's doing in Psalm 18. That's what he's doing in 2 Samuel 22. He's looking back on his former mercies as we ought to look back on our former mercies. And when we see that God has delivered us from our former trials and tribulations, it ought to encourage us that He's still able. Jesus Christ, the same yesterday, today, and forever, he is still able to deliver us in our trials today and in the trials of tomorrow. Now you might not want me to talk about your trials of tomorrow, but there will be some. And uh generally speaking, the older we get and the longer we live, uh the tougher the trials. And so we we see here that David was looking back and we should too. Shouldn't our former blessings encourage us that there will be future blessings? There will be future trials, but there will be future blessings. There will be future deliverances. Until he takes us to heaven. And I want you to note here when David's going through all these blessings and we're and we it' fi fifty some verses. We're only touching on uh fifteen this morning. But he's going through all these blessings, all these trials, all these tribulations. And I and I know sitting here that there are a lot of tri there may be somebody sitting here, I like one of the young people, ask every per request right. Nope, things are good. It's okay, great. But I know for the most of us we've got some problems, don't we? We got some struggles, right? Struggles we can't talk about without crying about them. Struggles we can't talk about because they're embarrassing. We've got problems. Some of you are here on Wednesday nights and I understand why. I don't like to you know some people like to drive in the dark. I understand our our eyesight as we get older is not so good Uh some of us have a night shift. There's lots of reasons why some of you aren't here. Well I want to tell you, we get on the average, uh in the the group that comes in here on Wednesday night, we get about seventeen unspoken requests Things that for the most part, I don't even know what's going on in this church. I mean, it's quite a list of the things that people are willingly admit and ask for prayer, but I know that we are a hurting people. I know that we are people that have trials. And some of those trials are downright tribulations. That have shaken us to the very foundation of our lives. And we see no way out. We see no way that uh it can be straightened out, that anyone can fix it And yet turn the person to left or right or front or before you, and they've had that problem, and God fixed it in a miraculous way. He delivered them out of their trials. And David here is so excited about what God has has done for him. And the thing I one thing I don't see him doing here, and he could have done this, he could have said Yep, had a lot of trials. I met them Philistines. I met Goliath, one stone took him out Not too long after that, four more stones and the my help of my other men. We we took out the other Goliath brothers. I mean I this and I that and I so forth. And he could have said, as a matter of fact, Saul has slain his thousands, but I have slain his ten thousands. But you don't read that in Psalm 18. You don't read that in 2 Samuel 22. David doesn't boast about what he did against Goliath. He doesn't boast about how he conquered and defeated the Philistines. time after time after time. You know why he doesn't? He said it's the Lord that's worthy to be praised. It's all of God, whatever you've accomplished. You made it through college? Wow. You think it's because of that gray manner between your ears? It's not. Maybe God blessed you with a great memory, God bless you with great deductive powers I forget who the guy was. He was on the radio this week. He's he's renowned. If I can remember his name right now, I'd tell you. But he said I he said I graduated from college. Magda come dummy. He said I had a 2. 5 or 2. 9 average. I barely got through. He said, praise God, I got through college. Give God the glory for everything, friend. And the sooner you do, the sooner God will move you on out of one trial, and yeah, there'll be another one, but Give God the glory even before that's what David does here. God's delivered him so many times he praises him for the future deliverance as well. And we need to do that. We need to pray in faith But God will get us through what we're going through. As He's done so many times for us and others we know. Well, how bad did things get for David? Boy, verse 5 gives us a pretty good indication as he continues here. He said, the ways of death compass me. He said I was surrounded with waves of pain, emotional pain, physical pain, it overwhelmed me. It was like a flood. He said, the flood of ungodly men also came in upon me with numerous violent assaults. And I suspect David did we know David was wounded in battle. At one time he was struck down and Left for dead and Abishai comes in and kills the giant that struck him. That was just last week. David knew pain from combat. David knew pain. And he talks about it here, the waves of death Compass me. And then the in the uh Hebrew there it's the pains of death. The pains of death. They came in like waves, like waves of an ocean, coming and coming and coming. And sometimes you have a toothache like that It just hits you, it hits you every every ten or fifteen seconds, or about every minute, or an earache that just comes like a wave, very painful. David said he was going through waves of death here And floods of ungodly men. And it says they made him afraid. Wow. King David, I can't imagine King David. He takes off Goliath. He's there in all these battles. He's won, he's won, he's won. Where do you find a battle where David's defeated? And yet he says he was afraid of some of these men. David afraid? You ever think about David being afraid? Are you ever afraid of what's happening in your life or what you're being confronted by? Hmm. You go through and look at the men of God that you revere, that you look up to. You look at these men David fled from Saul. That's how afraid he was in 1 Samuel 21 and 10. Moses fled from the Pharaoh and the people of Egypt. Exodus 2 and verse 15. Elijah, oh man, a god like Elijah, I mean he can smack the Jordan River and it parts when he puts his mantle down. I mean, this is a guy who can raise people from the dead. I mean, how can he be afraid of anything? He said, But Elijah fled From Jezebel? He fled from a woman? First Kings 19. Uh some of you guys can understand that. There are women if you just I th I'll tell you a story. Years ago. We're at Bible camp. And we had a lady there. She came in and boy, she was just just as nasty and in your face as could be And she was out there we had a I was in a cabin of about three or four of the pastors and one of our pastors had just stepped out the door and she cornered him and she's walking with her hands and her fists like she says, She wanna fight? I'll fight you by anything you want to fight. Any doctrine you got, any Bible verse, I'll fight you. I'm right in your face. And uh big pastor, he's about six foot five and uh big heavy um he he probably the strongest guy in the whole senate. And he said, No, he's trying to calm her down And you know what the rest of our pastors we did in that shut we locked the door and we watched from inside. We didn't want any part of that woman, I'm gonna tell you, you know I mean, how do you look, Bible camp pastor, smack woman? We just better stay inside. Are you afraid of being sometimes? Of course we are. Of course we are. He says not only the waves of death, the waves of pain, but he talks about there in verse 6, the sorrows of hell. uh compass me. He said, I am I am so depressed, I am so down that the sorrows I I think it's gonna kill me, he said. The sorrows of hell or the sorrows of the grave they compassed me. They brought me the edge of my own grave. I I the sorrow is so great that I'm going to I it's going to kill me Carrie Fisher died, what, three weeks ago? Carrie Fisher's mother, Debbie Reynolds, died the next day. She said, losing my daughter, it's gonna kill me. And it did. The sorrows of the Some things we go through can be so hard that heart attacks, strokes. Which are of the Lord, by the way, you know that, didn't you? God sends a stroke, God sends a heart attack. Uh God calls us out of this world But that's David thought that the sorrows he was going through. And I think one of those might have been when his own son Absalom wanted to kill him and drove him out of Jerusalem. What would that do to a father? Your son's trying to kill you and you flee out of the house and he's chasing you down the block, he's chasing the next neighborhood, you're hiding from your son, and he's got others with him, and they want to kill you. What does that do to a father's heart? Would that cause a father to weep and moan? Would that be a solid that just would drive me to your a nurty grave? The loss of a child is enough to kill you, isn't it? We've had people in this church Lose a child. You think you got problems? Lose a child It's a sorrow. The sorrows of hell. They'll bring you to the edge of the grave. He writes in verse 7: My soul is exceedingly sorrowful even unto death. Oh. That was the Lord Jesus Christ. Not David. Matthew 26 and 38. The Lord Jesus Christ. He slept Struggled. Remember in the garden how he prayed as dri sweating is on a cold night it says he was sweating as it were great drop. He if you look in the commentaries to say this that when Christ was praying on God and calling on God to remove this cup from me The prayer really was, oh Lord, this is so much, this is such a great burden, this is such a sorrow. He says, you know, remove this cupboard lest I die before I make it to the cross And the Lord sent him an angel to minister under the Lord Jesus Christ in the garden. David says, In my distress I cried to my God. What a prayer life David has. Do you cover a better prayer life? Well, grief, pain, fear, and trials, that works for a lot of people. You want a greater prayer life? Get ready for the grief, the pain, the sorrow, the foes, the enemies, the plagues. It'll increase your prayer life. Christ in the day of his flesh, we read in Hebrews 5 and verses 5 through 8. Christ in the days of his flesh offered up prayers. I hadn't seen this one before. You know, we also hear Jesus wept at the grave of Lazarus. Remember Jesus wept? But Hebrews 5, verses 5 through 8, he offered the prayers with strong crying and tears. While the disciples slept in the Garden of Gethsemane, Christ was weeping and crying with tears. And God heard him. And the angel came. And here David says, My God did hear me in verse 7. God heard David. David says, God heard me. How did David know that God heard him? We sometimes pray and we say I don't know if I've gotten through or not. I feel like it's a glass ceiling I'm praying. I don't know if my prayers are getting up there. I don't know if God hears. I mean God hears, but we mean hears and that He's going to reply. Hears and He's going to respond Here's that that that things are gonna turn out okay, that they're gonna they're eventually gonna you know bless me in an eternal fashion and glorify God. Um how do I know he he really hears and is inclined to do something about it now or in about a week or a month or before the year is out or before I die? How do we know that God hears us? David says, God heard me. How did David know that? Because when David prayed, oftentimes the world came unglued as he prayed like Paul and Silas in the prison at midnight after having been beaten and they're singing songs and they're and they're praying and the world came on glue. Do you remember that? How suddenly the foundations of prison were shaken and the doors that the doors of the prison were opened and the shackles on the men's arms fell off Not in just Paul and Silas, but every cell door and the shackles of every prisoner. I mean that's quite a viol that's quite an earthquake when when the shackles on your wrists pop open, isn't it? I mean when you pray as Paul and Silas did that night and the world comes on glued with an earthquake and the rocks are falling, the prisons collapsing, and nobody gets killed. It had to be like Samson tearing down uh the Philistine uh uh idol to the place where he was in the in the amphitheater. And and Samson not get killed. Paul and Silas pray and there's an earthquake. The foundations of the heavens and the foundations are shaken. The doors open, fall off their hinges, and the handcuffs and the shackles on the wrists pop open. You know when you pray sometimes that God has answered because things come unglued around you and You know that God is there. He says in verses 8 through 10, the earth shook and it trembled. There were earthquakes. We don't read about them as you go through Samuel, the different battles. But he says that there were times when there in that when he would have been praying in a situation and the earth shook and it trembled, the foundation of the heaven moved, because God was wroth, smoke came out of his nostrils, fire out of his mouth, verse nine, and he came down. That's what David said. It says, God came down. And why not? When you're foes, when you're enemies When they touch you, touch not the Lord's anointed his people Israel. Touch not the Lord's anointed, the Christ who's come to save us. Touch not the anointed King David. Oh, when you touch the apple of God's eye, he gives wrath. You know, we get upset when people are picking us for being born-again Christians, funnementalists, Bible whackers or Bible thumpers. We get called all this stuff. You ought to You you need to pray for those people and feel sorry for those people because they've got God angry and He is going to come down and deal with them lest they get saved in a very troublesome manner We need to pity the unsaved when they treat us so poorly. And so we have David here is like Zechariah 2. 8 says not to touch the apple of God's eye. And they did that when they touched the anointed, the Christ, when they smacked him And they spit on him and they ridiculed him and they plucked the hairs from his face. They're touching the apple of God's eye. When they slapped him across the face and he was blindfolded, how close they must have come to the apple or the pupil of his eye. And when you do such things like that, it says Christ eventually when he's on the cross he's crucified and he's been mocked and mimicked and so forth It says Christ cried again with a loud voice, he yielded up the ghost, and the temple, the veil in the temple was rent and twain, the earth did shake, the rocks were rent or broken in half, the graves opened up, the bodies of the saints which slept arose and went into the holy city. The graves opened up and the saints arose and went in the holy city. Man, that's the world coming unglued, isn't it? You know why that happened? Because when Christ prayed from the cross, he was the apple of God's eye. And when he prayed, God heard him, and God was wroth. Talk about coming on glue. The graves opened up, and the saints came out of the grave, and they went into the holy city, which is Jerusalem, and confronted the people about what had happened, Matthew 27. Fifty through fifty-three. Ah when the world touches the apple of God's eye In a timely fashion, God will respond. Not when you want Him to, not the very hour, or the very minute, or maybe the very day, or the very week, the very month. But God is wrath and he will respond, and when he does, it will be a quick response. Verses eleven and twelve He rode upon a cherub, and he did fly, and he was seen upon the wings of the wind, dark waters and thick clouds. I mean he came quickly. When David was touched by the enemies, by the Philistines, by his own son Absalom, by Saul coming after him inside the cave. Then God came. You can imagine David, he's sitting there, he's trapped inside the cave And here comes Saul with a bunch of men, and they're walking up towards the mouth of the cave. Oh God, answer my prayer. And then he walks into the cave. Oh God, answer my prayer. Then he walks into the back of the cave where David is, and it's too dark he can't see David. Oh God, answer my prayer. And it was then that David was in the thick clouds and the dark waters and he was never seen. God answered his prayer, but he didn't answer when Saul was outside the cave coming in. He didn't answer when he got through the entrance. God, in a timely fashion, will answer our prayers so he gets the most glory. I think far too often we don't see God in the great climatic events in our life. And what an encouragement it is If we would. You know, we read about David and we read about Samson, we read about Moses, and all these great climatic events. And then why doesn't it happen anymore? Well if it happened every day, if it happened every week, if it happened every month or every year, it wouldn't be a miracle, would it? You'd become so, ugh, that happens all the time, that's not a miracle. But God does do it sometimes. It's just that some people, even when he does it, they don't see it How about the climatic events in the life of the Pharaoh and the people of Egypt? All those plagues in Exodus 7 and Exodus 8 and Exodus 9, and he just doesn't see God in it at all There are people out there today that they don't see God in events of what are happening. They believe that barbecue grills produce global warming, you know I mean if that's you've got to stop barbecuing, you gotta stop burning leaves in your backyard. You're gonna produce global warming. They think cutting down trees creates climate change They think that fracking for oil produces and emits earthquakes and shakes and shocks. I mean, they've just got it all figured out. God has nothing to do with the earthquakes. God has nothing to do with climate change. God has nothing to do with any of this. It's man doing it all But that's not what David says here. He said, God travel in the winds, and God traveleth the clouds However, believers, didn't they always comprehend God in the storms of life? You go through the scriptures When there were storms in life, they saw God in it. They didn't see barbecues and fracking of oil. They saw God in what was going on in the world. Job chapter one, eighteen through twenty one. A great wind came and it killed all ten of his children. The house collapsed on all ten of his children. It means, Oh my goodness, the tornado or the hurricane or the strong wind Should have built a house better. Oh my goodness, what happened here? No, Job says the Lord taketh away. He saw God in the wind. God in the storm. We need to see that this day and age. These nor'easters and uh the polar vortexes and all this stuff, they're they're coming with all these new you know, as a kid there was never a polar vortex. They just said it's gonna be cold tomorrow, but now it's a polar vortex And when we got a lot of rain, they say, well it's a rainy season, but now it's a Nord Easter because of somebody's barber grill barbecue grill or They don't see God or what's going on today. Well Job did. And Jonah did. Jonah's on the ship, right? And there's the midst of a storm. There's a tempest. And the ship's going to be destroyed and the sailors are on the ship. They say, oh, why is God doing this this? We pray to his God and his garden, my God, and And nothing's happening. There's some guy sleeping down the bottom of the ship. Get him up here and find out who his God is. And Jonah comes up and he says, The storm, the storm, you know, what have you done something? Is your God angry with us? And Jonah says, Yes, the storm. The storm is not a nor'easter. It's not a result of global warming. The storm is because I have sinned and I've disobeyed God. And my God has brought the my God is in the storm. And God is in the storms of your life. We just have to see that God is there. He's in the very midst of it. The disciples of Christ were in the same situation. Matthew 8, on a ship that was being swamped by water, and Christ was right there in the ship. And they called him and said, We don't want to die. Please do something. Peace be still. And it stops. The Lord Jesus Christ, stop the storm. God is in the storms, and He starts them and He can stop them. Thirteen through fifteen, through him were coals of fire kindled What does that mean? Coals of fire were kindled. Well, if you live out in North Dakota as I was, it was raised out there, we have the place called the Badlands. And you go out to the Badlands and it's been going on now for Whoa, in the 1960s, 30 or 40 years, there were underground coal mines on fire. They were set afire by lightning bolts. And they're out there even in these recent years, last year they are set out uh con contractors to dig up around the coal mines that are on fire and try to put these fires out. It says here that through him the coals of fire were kindled. Lightning bolts. God God has done this. In the Badlands, and he was doing the days of David, lightning bolts would be cast down, setting things afire. The Lord thunders, he says from verse 14, the Lord thundered from heaven. The Most High uttered his voice. He sent out arrows, lightning To discomfort them or to scatter them, to destroy the enemies. Do you think God's any different today? I said Jesus Christ the same yesterday, today, and forever? We read that in Hebrews. 13 and 8. We need to see God in the storms of our life. We need to see God in the storms that are out there in the world. Don't just think, oh well, we got bad weather coming in. No, we got God sending in the wind and the rain. And the snow. Job talks about how God has the snow kept up inside reserve for a time. Don't you be afraid of global warming. You'd be afraid of God. Well, but God doesn't do this stuff anymore. That's David here 2800 years ago I mean, I think repetition is great because we learn from repetition, but it'd be nice if it happens once in a while in our own time frame. I mean, when does this happen in America? When has it happened at all Would that be an encouragement to you to see God using the thunder and the quakes and the winds and the storms to protect his people? Eighteen fourteen, it's not too long ago, is it? The War of 1812, we fought it down here at Fort McHenry. We know the story about Fort McHenry But just two weeks earlier, the British attacked Washington, D. C. first. Bladenburg, Maryland. Is that close enough for you? 1814, in Bladenburg, Maryland. The British came in. They burned the White House. They burned the I've got a whole list here. They burned the War Department, they burned the State Department, they burned the Treasury Department, they burned the Capitol building, they burned the original Library of Congress and other government buildings. The city was ablaze, it was on fire, and homes were catching on fire as well. Things are so drastic. The British were running through all the streets. President Madison, Dolly Madison, they already fled the White House, carrying with them the Declaration of Independence. Coiled up and they got so far out of town they thought they'd be captured with it and she hid it under the porch of a pastor's house, by the way, that they knew And now this the city of DC is it's gonna be like this great Chicago fire, it's about to be wiped out when in comes a rainstorm. Actually it brought in not just rain, it brought in a couple of tornadoes as well, and we read about this. And they hit Washington, put out most of the fires. The British were battered. as buildings were torn apart, lifted off their foundations, trees were uprooted, men were knocked to the ground, houses collapsed, killing the British soldiers. And the British officer, he even saw cannons being lifted off the ground and flying through the air as a tornado swept through Washington, D. C. And the British said, we gotta get out of here You wonder sometimes, was God's hand like for David in coming into DC? The British officers, as they're departing Washington, D. C. , there was a woman who watched him leave, and the British officer came up and says, Madam What kind of a storm is this? Is this what you people in the country all the time? She goes, Oh no, sir. This is of God to drive our enemies out today. I'm thankful today that God hasn't changed I'm thankful Dave that repetition is good. And every once in a while God reminds us in the storms of life and in the storms across our country. And I could tell you some things more recent than the Battle of 1816. 14. But just know that there is a God. And that the storms in your life have been sent sometimes to drive away some of our enemies. And some of the worst of our enemies, our own sin nature, that needs to be dealt with. And God deals with that through our trials. God is good. And God does hear our prayers. And things will happen in your lives like in David's. And then you'll be able to say too, God is good and repetition is good as well. Let's pray. Oh Lord, we thank you today. And it's so hard to thank you for our trials. It's so hard to thank you for our enemies. It's so hard to thank you when things are going wrong. But David praised you, knowing you were the deliverer, knowing that you take care of our trials, knowing that you bless him through his trials. And oh Father, today Give us the faith, not that we want more trials and not that we want more tribulation, but give us the faith to believe that you are still the Savior, still the deliverer, still one, still one that hears truth. Prayer. And it's in Christ's name we pray, the horn of our salvation, our deliverer, our buckler, our shield, our high tower. It's in Christ's name we pray. Amen.