Alright, now we're going to look at the doctrine of reprobation. I've taken quite a lot on time on election. Reprobation is a tougher one. I don't know that people are running around trying to prove that they're reprobates, so obviously this is the doctrine that is the corollary of election. It's the flip side, and it's a doctrine, I suppose, that is of interest to theologians People who want to study this out. People who are trying to understand what God is doing. Some study it with a an aim in mind to try to find fault with God. to try to say, well it doesn't matter. Uh i i it really doesn't matter, it's just going to fall out however. So we're going to look at two heads of reprobation, the certainty of it and the uncertainty of it. Because just as I can show an uncertain side about election And I use that word tenderly, uncertainty, because I'm trying to convey to you that it's not something you want to get settled in and say, yep, everything's fine and good. I understand the doctrine. Reprobation likewise has those two heads. So let's look at that. Let's start while we're in Peter, flip a page, if two over to Jude. Jude's a little tiny book just before the book of Revelation. Jude first chapter and only chapter, verse 4. Here we read this. There are certain men crept in unawares. Who were before of old ordained to this condemnation. Ungodly men, turning the grace of our God into lasciviousness And denying the only Lord God, our Lord Jesus Christ. These are false prophets. These are people that turn God's grace into lasciviousness, an old English word which means unbridled lust. Yep, everything's good. It's all covered by the grace of God. I've had some brethren say, well we're just going to grace it, meaning we're we're going to go and Get a bottle of booze or do whatever. Well, we're just gonna grace it. They would use that. That's turning the grace of God into lasciviousness. I don't hang out with those brethren anymore, so not to worry This is the idea that is being put here, and they're called ungodly men. They talk about the grace of God, but they're called ungodly men. Ungodly. It's talking about their behavior, what they do. And it says they were ordained to this condemnation. The condemnation that they are getting has been ordained of God, that ungodly men shall in fact fall this way. He's ordained their pit, their trap. 1 Peter 2. 8. 1 Peter chapter 2. 8 uses that word stumble I referenced earlier. 1 Peter chapter 2 and verse 8. And verse, we'll have to pick it up in verse 7. Unto you, therefore, which believe, he is precious, speaking of Jesus. But unto them which be disobedient, It doesn't say unto them which be non-elect, they're identified as those who are disobedient. Notice that. The stone which the builders disallowed, it's the same word rejected, the same is made the head of the corner, and a stone of stumbling and a rock of a fence, even to them which stumble at the word being Disobedient. Noticing a theme here. Whereunto also they were appointed. In other words, if you're disobedient and you come into the Word of God, it's not going to be a source of encouragement. It's going to be a stone of stumbling. You're going to find that all of a sudden you don't understand this. You're going to see apparent contradictions. There are paradoxes in the Bible, not contradictions, and it'll mess you up I had a man I know who worked for years in the FBI, and sometimes he would come across people that had committed certain crimes. They were not mentally stable. Whether they had an actual mental disease or not, I can't say But it's curious that those who are mentally unstable do some of these crimes, they're actually drawn to the Bible And they start to just mutter and ramble all kinds of Bible verses and the FBI they have a turn for it, at least this office did. They called it Bible Babble And the guy would just start rattling off scriptures of different, but they couldn't connect. It's obvious he didn't understand what he was saying. He was just rambling away with this. I think that's a small example of that which he's speaking about here. They stumble at the word being disobedient. And it's Well there's a passage that says it had been better for them not to have known the way of righteousness than to have known it to have to have turned from it. As it were, God's heaping more judgment upon them. How dare you take up my word in your mouth You know, he would heal certain people, demoniacs. This one who was healed, he lived in a cave. He cut himself. He was a miserable plight. And after he was saved, uh he said, he wanted to go with Jesus. No, no, no, you go back over here. Some he would let go preach, others he'd say, no, be be quiet, don't say anything You know, God's in control of his message. And so for some, when they take it up and they're not supposed to, that's not good. 2 Timothy. 2 Timothy 2, 19. Another passage that teaches the certainty of the teaching of reprobation. 2 Timothy 2, 19 and 20. I've referred to this passage on more than one occasion when contemplating the state of churches. I've been through quite a few churches in my sojourn so far. I suppose if I were to just do a quick back-of-the-envelope calculation, I'd say I'd been through at least a dozen. As a safe person, I'm not even counting the things I've gone through as an unsafe person, probably two or three if you count that leg of the journey as well. But the apostle writes to Timothy in chapter 2, verse 19, he says, Nevertheless, the foundation of God standeth sure, having this seal. The Lord knoweth them that are his. What would we call that? Election. The Lord knoweth them that are his. And let everyone that nameth the name of Christ depart from iniquity. What would we call that? Repentance. Repentance Dare I use the word obedience? Let everyone that names the name of Christ depart from iniquity. It's a seal. The seal is like a round thing and it's got two sides to it. One side is God knows who are his, that's election. But what's the flip side? Let everyone that names the name of Christ depart from iniquity. Verse 20. But in a great house there are not only vessels of gold and silver, but also of wood and earth, some to honor and some to dishonor. Now, I submit to you that that great house is a reference to the house of God. That in that house, that great house, you have, in fact, some which the Bible identifies as vessels of honor. Romans 9 talks about what a vessel of honor is. It also talks about what a vessel of dishonor is. Even in this house, I have vessels of honor and vessels of dishonor. I need them. They're useful for those purposes. For the time being, I actually need it. But there's a time coming if I should choose to do something else with this house. Uh I'm gonna dispense with the vessels of dishonor and keep the vessels of honor. Or, you know, I'm going to do something more admirable with them. But they're there. And so it is in the house of God. Some are gold and silver, some are wood and earth. What's the an interesting quality about gold and silver versus wood and earth is that gold and silver can withstand fire. They may melt, they may get kind of fluid. liquidy, but they don't disappear. Not so with wood, and not so with earth. In fact, earth just gets harder. It just becomes like a brick, like a rock. It becomes even less useful. Romans 9, I'm sure you're familiar with this passage. Does not Romans 9. 21, does not the potter have power over the clay from the same lump to make one vessel for honor and another for dishonor? Look at that language in Romans 9. 22. This is some of the most intense language in all of Scripture concerning what God does with a vessel of dishonor on Judgment Day. What if God, willing to show his wrath and to make his power known, endured with much long-suffering? By the way, the long-suffering is on God's part, not the creature's part. Endured with much long-suffering, the vessels of wrath fitted to destruction. This has got to be some of the most ominous passages and ominous words in all of Scripture that I've ever found. A vessel of wrath fitted for destruction. I want to focus on three aspects. Vessel of wrath People who go to hell serve a purpose in God's divine scheme of things. What they serve is a monument to God's eternal justice, to the glory of His law, to the exactness and harshness of all that it demands. But you say, oh, eternity seems like an awful long time. That doesn't seem fair. Time out. Or Whales made in the image of God? They are not. Is the dirt and the rocks and trees made in the image of God? They are not What about monkeys? Cute little chips, cage full of monkeys that you laugh at at the zoo. They're not. Only one creature in all of God's creation bears his image. And God is eternal. You mar an eternal image, there's an eternal consequence that comes with it. We have a great privilege given to us. And those that mar that image are smiting in God's face, saying, I'm going to so pervert myself, I'm also perverting your image. I'm making you as corrupt and perverse as me. God says that will not be. That cannot happen. That cannot happen. Vessel of wrath, as opposed to a vessel of mercy, which I love to talk about. The vessel of wrath, that next word fitted. That word fitted is uh has to do with mending for perfection. It shows up several times. It shows up when the disciples were mending their nets in Matthew 4 and Mark 1. Uh it shows up as prepare in Hebrews ten. A body is prepared for me. That's the word fitted. It has to do with the sense that Uh this individual, this this creature of wrath upon whom my justice shall be poured out fully, um if I were to drop such a one into the flames uh of of eternal damnation at this point, it would consume him. He could not endure it. He is unable to bear up with such punishment. I will mend him I will fit him for destruction, so that body and soul can feel the full force of my wrath in hell That body that delighted in fornication, the body that delighted in the evils of this world, that same vessel. In its entirety, with its intellect and all of the pain sensors, all of that will be mended to a fit to a state that it can in fact endure eternal judgment. That is a fearful thought. It ought to raise some hair on somebody's spine. Jesus does not say in vain to encourage his martyrs, fear not them which kill the body, and afterward can do nothing to the soul. Rather, fear him who is able to destroy both body and soul in hell, vessel of wrath fitted made such that it can in fact be fitted for this next part, destruction. Jesus calls it everlasting destruction. The Book of Revelation says the smoke of their torment ascendeth up forever and ever, and they have no rest day nor night I've worked a very long work week this week, and I've been able to get one nap in, one little 30-minute nap before this study, and I'm grateful for a measure of rest. And some of you have worked some very long hours. Some of you mothers have been up very long hours with dealing with children and washing clothing and Getting ready for the food for the next day, and I gotta marinate this chicken, but I gotta clean it first. No, the dishes are in the stink, and you're just you're just weary, you're just tired, and that heaviness that feels on you Imagine that never ending, but getting worse. Vessel of wrath fitted for destruction. That phrase alone ought to just grip people to say No, that is not the path I want to go down. Let me avoid that. Yea, Lord, even the dogs eat the crumbs from the master's table Take I'll take all your insults, Jesus. I'll own up to every debt. I'll own up to every accusation. I'll not seek to justify myself. I'll own up to every sin that this book says I'm sure I've committed it, though I believe it not, yet my deceitful heart is trying to tell me otherwise. Better to do that on this side of eternity than to get it wrong. Look at Psalm 73. Let's take a trip through the Psalms. Some people say, Oh, I love the Psalms. They're such a comfort. And indeed for the child of God they are. Not so for the wicked. Psalm 7312, a classic passage that speaks about the angst of a believer as he walks through this world and struggles with the difficulties of life. In Psalm 73. 12, he says, Behold, these are the ungodly who prosper in the world. They increase in riches. And you read in those earlier portions, the description that the psalmist has of them. Their life is just grand and swimmingly wonderful. Everything in this world is fine. Jesus says, Woe unto you when all men speak well of you. For so did their fathers to the false prophets. And look at verse 18. Surely thou didst set them in slippery places, thou castest them down into destruction. This God knew that these individuals were none of his. He knew that they would live a life of disobedience. And what does our God do? Does he slap them and beat them up along the way and does he make it hard going for them? Does he make it so that they've got difficulty in business and difficulty in relationships? No. In fact, it seems to be just the opposite. Everything seems to be going swimmingly well for them. Their car never breaks down They seem to have plenty of money. They just throw money at the problem. Uh shady business deals seem to go on just fine and they get more money and nobody's the wiser to it. They pay off judges, pay off politicians, bribe this other such and such, and And life just seems to just get better for them. Nothing seems to go wrong because God has set them on the top of the slide, fully greased with oil, and he just lets them slide right down the broad road into destruction. Nary a bumper, a hiccup along the way that they might stop and seek the Lord God Because let's face it, we won't seek God until we're in trouble. We're more likely to be found on our knees in trouble than in periods of blessing. We tend to forget him. See, whom the Lord loves, he chastens, he scourges, scourges every son whom he receives. Scourging is not a lot of fun. He set them in slippery places. Another psalm. Psalm 92 and verse 7 summarizes what I've just been describing from Psalm 73 in one verse. When the wicked spring up as the grass, good grief. You ever seen a lot of grass lately? Especially weeds, right? They just it comes up pretty easy. When the wicked spring up as the grass, when all the workers of iniquity do flourish It is that they shall be destroyed forever. That's the purpose. See, people aren't getting away with anything You know, sometimes people get really wrapped around the axles about politics, and indeed I understand this land has seen some very grievous slides in a strongly negative direction, but we're simply reaping the fruit of what we've done in our public school system. It's uh nothing but the fruit of bad judgments in the Supreme Court and other things. We're we're just reaping early And it'll continue to get bad. But I take comfort in the fact that none of this is surprising God. I've said it on more than one occasion. Nobody is getting away with anything. God has a series of records. It's called the books, plural, and the dead shall be judged out of those things written therein. God says every idle word that men shall speak, they shall give accountant in the day of judgment. Every idle word, every thought. The scripture says the thought of foolishness is sin. Wow. Oh, he's a child, he's having fun. The thought of foolishness is sin. The rod of correction will drive it far from him. So yes, the Bible is very clear. The reprobate, those whom God does not intend to save, are known as the disobedient, and they're on a broad road that leads to destruction. And he's hastening it to them. Yes, Tim. The base of the Jonathan Edwards sermon, sinners of the hands of a angry God, their feet shall slip in due time. He said they tried peace and safety, but they never were saved. Never as falling off the side of a rock or moss, just slipping a nothing to hold them up. The sheer weight of their body would make it's only by the sheer grace of God that was holding them up Yeah, that was one of the most powerful sermons that God's Spirit mightily move through that. He just practically read it from the pulpit. There really wasn't much emotion from it, and people were grievously struck by it. I want to now close out in 1 Kings chapter 20, because I want to talk about reprobation and its uncertainty. Another way might be to put it divine tests. Reprobation and divine tests. Yes, God has an elect people, but as we saw with the Jews, There are those who had no respect to the things of God, and they were broken off. Likewise, there are those who are reprobate and yet The gospel of Jesus Christ goes out, and we don't know what impact it may have. You can never say, well, I can't come to God because I must not be one of his elect. God never holds that out as a barrier. And this study in particular really helped my understanding about this matter. It's 1 Kings chapter 20. I'm going to cover about Five or six select verses through here because I want to show you an interesting point. Now keep in mind we're talking about divine decrees, something that God has declared. It's eternal, it's infinite The best our understanding can deal with. But God does test his people. God does test people. And that is not at odds with the fact that he makes a divine decree of predestination or election or reprobation. Not at odds. We don't understand how that can work out. We think election and predestination is control. He absolutely controls everything, and he does. Yet at the same time, he also puts tests out there. He tests his people. And you can in fact pass or flunk the test. Look at 1 Kings 20, verse 1. Here's the occasion. Then Hadad the king of Syria gathered all his hosts together. And there were thirty-two kings with him, and horses, and chariots, and he went up and besieged Samaria and warred against it. Whoosh. When's the last time you saw thirty-two nations come against another nation as a comparison? Thirty-two kings coming up against the king of Samaria. That's a pretty big deal. This is overwhelming this is the Old Testament version of shock and awe. This is an overwhelming amount of firepower. Verse 13, what happens? Behold, there came a prophet unto Ahab, king of Israel, thus saith the Lord. Hast thou seen all this great multitude? Behold, I will deliver it into thine hand this day, and thou shalt know that I am the Lord Oh, I just love it. I just love it. God's like, yeah, you you you see all these ants gathered around the ant hill. Not to worry. Got it in the bag. This is not a problem. Right? Nothing's too hard for the Lord. So this is the promise of God to the king, to King Ahab. Verse 28 of 1 Kings 20. 28. And there came a man of God and spake unto the king of Israel and said, Thus saith the Lord, because the Syrians have said, The Lord is God of the hills, he is not God of the valleys. Therefore will I deliver all this great multitude in thine hand, and ye shall know that I am the Lord. So somebody came along He's a man of God, he's a prophet, and he's recounting the word in the mouth of the Syrians. They're saying, oh, this God of Israel is the God of the hills, not the valleys. We're going to beat them in the valleys here. God's got a limited reign here, not to worry. God says, well, because you say, because they've said that, I'm going to deliver them. I'm going to deliver them into your hand. Okay? So now he's got two promises on the books. Okay? The king Ahab has two promises from God. I will deliver these people into your hand, and because these, I'll use the word clowns, have thought that I'm only in charge of the hills and not the valleys, I'm going to deliver them into your hand. He's got two promises. Prophet. God said this, okay? Verse 31. His servant said unto him, Behold, now we have heard that the kings of the house of Israel are merciful kings. Let us, I pray thee, put sackcloth on our loins and ropes upon our heads, and go out to the king of Israel. Peradventure, you will save thy life. Alright. So here is some people who decided to to flee. Let's see if I'm I've I haven't been in this account for a while, so let me uh pick it back up. Verse 29, the children of Israel slew a hundred thousand footmen in one day Some of them fled to Aphak, uh a wall fell on 27,000 of them, Ben Hadad fell, uh fled, and so forth. So now Here the opposing force, this King Ben Hadad, says the kings of Israel are merciful. Let us go out to the king of Israel, maybe he'll save us. So God did in fact kill a bunch of the opposing army. That's a You know, by my count, 127,000 people tonkered. Bear with me here. 34 Then Hadad said to him, The cities which my father took from thy father, I will restore, and thou shalt make streets for thee in Damascus, as my father made in Samaria. Then said Ahab, I will send thee away with his covenant, so he made a covenant with him and sent him away. Ah, interesting. So here, this losing king comes up to King Ahab and makes a covenant and says You know, please spare us. We are merciful. It says, okay, that's fine. I'm gonna be, you know, I'm gonna I'm gonna spare you all. You'll have streets in Damascus again. That's fine. I'll cut you a deal. Now he had two promises of God that they were going to be utterly destroyed and given into his hand. Okay? Verse 42. Look at what happens. This is the Lord speaking. He said unto him, Thus saith the Lord, because thou hast let go out of thy hand a man whom I appointed to utter destruction. Therefore, thy life shall go for his life, and thy people for his people. God said, I delivered these people into your hand. Ben Habad came right up to you. You could have killed him, but you didn't. You didn't do it. I delivered him. There he was. You didn't carry it out. He says, this is the man I appointed to utter destruction. It literally means a cursed one. It's normally translated as an accursed thing. This was an accursed king. I brought them there that you could destroy them, and you didn't do it. You didn't do it. So his life or your life. He didn't carry through the promise of God. He didn't carry it out. Still? So then this was like Saul with the Amalekites. No difference. God told him that he'd kill every one of them. And by his own disobedience, he he allowed many of them to go, and that was his destruction. Absolutely. Alright, uh I've got so many things I'm trying to cover here. I'm sorry, it's such a long study. Let's close out in Isaiah 45-19. And I want to wrap it up with this verse here, Isaiah 45-19. You can hang your hat on this. You may understand election, you may understand reprobation, you may understand that God has a plan for all these things, and you may say, you know, I really am not sure I know God This is the verse you need to hang on to. This is the verse you need to look at and take God's word to heart and take it seriously. Isaiah 45, 19, I have not spoken in secret in a dark place of the earth. The word of the Lord isn't buried at the bottom of the Grand Canyon. You don't have to climb up into a mountain. You don't gotta go down to a well. It's nithy. You don't have a copy? Happy to give you a Bible. A good one. Happy to give you a good copy. He says it's not there. I said not unto the seed of Jacob, Seek ye me in vain. I the Lord speak righteousness, I declare things that are right. The word of the Lord is not a vain offer, and this is one of the accusations that the Arminians make. Oh, you frozen chosen, you're saying, come unto me only if you're elect. No. Jesus says, come unto me all ye who labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. It's not a vain commandment. He's very earnest about that. I like John 6. 37, all that the Father hath given me shall come unto me, and him that comes to me I will in no wise cast out. Nobody can stand before Jesus Christ on judgment day and say, I came. I tried to come. I really did. And you didn't take me. No one will be able to say that. The wicked perish because they want to. They love their sin. They don't want the grace of God. They don't want righteousness. They don't want to own up to their sin. The saints have no problem with that. They're ready to own up to it in art deed. Because they're looking for the mercy and the blood of Jesus Christ. So he says, I'm not saying seek ye me in vain. It's not a vain offer. The offer of the gospel is never a vain thing. As long as somebody has the breath of life in them, you can never write them off. You never know when the hour of salvation might come to somebody. Remember a thief on the cross. So we'll close out there.