Glad to be back at Pilgrim. It's good to see you all this morning. Revelation chapter one, and I'm going to read the entire chapter. The revelation of Jesus Christ, which God gave unto him, to show unto his servants things which must shortly come to pass. And he sent and signified by his angel unto his servant John, who bare record of the Word of God and of the testimony of Jesus Christ and of all things that he saw. Blessed is he that readeth, and they that hear the words of this prophecy, and keep those things which are written therein, for the time is at hand. John, to the seven churches which are in Asia, grace be unto you, and peace from him that is, and which was and which is to come, and from the seven spirits which are before the throne of God. And from Jesus Christ, who is the faithful witness and the first begotten of the dead And the prince of the kings of the earth, unto him that loved us and washed us from our sins in his own blood. And hath made us kings and priests unto our God and his Father. To him be glory and dominion forever and ever. Amen. Behold, he cometh with the clouds, and every eye shall see him, and they also which pierced him. And all kindred of the earth shall wail because of him, even so, amen. I am Alpha and Omega, the beginning and the ending, saith the Lord, which is and which was and which is to come, the Almighty. I, John, who also am your brother, and companion in tribulation, and in the kingdom and patience of Jesus Christ, was in the isle that is called Patmos for the Word of God and for the testimony of Jesus Christ. I was in the Spirit on the Lord's day, and heard behind me a great voice as of a trumpet saying, I am Alpha and Omega, the first and the last. What thou seest, write in a book, and send it unto the seven churches which are in Asia, even unto Ephesus. And under Smyrna, and under Pergamos, and under Thyatira, and under Sardis, and under Philadelphia, and under Laodicea. And I turned to see the voice that spake with me. And being turned, I saw seven golden candlesticks. And in the midst of the seven candlesticks, one like unto the Son of Man, clothed with a garment down to the foot, and girt about the pats with a golden girdle. His hair the uh his head and his hairs were white as wool, as white as snow, and his eyes were a flame of fire, and his feet like unto fine brass, as if they burned in the furnace. And his voice was as the sound of many waters. And he had in his right hand seven stars, and out of his mouth went a sharp, two-edged sword, and his countenance was like the sun shineth in his strength. And when I saw him, I fell at his feet as dead. And he laid his right hand upon me, saying unto me, Fear not. I am the first and the last. I am he that liveth and was dead, and behold, I am alive forevermore. Amen. And have the keys of hell and of death. Write the things which thou hast seen, and the things which are, and the things which shall be hereafter. The mystery of the seven stars, which thou sawest in my right hand, and the seven golden candlesticks, the seven stars are the angels of the seven churches. And the seven candlesticks which thou sawest are the seven churches. Let us bow for prayer as we open God's word together. Heavenly Father, we thank you for this amazing, blessed, glorious passage of your word. Sirs, we would see Jesus. Father, today, may we consider this glorious revelation, this glorious revealing, unveiling. of Jesus Christ. And Lord, may we rejoice in the Christ Himself. May we rejoice in the titles and the description He has. May we rejoice in what He has done for His people. And may we rejoice in what He has yet to do for us. Bless your word to our hearts today, we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. I chose for our responsive reading this morning that glorious passage from Isaiah 6, where Isaiah saw the glorious vision of God the Father, of Jehovah God. on his throne with the seraphim worshiping and rejoicing. And the response of Isaiah when he saw this glorious thing, he said, I'm undone. I'm like a dead man. I'm as good as dead. I'm a man of unclean lips And I dwell in the midst of a people and unclean lips, and my eyes have seen the Lord. Here in Revelation, we have another picture. This time it is a picture or a revelation of the second person of the Trinity, of Jesus Christ Himself. The word revelation or apocalypse basically means to unveil or to reveal. Uh we've had two young people recently married, uh my daughter and uh uh Hannah Hannah Young Hannah Ott, I always want to say young married At most of our weddings years ago, they don't do it as much today, but at most weddings years ago, the veil had a bride, or the bride had a veil when she came forward. And then the veil was lifted. Here we kind of have the opposite. We are the bride of Christ. He is the groom. But here in Revelation 1, the veil is lifted. Just as there in Isaiah, Isaiah was allowed to see the great king on his throne. Here, the veil is lifted, and John is given this glorious vision of the risen Christ. It's beautiful. It's precious. And so I would like to, by way of outline today, consider a series of questions. And the first question is: who is Jesus Christ? Who is it that is unveiled here in this passage? Who is it that is revealed to us? And this question is the most important question in all the world. Who is Jesus Christ? Who is this one that was born in the manger? Who is this one that lived a sinless life? Who is this one who died? And as we read further in the passage, has washed us. in his own blood. Who is Jesus Christ? If you look down with me to verses four and five of the chapter, in verse four John begins his address to the seven churches. uh which are in Asia, grace be unto you from the seven spirits, etc. And then you come to verse five. And this greeting is from Jesus Christ. And then we have descriptors here, who is the faithful witness, and the first begotten from the dead, and the prince of the kings of the earth. Do you want to know who Jesus Christ is? Well, here it tells us. First of all, he is the faithful witness. How many false prophets are going out into the world? How many liars and charlatans? But when John saw John the Baptist, saw Jesus Christ coming, he said, Behold the Lamb of God, which taketh away the sin of the world, in the beginning was the and What is John calling there? In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God, and the Word became flesh. You see, Jesus Christ, he's a witness. What is a word? Well, it's a way of communicating. It's a way of telling you something that is very important. Jesus Christ is the word. He is the revelation from God the Father. God so loved the world that he didn't send angels. God so loved the world that he didn't just write it across the sky, so the heavens declare the glory of God, and the firmament showeth his handiwork. God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son. Jesus Christ is the faithful witness. His word is true. His word is forever settled. His word is unavoidable. He is the only way of salvation. He's the faithful witness. But then, secondly, there in verse 5, to know who Jesus Christ is, it tells us he is the first begotten from the dead. He came to give his life a ransom for many. He came to die for sin. There were many sacrifices for sin. How many were there? Millions? Billions? We read of single days in the Old Testament when they would sacrifice hundreds of animals on a single day Day by day, week by week, year by year, throughout the Old Testament, the sacrifices were made, the sacrifice of the blood was shed, the blood was sprinkled on the mercy seat. But every one of those sacrifices from the Old Testament is as dead as Buddha. Every sacrifice from the Old Testament is as dead as the false prophets of the day. The difference with Christ was he's alive. He rose from the dead. The sacrifices that could not pay for sin remained dead. But the only sacrifice which could atone is risen again. Who is Jesus Christ? He is the one who rose. He is the first begotten from the dead. And aren't you glad it doesn't say he's just risen from the dead? It says he's the first begotten. Why is that important? Because he's not the only one to rise. You see, if it just said he's risen from the dead, that would just be him. But he is the first to rise from the dead. Because he is risen, we too shall rise from death in sin to eternal life in Jesus Christ. Who is Jesus Christ? He's the one that died and is alive. He's the first begotten from the dead. Look down to verse 17 of our chapter There John says, When I saw him I fell at his feet as dead, and he laid his right hand upon me, saying unto me, Fear not, I am the first and the last I am he that liveth and was dead, and behold, I am alive forevermore. Amen. And in Acts chapter 6, when Paul was preaching before Festus, Paul says that Christ was the first begotten from the dead. In Revel in um First Chronicle, first sorry, First Corinthians fifteen, the great resurrection chapter, there it says that Christ is the And we find this theme throughout Scripture that his rising from the dead was not the end. There were others to rise from the dead with us. Who is this Jesus Christ? He's the firstborn from the dead. He's he that rose from the dead. But then we find also here in verse 5 that Jesus Christ is the prince of the kings of the earth. Flip over to Revelation 19 and verse 16, a couple pages in your Bibles from where you are. In chapter 19 of verse 16, or sorry, chapter 19, verse 16. Here, reading of Christ in the sixteenth verse of chapter 19, and he hath on his vesture and on his thigh his name written, King of Kings. And Lord of Lords. He's the King of kings. He's the Lord of Lords. He is the Prince of the Kings of the earth. There are mighty kings on earth, but they are men. There are mighty kings on earth, but there is one mightier, and unto him every knee shall bow, and every tongue shall confess that he is Lord. Turn back a few pages to chapter 17 of Revelation 14. Here we read, These make war with the Lamb, and the Lamb shall overcome them, for he is Lord of lords and King of Kings. And they that are with him are called chosen and faithful. And in Isaiah 9, we won't turn there, but in Isaiah 9 it says, of the increase of his kingdom. In the prophecy of the yet unborn Christ, in the incre of the increase of his kingdom, there shall be no end The heart of the king is in the hand of the Lord. This Jesus Christ is he which is risen from the dead. It is he which is faithful in his witness. And this Jesus Christ is he which is the Prince. of the kings of the earth. We don't follow a charlatan. We don't follow a false prophet. We don't follow one who is dead and dead forever. We do not follow one who is subject to the kings of this earth. But this Jesus, he is the risen Lord, the faithful witness, and the King of kings. But then also in this chapter, consider back in chapter one, I'm sorry. In chapter one, consider how Jesus Christ is described. And first of all, we'll consider his description of himself, and then we'll consider the description that John gives of Christ. Note in verse 8. He says, I am Alpha and Omega, the beginning and the end, which was and which are which is and which was and which is to come the Almighty He is the Alpha and the Omega. I mentioned earlier, John 1, in the beginning was the word. He had no beginning. We can't understand that. We are creatures bound by time. We are creatures fastened to the clock. I would imagine that every one of us has looked at a clock at some point, or maybe maybe some of the younger children haven't, but the adults anyway, every one of us at some point already today has looked at a clock or looked at a watch And probably a lot of us several times. And you may have looked at the one on the on the bed and hit it a couple of times this morning because you didn't want to get up when it when it told you to But we're creatures of the clock, we're bound by time. We can't understand one who is the alpha and the omega. It's beyond our human comprehension But we know it to be true by faith. He had no beginning. From eternity past to eternity future, he is God. Oh, what a glorious Savior we have And we think back to Isaiah when he saw the Lord high and lifted up, and here we see Christ and all of his glory and all of his beauty and all of his majesty from all eternity. He's the Alpha and the Omega. What an amazing God! What a glorious God we serve. And if you look down to verse 10 in the first part of verse 11, John says he was in the Spirit on the Lord's day, and in verse 11, he heard 10 he heard a voice like a great trumpet saying, I'm Alpha and Omega, the first and the last. And so he's the one that is eternal, the one from all eternity and all eternity to come. But then he says that he is the Almighty God. And why is this important? Well, because many today say, well, he is a God, or he is one of many gods. No, this Jesus Christ is the everlasting Father, the Prince of Peace, the Almighty God. And then we find if you look down to verse 18 of the passage again that he was dead and he's alive forevermore. And we've already covered this, so I'm not going to go back to this point heavily. But this is the one who was alive, or who is dead, and is alive forevermore. Look down at verse number 18 again. And I've got the wrong verse. Oh, I'm sorry. I had trouble turning the page earlier and I'm looking at the verse saying that's not what I'm looking for. The last part of verse 18, I was in chapter 2. Last part of verse 18 of chapter 1. He's the one that has the keys of hell and death. Now think about that. In Matthew 16, Christ said to Peter and the disciples in general, not just to Peter, that he would give to him the keys of the kingdom. And those keys, again, were not given just to Peter, they were given to us. The keys of the kingdom of heaven is the gospel of Jesus Christ itself. It is the message that Jesus Christ has come to seek and to save. So Christ said to the disciples, I'm giving you the keys to the kingdom, I'm giving you that by which the door to heaven is unlocked, the gospel of Jesus Christ. But Christ says here, I have the keys of hell. See the contrast there. There's two places, heaven and hell. We have the keys to the kingdom, we have the gospel of Jesus Christ, but Jesus Christ here declares he has the keys of hell and death. Now, folks, that's profound. We could spend many messages just considering the ramifications there. He has the keys to open hell and cast in the wicked. He has the keys to lock Satan in hell for all eternity. He controls that, and he has the keys of death. Where did he get the key of death? Well, he conquered it. He is the one who controls the gate of death, and that is why we will live forever. Because by his sacrifice, he has locked hell, he has locked death to his people, but he has unlocked paradise by the gospel. Well, friends, I hope that thrills your soul. That's a glorious truth. It's amazing. How does he describe himself? Well, he is Almighty. He is the one that's alive from the dead. And to prove it, he declares, I've got the keys. I've got the keys. to hell and to death. And so it's an amazing and glorious description that Christ gives of himself. And we're gonna run short on time here because now we have the description that John gives of the risen Lord, just as Isaiah, a Saul The Lord high and lifted up, and his train filled the temple, and the house was full of smoke, and he described the way his voice was. Now John goes on to describe what he saw in this vision. Look at verse 12 Of Revelation 1. And I turned to see the voice which spake with me, and being turned, I saw seven golden candlesticks. And in the midst of the candlesticks, one light under the Son of Man. First of all, John describes this one he saw as in the midst of the candlesticks. And we find later in the chapter exactly what the candlesticks are. The candlesticks are the churches. Where is Christ? He's here. Where is Christ? He's in the midst of his people. I will never leave thee nor forsake thee. But when John sees him He sees him as one like unto the son of what's it say? Man. It doesn't say he saw one like unto the son of God. Remember when Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego were in the fiery furnace, and there the king sees one like unto the Son of God. But here, John seeing Christ and all of his glory, he sees him like unto one. The Son of Man. Why is that significant? What does that say to us? He took our place. He took on himself our likeness and our humanity. And so in Hebrews chapter 2, verse 17, whereof in all things that behooved him, that word behooved means it was it was absolutely inescapably necessary. It behooved him to be made like unto his brethren that he might be a merciful and faithful high priest. That he might reconcile us to God. And so when John sees this vision of Christ in the midst of the churches, he doesn't see him as the Son of God, though he is, and though that image is there, but John said that he sees him In the likeness of a man. He was like unto his brethren. He was clothed in the garment of man, the garment of humility. He was clothed when John saw him in the garment of redemption. Because it was necessary. Sacrifice and offering. Now would it's not we read in Hebrews 10 But a body thou hast prepared for me. And when Thomas saw the risen Lord, Christ says to him, Thomas, take your finger and stick it in the nail, hole. Thrust your hand into my side. Ah, when John sees the risen Christ here in this revelation, he sees him clothed in the image of man. He sees him as the redeemer of mankind. And it says that he was clothed in a garment down to his foot, verse 13. He was clothed in priestly robes. Why is that significant? Well, because he is our high priest and he took his own blood and he went to the mercy seat and he sprinkled the mercy seat with his own blood for our redemption. John sees the glorified Christ. And he sees him as our great high priest. And yet, though being clothed in a garment down to his feet, John sees him with a golden girdle about his middle, a golden girdle about his taps. Though he is the high priest, he's prophet, priest, and king. It is the king that wears the golden girdle. And so John sees him as a king. And then John sees his head and his hairs white like wool, as white as snow. He's sinless. He's perfect. Ah, I do not walk through the gates of heaven unlocked by the blood of Christ because I'm perfect. Or because I'm sinless, for I am not. But I walk through those gates because he is perfect and he is sinless. And his hairs are white as wool, as snow in their purity. But there's another aspect of that. When we're when we're fifteen, sixteen, seventeen, eighteen years old, we pretty much think we've got a handle on things. When we get to about twenty-five, we're sure of it. We got it nailed down, we know. And when we start getting a few gray hairs, we realize you what's what's the old saying you probably heard when I was when I was um Twenty-five, I was ashamed at how little my father knew, and when I was forty, I was amazed how much he had learned in fifteen years. We start to get some age on us, and we start to realize, you know what, I don't know everything yet, and but I'm learning more. And Scripture tells us to bow down to the hoary head. Because those that have lived long, they've gained wisdom and knowledge and understanding. Christ never gained knowledge and wisdom and understanding. He always had it. It was always with him. But here in the gray, white hairs, we see purity, but we also see that this is the all-knowing one. And that leads us right into the next descriptor in verse 14, where his eyes are as a flame of fire. Fire. There is nothing hid from his sight. There is nothing that this Christ does not see. Ah, what a glorious description of our Savior! He sees it all All things are open and naked under the eyes of him with whom we had to do. We read in Hebrews 4. 13, the eyes of the Lord are in every place, beholding The evil and the good. Proverbs fifteen verse three. For mine eyes are upon all their ways. They are not hid from my face, neither is their iniquity hid from mine eyes. Jeremiah sixteen, verse seventeen This one that John sees is described as having eyes of fire, eyes that see all things. You see the comparison back to Isaiah 6. You see the parallel between the picture of Jehovah and the picture of Christ. They're one and the same. Ah, what a glorious picture. His feet are like brass for 15, as if it had been burned in the fire. Here we have a picture of permanence, a picture of stability. Because he is Alpha and Omega, he will never pass away. How many of you work with solder? Anybody ever soldered wires? I see a lot of hands. When you start to solder, the solder starts out very gray and dull, doesn't it? What happens when you apply the heat? The color changes, it shines. And here we find that his feet of brass are as if they're burned in the fire. They shine. They're glorious. Beautiful upon the mountain are the feet of them that bring good tidings. Ah, who is he? He's the faithful witness. He's the one who brought the ca good tidings. Look unto me, and be ye saved, all ye ends of the earth. For I am God, and there is none else. Him that cometh to me, I will in no wise cast out. Ah, what a glorious picture of our Savior. And in verse 15, his voice is as the sound of many waters. Interestingly, this is the same description of Christ that Ezekiel used I'll give you the reference and read it for you. In Ezekiel forty three, verse ten, Ezekiel says, And behold, the glory of the God of Israel came from the way of the east, and his voice was like the noise of many waters And the earth shined with his glory. The sound of many waters. Two weeks ago my family and I were listening to roaring waves A lot of us have been to Niagara, and when you're standing by Niagara, you have to talk kind of loud because it's hard to be heard over the roar of the water going across there. Also in this chapter we find his voice ascribed as a trumpet It's a loud, blaring, overwhelming noise. Have you ever been driving down the road and all of a sudden a big truck behind you blows his horn and you kind of start Horns a little bit too loud for your comfort. It gets your attention. Does the sound of his voice get your attention? Have you heard the sound of many waters? Have the waters of mercy flowed over your soul? Water in Scripture is another area which we could spend so much time studying. The waters of the flood, when the fountains of the deep were broken up, I'm sure they roared. But there was no mercy in them. They were waters of judgment. But here we find the sound of his voice is like many waters, loud and powerful. But there's more there because many waters also can be quiet streams that flow into still waters. Did you ever sit beside a babbling brook and hear the sweet sound? Ah, this voice of Christ is many. It comes in many ways. It comes loudly, blaring in judgment of our sin. Lord, I feel your conviction. I know I've done wrong. Your spirit roars to my soul. As David said, day and night, my spirit roared within me. And yet that same voice comes in times of great grief and great sorrow, whispers, peace be still. Behold, I am with you. I will never leave thee nor forsake thee. What a glorious description of Christ we find here. And so his voice is as a sound of many waters. In his right hand he holds seven stars, and we find in the passage that the seven stars are the pastors of the seven churches, his angels that he sends forth. They're in his hand. Out of his mouth went a sharp two-edged sword, verse sixteen. We don't really need to expound on that. We understand that his word. Is quick and powerful and sharper than any two-edged sword. And verse six, his countenance shineth in his strength. His countenance was as the sun shineth in his strength. And we read in chapter 21 that there's no need for a son in heaven, because he is the light. And so we see a glorious description that he gives of himself. And then a glorious description that he gives from John. Moving along quickly, what is the origin of the message? We said that Christ was the faithful witness, that he comes with this message. Look back to verse 1. This is something, in all honesty, I had never really contemplated until I was studying this passage in the last the last few weeks. In Revelation chapter one and verse one, the revelation of Jesus Christ, which God gave unto him. Where did Christ get his message? Well, the Father gave him this message. And so I started studying through that, and there are multiple passages in Scripture that talk about this. Let me just share just three of them with you. And if you want to write the references down and look at them later, that would be good. But in John 7, verse 16, Jesus answered and said unto them, My doctrine is not mine, but it is his that sent me. And in John 12, verse 49 and 50, for I have not spoken of myself, but the Father which sent me, he gave me a commandment that what I should say and what I should speak. And I know that this is his commandment, that his commandment is life everlasting. Whatsoever I speak, therefore, even as the Father said unto me, so I speak. And then again in John 17, verse 8, For I have given unto them the words which thou gavest me, and they have received them, and have known surely that I am come out from thee, and they have believed that thou didst sent me. And so here we find that the message that Jesus Christ has is not his own, but rather it is the message that God gave him to reveal to his people. You know, it's one of those late turn-on-duh moments. It's it's there, it's so plain, and so it all fits that God so loved the world that he sent his son. Why? Because he sent him with a message. And it all fits in. The beginning was the word. The word was with God. And the word, this message, became flesh and dwelt among us. God's Sent that message. He sent the word, and so Christ declares throughout the New Testament that that which he declares is not his own. Study that out, folks. It's exciting. Look at it further. uh that this message that Christ comes, it is directly from Jehovah God. And there's not a division, there's not a separation here between Christ, the Son of God, the second person of the Trinity, and and Jehovah, the first person, we don't say first and second because one's before the other. They are the same and equal. And yet, where did Christ get the message that he reveals to us? Well, it's exactly what his father told him to say. And I know our time is short, but what has Christ done for his people? Look at verses five and six. This message is from Jesus Christ, who is the faithful witness and first begotten of the dead, the Prince of the Kings of the earth, undo him that loved us. And washed us from our sins in his own blood, and hath made us kings and priests unto God his Father. Unto him be glory and dominion forever and ever. Amen. Ah, we should spend the whole message on that verse, shouldn't we? He has washed us in his blood. He has cleansed our sins in his own blood and made us kings unto his Father. And what is it we find in this passage that this great God is yet to do? Look at verse 7. Behold, he cometh of the clouds, and every eye shall see him, and they also which pierced him, and all kingdoms of the earth Shall what's it say? Well shouldn't it say rejoice? Shouldn't it say be overwhelmed with joy? I mean, brethren, as we read this description of Christ, isn't your heart overwhelmed with joy? I hope so. But here all kingdoms of the earth and those that pierce him, they'll see him and wail. It's appointed on the man wants to die. And after this, the judgment. What is yet to come? God judged the whole earth with a flood. And he gave us the rainbow. He didn't give it to the queers. He gave us the rainbow to signify that he would never destroy the earth again with a flood, but he will destroy it again with fire. And all every eye shall see him, including those that pierced him, and they shall wail. What is yet to come? Jesus Christ is coming again. And he's coming for me. Hallelujah. He has done a great work for us, and there is yet a great work to do. Notice it says, Behold, I come with the clouds. And in verse 1 it says, these are things which must shortly come to pass. And in verse 3, it says, For the time is at hand. And we've already spent a good deal of time talking about the fact that Christ is eternal, that he's not bound by the clock, and I just looked at mine. He's not bound to the clock as we are bound by the clock and by time. He's eternal, he is timeless. He said he's coming quickly. And I believe it. A thousand years with me is longer than I'll ever live. If I make 80, it'll be a long life. But a thousand years with him is as a day. And a day is a thousand years because he is timeless. He was here before the world began. the 6,000 years, give or take, maybe a hundred or two, not millions, that this world has been. But he has always been. He said he's coming quickly, and I believe he's coming quickly, and I pray even so come, Lord Jesus. Now, what does all this mean to us? What does this glorious picture of Christ mean to us today? Well when Isaiah saw the vision of God the Father that he saw there, his response was to say, I'm done. I'm done. There's no hope for me. I'm a man of unclean lips, and I dwell in the midst of a people unclean lips, and mine eyes have seen the king. It's all over. It's done. Look down the verse seventeen. And when I saw him, I fell at his feet as dead. I'm crucified with Christ. I preached a message about a month ago now. Are you dead yet? When John, who had walked with Christ, John, who was the beloved John, who had laid in the bosom of Christ, John who had spent three years with Christ, who had helped distribute the bread to the 5,000. who had seen the draught of fishes, who had seen the still storm still, who had seen lame men walk and blind men see, and seen Lazarus come out of the grave John, who had seen all these mighty things and all these miracles, and had seen Christ Himself many, many times. He walked with him and talked with him and prayed with him. But when he sees Christ in his glory, he falls as a dead man. What should be our response to this glorious picture of Jesus Christ? Let us fall before him as dead in worship. Let us prostrate ourselves before this great King of kings. who is the King of Kings and Lord of Lords, who is dead and is alive and is alive forevermore, who is the Alpha and the Omega, who is clothed in the garment of man because he died for our sins in that garment. And yet clothed in the garment of the priest, because he pr sprinkled with our the the mercy with our blood, who is clothed in the golden girdle because he is the king. Whose hair is white and his eyes are like fire and his voice like many waters, fall before him as dead. Prostrate yourself before the great King of Kings And oh how sad our lot would be if we just lay there dead. But look what else it says in seventeen. And he laid his right hand on me. It doesn't say his left hand, does it? The right hand is also always a hand of blessing in Scripture. Those on the right go into the kingdom, those on the left into the condemnation. He lays his right hand upon me, saying Fear not. Don't be afraid, my child. I'm the first, and I'm the last. Ah, my friend, prostrate yourself before the Lord. Trust alone in Him, and He will say to your heart, fear not. Let's stand for prayer. Oh Lord, we thank you that you have not left your people blind. We have not Walked with Christ in the ways the disciples did, we'd have not seen him in the flesh. Just as we have not seen God the Father. And yet in your word you've given us a glorious picture of God the Father in Isaiah, and a glorious picture of the risen Lord in Revelation. Father, cause our hearts to prostrate before you. Lord, may ourselves be dead indeed unto sin, but may we be alive unto God. Father, we thank you that you don't leave us lying dead, but you lay your right hand upon your child. With those wonderful words, fear not. Father, I pray for anyone here today. I pray for our children who may not yet know this Christ. O God, may they come to repentance before Him. May they fall as dead before His feet. Bless your word to our hearts, we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen.