Open in your Bibles with me this morning, please, to the book of Habakkuk. Habakkuk. Or if you say Habakkuk instead of Habakkuk, we won't Won't criticize you for that. The book of Habakkuk or Habakkuk Whichever way you prefer to pronounce it. The word of God nonetheless. These minor prophets are So packed full with truth and with blessing. Our text this morning is going to be that second verse of the final chapter, the third chapter. But I'd like to read verses 1 through 4 of chapter 1, and then read verses 2, 3, and 16 of chapter 3, by way of introduction to this. Passage. So turn with me to Habakkuk chapter 1, and I'll read the first four verses of the book. The burden which Habakkuk the prophet did see. O Lord, how long shall I cry and thou wilt not hear? Even cry unto thee of violence, and thou wilt not save. Why dost thou show me iniquity and cause me to behold grievance? For spoiling and violence are before me, and there are that rise up strife and contention. Therefore, the law is slapped, and the judgment doth never go forth. For the wicked doth compass about the righteous. Therefore, wrong judgment proceedeth And then turn to the last chapter, chapter three. And I'll read the first two verses and then we'll go down to verse sixteen. Chapter 3, verse 1. A prayer of Habakkuk the prophet upon Signiath. O Lord, I have heard thy speech and was afraid. O Lord, revive thy work in the midst of years. In the midst of years make known in wrath remember mercy And then verse 16. When I heard my belly trembled, my lips quivered at the voice Rottenness entered into my bones, and I trembled in myself, that I might rest in the day of trouble. When he cometh unto the people, he will invade them with his troop. Let's bow for prayer. Oh great Heavenly Father, there is no understanding of thy word by human wisdom. Or by human knowledge or by human searching out But rather the understanding of thy precious word is gained as thy Holy Spirit, the Comforter, guides us into truth. And so, Lord, today may thy Holy Spirit be our teacher and our guide to point out the glories of our God to convict us of sin, to reassure us of your providence, to to uh inspire us to holiness to lead us to dependence on Thee, to give us confidence in a wicked day. O Lord, all that is needful for the soul is found in the Word of God. And so, Lord, today from this passage, grant to us that which we need. And we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Our text is that second verse of chapter three. Oh Lord. I have heard thy speech and was afraid. In all honesty, folks, I wish I could set this passage aside and preach it a month from now. But I'm sure a month from now I would not have a handle on what it says. And so today I'm Not going to stand here and tell you that I can expound this book of Haggai and that I've got it all right. We must depend upon the Spirit of God. Because He is the one who proclaims truth. And so this morning I'm going to share with you the blessings that I have received from this book, but I'm not going to claim that I am an expert on the book of Habakkuk. Because I do not believe that the expert on the Book of Habakkuk dwells on this earth, except that Christ dwells in us. And Christ is the only expert on the book of Habakkuk. But what a glorious book this is. What glorious truths we find here. And we could kind of divide our consideration of these passages this morning into two sections. First of all, we're going to see the speech that God gives, which makes Habakkuk afraid. And then we're going to see the might and the power of God, which restores Habakkuk's confidence. And so first of all, what was this speech that made Habakkuk afraid? He says there in verse 3. I have heard or verse 2 of chapter 3, I have heard thy speech and was afraid. And in verse 16, when I heard it, I trembled. Have you ever heard something and your belly turned over, your belly flopped? Well that's what he says here. My lips quivered as thy boyish rottenness entered, or my belly trembled My lips quivered. You hear something and the emotions take over and you you you feel that quiver in your lip that oh my Habakkuk has heard a message that has brought him to great fear. And in the first four verses there which I read He's complaining to God. God, why is it? How long, verse 2, shall I cry, and thou won't hear? Lord, I've been crying to you, and you're not listening to me, Lord. How long when that will not save? Why do you show me iniquity And cause me to behold grievance. Spoiling and violence are before me, and they that rise up strife and contention. Therefore the law is slack, judgment never goes forth, the wicked compass about the just. But in verse 5, God begins to answer him. And God's answer probably isn't what Habakkuk desired or expected. You know, the the old saying, be careful what you pray for, God might answer your prayers. There's some truth to that. Here in the first four verses, Habakkuk is complaining about wickedness and violence. In the first four verses, he's talking about the wickedness of God's people. And God says, well, I'm going to do something about the wickedness of God's people. I'm going to do something about the wickedness of Judah. You see, by the time Habakkuk is writing this book, roughly 600 years, they dated about 596 before the birth of Christ. Roughly 600 years before the birth of Christ, when Habakkuk is reading, is writing, the northern kingdom of Israel has already been in captivity for about 120 years. In fact By this time, the northern kingdom of Israel has basically disappeared from history. They will never be established nationally again. And it won't be long after this book of Habakkuk that Judah, the southern kingdom, the tribe of Judah, we talk about the Jews, we're talking about primarily the tribe of Judah. Judah and Benjamin and Manasseh, the tribes left to the house of David. They don't have long left either, because of their iniquity. And so, God says there in verse 5 of chapter 1 Chapter one verse five. This is what I'm going to do about it, Habakkuk. Behold ye among the heathen and regard and wonder marvelously, I will do a work in your day which ye will not believe, though it be told you. Habakkuk says, why don't you hear me? Why do you show me iniquity? Why do you show me this evil? And God says, Hold on a second, young man. Wait, Habakkuk. I'm going to do a work. Behold it. Because you won't believe it, even if it's told you. For Low verse 6. I raise up the Chaldeans. That's also known as the Babylonians. I raise up the Chaldeans. that bitter and hasty nation, which shall march to the breath of the land to possess the dwelling places that are not theirs. They are terrible and dreadful. Their judgment and their dignity proceeds of themselves. In other words, there are people that are righteous in their own eyes. There are people that are a law unto themselves. Their dignity proceeds not from me, God says, but it proceeds from themselves. Their horses are swifter than leopards. Verse 8 They fly as eagles or vultures is actually the the what we would understand there. Verse 9, they come for violence There's no peaceful protesters among them. They come for violence. Verse 10, they scoff at kings. They regard no one Habakkuk. You have prayed. Why are you showing me all this evil? God says, I know all about the evil. Habakkuk says, why aren't you hearing me? God says, Habakkuk, I've heard you all along, and I didn't need to hear it from you. I knew it before you told me And I will judge the sins of Judah. And I'm bringing the Chaldeans to do it. You see why we come to chapter 3 verse 2 and Habakkuk says, Lord, I've heard your speech and was afraid. 3. 16, I've heard your speech, O Lord, and my my stomach turned and my lips turned quivered, and my bones were rottenness. Oh Lord, you're bringing a terrible judgment far more than I could even imagine verse five or told you you won't even believe it. And so Habakkuk protests there in verse twelve of chapter one Thou art not, or art thou not from everlasting, O Lord, my God, mine holy one. We shall not die, O Lord. Thou hast ordained them, the Chaldeans, for judgment. And O mighty God, thou hast established him for corruption, for corruption, correction. Thou art, verse 13, here's an objection, thou art of purer eyes than to behold evil. And canst not look on iniquity, wherefore lookest thou upon them that deal treacherously, and holdest thy tongue When the wicked devour the man that is more righteous than he. How about he says, but wait, God But wait, how can you use the Chaldeans? Yes, Israel is wicked, yes, Judah is sinning, but how can you use those that are even more wicked than we are? You're going to use the Chaldeans The Babylonians? You're going to use them as the instrument of your retribution? They make men, verse 14, as fish of the sea and as creeping things. They take them up with an angle and they catch them in the net. They have no regard for humanity. They have no regard for that which is right. They're worse than the abortionists, the way they treat men Verse 16. Therefore they sacrifice to their nets and burn incense unto their drag, because by them their portion is fat and their meat is plentious. Shall they therefore empty the net and not spare continually to slay all nations? God, wait a minute, Habakkuk says, but if you're going to use them They're going to they're going to praise themselves. They're going to say their hand was mightier than yours. They're going to say they were able to overcome Judah because They are mighty and strong. They'll worship their nets and they'll set burn incense to their drags if you use them. And so Habakkuk says in the first part of chapter two. I will stand chapter two, verse one. I will stand upon my watch and set me upon the tower and will watch and see what he will say to me. And what I shall answer when I am reproved. Habakkuk's setting a good example here, isn't he? As we begin this second chapter, Habakkuk says, Lord, I'm going to wait and see. I'm going to stand on my watch and see what it is that the Lord will do. Verse 2, And the Lord answered me and said, Write the vision and make it plain upon the tables that he may run that readeth. it. This is what I'm going to do. You're complaining because God is using the wicked for the retribution of the wicked righteous, the sinning righteous. Habakkuk, I want you to write this vision. I want you to make it plain that he that readeth it may run. Now, folks, that's beautiful. That's glorious. Because remember how Habakkuk begins, Lord, I've heard thy speech And was afraid. I've heard the word of God. I've heard the warning from God. Oh Lord, I've heard thy speech. And I was afraid, I heard thy speech, and my lips quivered, Lord, because I see your judgment, and I acknowledge because of what I said there in the first four verses, Habakkuk says I acknowledge that your judgment is just. It is right. Lord, I've heard your speech and I was afraid. God says, Habakkuk, write the speech down. That those that read it may run. Ah. Did Habakkuk deserve a warning from God? No. No. Did those that would read the prophecy and run deserve a warning from God? No. Oh my friend, there is great mercy here. There is great mercy. And so it is fitting. That when Habakkuk says there in 3, 2, I've heard thy speech and was afraid, Lord, revive thy work in the midst of the years. In wrath, remember my wrath. Mercy. Oh, isn't it glorious that God remembers mercy and wrath? Did I deserve to wake up this morning? No. Did I deserve to be born in a Christian home, in a pastor's family, where I'd be taught the scriptures? From from the time I was born until I was about twenty, I never missed a Sunday of church, not one. Did I deserve that? No, I deserve to be born in a land where I would be born, raised, and die and never hear the name of Jesus Christ. I didn't deserve any mercy whatsoever, but God gave his mercy. And faith cometh by hearing, and hearing by the word of God. And so in the midst of this time when right judgment does not go forth, verse 4, God speaks To Habakkuk, and Habakkuk's sword, I'm afraid, I've heard your weir, your word, and godly fear has seized upon me. But Habakkuk says, what are we going to do? God says, listen to me, Habakkuk, write the vision down that those that read it may run. We run when we're afraid, don't we? The wicked flee when no man persuads. But the child of God runs, depart from evil and do good. Flee also, youthful lust. Flee to Christ. Come unto me, all ye that labor and are heavy laden, we flee out of godly fear. Habakkuk, write it down. That those that read it may run. And it reminds us somewhat of the warnings that Christ gave at the end of the end times. I believe the passage is Matthew 16, where Christ says that when the end comes, let those that are in the mountains not flee to Judah. Let the one that's on the house top not go into his house to get any goods, and let the one that's in the field not come back for his clothes. Just run. Just run. Just run. Write down this vision that he that readeth it may run. Look to verse three of chapter two For the vision is yet for an appointed time, but at the end it shall speak and not lie Though it carry, wait for it. And I love those three words there, wait for it. How often you hear wait for it? And uh there's a little joking line, you know, when when something's happening, wait for it, wait for it, wait for it Well, this is no joke, folks. The judgment's coming. Let him that read it run, flee for your lives Flee from the wrath to come. Flee into the ark, as we saw in Sunday school this morning. Let him that readeth run. Wait for it because it will surely come and will not tarry Verse 4, Behold, his soul which is lifted up is not upright in him, but the just Shall live by faith. And what is the source of faith? How do we gain that faith? Faith cometh by hearing, and hearing by The word of God. Read it and run. Read it and run And so that's the first half of our message. What an amazing judgment there is. And the the balance of this second chapter is five specific woes that God declares on the wicked. The last woe that's declared on the wicked is a woe against the idol worshippers, and it's interesting that that was the last one mentioned because remember the objection that ha that Habakkuk makes, they're going to worship their drag, they're going to burn incense to their nets, and God says, No, I'll take care of that as well when he deals. with the five woes in the second part of chapter two. And so we can see how this speech would make Habakkuk afraid. How it would make his stomach turn. How it would cause his lips to quiver, and how he would feel rottenness in his bones. There's no strength left. My bones are are rotten and broken. And so what is the that which causes Habakkuk to return to confidence in God. That brings us up to our text for this morning, which is that third I keep saying third, excuse me, that second verse of chapter three. O Lord, I have heard thy speech and was afraid. O Lord, revive thy work in the midst of years. Where do God's people find confidence? When we feel like our bones are rotten. And when our stomach turns, and when our lips quiver, revive thy work in the midst of years. Lord, right now, in the midst of judgment. Now remember what we saw there about the judgment in chapter 2. Wait for it. Though it seems to tarry, it's coming. It will surely come. God's judgment will come. God's judgment will be just and God's judgment will be fulfilled. But oh Lord, for your people now in the middle of it, in the midst of years, revive thy work. And what was the state of people to whom Habakkuk is prophesying? Verses one through four of chapter one. Right judgment doth never proceed. They're all for violence. It's all about wickedness. Flip just flip back to chapter one again because it's not firm enough in my mind How long shall I cry not here? Verse three, why dost thou show me iniquity and cause me to behold grievance for spoiling and violence are before me, and therefore Uh uh and there are they that rise up for strength, strife, and contention. Therefore thy law is slapped, and d and judgment doth never go forth. The wicked compass about the just, and the righteous, therefore wrong judgment proceedeth. Lord, these things are what are taking place, oh God, in the midst of these years, in the midst of this judgment. Revive us Revive us. Restore us. We read in our responsive reading this morning, 80 Psalm 885. Verse 6 of that Psalm says, Wilt thou not revive us again? That thy people may rejoice in thee. You know what, folks? The state of the church today is very, very bad. The President here gives a State of the Union address. It's time for a State of the Church address. For the Church of Jesus Christ is in sorry shape. And we complain about the problems we see nationally But the problems we see nationally didn't begin with the homosexuals and the abortionists. Rather, the homosexuals and the abortionists are the result of the failure of the church. The result of the failure of God's people to stand up and truly let our light so shine before men as they may see our good works and glorify our Father which is in heaven. The state of the church is bad. And most of those who call themselves by the name of Christ know nothing of him. And I don't say that in wrath or accusation, I say it in pity. Poor deluded souls that have a form of godliness but deny the power thereof Poor deluded souls that will someday say, Lord, Lord, had not we done many wonderful works, and in thy name cast out devils And although here is depart from me, ye workers of iniquity, I never knew you. What is the solution? Oh Lord, I have heard thy speech and was afraid. Are you afraid this morning? The fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom. Or are you afraid this morning? You know, here I think we can safely say that Habakkuk was one of the few righteous people in the nation. No problem. But he was afraid. And I don't believe he was just afraid because God's judgment was coming. I believe he was afraid because he knew God's judgment was deserved. God's judgment was right. And God's judgment was just. Oh may we hear God's word and be afraid. Do you ever read God's Word and your stomach turn? I would venture to say that that's not very often with with with us, is it? When we read God's judgment It should it should m make our bones rotten. Poor. How unrighteous I am How ungodly is my generation! How deserving we are of thy judgment! And it's no wonder that he says, Oh Lord, I heard thy speech and was afraid, oh Lord. Revive us in the midst of years. For Lord, that is our only hope. That is the only means. Of restoration, if God revives his people. In Psalm 138, verses seven and eight we read, Do I walk in the midst of trouble? Thou wilt revive me, thou shalt stretch forth thine hand against the wrath of mine enemies, and thy right hand shall save me. The Lord will perfect that which concerneth me. Thy mercy, O Lord, endureth forever. Forsake not the works of thine own hand. Oh Lord, we're the work of your hands. Revive us. And we've been looking in uh And in Ezra chapter 9, we saw several weeks ago that glorious passage where Ezra says, You've given us a nail in the house of the Lord. You've given us mercy in the middle of thy wrath. In the midst of years, at this time, do give us revival. In the midst of years, O Lord. Make known. Look at it again. I've kind of added in brackets there, O Lord. Oh Lord, I've heard thy speech and was afraid. O Lord, revive thy work in the midst of years, bracketed again in the midst of years, make known. O Lord, in the midst of years, make known. What does it mean to make known? Well, I've heard thy speech. Hagi, write the visagut, write the vision to those that read it. O Lord, make known. What do we need more than anything else? God's truth. Where will revival come from? God's truth. What do we need to do therefore? Get into God's truth. Study to show yourself approved unto God. What was wrong with Israel? They weren't approved under God They were rebels against his truth. Wrong judgment was coming forth. Why? Because they weren't following God's rule, God's law O Lord, I've heard thy speech and was afraid. O Lord, in the midst of years, revive thy people. O Lord, make known. Oh God, make yourself known to us. What does America need? It needs to know God. What do our politicians need? They need to know God. What does Mission Bible church need? Oh Lord make no I have nothing to offer the congregation. I make no claims to vast knowledge of Scripture or to any form of eloquence. But this book has it all. Read it and run. Lord, make it known. That's where we find the prophet Habakkuk returning to confidence. That's where we find the quiver to the lips calming down. That's where the turning of the stomach is stilled, and his bones receive strength again. Because God makes known In wrath, boy, don't we deserve wrath. But in wrath, remember mercy. And God does remember mercy because God tells him, write it down that those that read it may run. There's the mercy. I'm going to give my word again. Verses three through seventeen Of chapter three are some of the most beautiful poetry ever written. Verse 3 through 17 is where we find the prophet returning to that confidence But what is it that he's doing? Well, he's recounting the blessings of the Lord that have been written down. He is talking about what happened in the five books of Moses. Look at verse 3 of chapter 3. God came from Temon, the Holy One from Mount Paraselah. God, his glory covered the mountains, and the earth was full of his praise. And his brightness was as light, and uh he had horns coming out of his hands. That horns there is is shooting forth like horns shooting forth of light coming out of his hands Verse 5, before him went pestilence. Remember what he did to Egypt, the pestilence on Egypt. Burning coals were under his feet. Verse six, he stood and measured the earth, and behold, he drove asunder the nations, and the everlasting mountains were scattered, the perpetual hills did bow uh his ways are everlasting. I saw verse seven the tents of Cush in affliction and the curtains of the land of Midian in tremble did tremble. Verse 8. Was the Lord displeased against the rivers? Was thy anger against the river? Was thy wrath against the sea that thou didst ride upon their horse and their chariots of salvation? Remember The Red Sea and Jordan parting. That's why I chose the call to worship we had there in Psalm 114. What ailed thee, O sea? You mountains, why did you tremble? It was at the presence of the Lord And here we find in this third chapter, the prophet, what's he doing? He's repeating the glories of God. He is acknowledging the fulfilled promises of God. Lord, make known. See the connection? Lord, thy word. Where will we, as the people of God Who have heard the word of God and trembled, who have cried out for revival Who now say, Lord, make known in wrath, remember mercy, where will we find confidence to go on in this wicked world? We'll find it the same way that Habakkuk did. He continues there in verse 9. Thy bow was made quite naked according to the oaths of thy tribes, even the sword. Verse 10, the mountain saw it at thee and did tremble. The overflowing waters passed by. Verse 11, the sun and moon stood still. The scientists don't believe it, but it happened. The sun and moon stood twelve t still. Verse 12, thou didst march through the land in indignation. Verse 13, Thou wentest forth was the salv Sor sorry, thou wentest forth for the salvation of thy people, even for the salvation with thine who? Anointed Anointed. Thou wentest forth for their salvation with thine anointing. Remember the c pillar of fire? And the pillar of cloud? What was the significance of the ark? It was the place that God met with his people between the cherubims. Your anointed went before them. Verse 13. Verse 14, Now to strike through the through his staves the head of the villages. Verse 15, thou didst walk through the sea with thine horses. Verse 16, again, I meant verse 15 there, but verse 15, thou just walk through. Verse 16 When I heard, my belly trembled. And we've made full circle back. Look at the confidence that we find in conclusion. Verse 17 Here the prophet who has heard God's speech and has trembled. Here the prophet who has been reassured through the fulfillment of God's promises, through the fulfillment of his words. Look at his testimony. Verse 17. Although the fig tree shall not blossom. And we can insert there, your 40K falls apart, and your neighbor gets COVID. and your cowork had COVID and you're feeling fine but you still got a quarantine for two weeks because you were in contact with somebody and your phone keeps beeping and telling you that it's tracking You you I won't ask how many people have that thing popping up on their phone that it's tracking you now and knows where you where you're going in case you come in contact with somebody with COVID-19. Yeah. The fig tree shall not blossom, believer. The fig tree in scripture is a symbol of blessing. It's a symbol of God's providence, though it doesn't blossom. Though it seems like it's all falling apart. For the fig tree shall not blossom, neither shall fruit be in the vines. The labor of the olive shall fail. And the field shall yield no meat, the flocks shall be cut off from the fold, and there shall be no herd in the stall. Yet I will rejoice in the Lord. What is rejoicing in the Lord the opposite of? Fear. See the confidence there? This man Habakkuk, first of all, was fearful before the Lord. The fear of the Lord is beginning of wisdom. He prayed for revival. He prayed for God to make known his truth. And he prayed that God would show mercy in the middle of his wrath. And wonder of wonders, God's answer is prayer. God has done exactly what he's asked to. No, he hasn't spared the nation. The Chaldeans still came and overran them. But the just shall live by faith. Remember we read that in the chapter? The just are preserved by faith. Yet will I rejoice in the Lord. I will joy in the God of my salvation. The Lord God is my strength, and He will make my feet like hinds feet, and He will make me to walk upon my high places. To the chief singers upon my stringed instruments. Brethren, take heart. Take confidence in the Lord. Our situation, our sin, is just as bad as Judah's sin. But our situation is not as bad as Judah's judgment. The Chaldeans aren't coming in. Well yet. I heard a yet and I agree with it. Oh how this land deserves the judgment of God. Oh how God's people must fear before him. Oh, how God's people must pray for revival. Oh, how God's people must listen to his word. And oh how merciful God is in the midst of judgment Let us stand together for prayer, and then we'll be seated aga uh have a hymn and then be seated again for the Lord's table.