Let us turn with joy this morning to the book of Ezekiel, the prophecy of Ezekiel. And the fourteenth chapter, Ezekiel Chapter Fourteen There are twenty-three verses in this chapter. I'm going to read all twenty-three. And you may notice that the chapter almost seems like it should have been two chapters because it kind of divides itself in the middle. But it is one chapter, and I believe it should be one chapter, and we'll uh we'll see how it all fits together. You have your place now in the book of Ezekiel, chapter 14, and I'll begin our scripture reading at verse 1. Then came certain of the elders of Israel unto me and sat before me. And the word of the Lord came unto me, saying Son of man, these men have set up their idols in their heart, and put the stumbling block of their iniquity before their face. Should I be inquired of them, or by them at all, at all by them? Therefore speak unto them, saying unto them, Thus saith the Lord God. Every man of the house of Israel that setteth up his idols in his heart, and putteth the stumbling block of his iniquity before his face, and cometh to the prophet I, the Lord, will answer him that cometh according to the multitude of his idols, that I may take the house of Israel in their own heart. Because they are all estranged from me through their idols. Therefore say unto the house of Israel, Thus saith the Lord God, repent And turn yourselves from your idols and turn away your face from all your abominations For every one of the house of Israel, or of the stranger that sojourneth in Israel, which separateth himself from me. and setteth up his idols in his heart, and puteth the stumbling block of his iniquity before his face, and cometh to the prophet to inquire of him concerning me, I the Lord will answer him myself. And I will set my face against that man, and will make him a sign and a proverb. And I will cut him off from the midst of my people, that ye shall know that I am the Lord. And if the prophet be deceived when he hath spoken a thing, I the Lord have deceived that prophet. And I will stretch out my hand upon him, and I will destroy him from the midst of my people Israel, and they shall bear the punishment of their iniquities, the punishment of the punishment Prophet shall even be as the punishment of him that seeketh unto him. That the house of Israel may go no more astray from me Neither be polluted anymore with all their transgressions, but that they may be my people, and I may be their God, saith the Lord God. The word of the Lord came again unto me, saying, Son of man, when the land sinneth against me by transgressing, Thr by trans, when the land sinneth against me by transgressing grievously, then will I stretch out mine hand upon it and will break the staff of bread thereof and And will send famine upon it, and will cut off man and beast from it. Though these three men, Noah, Daniel and Job were in it, they should deliver but their own souls by their righteousness, saith the Lord God. If I cause nois noisome pet beast to p to pass through the land and spoil it so that it is desolate that no man may pass through because of the beast. Though these three men were in it, as I live, saith the Lord God, they shall deliver neither son nor daughter, they shall only be delivered, but the land shall be desolate. Or if I bring a sword upon the land and say, Sword, go through the land, so that I will cut off man and beast from it, though these three men were in it As I live, saith the Lord God, they shall deliver neither son nor daughter, but only but they only shall be delivered themselves. Or if I send a pestilence into the land and pour out my fury upon it in blood to cut off from it man and beast, though Noah Daniel and Job were in it. As I live, saith the Lord God They shall deliver neither son nor daughter. They shall but deliver their own souls by their righteousness. For thus saith The Lord God, how much more when I send my four sword judgments upon Jerusalem? The sword And the famine, and the noisome beast, and the pestilence to cut off from it man and beast. Yet, behold, therein shall be a remnant that shall be shall be brought forth Both sons and daughters. Behold, they shall come forth unto you, and ye shall see their way and their doings, and ye shall be comforted concerning the evil that I have brought upon Jerusalem, even concerning all that I have brought upon it. And they shall comfort you When ye shall see their ways and their doings, and ye shall know that I have done Have not done without cause that I have done in it, saith the Lord God. What a chapter. We need to pray O Heavenly Father, now grant that your Holy Spirit may be our teacher and our guide in this glorious, mysterious Hugely edifying and warning passage of your word. Teach us thy way and bless us, we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. This is one of these chapters that to endeavor to eat in one bite or preach in one message is a lot because there's so much here. We find in the first verse that the elders of Israel come and they sit before the prophet. The text does not tell us why they came. Some of the commentaries you may read surmise that they may have come to try to trip trip to trip him up in his words, as I trip up in my words trying to say it. We don't know exactly why they came, but they come in self-righteousness, and we read there in verse 2 that the word of the Lord came to the prophet saying, Verse 3, Son of Man, these men have set up their idols in their heart and put a stumbling block before their face. You see, they're coming before the prophets. We're the elders of Israel, and we are righteous leaders. And just as the men who brought the woman taken in adultery to Christ and began to make their accusations against them her. And Christ stooped down and begins to write their sins in the dust. So God says to Ezekiel, These very men that are coming before you, showing off their righteousness, they have set up their idols in their heart. They have put their stumbling blocks before their face. How many have ever tripped over anything? Only the liars didn't raise their hands. We've all tripped over something. But typically the thing we trip over is the thing we didn't see. Now granted, there have been times when I've looked right at it and still tripped on it. But here they have set up their idols in their heart, and they have put the stumbling blocks of their iniquity before their face. I'm sure all of us have had the experience of tripping on a sin. And if you're a child of God, immediately thinking, oh Lord, I did not want to do that. Oh Lord, that was not my intention. Why did I say that? Why did I look at that? Why did I do that? Lord, that's not what I wanted to do. But that's not the case here with these elders of Israel. They have set up the idols in their heart. And they have put the stumbling block before their own face, before their own eyes. In other words, here's the sin, and I want it. This is a stumbling block to my relationship with God, but I want it. And we need to talk about idols What is an idol? We tend to think of an idol as some big statue that people bow down to, a big brass Buddha or or something of that nature, the idols of Dagon that were sold But in reality, an idol is anything that stands between me and God. An idol is anything that assumes in my heart, they set up their idols in their heart, anything that assumes in my heart the place that belongs only to God. Look down to verse 8 of the chapter. I'm sorry, verse 7. For every one of the house of Israel, or of the stranger that sojourneth in Israel, which separateth himself from me. separates himself. There is an activeness there. Here is God, here is sin. And I separate from God and seek the sin. And so that is what the reality was here in these first few verses with these self-righteous elders of Israel, the ones who should have been leading in righteousness. Instead, they have set up the idols in their heart, and they have set the stumbling block before their own faces. We read in Hebrews that the Word of God is quick and powerful and sharper than any two-edged sword, piercing even to the abiding asunder of soul and spirit, and of the joints and narrow And is a discerner of the thoughts and tents of the heart, neither is there any creature. Neither is there any th creature that is not manifest in his sight. But all things are naked And open unto the eyes of him with whom we have to do. You see, man looketh on the outward appearance But God looketh on the heart. And these self-righteous elders of Israel that are coming to the prophet, ah, we're coming to the prophet to inquire of God. God says, I will answer them. But I'll answer them according to the multitude of their idols, because God knew what was in the heart. You see, we can all comb our hair and come to church. We can all put on a front before man. And we may deceive many. But be not deceived. God is not mocked. Man looketh on the outward appearance, but God looketh on the heart. God knew their great hypocrisy. God knew their idolatry. Woe unto him we read in Isaiah twenty nine, woe unto them that seek deep to hide their counsels from the Lord. And in Psalm ninety seven ninety four verse seven The Lord Yea, they say the Lord seeeth not. God doesn't see it. But God knew all about the idols that were in their heart. God saw the truth. Come down with me to verse four. Therefore speak unto them and say unto them, thus saith the Lord God. Every man of the house of Israel that setteth up his idols in his heart, and putteth the stumbling block of his iniquity before his face, and cometh to the prophet, I, the Lord. I, Jehovah, will answer him that cometh according to the multitude To the multitude of his idols. God will answer them, but he will answer them in judgment. And in the 44th chapter of this same prophecy and verse 12, Ezekiel says, Because they have ministered unto me before their idols. Sorry, because they have ministered unto them before their idols, and caused the house of Israel to fall into iniquity, therefore I will lift up mine hand against them, saith the Lord God. And they shall bear their iniquities. I would point out to you something just to take up Little sidetrack here briefly. Notice there in verse four, it says, Therefore speak unto them and say unto them, Thus saith the Lord God. That's sort of an unusual construction, isn't it? And notice there that God is what? It's all capitals. And we know in our English Bible that when we find the name Jehovah, it is put in all capitals. And typically we we find Lord there in all capitals, and we know that that's Jehovah. This caught my attention. And I j I just had to to dig into this and this is a whole separate sermon, so I'm just gonna give it to you in a nutshell because it's beautiful. What we have here is an unusual construction. It's only found 305 times in our Old Testament where we find this Lord God. And of those three hundred and five times, two hundred and ten are in the book of Ezekiel. Think about that. We have 66 books, but 210 times, and only only uh the Old Testament is where this is used because it's Hebrew, 210 times The Spirit of God, under inspiration, instructing Ezekiel to right, uses this term, Lord God. And so I just had to know more about it. Lord here is the typical Adonai, which we're familiar with. It is the Lord who is master The Lord who controls, the Lord to whom my fealty is due. But what is translated God here and placed in all capitals? is not Jehovah, Yehovah, but rather it is Yehove. It is a different form. of Jehovah. And so rather than translating it Lord in all capitals, because Adonai precedes it, it will come out in our English as Lord Small Capitals, Lord Big Capitals. And so instead it's translated, Lord God. In other words, in this chapter that is talking about The children of Israel who have placed idols in their heart, not idols of wood and stone that every man saw But rather in their heart they regard iniquity. Rather in their heart they love the things of co of sin. Nine times in this chapter, this name is the name used for God. Adonai, Yehovi! The Master Jehovah, the God to whom you owe your fealty. The God who is your Lord, the God who is the one you must worship. It is found in verse 4, verse 6, verse 11, verse 14, verse 16, verse 18, verse 20, and verse 23. Of this single chapter. In other words, God is saying to these elders of Israel And to these people of Israel and the sojourners within Israel, you have set up idols in your heart. You have placed where man cannot see, but where I, the great God, can see. You have placed your iniquities in your heart in the place that belongs to me. Because I am Adonai Yehovi. I am your master, Jehovah. And so if you look back to chapter 2 of Ezekiel, at the very beginning of Ezekiel's prophecy And he said unto me, son of man, this is verse 3, I'm sorry, Ezekiel chapter 2, verse 3. And he said unto me, son of man. I send thee to the children of Israel, to a rebellious nation that rebel against me. They and their fathers have transgressed against me, even unto this day. For they are impudent children and stiff-necked. I do send thee unto them. And thou shalt say unto them, thus saith Adonai Yehove. The very beginning of this prophecy, thus saith your master God, the God to whom you owe your fealty. And in verse 7, thou shalt speak unto them my words. And so we find this horrible state of affairs. Where the elders. And even the prophets, as we read, the prophets will prophesy in error because I have deceived their hearts. But look at verses 4 and 5, the last part of verse 4, and then verse 5. We're back in, sorry, back in Ezekiel 14. I, the Lord, will answer him that cometh to me, according to the multitude of his idols, that I may take the house of Israel in their own heart. because they are estranged from me through their idols. Therefore say, verse 6, unto the house of Israel, thus saith Adonai Yehoveh, Repent. And turn from your idols, and turn away your face from all your abominations. In the middle of this condemnation, in the eyes of God who sees all things, who knows the heart of these elders. God says repent. Repent. Isn't that glorious? They have deliberately set up their idols in their heart. They have deliberately put the stumbling blocks before their eyes. And God says, I'm going to answer them according to their number of their idols. And yet he still says repent. He still says repent. Oh my friend. We sing that old hymn, cast down every idol, wash me, and I shall be white in snow. Ah, how easy it is. How easy it is for the most devoted child of God to set up an idol in their heart. And put a stumbling block before their own eyes. And there in the verse um The last part of verse three. Should I be inquired of at all by them? Why were they coming to the Prophet? We don't know exactly, it doesn't tell us, but I would think they were coming to the Prophet because they wanted truth. And we come to God because we want truth. We gather here as a congregation because we want truth. But God is saying to these elders of Israel, I'll answer you according to the multitude of your idols rather than giving you truth until you repent. Until the idol which stands in your heart and stands in the place that belongs to me is removed. There's no reason for me to answer you at all, except to answer according to the multitude. According to the multitude of your idols. For I am Adonai, Yehove. I am the master God that deserves all of your loyalty and deserves all of your heart. And in verse number eight, we find four frightening and terrible judgments on the children of Israel because of their sin. In verse eight, he says, and I will set my face against that man, judgment one And I will make him a sign and a proverb, judgment 2. And I will cut him off from the midst of my people, judgment three, and ye shall know that I am the Lord, Judgment four. You'll know that I'm the Lord. And that in and of itself will be a judgment to you. It will be a reput rep a Retribution for your sin. For you see, every knee shall bow, and every tongue shall confess. Oh, my friend, here in the midst of this prophecy of judgment, there is an invitation of mercy. Repent But my friend, if we do not repent, oh the consequences that await. God says, first of all, there in verse 8, I will set my face against you. You see, they had set up their iniquities before their face. God says, I'll turn my face from you. Where does blessing come from? And from the face of God. From his divine favor upon us. I will make him a sign and a proverb. In other words, people say, oh my Look what happened there. There goes Nadab and Abihu, to whom the earth opened up and they were swallowed alive. There goes Judas, who hung himself, and no one would take down his body until it fell and burst. There'll be a sign and a proverb. The third judgment, I will cut him off from the midst of the people. There will be no more mercy available. And ye shall know that I am the Lord. Verse 9 talks about the prophet that's deceived. And he says there in verse 9, we need to move along, but he says there, I will will Well let me read verse nine. And if a prophet be deceived when he hath spoken a thing, I the Lord have deceived that prophet. And I will stretch out my hand upon him, and I will destroy him from the midst of my people Israel We've all seen some of the false prophets on TV who make great prophecies. And they're deceived. Remember Micaiah? Micaiah said that God sent a lying spirit to the prophets. And verse 10, and they shall bear the punishment of their iniquity. The punishment of the prophets shall even be as the punishment of him that seeketh unto him. Verse 11, that the house of Israel may go no more astray from me neither be polluted any more with all their transgressions, but that they may be my people and I may be their God, saith Adonai Yehove. And it seems like that should be the end of the chapter, doesn't it? It seems like here between verse eleven and verse twelve Uh the the the men who of course chapters weren't ordained that they were put in, but it seems like there should be that should be the breaking point But I believe they got it right. Because he talks there about the judgment in verse 8 of a man being as a sign and a proverb. But then the balance of the chapter gives us the testimony of three righteous men who lived in ungodly days. And if you notice in the bullshit, and that's the title of our message, Righteous Men in Wicked Times and Righteous Wicked Days. I'm not preaching about the United States of America this morning in particular, but we know that we live in righteous and unrighteous days, ungodly days, and that has nothing to do with politics. It has everything to do with the hearts of men who have set up their idols in their hearts and have placed their own stumbling blocks before their eyes. And God says, I'm not having it. Because I am at an ILV. And so, in the balance of this chapter We have these three examples. We'll start in verse twelve And the word of the Lord came unto me saying, Son of man, when the land sinneth against me by trespassing grievously. That's interesting, isn't it? When the land sinneth against me by trespassing grievously, then will I stretch out my hand upon it. and will break the staff of the bread thereof, and will send famine upon it, and will cut off man and beast from it Though these three men, Noah, Daniel, and Job, were in it, they shall deliver but their own souls by their righteousness, saith Adonai Yehovi. Let's consider this. If Noah were in the land What do we know about Noah? Well, Noah was righteous in his generation. He lived in a wicked generation. Noah found grace in the eyes of the Lord. And the Lord said to Noah, Come thou into the ark. There's judgment on the way. Come into safety. And Noah preached 120 years, and the wicked continued to set up their idols in their heart. And continued to put their transgressions and their iniquities before their eyes until the flood came, and into the ark went Noah, his wife, his sons, and his daughter-in-law. But here God says this time when the land sinneth grievously, even if Noah were in the land, he wouldn't save his sons and daughters. But he would save only his self by his righteousness By faith, Noah, being warned of God of things not seen as yet, moved with fear, prepared an ark. If Daniel were in the land, but Daniel purposed in his heart that he would not defile himself with a portion of the king's meat. The children sing a song, Dare to be like Daniel, Dare to Stand Alone, Dare to have a purpose for firm, dare to make it known. But if Daniel were in the land, and folks, this is beautiful. Hold on to your seats because the word of God is glorious. If Daniel were in the land. He would deliver only himself. Did you realize that Daniel was alive when Ezekiel was writing this? Daniel was living when Ezekiel was riding with him. And Daniel has not even been in the lion's den yet. Daniel is living, and Ezekiel is saying to the people, if Daniel were here, he could only deliver himself. But why is Daniel not here? He's in Babylon because of your sin. Daniel is in captivity because you have sinned against the Lord. Let me real quick give you the chronology here, and this is why this message should go for hours if we went into all the details. Hang on to your seats here. We're taking notes. Daniel 1-1 Daniel went into captivity in the third year of the reign of King Jehoiakim. Jehoiakim only reigned for a total of eleven years. So Daniel had been in Babylon in captivity for the last eight years of Jehoiakim. Okay? Daniel goes into captivity the third year of Jehoiakim, and Jehoiakim reigns for three more years, and he dies. That's 2 Kings 23, 36, and 2 Kings 24, verse 6, if you're writing it down. Jehoiakin, Jehoiakim's son. takes over when his dad dies, or he's put in place by the Babylonians. And he reigned for three months before he himself was taken off to captivity. That's 2 Kings 24 verse 8. Ezekiel chapter 1, verse 2, in the fifth year of Jehoiakim's captivity, is when Ezekiel is being written. So if you do the math, in Ezekiel chapter 1, Daniel has been in captivity for 13 years. He hasn't been in the lion's den yet. But he has stood before the prince of the eunuchs and said, I will not defile myself with a portion of the king's meat, because I am a child of Jehovah. Yeah is my God, and I will not accept the king's meat, I will not pollute myself, I will not put a stumbling block before my eyes, and I will not set up an idol in my heart. And Ezekiel is saying to these people, if Daniel, who has left us in the captivity, even if Daniel were here, your wickedness is so great that he would only save himself. He could not spare you. In your wickedness. And then we find Job. And it's interesting that under inspiration, the order is Noah. And then Daniel. And then Job. It's that border, isn't it? See, Noah and Job are dead. But Daniel's living. And it may be that Job is placed here last in order for emphasis. Even if Job were here. For you see, Job was a righteous man. In Job 1 and verse 1, there was in the land of us A man in the land of Uz, whose name was Job, and that man was perfect and upright, and one that feared God and eschewed evil. Remember, we put made emphasis on Adonai Yehovi, the master god. And here is Job as an illustration rather than the byword of verse 8. As an illustration of a righteous man. And Job lived in Uz, and Uz was the land of the Edomites. He lived in a wicked land. And yet he was upright. And he hated evil. And what do we learn about Job? He sacrificed for his children every day. And yet he was not able to spare his children. You elders of Israel who set up your idols in your heart. You people of Israel who put your stumbling blocks before your own eyes. Even if Noah, who saved his family alone from the flood, were here. Even if Daniel, who today is in captivity. Captivity because of your iniquity, and yet he's taking a stand for righteousness. Even if Job was here, who was a righteous man in his day, but could not spare his own family Even if these three men were here, they would save only themselves by their righteousness. Their righteousness could not save you. Remember the story of Sodom and Gomorrah? Oh, if there's 50 righteous, yes. Oh, maybe there's five less, 45. If there's forty, peradventure thirty. Oh Lord, if there are ten, will you spare for the sake of ten righteous? And there were not ten. And when Lot came out, he came out. With only his two daughters and his wife, who turned back in the way and did not escape entirely. And his sons were lost. My friends, it all begins with a simple little secret idol. That is set up deep in the heart where no man sees. And yet it takes the place of God. And after the idol is set up in the heart, the outward stumbling block that everyone should see and not trip upon. is deliberately placed in our own way, and we fall I won't read all the rest of the passage again. It repeats over and over again, though these three men were in it. Yehove. Adunai Yehovi demands obedience. Go with me to Verse twenty one of our chapter And verse twenty one for thus saith Adonai Yahubi. Thus saith the Lord God. How much more when I send my four sword judgments upon Jerusalem the sword And the famine, and the noisome pestilence, to cut off from it man and beast. Yet behold, therein That word there is important. Yet, behold, therein shall be left a remnant. You see the contrast there? God says, if Noah were in the land, if Daniel, who's in captivity, if Daniel were in the land. If Job were in the land, they could only spare themselves. Yet when I send my four-sword judgments on Jerusalem, there will be a remnant therein. There's still gonna be a little remnant! They can only say it themselves. But there's gonna be a remnant therein. Yet, behold, don't tell that word behold. Things don't. Pay attention. You know, it's it's like when you're driving down the road and you're you you can you're seeing traffic and you know exactly where you're going and your wife yells, look out And it startles you and you almost have a rip not because of what's in front of you, but because you got startled inside. And we've all been there done that. Picking on our wives this morning. Yet, behold, there will be left a remnant that shall be brought forth. And isn't this glorious? Look at the next four words, both sons and daughters. We've seen this terrible condemnation that Noah saved his family, but he couldn't save his family today. And Jobs could not save his family in that day. But there's going to be a remnant. It's going to be small, but your sons and daughters are safe. There will be sons and daughters in the remnant. Behold, they shall come forth unto you, and shit ye shall see the wish me. Yet behold, there shall be left a remnant that shall be brought forth both sons and daughters. Behold. They shall come forth unto you, and ye shall see their way and their doings, and ye shall be comforted concerning the evil that I have brought upon Jerusalem, even concerning all that I have brought upon it And they shall comfort you when ye shall see their ways and their doings, and ye shall know that I have not done without cause all that I have done in it. Thus or saith the Lord, saith Adonai Yehube. We live in wicked days. It's not democratic wickedness or republican wickedness. It's people wickedness. It's people wickedness. We live in a wicked day. If Noah were here to build us an ark, would that spare us? No. If Daniel were here to stand before the king and say, I'm not going to defile himself, would that spare us? If Jove were here, would that spare us? No, there's only one sparing. And the sparing is found in the part passage, repent. Repent and turn from your way. God has promised to a righteous people in a wicked land, there'll be a remnant, and your sons and your daughters will be among it to comfort you. Well friends, we can't control what happens outside. We can't control what the world does. We can vote against evil, but we can't control evil. But what we can control is that little spot in our heart. Because you see the idols didn't get there by accident. They were set up. And we can control what is in front of our face. Because you see the iniquities didn't get there by accident. They were placed, the stumbling blocks of their iniquity were placed. before their face. Certainly things come along you have to turn away from quickly. But it's another thing to put right there so you can trip over it. We live in a wicked day. But God has called us to holiness because he is Adonai Yehovi. He is the God who is our master and deserves our loyalty. What is stand for prayer?