11th chapter of Hebrews, midway through, and we're getting to an interesting little interlude, which is a concluding remark. We're going to read those verses and get to our question. So I hope you're ready. Hebrews 11, and we're going to begin in verse 13 Hear now the word of the Lord. These all died in faith, not having received the promises But having seen them afar off, and were persuaded of them, and embraced them, and confessed that they were strangers and pilgrims on the earth For they that say such things declare plainly that they seek a country. And truly, if they had been mindful of that country, from whence they came out, they might have had opportunity to have returned. But now they desire a better country, that is, an heavenly Wherefore God is not ashamed to be called their God, for he hath prepared for them a city. Alrighty. You have just won. Winner, winner, winner, you just won. A letter in the mail and it says you have won a vacation at a five-star hotel resort. It's all expenses paid, all expenses paid upon your arrival. What preparations would you make? So from one of our online listeners, we have the following. I believe it would be wise to gather information on who's providing the all-expense trip. Probably sounds like a good idea. Who's actually paying for this? Have enough money to be able to pay for the expenses for the family just in case something comes up. Be sure we have all the updated ID with us. Be sure you have current information on flights and lodging. Learn about the location and customs of the area we'll be visiting, if the whole family's going. Be sure someone we know has information on where and how we're traveling. Emphasize the importance of the family being aware of their surroundings at all times. That's pretty comprehensive. I hope I didn't steal any of your thunder. That sounds like more work than vacation. It does, doesn't it? Yeah, that sounds like a lot of work, doesn't it? Any ideas, yes. I have one question. Where's the dive shop? Where's the dive shop? Yeah, we want to know something about when we get there. Is there a dive shop there? Absolutely. Yeah. What other preparations do you make What goes for your mind on this journey? Pack and go. Pack and go. I like it. That's what you would do. Just pack and go. No questions. No questions asked. I might take an evening gown with me. Okay. Dress up. Case it's a dressy event. Yeah, okay. Yeah, sure. Buy an evening gown. Yeah, go shopping. Go shopping. Yeah, oh that's true. Yeah, it is a five star hotel. Okay. The ultimate planner over here, what would you do? And people how many people we should get there they said, Oh no, it's just for you. Yeah, you're looking for the catch. Maybe it's just for you and the other people who came along have to pay for themselves. Right, yeah. Okay. Find out what all inclusive includes. Yeah. Because that term all inclusive doesn't always mean all. That's right, all inclusive except for the exclusions. Right. Well that's great. Great. Yeah, good answers, good answers. I uh I appreciate all that. I think if I ever go on a trip I'll keep this list here with me and uh But you're right, it does sound like an awful lot of work, doesn't it? And uh I've often said I need a vacation after my vacation, as the vacation itself can be very exhausting. Well, in Hebrews 11 here and 13, we're going to talk about the right use of promises. And this little exercise was just designed to try to get you to think about traveling in preparation for a journey. We see in 1113 it said, these all died in faith, not having received the promises, but having seen them afar off. And there's a a few phrases I want to focus on. They died in faith They saw them afar off, persuaded, embraced, and confessed. And they received a promise of God. They didn't receive the thing promised, right? That's how we would understand that They certainly heard God speaking, at least Abram did and others in the account. The idea of sojourning, I think, here easily relates to Abraham and Sarah Because the earlier verses in 8 through 10 kind of spelled out. It says in verse 10, Abram, for he looked for a city which hath foundations, whose builder and maker is God. So we can see this concept of a journey, of sojourning through life, really applying to Abraham. It might be a little more difficult to think about the others, yet the context says these all died in faith, all who? All who it's been talking about. You look back. You have the elders, you have Abel, you have Enoch, you have Noah, in addition to Abram and Sarah. It says these all died in faith. They were all strangers and pilgrims. And I got to looking at that and I almost had built out a whole study just on that, but said now let's let's dial it back some. You know, they didn't receive not necessarily a A temporal promise of a literal Canaan, right? Noah wasn't promised that. He was promised an erasure program. Um And uh but they did have veiled references to a Messiah to come. So if you think Adam and Abel had a lamb for redemption, right? God slew uh an animal covered him with coats of skins. Abel picked up on that in the family discussions. This is what God did to cover us. You have Uh for Eve, she was told that the seed of a woman would come, uh, indication of somebody who would be a redeemer. Veiled reference, very veiled. That's how they always were in the Old Testament, very veiled. To Noah, I really was scratching my head there. How did Noah, how did he come to this idea that there would be something else? He knew there was going to be a flood, right? God told him. That's why he's building an ark And he could only presu presuppose that, well, it's going to wipe out the whole earth something afterward, I get that. But yet he would still have been a stranger and a pilgrim in this earth for the period after he disembarked. Now I went in fact looking through what God told him, and I found this interesting statement. It's in Genesis 8. This is right after they came off the ark. God's promising, all right, I'm not going to wipe out the world with a flood again But notice how God phrases it. He says this in Genesis 8. 22. While the earth remaineth Seed time and harvest, cold and heat, summer and winter, day and night shall not cease. That's a conditional statement. While the earth remaineth, there's again a little veiled indication that there would be a grand change at some point in the future. which is going to radically alter everything. And Peter picks up on that in 2 Peter 3 and he talks about this new heaven and new earth that says the world then was held by the same word of God. It was flooded, but that same word now is keeping in store the heavens and the earth, which when he comes will be consumed with fire. He's going to destroy the earth again, not by water, but by fire. So Maybe Noah didn't have the details, but he had a little hint, you know, while the earth remains. So I thought that would be an interesting thing. What's the bottom line here is that the The hope of eternal redemption really is the essence of the promises. It's a redemption of all things. The whole creation groans and travails together, awaiting to wit for the redemption, the adoption of the sons of God. They had some promises that were made, and they embraced those promises. We see that there were some promises embraced They saw from afar, persuaded, embraced. That word embraced is an interesting one. Have you read in the New Testament oftentimes salute the brethren? And when he came in, he saluted them This is kind of that word embrace. It's rendered the same. It means to pay respects. We pay respects to someone when they walk in. Hi, good to see you. How you doing? You may even give him a hug. Joe didn't get his hug this morning. I was busy running around like a chicken with my head cut off. But that's a paying of respects. And then they would confess these repeated promises of redemption and inheritance of the celestial city. You see that there was a confession The Lord Jesus says of Abraham in John 8, he says, Your father Abraham, speaking to some Jews, rejoiced to see my day. And he saw it and was glad. What do you think Jesus meant when he said, Abraham rejoiced to see my day, saw it, and was glad? What do you think he meant by that? He looked looked into the future and saw there was a better day coming You saw a better day coming. A better day coming. You know. It says it's all my day. It's interesting. Was Jesus here one day? Yeah? They wouldn't say he was here one day. Sometimes we read these words of Jesus and we say, yep, that makes sense until you stop and start asking questions. You go, now what is he really telling us here? The day of Jesus Christ, in fact, we are in a degree still at. He came once, he's coming again. But he says he saw it. Well Was there any way Abram could have climbed a mountain and looked off in the distance somewhere? Over the horizon? Time traveled? No, we would say that's not possible. What does it mean he saw? That's interesting. It talks about an understanding, doesn't it? It's eyes of faith. We talked about this five-star resort hotel. And you probably have some picture that comes in your mind, maybe a dive shop, maybe a ballroom, maybe some nice events and activities, you already are beginning to picture in your mind. You're beginning to see it, even though you haven't gone to it yet. But you can begin to imagine some of the things We'll continue this a little bit here. This business of being of confessing that they were strangers and sojourners. You know what Abraham said that. When he was burying his dead wife Sarah many, many years later. Even after the birth of his grandson, Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, Jacob and Esau It says in Genesis 23, Abram stood up from before his dead and spake unto the sons of Heth, the Hethites, they would be called the Hittites, the sons of Heth, saying, I am a stranger and a sojourner with you. He calls himself a stranger and a sojourner with them. Give me a possession of a burying place with you that I may bury my dead out of sight. So indeed he did confess that he was a stranger among them. He was one sojourning with them. And then we have their lifelong search. They that say such things, Hebrews 11, 14, declare plainly that they seek a country. You know, if the promised thing is in heaven, folks, it can't be here on earth. So what are they looking for? If the promised thing is in heaven, what are they looking for? I'm trying not to be too profound. It's a maybe a simple question, but it does have some profound ideas to it. Mrs. Ross, you're near the front of the line, if I may kindly say so. Hi. What are you looking for? There's a time coming, right? You have a bright future that you're anticipating, right? They were anticipating it to come soon. They were not anticipating thousands of years. Just like we are not anticipating thousands of years, maybe. Well we are. We've already had tits Couple thousand. We have. Not maybe not personally. What was what were these saints looking for? It says they think. What what are they looking for? Looking for heaven. They're looking for heaven, a heaven to come, to be in heaven, to get there, to arrive there. Yeah. They're looking for that, and it's not something here. It says they had seen them afar off, not a glimpse of gold In the edges in the corners of the clouds, we talk about a silver lining in the cloud. I used to hear that as a kid. I was confused. I didn't know what that was. You get older, you understand the metaphor. That even in all the terrible tragedy and disaster. There did turn out to be something good from it. There was actually a veiled benefit behind all tribulation. So when it says they'd seen them afar off It said rather they were getting a glimpse with a small bit of knowledge. And the word seek here means to wish for something. even to crave it, to to desire it. It's not the normal word for see. The word seek implies to understand, to meditate, to diligently inquire further, to learn more. This is how a believer seeks. Back to my earlier illustration None of you asked the very first question, which is, where is this resort at? You don't care? Guess what? It's on Mars. It'll take you three years in an electronic coffin built by Elon Musk to sail through space before you get there And you ain't coming back. When do leave. When do we leave? Okay. All right. There's no dive shop there, sorry. So, you know, you might be interested in the destination, where it's really at. Maybe it's in the Democratic Republic of the Congo where they've got, you know, mosquitoes so thick you can't see past five feet or You know, you might want to inquire where this is, but you did ask some basic questions, you know, that you're going to be on a journey, you're going to be on a trip, you want to learn more about it. But isn't that the point? If you have a small piece of paper from the mail with a grand promise, some official stamp You believe it, it's credible enough, or maybe you don't, throw it in the trash, move on, like I do with all the promises of wonderful Tennessee, Lake Tennessee, lakefront property build here. Yeah, yeah, fine, chuck it But based on a small promise, you begin to inquire further. You haven't gotten there yet, but you want to inquire. Well, it's no different in the Christian faith. You have received out of this very large book a handful of promises which frankly can be printed on a single 8. 5 by 11 sheet of paper front and back, all the promises of God, as to where you're going to go. And you can begin to read how others have made that journey and that pilgrimage. And the more you learn about it, the more interested you become in making that journey and finally arriving at that place. You see, if you don't believe that, you're not going to prepare for that journey. You could care less about going on. I don't believe it, it's hooey, it's hogwash, and you're going to go and do something else. You're going to go wash the car, mow the lawn, look for a better job, etc. You're not really going to be focused on, this is a tremendous opportunity. Look at this. Look at the rewards. Look at the payout that this is offering. This is more than expense. Anything I've invested in, God repays abundantly. It says you've been faithful over view. Be thou ruler over ten cities. You hear Again and again, more information in the scriptures about how rich these promises are. Remember Abraham? When he first got these promises? His name was Abram. As time went on, as it drug on, as it became more difficult in his journey, God changed his name from Abram to Abraham, the father of many nations. He discovered that the promise of God and the benefits of reaching what God had promised him was even greater than when he first heard it. So do you see why there's this seeking element? It's not panning for gold in a river stream. It's trying to understand more about this promise. And it kind of is a fueling exercise. It fuels you to want to and to go further. Look at 1 Peter 1, 10 through 11 in your scriptures, because this is how the believers seek, and we find that Peter writes about this. He says, of which salvation the prophets have inquired and searched diligently, who prophesied of the grace that should come unto you. That's that thousands of years. They didn't understand that nature of grace. Searching what, or what manner of time, the Spirit of Christ which was in them did signify, when it testified beforehand the sufferings of Christ and the glory that should follow. Even the prophets, think about this. These are people who heard directly from God. They were searching. They were trying to piece it together. Well, Jeremiah had said this and Ezekiel had prophesied this and we know Isaiah has said this and they're trying to stitch this thing together if the prophets with everything they had Peter writes, they searched, they diligently inquired. When the Lord Jesus appeared on the Mount of Transfiguration, who was there? Moses and Elijah. Moses representing the law, Elijah the prophets, the whole Old Testament. But they were two prophets. Inquiring about and speaking of the death of the Lord Jesus that should occur in Jerusalem. They're inquiring, they're searching. And so I have a question Can someone be a true pilgrim, and by that I mean a true disciple of Jesus Christ, and not be interested in learning more about their destination? Is that really possible? Jeffrey, you're shaking your head no. Why why is that? Because uh they're being drawn from by Christ. They only see themselves walking, you know, and searching and seeking Yeah? They're drawn by Christ. You bring in a good element that the Spirit of God is in them, working in them, and nourishing it. Pastor, you gave an illustration one time that I thought was good, where I think it was, and I'm going to get this wrong, it was a parable about A man who had a little wol uh a baby wolf and a baby sheep. And he said, Oh no, they're gonna the one's gonna win over the other It says depends on which one you feed. Which one will be stronger? The one you feed. The one you feed. Yeah. And we have our cravish, wolfan-like nature and the new nature of Christ. And there can be a hunger for both Which one will prevail? Which one will succeed? Depends on the one you feed. Some people are just not travelers. They have no desire to travel anywhere. And to continue your illustration Some people have no interest in heaven. They don't care. They're content right where they're at. I don't need heaven. I'm good here. Maybe they have it quite comfortable here. Maybe their life circumstances are fine Or they just don't believe it. You get this thing in the mail resort, all expenses paid. Bah. They treat it just like junk mail. The word of God just like junk mail and they throw it in the trash. It happens what? It happens to me some they send me some maps coming to this and I told them I'll wait 'cause there was something attached to it. You don't want to go see a Nigerian president. It really just depends on the personality of the person. You're exactly right. It depends on their heart. Depends on that heart and the personality being driven by that heart. If there is a heart after the things of God, they will be seeking, they will be searching. Does doctrine matter to a Christian? Is it just about winning an argument? Does Bible doctrine matter to a Christian? If so, why or why not? Anton, what are your thoughts? I'll pick on you. You're fresh back from vacation. You haven't had much spiritual thoughts. No, I'm teasing. I'm sure you've had plenty of witnessing it across the U. S. Yeah, no, definitely. Uh doctrine does matter because this is um you know, you actually believe that letter that you received, that invitation, that that message of God, and it's important that people don't twist it or lie about it, try to claim things that aren't there, or try to uh pervert. uh the truth. What's the danger of people perverting the truth, twisting the doctrine? What is that danger to a Christian in this pilgrimage? What do you think? Well you might invite somebody who's not actually invited, or uh you might um get their idea of this vacation wrong um and not what it actually is. So you might get it wrong. Would it affect you as a pilgrim? As a sojourner? We might begin to start out on this journey and get a head full of bad religion and wind up at the wrong destination. Just to carry my illustration further, it says the resort hotel is in Uh Cabo San Lucas, where's one of the best diving places? I'll turn to my dive master here. Cozumel. Cazumel. Beautiful place. And someone along the way says, it's not in Casanel. You want to go over here. And so you're going to Go to a different destination and you get there and they're happy to set you up. There's a hotel, but expenses are not paid. Or it's the wrong time of year that you arrive. So it is with Christianity. The more you learn, the more you're persuaded I'm on the right path, the more you're persuaded this thing is real. The more you're persuaded, yeah, I'm walking with other pilgrims too, where they have trodden before as well. You get continued confidence. Certain things are forbidden at most resorts And someone that you bring along may try to bring a weapon and they're not allowed. Sin cannot enter. That's right. Right. And then we get to verse 15. Thank you, everybody, for that. I'm trying not to answer, ask, uh, you know, stump the teacher type questions, but I just want to get your mind thinking about this We continue in verse fifteen, it says, Truly, if they had been mindful of that country from whence they came out, they might have had opportunity to have returned. And, you know, I just want to make some observations in the interest of time here. that, you know, we each have in a way left our own country. So some of you literally, you know, you're first generation Americans. You've come and were born in another land and have now come here But in a very real way, every Christian has left their own country, their own native land, their own Adamic native desires and interests. They have that doesn't mean we abandon the passport or citizenship of our native land, right? It doesn't mean I'm going to take my American citizenship and throw it in the shredder. I'm not going to take my driver's license and trash it Our heart's affection, though, and our association, in our mind, our association lies elsewhere. We don't trash our citizenship. The Apostle Paul Leverage debt when he was about to be scourged, he says, Is it lawful for you to scourge a man that is a Roman and uncondemned? He could have very well said, is it law for you to scourge a child of God? Before the court of heaven it would have been correct, but he appealed to the first court, the law of his land. You can't do this to a Roman. He appealed to the citizenship So when I say that we've left our country, I'm not saying that we renounce our American citizenship. That's not what is talking about. Rather We read in Philippians 3. 20, for our conversation, our conduct is in heaven, from whence also we look for the Savior. That's where our citizenship is. And that's where we first identify. Somebody years ago presented a proposition to me, a little phrase that I've really liked and embraced. It said, Vince. Are you an engineer that happens to be a Christian, or are you a Christian that happens to be an engineer? That's a different mindset, isn't it? What where Um, I don't want to say it. What flag am I planting? What's the what's the label across my forehead? What's the badge I'm wearing? Am I wearing engineer badge or am I wearing a Christian badge? Am I trying to project Christianity? That doesn't mean one is at the expense of the other, but when push comes to shove, which one wins? Sometimes the workplace will push you into that decision. And it can be a valley of decision. And you have to cling on to the promises of God. That's part of the surdiring. Look at Daniel. He had a pretty high-level ranking responsible job. He had some pretty tough calls to make. Some would have cost him his life, and yet every time he said, nope, I'm a Christian first and foremost, and a state administrator, secondly And God blessed him for it. You know, Abram didn't settle down in Egypt when a famine hit Canaan, even though he made a lot of money there. God promised him, No, the land of Canaan is where you go. He didn't choose the land of Sodom and Gomorrah when he stood up on the hills offering Lot, you pick first. He could have said, well, it looks pretty plentiful. I'll go with you. He didn't do that. And Luke seventeen tells us to remember Lot's wife. I was really, really blessed by the commentary that Matthew Henry had on this business of being a pilgrim and a sojourner and not returning. And I'd I'd like to just read it to you. It's about uh five or six sentences. But just consider this for a moment. It's really good. Speaking of not having opportunity to return and not wanting to, he writes this. They did not hanker after the plenty and the pleasures of it. nor regret and repent that they had left it. They have no desire to return to it. Note, those that are once effectually and savingly called out of a sinful state have no mind to return to it again. They now know better things. Number two, they did not take the opportunity that offered itself for their return. They might have had such an opportunity. They had time enough to return. They had natural strength to return. They knew the way. You know where the dens of iniquity are, Jeffrey. So do I. Those with whom they sojourn would have been willing enough to part with them. That's a frightening insight, but I think he's correct. Their old friends would have been glad to receive them They had sufficient to bear the charges of their journey, and flesh and blood, a corrupt counselor, would be sometimes suggesting to them a return. I think um John Bunyan in his Pilgrim's Progress mentioned that the uh old the old man gave one final yank on the flesh, something to that effect, I just remember. Big tug and then he left. No, they didn't listen to that return. They steadfastly adhered to God and duty under all discouragements against all temptations to revolt from Him. So should we all do I thought that was very insightful. You do find the allurements of this world trying to pull you away. Saying, don't continue down that path. It's too hard. Isn't it hard? Ministry is hard. Following Christ is hard. It's all hard. But it's not nearly as hard as being without Christ. The devil's lies don't buy into them. They just don't pay out. All the devil's apples have worms. Another great illustration, I heard somebody say All our desire, Hebrews 11, 16, now they desire a better country that isn't heavenly. Wherefore God is not ashamed to be called their God, for he hath prepared for them a city. Mom, I know you do. I know you want to hear this at the end of your life. It's in Matthew 25, 34. Then shall the king say unto them, on his right hand, Come ye blessed of my father, inherit the kingdom prepared for you from the foundation of the world. You want to hear that You want to hear, well done, good and faithful servant. You want to hear that. You want to hear, you have been faithful in the least. Be thou ruler over much. You want to hear a cup of cold water. I will not turn back. Even those who have offered a cup of cold water in the name of a disciple, he shall in no wise lose a reward. You want to hear that. Again, Matthew Henry, I'm just elated with his commentaries on this as he describes the desire here. He says, Observe here the description given of heaven. It is a city, a regular society, well established, well defended. Well supplied. I like a bumper sticker I've seen in a car. Heaven has walls and a border security. Hell has wide open gates. Very, very accurate statement Heaven is a city that hath foundations, even the immutable purposes and almighty power of God, the infinite merits and mediation of the Lord Jesus Christ the promises of an everlasting covenant, its own purity, and the perfection of its inhabitants. Can you imagine the promise of going to a resort, and ladies, all your blemishes will be removed. All of the flab will be gone. You'll have the physique and the look and the hair and the texture that you've always ever wanted at the best date of your life. Men, you'll be robust again. If you never were robust, you will be robust. Isn't that amazing? The perfection of the inhabitants. It's a city whose builder and maker is God. He contrived the model He accordingly made it. He has laid open a new and living way into it. And he has prepared it for his people. He puts them in possession of it. You're not only going to go to the resort, you're going to own the resort. Can you imagine? He prefers them in it and is himself the substance and happiness of it. He actually wants his people there. You know when you get a new house, you want to invite people over. People you like, people you enjoy. You want them all to share with you. Look at this great new house I have. And so God is doing it with his city. Observe the reward, the due regard that Abraham had to this heavenly city. He looked for it. He believed that there was such a state. He waited for it. And in the meantime, he talked about it by faith. Hey, do you know where I'm going? No. I'm going to the promised land. Beula. Really? Tell me about this promised land. He talked with others along the way. He occupied until he came. Abraham exulted and had rejoicing hopes that in God's time and way he'll be brought safely to it. Notice the influence this had on his present conversation. It was a support to him under all the trials of his sojourning state, helped him patiently bear all the inconveniences of it. and actively discharge all the duties of it, persevering therein until the end. Folks, I don't normally read at length from commentaries, but I think that really summarizes it very, very nicely. He did a marvelous job in that. And we had touched upon it before in an earlier verse speaking of Abram. But I have four applications from this, and then we'll wrap it up. And these are from yours truly, having been in the sojourn for a season of life now. And the first is this: this sinful world is not ours. This place really ain't our long home. Yes, God has assigned us a portion. We have a peace, just as God gave the Midianites. He says, don't mess with them, that's their land. I've given that to them Don't go over here in this boundary. I've given that to them. Even so, God's given you a little parcel here and now, which is sufficient. He has given you a little something here. You're not destitute But it's not your long home. It's a sinful world. It's a wicked world. It cannot be fixed to perfection. At best. Society's ills can be put into remission. They can be subsided so that they're not growing, further infecting, getting worse at best. But it can't be fixed. It's not fixable. We have to understand that. Though God made this world, it has been twice cursed of him. It was cursed at the garden, cursed by the flood We don't live 900 plus years. I really would like to be as healthy as I was at age 20 with the wisdom I have now at age 60 something I really would, because I could well make a whole lot better decisions. I could really make a whole better run at it. The next cycle around would be so much better. I would be a better parent I'd be a better worker, I'd be a better builder, I'd be a better fill-in-the-blank. But just by the time you figure it out, the knee goes out. The shoulder's gone, bam, I blew another kidney, or whatever. I mean things are falling apart A new challenge comes that I have no experience with. This world is not our home. It's broken, and we we're broken people in a broken world. Step number one Number two, it is in fact God's program for us to live here as legal slash illegal aliens. We're kind of not really welcome here. Right? We see it all the time. Christians are not prote Oh, there's a Christian in our land. Oh, well let's we don't have to have an election. Let's just appoint them to the city council They're sons of God. They can pray and the God of heaven will hear them. My, we need to have Christians in city council. Has that been the effect in Washington, D. C. , Jeffrey? Have they come banging on your door lately to say, come, come sit in our city. You're a child of God. You know something about the God of heaven. Please come give us wisdom. We're idiots, we're morons, we're under the devil's power. No, of course not As far as you're concerned, you're Christian? Oh, you're an illegal alien. You don't belong here. The other down the street. Yeah, yeah, you just go down the street, right Your earthly citizenship, folks, is merely a passport. That's all you got here. You're just passing through. Use it, however, toward the benefit of the kingdom of God and the gospel. To what extent you do have influence, to what extent you do have position, to what extent you do have resources and means Use them for the furtherance of the gospel. There's one thing that can't happen in heaven, folks. You know what that is? There's one thing that doesn't happen in heaven. It does not I guarantee you it doesn't happen in heaven. Anybody got any ideas? That's true. There's two things Ivelism doesn't happen in heaven. Number three, believers, however, are full-fledged citizens of God's eternal kingdom. You're a full-fledged citizen. Learn to live with. Learn to support. Learn to communicate with. Learn to live with other fellow citizen saints. Why? They're going to be your neighbors for all eternity. You know when you move in they say you can't control your neighbors. And it's true. You can try to influence, but man, if they want to Have a rock party all night long with the speakers up to eleven, they can't. And there's little you can do about it. The cops may come after the party's over. But you are a full-fledged citizen of the kingdom of God. Full-fledged. You've already got your license. It doesn't expire The issue date was when you were born again. And the expiration is infinity. It doesn't expire. It never expires. You're a full-fledged citizen of the kingdom of God. Pastor did in the Wednesday devotional this verse in Ephesians 3. Now therefore ye are no more strangers and foreigners, but fellow citizens with the saints of the household of God So we as Christians are together strangers, sojourners, and pilgrims in this life. We together as Christians. It really hurts me when I drive down this road And I see two Baptist churches, and this church, and another church down the road. Why is it we're not all really on the same page? Why is it we really are not? doctrinally, spiritually aligned. Why is that? Sin. New denominations as a result of sin. There ought to be a union and a unity of the saints. I'm not talking about long distances. The Old Testament made it clear that if the way was too far for thee, you could go to this one. God understands the difficulties of travel. But my fourth point is this. Learn to use all of God's promises to help you during your time down here. That might be a good Sunday afternoon exercise. Find a resource. Look it up online. Ask me. Ask Joe. Can you send me a list of the promises of God? Is there a book which has summarized the promises of God? And you yourself Type them out. Pay somebody to type them out for you in 48 thought. Stick them on your fridge. Cover up your fridge fridge magnets for a week. And just contemplate. These are the promises of God. Because that's what you've been given. That's that little card you got in the mail. Okay? Listen, if I had it, if I won something that the mail sent me and said you've got it, all expenses resort paid, then I'd get some kind of additional piece of literature that says, yep, here's your confirmation. You have more than enough confirmation from the scriptures. It's all yay and amen in Jesus Christ. So if you feel inadequate Learn more about the promises that God has given you and discover that you're more than well equipped. You're very well equipped for this journey. Well, let's close. Jeffrey, could you close us in prayer, please? Dear Heavenly Father, thank we thank thee, Father, for promises that you have given us, that glimpse of that heavenly kingdom that thou hast prepared for us. And uh promises to those who are saved in Christ that we will certainly uh receive that uh blessing in full. We pray for uh continued grace to Uh see the promises that maybe are far off, but we still have to walk through this world. And all by your grace we pray, Jesus Christ. Amen.