Hebrews, and we're continuing now. I'm going to read verses thirteen through nineteen, which is our passage, just to get the context in front of us, and then we'll get to our little discussion question, which hopefully many of you receive. Hebrews 6, beginning in verse 13, reads as follows. For when God made promise to Abraham, because he could swear by no greater, he swear by himself. Yes, it is. Saying, surely blessing, Mom, Mom, if you don't mind, please, surely blessing, I will bless thee, and multiplying, I will multiply thee. And so, after he had patiently endured, he obtained the promise. That was last week. Now here's our passage for this week, and you'll see why we're having our discussion question. For men verily swear by the greater, and an oath for confirmation is to them an end of all strife. Wherein God, willing more abundantly to show unto the heirs of promise the immutability of his counsel, confirmed it, by an oath. That by two immutable things in which it was impossible for God to lie, we might have a strong consolation who had fled for refuge, to lay hold upon the hope Set before us, which hope we have as an anchor of the soul, both sure and steadfast. And we'll touch on the rest of it next week So my question is this, uh have you ever been to a trial court or have you ever seen or watched the swearing in of witnesses or seen an elected official sworn into office? Has anybody ever seen that before? Nobody has ever seen an elected official sworn into office. All right, you raised your hand. I was at the Trump Igna Inauguration. Yeah, all right, you're at the Trump Inauguration. All right So, uh, most of you don't pay attention to what's happening to our elected officials, I guess. Okay. Can you imagine what happens in a court when a witness is sworn in? What type what does it mean to swear in the witnesses? When the judge is behind the bench He says, let's now swear in the witnesses. What does he mean? So they used to use God's name, but they don't anymore, things. Okay. Well the uh that you're you're getting into the procedures. Uh but what does it mean? Does it mean they start cursing at the witnesses? What does it mean to swear in the witnesses Anybody know? Well we're gonna have a civics class here. Penny I need you to help me with civics over here. To make them tell the truth. To make them tell the truth. What do they do to make them tell the truth? Attach electrodes or fear them fear God. Make them fear God, okay. Threaten them with an inch of their life? They take that oath by which they are confirming by somebody or something greater than themselves that they will carry forth their office with honesty and integrity and fulfill the responsibilities that are being laid upon them. Okay, good. We heard from our civics teacher, turned English teacher over here But this is how it works. Men come in and they are going to take an oath. They're going to make a vow. They'll put their hand on something greater than them. In our country, that greater than them was usually understood to be the Bible These days it may be Dr. Seuss's book or who knows what, but whatever they think is greater than them, so that shows you what their opinion is. And they will swear by that, saying, By virtue of this greater thing than I, I am taking an oath, I am making a vow, I am declaring unto you that I'm going to be telling the truth. Have you ever been uh other pl or there what other places are vows made or oaths taken? Wedding ceremonies. All right. And how does that operate? How do that has anybody been to a wedding? Okay, well hadn't been to court, but a few have been to weddings. We don't have many people in court seeing this officials sworn in or going to weddings. We have a boring group here, my goodness. All right, well, we need to get out and see some things more often Um at a wedding, why why what's the purpose of oaths and vows? Promises. Okay, what's the purpose of the promise? To keep uh what they are promising. To keep what they're promising, alright. What are your thoughts, Gabriel? What's the purpose of an oath or a vow? to make a two one. Okay, yeah. That's that's the wedding ceremony, right? So it it's a vow declares upon penalty of that which they swear That no vi oh that's you're in the you're all in the right ballpark here. My take on this was this that uh That no violations of word or deed shall be committed, and it places the reputable honor of the oath taker on public display. And the purpose of that is to assure all the stakeholders, in this case of husband and wife and the witnesses, in the case of the courtroom, the witness swearing before the judge and the jury before all the stakeholders that I will not violate my word to you. I will tell you the truth, the whole truth, nothing but the truth. So help me God. Now, it's interesting because among li uh man being a liar that he is, fundamentally an oath is making him say, Well, I normally can't be told to tell the truth, but this time I really will. This is kind of man's approach to it. Well, do you find it odd that God would make oaths That God Himself would make a vow, would make an oath. Do you find that unusual? There's no one higher than God, for one thing, to make a vow too. And for second, it says right here, it's impossible for God to lie. So why does he even need Yes. Yeah. Why would he make an oath? Maybe you didn't realize it overtly, probably because I didn't explicitly point it out, but this is not the first time In the book of Hebrews, we have come across God making an oath or God swearing a vow. In fact, we have read extensively in the second And the third and the fourth chapter of God making oaths and vows of cursing, an oath of curse We read, for instance, in Hebrews 3. 11 in your handout, the first cylinder blank, God-sworn testimony, it says, So I swear in my wrath, they shall not enter into my rest. Many a time God swore, not only did he say, for disobedience you will not enter the promised land, but then he took an oath, he made a vow that says, assuredly You will not enter into my rest. He promised it, and then he made an oath of cursing on top of that. So there are oaths both for cursing as well as for blessing In Psalm 105, there's a nice little rhythmic connection because there's a lot of overlap in what we're going to discuss today concerning sworn testimony and oath. a vow, a covenant, a promise. All of those are there. There's a lot of overlap to that, but we're gonna I'm gonna try to dissect it a little bit. Psalm 105 kind of blends it all together. It says in your handout, which covenant he made with Abraham, his oath unto Isaac, and confirmed the same unto Jacob for a law. So he put it into a law. And to Israel for an everlasting covenant, saying, unto thee will I give the land of Canaan. So all of these covenants, these oaths, these promises are kind of building on top of each other. It's a connection of it. It's a building. He says in Isaiah 45, this is picked up in the book of Philippians, I have sworn by myself. The word is gone out of my mouth in righteousness, and shall not return, that unto me every knee shall bow, every tongue shall swear. In Philippians it says, every tongue shall confess that Jesus is Lord to the glory of God. Jeremiah, he has a uh uh uh an oath of uh cursing specifically. He says in 22, 5, but if you will not hear these words, I swear by myself. Saith the Lord, that this house shall become a desolation. And again in Jeremiah 49, for I have sworn by myself, saith the Lord. that Basra shall become a desolation. So it is unusual that God would swear. In fact, you find more oaths and vows of cursing. He assuredly will curse this individual And not too many concerning blessing, although they are there and they are precious when we find them. What does it mean when it says an oath is it says here in Back in our text, let me see if I can find it. Verse 16, at the end, an oath for confirmation is to them an end of all strife. What does it mean when it says an oath is the end of all strife? Any ideas? Going back to your courtroom, the judges hit the gala. The question's done. Okay. What strife might occur without that? I'm flipping in on something. Your answer is correct. So if you didn't have that, what strife might occur? Any argument against God. God has spoken. So in a courtroom there might be an argument, well this witness wasn't sworn in, we can't trust his testimony. He can change his testimony if he wants, and that might affect the judgment. That's rendered there. So the uh uh it's the sad state of affairs these days that uh men and women will simply live together before they get married. And they think that, well, we're just gonna try this thing out first. What the woman doesn't realize is that there's no need to buy the cow if the man's getting free milk. So the woman chooses to live like a concubine and uh uh and not having a uh a vow or an oath in place simply makes it easier, so-called easier, to say goodbye. There's no attorneys or whatever involved, but you know, is it really easy uh for any two people in any relationship of any length of time to say goodbye. Really? Does that no, it doesn't. So all of that's messed up. And uh this is just the vain idea. They're trying to get around the commitment And so the vow and an oath is a commitment, and the commitment is to end strife. I think one of the most interesting pieces of marriage advice I heard came from a A uh a woman present who will remain unnamed, but a very wise piece of advice. When you go into marriage, you have your eyes wide open and your mouth wide open. You're asking lots of questions and looking and spying and checking out, but after marriage you shut your eyes, you close your mouth. The the strife is over. No more questions, no more asking, no more I'm not saying you can't talk. with each other. But the idea is that um it's to it's to end any any further subsequent strife that may come through. I like this comment from one of the commentators on this passage than an oath to the end of all strife and with respect to the believers, because God is doing this for our benefit. He says this is the nature and design of an oath. It is to put an end to all dispute about the matter, both to disputes within our own breasts, meaning doubts and distrusts, and disputes with others, especially with the promiser. By virtue of the fact that God has made an oath, in our first instance, to Abraham, ought to put to doubt any question whatsoever, though you do not yet see it delivered That God in fact will surely deliver his promise. There ought to be no debate in your mind There ought to be no question that God absolutely will carry through on his promises. He has sworn with an oath. It is intended to put an end to all strife. Strife within you, strife of doubts, strife of distrust. All of that is gone. He doubles down on this point literally in verses 17 and 18 when he gives the double witness. That's your next fill-in-the-blank, where it says God is going to show the immutability of his counsel to the heirs of promise, that by two immutable things in which it's impossible for God to lie, we might lay hold and so forth. I'm just going to look at that phrase there. Then you see the word confirmed in there twice. In this section, you see in verse 16 an oath for confirmation, and then you see it again in verse um What is it, 18? He confirmed it by an oath. Verse 17, excuse me, 16, 17 have it. Those are two different words. And that second word confirmed is quite interesting. Because it literally means he interposed himself. He he pledges himself. That's your new word and your new fill-in-the-blank there, interposed himself. pledges himself literally he acts as a mediator coming between himself and us as if he were and this is the interesting part because Penny made a point about swearing by the greater What is it when God swears by himself, how does that operate? You have to swear by the greater. How does that function? How can he do that? Any thoughts? Hint, Trinity. Yeah. Multiple persons to the Trinity, so one could swear off another. Yes, one could swear off another. And who would be the lesser? The Lord Jesus Christ. Who would be the greater? God the Father. And so isn't that what you see is the mediator, the interposer between God and man, as it were, Jesus Christ is making that oath that he will surely bless. And so he is acting as that intermediator. He's the one who interposes himself. He's standing in the way to say, based on my testimony, I assure you this will surely happen. And so while he swears, he is in fact swearing in between the Godhead. It's a covenantal structure within the Godhead that he can do this. What does immutable mean? Immutable. Changeless, unchanging. Okay, changeless, unchanging. Yeah. You can't hit the You can't hit the mute button. Why were you looking at Mrs. Ross when you said that? Quiet. Yes, yes. I shouldn't do that. Uh immutable, yes. Uh it means that it cannot mutate In the medical field, they talk about you've got some mutations in your body. It's becoming cancer. It's changing into something bad. If it's immutable, it can't change. In chemistry, certain chemicals aren't, they don't call them immutable, they call them inert. They don't interact with other things. Gold is such a chemical. Some women have gold earrings because it will not interact with their skin. It's inert. It won't mutate and change the chemistry and cause an irritation. Some things are mutable that can't change, and the Greek word is, I like this breaking it apart, ah, meta, tithami. So to tithami is to lay something down. It means to place it horizontally. Think of a building. It falls down. You have a flagpole, it's falling over, it's flat. And meta is uh uh is to uh it it means to then pervert, to remove, to transpose, to change. And when you put that A in front of it, that negates it So it means you can't, it can't fall over, it can't go flat, it can't be perverted, it can't be removed. But where does all this concept come in at? Where is the penman to the book of Hebrews even coming up with any of these ideas from? Well, yes, we see in Genesis 22 that there was a swearing of an oath, but then he talks about There's these two immutable things. It turns out that there's a great connection to Psalm 110, which the penman to Hebrews has been writing about all along. He says this in verse 4, and you've heard me talk about these before, because it's all over Hebrews 2 and 3. The Lord hath sworn, that means he took an oath. And here's the second thing, will not repent. Well, if he will not repent, that means he won't change. It's another way of saying he cannot lie. Those are the two things. You see it? He pulls it out right there from Psalm 110. These two immutable things. Thou art a priest forever after the order of Melchizedek. And there's our tie to Melchizedek, which finally we will talk about next week. Now some have said, the um Matthew Henry is one that these two immutable things are not the oath and the fact that God can't lie, but the two immutable things would be the oath of God and his promise. He makes a promise he can't lie. He makes an oath that he's not going to deviate. That would be the two immutable things. I tend to like the connection to Psalm 110, because that appears to be where he's drawing this material from The fact that God can't lie, whether he speaks, whether he makes a promise, broader than just any promise when God speaks. If he says, uh surely such and such will happen, That's a declaration. If he gives prophecy, that's a declaration. Anything that God says is trustworthy, but for him to take an oath on top of it is to ensure us that he's not going to change. I like this line in Micah 3. 6. I am the Lord, I change not, therefore you sons of Jacob are not consumed My father wanted that verse of scripture placed upon his gravestone, and maybe one of these days I'll get around to changing that out so it does read that. But I remember that that was something a very important verse to him that that God is the Lord, he does not change. He is the changeless, everlasting one. Have you ever heard people say, well, I don't like the God of the Old Testament, he's a God of wrath. I like the God of the New Testament. He's a God of love. You heard that before? Yeah Well, that's nonsense because it says that there's two different gods, and there's not. God is simply fulfilling what he had promised to do. And he's showing in the old that those who try to do it by themselves will fail and get wrath. If you attempt to fulfill a covenant on your own strength, means, merits, effort, you will fail. But it's only upon the promised blessing of the Son, of him fulfilling it, that you find this God of grace standing out much more strongly. Romans picks up the same thing. It says the gifts and calling of God are without repentance. That would be another term for immutable. When you see in the scripture it says God repented of the evil he fought to do, it doesn't mean that God is changing his mind. From our vantage point, it looks like there's been a change. This is all done to speak from our vantage point because it does appear that at one time God was angry with the wicked, and I was in that midst of the wicked, but now he's gracious and favorably disposed to me. What changed? Well what changed was me. He changed me into a child of his grace, and so now he's going to rightly give the favorable disposition that his covenant will promise demands. Does God need to make vows? I think Penny answered that earlier. No. So why would he start making one now? If we pause for a moment and get off of my bullet train session that I've gone through here rather quickly. Why out of the blue do you suppose God might start to make an oath or a vow now? As I look at the next two verses, it looks like it's for us. So we have a hope for our soul, an anchor for our soul, a refuge for our soul. And what God has promised, we can hold to it on where the words He uses, safe and sure and steadfast. Very much so, yes. Yeah, that's what I was gonna say. He's gotta he's gotta bring it down to our level. And so verse fifteen says, For men barely swear. This is the way men are accustomed to, therefore And condescending to men of low estate, I will function in a way that you understand. That's a really good word, condescending. You know, God doesn't need to swear. Imagine the eternal righteous one of the universe. Everything he says is true. He has no benefit to gain by telling a lie. It would undermine his character. It would just be contrary to everything in his entire nature. There's no motivation or reason for us to ever expect that our God would lie And yet he, lo and behold, makes an oath, and it's not for it's not that he's being put on trial. Brother Bernie used to say, we are not on the Bible's not on trial, we are. If we gotta quit putting God on trial, we're the ones on trial And yet, lo and behold, he himself swears. I want you to look at this verse in your handout, or maybe go to it in your Bible. It's the seventh chapter of the book of Micah. It may take you a while to find it. It's one of those shorter prophets in the Old Testament. The book of Micah has a wonderful passage here, and if you go to the book of Matthew and start to back up. uh you'll run into it in fairly short order. It won't be too many pages before you hit it. It's uh uh before Nahum, before Zechariah. If you get to Amos you and Hosea, you've gone too far Micah chapter 7 and verse 19, and I put it in your bulletin if you can't get to it quick enough. I just want you to notice all the wills. Every time God says will, He he's he's just underscoring to us that benefit he will. It says, he will turn again. He will have compassion upon us. He will subdue our iniquities. Remember, God can't lie. This is not a vain thing. And thou wilt cast all their sins into the depths of the sea. Thou wilt perform the truth to Jacob and the mercy to Abraham, which thou hast sworn unto our fathers. from the days of old. He's really assuring us, giving an assurance of mind to us, this benefit of swearing is for us. Right here and now. It is a thing that He's doing for our benefit. He's assuring our hearts and minds. He's reminding us of His covenantal oaths He even says as much in Isaiah 54. It's your next passage in the handout, Isaiah 54, 8. He says, In a little wrath I hid my face from thee for a moment. But with everlasting kindness will I have mercy on thee, saith the Lord, thy Redeemer. For this is as the waters of Noah unto me. For as I have sworn that the waters of Noah should no more go over the earth. In other words, God's not going to destroy the earth with a flood again. He did it once. He swore, I'm not going to do it again. This is as the waters of Noah. So have I sworn that I would not be wroth, meaning angry, with thee, nor rebuke thee. For the mountains shall depart, and the hills be removed That by way of fire, we know from 2 Peter 3. But my kindness shall not but depart from thee, neither shall the covenant of my peace be removed, saith the Lord, that have mercy on thee Well God uses these oaths to assure us that He will verily do what He has promised that He will do. He will, in fact, carry out the thing that He has said. He even goes further in Jeremiah 33. He says, Thus saith the Lord, if ye can break my covenant of the day, and my covenant of the night, that there should be not day and night in their season. Then may also my covenant be broken with David, my servant, that he should not have a son to reign upon his throne. And of course that son is Jesus. I remember seeing a physics video that was talking about leverage and if they just had a board big enough and they could find some place in space to anchor it as a fulcrum that if they just had a board or some long material large enough, they could actually move the Earth with a fulcrum. God says, right, if you can, if you can change my covenant with the day, if you can change my covenant with the night. There's, he says Daytime and nighttime, springtime, seed time, harvest, all of that's going to continue. God says, you can't break it. Man's not nearly as powerful as he thinks he is. Uh the the way the earth has a way of regulating itself and it it's it yeah. God says, no, you're not gonna do it. You you govern it. Yes. Man thinks he can change the climate. Yeah, and he's just not going to get there from here. What do we do with all this? What's the result of all this? Well He's saying this for us, and it's giving us something, and I think this is kind of the point of where I want to get to, is that we have a heavy anchor. Christ is our heavy anchor. It says that we in verse 18 and 19, that we might have a strong consolation. We're going to talk about the we in a moment, because this is written to Hebrews that we might have a strong consolation, who have fled for refuge to lay hold upon the hope set before us, which hope we have as an anchor of the soul. Now, first question is this. So who are the we? I mean, aren't the Hebrews who are Jews and the Gentiles, aren't they both the children of God? I mean, how do we know that these Old Testament oaths and gods, oaths and vows of God apply to us Gentiles? Aren't they only for national Israel? How do we know that is this only for Jews? What do you think? Am I over-reading too am I reading too much into this? Who's the we? The ones who have fled for refuge. Okay. Which is not every which is not the weed, but all of the weed. Yeah, alright. Those who have fled for refuge. Somebody might say, yep, that would be the Jewish Christians to whom he was writing. How dare you include Gentiles in here? How would you And if you read the rest of the re of the chapter, it's those who enter in by Jesus Christ. Okay. Yeah, Jesus Christ has to be factored into this somehow, who himself was a Jew, who was that mediator. Melchizedek was not in the Lana Hebrew. We haven't gotten quite to expounding Melchizedek yet, and you're not incorrect. And uh he was certainly predated and was outside of that, so he's an intercessor. That's an interesting point. Yeah, he's not of the Jewish line. The Apostle Paul, I think, is a little clearer on this point here The we is in fact those who have fled for refuge to Jesus Christ. But how do we know that explicitly from the scriptures? Well It says in verse 17 that the promises are to those who are the heirs of the promise, those who inherit the promise. That's interesting. You ever purchased a I think this is common on automobile tires. It's got a 60,000-mile warranty, and the warranty is good for the life of the tire. And subsequent owners. So if you buy the new tire, because you want to sell your car, you have to put new tires on it. You advertise it's got new tires, and it's got a transferable warranty. You can get this car. It's you know used, but hey, it's got new tires, and the warranty came with it. We are heirs of that promise. We have inherited, though we were not Abraham when God swore to him, he also swore to his seed. And the Apostle Paul talks about that. He says that Before I get to Paul, let me just finish out what Hebrews has already told us here. I'm jumping ahead of myself. In verse 12, God reminds us that by faith and patience we inherit the promises. So it's to those who by faith inherit the promises. So that's chapter 6, verse 12. So we've got faith connected there. He said the gospel was preached to them, but it did not profit them, not being mixed with faith. So the message they heard according to chapter 4, verse 2, was the gospel. It was preached to them. Paul says that that it's uh that circumcision is of the heart. If you look at that hand out in your handout Romans 2 Listen to what he very plainly says there, end of Romans 2, 28 and 29. He is not a Jew which is one outwardly, neither is that circumcision which is outward in the flesh, but he is a Jew which is one inwardly. And circumcision is that of the heart, and the spirit, and not in the letter, whose praise is not of men but of God. So yes, you can say that I am speaking to a room full of spiritual Jews at the moment. We are spiritual Jews, having been circumcised in the heart. We enter into those promises because we inherit them and we do so by faith. So we are part of the we that is in there. He said in Galatians 9, the children of the flesh are not the children of God, and so they're not all Israel. All Israel is not of Israel. Just because they were bloodline descendants of Abraham, like Ishmael or like Esau. They're not children of God. They refused and rejected the promises of God. In Galatians he says, they which are of faith are the children of God. Any Jew who does not believe in Jesus can claim any of God's promises. Did you catch that? Any Jew who does not believe in Jesus, specifically in Jesus Christ, cannot lay claim to any, and I repeat, any of God's promises. That would include the land promises. That would include the promise of a of a great and abundant multitude of seed. That would include protection. That wouldn't you name it. If they can't claim Jesus Christ, they have no claim to his promises. That's the only place you'll find an inheritance of Abraham's blessing. This is such a fundamental New Testament teaching. And why churches go astray in this, I don't understand Yes, we stand with the people of Israel nationally. They're a democracy, they're some benefit to us, sure, as a nation. Spiritually, no. We don't accept Orthodox Judaism. We don't accept that. I'm sorry, it's just not something that's compatible with the New Testament. It will not work. Those who left the faith were excommunicated. Yeah. And basically Israel has excommunicated themselves. Yes, they have. And God has sworn in his wrath, they shall not enter into my rest. Yeah, they have excommunicated themselves. So God calls these divinely certified oaths, and this is kind of the exciting part to think about. These divinely certified oaths and promises, He calls them three things: an anchor. A hope and a consolation. I guess you could say refuge, the fled for refuge. You can make it four things as well. Let's get to some real basic stuff here. Why, folks, does a ship need an anchor? I mean, after all, isn't the point of a boat To go from point A to point B. You know, if you're fishing and you got a lot of gear in the boat, it gets heavy to row. You want to lighten the load. Why would you want, or a big ship, container ships? They're sailing long distances. Every bit of weight is all the more for that propeller to push against, more fuel, less efficiency, more expense. Why does a boat need an anchor? You don't have to be a theologian to answer this one, folks. You can imagine it if you've never been in a boat. Would you get in the boat without an anchor and cross the sea? So it doesn't hit the key bridge. So it doesn't hit the key bridge. Right. Well hold it where it's supposed to be. Right. What are other reasons the ship doesn't need an anchor besides not hitting the key bridge and messing up the state of uh the city of Baltimore? I think it's when you want it to be um stable and not to uh be moved about with the waves and whatnot. Okay. You mentioned waves Any idea how big waves might get on the ocean? What's the biggest horror story you've heard about waves in the ocean? Have you seen some videos about that or heard about them? Sharks. Sharks? That's a mighty big shark. I guess you could drop the anchor on a shark. During a typhoon in World War II, the US lost I think it was six ships in one storm because the waves were just more than the ships can handle. Hmm. Yeah, to this day ships try to steer around the storms. There are these waves, they are called rogue waves. Have you heard of rogue waves? Um I was a physics major in college. I love physics. One of the interesting things about it is you can break every a lot of things down into waveform and wave structure. And the interesting thing about waves is they build on top of each other So that's how your noise canceling headphones work. They do the opposite. They work against each other. So it listens for a sound, it produces the counter shape, and so it mutes whatever you hear and it compresses the amplitude, so it's practically gone But the opposite can occur with amplification. You can just double it up. This can happen in the ocean, where winds blowing in different parts of the world from different directions will produce waves and they can all go to one particular spot. And it turns out the Bahamas is a hot spot for that. Or the B Bermuda Triangle is a hot spot for that. You've heard about all these mysterious disappearances, sometimes of planes. disappearing in the Bahamas, boats mysteriously disappearing. They believe it's now due to rogue waves. Where one wave comes from one direction, another wave comes from another direction, and a third And then they compound, and you get a wave that's twice as high as the worst-case scenario. It's a one-time event. It just boom happens. It just springs up out of nowhere One of the uh Seven Sisters, one of the big oil companies, their oil rig experienced a rogue wave at sea and it nearly overtoppled the rig. Those things are like 50-70 feet off the surface of the water. That's enormous for a wave to come up that high I was on a I had an opportunity to get uh two hours of easy A. Well how would you like two hours of an Easy A class, said Joey? It was on my winter break from the University of Texas. I would spend two weeks in the ocean, it was three weeks, two or three weeks in the ocean on a oceanographic vessel that the university had at UT. It was a 160-some odd foot vessel They would go and collect seismic data by towing behind it these long strings of hydrophones to just to collect some data, the subsurface. And you got to live on a boat for two or three weeks, sailing around in the Gulf of Mexico for a few weeks in wintertime and get two hours of an easy A just to watch them process the data. How cool is that And that was a really interesting class. The thing I liked the most had nothing to do with the tape reels and the phones and all that. that stuff that they were doing. But they had to cut the trip short because a storm hit in the Gulf and they said, we gotta go around this thing. We can't go through it, much for the same reason that you talked about in World War II. But he says it'll get a little choppy because we can't outrun the storm. There were, I'd say, a crew of half a dozen people on the boat, and there were some 20 students. And all except for the crew and I were green. They were just absolutely tossed. They were seasick. And I was loving every second of it. I have this weird body chemistry that just likes the up and down motion. I've always liked that as a kid. Asked my mom about going up and down in water. I just have gone bananas about that. I think it's fantastic And I went out on deck. The guy said, don't get out of the first deck. You'll get washed off the side of the boat. We ain't gonna look for you, son. And you're too skinny to strap a life preserver on, so stay on the second or above. And it was cloudy, a little bit of moonlight coming through. And when we were at the bottom of the swells, you look around you and all around you can see is a big bowl of water. It was just phenomenal. But then when the wave came and lifted the boat up and you hear this creaking noise as it's really stressing every bolt and weld in that rusty old however many year old vessel as it's peaking up you can see for miles around It is impressive what the ocean can do. Waves are nothing new, in fact, in the Old Testament, uh, excuse me, the New Testament, the very earliest account, the Apostle Paul records a shipwreck that he was in. And he says in Acts 27, I have Acts 2, I think it's 27. or thereabouts. Then fearing lest we should have fallen upon rocks, they cast four anchors out of the stern and wished for the day. The storm was so severe that ship threw out every anchor they had on board and tied it, and they prayed that day might come. You do realize, folks, that the promise of God is stronger than four anchors. Life can throw you some pretty heavy storms. And if you haven't been through one or two, you've either been dead or comatose in your existence. Life can throw you some mighty tough storms. Mighty tough. You don't have those promises of God just yet. Where is this promise of a new heaven and a new earth? Where is this promise of a new body? Minds falling apart. It's getting more sore by the day, and I'm looking for that warranty card that I thought I filled out oh so long ago. But my body is just really hurting. You can have some periods of tremendous mental anguish. Boy Ministry brings that about. Working in corporate America can bring that about. Working with large multinational corporations that can present problems that will twist your head three different ways What can hold you, independent business owner, that'll stress you out beyond imagination, what can hold you and keep you connected to the promises of God? Christian, he has sworn, the God who doesn't need to swear, with an oath, saying, Surely, blessing, I will. Bless thee. The God of the universe has sworn with an oath that he will surely bless you. Psalm 62 says, My soul, wait thou only upon God. My expectation is from Him. He only is my rock and my salvation. He is my defense. I shall not be moved. Can the Christian get buffeted? Yes. Can he slip a bit? Yes. Will that ship flounder around in the sea as that anchor holds in the bottom, as the wind and the waves buffet hard on the side? Yes Yes, it will. But he and he alone and his promises are a rock solid anchor. Stronger than four anchors you can cast out the stern. It is utterly immovable. It cannot move. He says, though heaven and earth shall pass, my word shall not pass away. When you see your whole Life savings, your whole health, when you see so much in front of you being wiped out and removed and taken away with no chance of it being restored. What can cause you to hang on? And it's these promises of God. I conclude with a wonderful set of observations from Matthew Henry. He's quite the pastoral commentator on this section of scriptures. And I thought these were three very good applications to make. He says, we are in this world as a ship at sea, liable to be tossed up and down. and in danger of being cast away. Our souls are the vessels, the comforts, expectations, graces and happiness of our souls. Notice this that it's an anchor for the soul, or the precious cargo with which these vessels are loaded. Heaven is the harbor to which we sail The temptations, persecutions, and afflictions that we encounter are the winds and the waves that threaten our shipwreck. Point number two, we have need of an anchor to keep us sure and steady, or we are in continual danger. Knowledge is a good thing. Knowledge of the promises of God is a good thing. Knowledge of the sworn promises of God is a better thing. Number three, the gospel hope is our anchor As in our day of battle, it is our helmet, so in our story passage through this world, it and it alone is our anchor. I like those words. God is concerned about the comfort of his people. God is concerned about their hope. How else would he command, rejoice evermore? And again I say rejoice. There's a reason to Though all hell break loose around you, you need not fear. God has got this. Use that anchor. Let's pray. Our gracious and merciful Heavenly Father, we thank you that you are indeed that anchor of the soul. Lord, please forgive us where we have doubted you, for an oath is an end. and a confirmation of an end to all strife. Lord, forgive us for failing to recognize what you have promised to us, and for discounting it. Lord, let us not discount this oath that you have given for our assurance, and let us not question why you do what you do. Let us rather submit to thy hand and to acknowledge that all that we have is of thee, both our trials and our hope. It's all aimed and designed to cause the people to be conformed to the image of your Son. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen.