Let me preface the reading of this by letting you know that this text that we'll be reading from this morning, 1 Samuel chapter 8, verses 10 through 22. would have been a very commonly used text for a message from the pulpit by the Presbyterian preachers in seventeen seventy-six. As we go through it you may start to get a glimpse of of why it was such a precious text for them. It may not be a precious one for you today. You may wonder where I'm going with this I sometimes wonder myself when I'm repairing them where I'm going with them, and I'm still not sure, but um I trust that you'll find a blessing in it and realize it. If they preach it in 1776 Maybe we're due to preach it again a little more regularly in this day and age. So 1 Samuel chapter 8, beginning in verse 10 through the end of the chapter. And Samuel told all the words of the Lord unto the people that asked of him a king. He said, This will be the manner of the king that shall reign over you. He'll take your sons and appoint them for himself, for his chariots, and to be his horsemen, and some shall run before his chariots. And he will appoint him captains over thousands and captains over fifties, and he will set them to ear or to plow his ground That is the king will have your sons ploughing his ground, and to reap his harvest, and to make his instruments of war, and the instruments of his chariots. And the king will take your daughters to be confectionaries, that's people who deal with perfumes and so forth, and to be cooks and to be bakers. And he will take your fields, and he will take your vineyards, and he will take your olive yards, even the best of them, and give them to his servants. He will take the tenth of your seed and of your vineyards and to give his officers and to his servants. And he will take your men servants and your maidservants and your goodliest young men And your assholes, and put them to his work, to the king's work, whatever the king wants done. And you will take the tenth of your sheep, and ye shall be his servants. And he shall cry out in that day, because you're a king which you shall have chosen you, and the Lord will not hear you in that day. You're gonna you're not gonna like the king after a while. Nevertheless, the people refused to obey the voice of Samuel, and they said, Nay, but we will have a king over us. That we also may be like all the other nations, and that our King may judge us and go out before us and fight our battles. And Samuel heard all the words of the people, and he rehearsed them in the ears of the Lord. And the Lord said to Samuel, hearken unto their voice And make them a king. Beginning at verse 10 this morning. Samuel had been getting a lot of complaints from the people. For for centuries, the judges, the prophets, like Moses and Aaron and Samuel have been running the kingdom. Call it an aristocracy, uh, or rather a theocracy, not an aristocracy. Uh it was a theocracy, it was run by theologians, uh the country of Israel, and now they wanted an aristocracy, they wanted royalty, they they wanted a king And they've been complaining to Samuel about this, and so Samuel told her prayed and talked to God. He had God's ear. All the words of the Lord he shared then back with the people that God had told him. God told Samuel they want a king, they want a king. Let me tell you what a king is like. And he told Samuel what a king was like. And he said, Tell the people what the king is like And so Samuel here in these verses we just read, he is warning the people of the royal consequences of having a king to rule over them, to become like all the other nations I want to remind you that in 1776, and even in this day and age, millions of people left the nations, left the countries who had kings. They didn't want to live under the reign of a king. They had lived under the reign of a king in 1776 in England, King George III, and others from other countries had done the same. People fled Spain for America, they fled England for America, they fled Scotland and Denmark and Africa and Japan and Jamaica and Sweden and Thailand and by the way those countries all still have kings today and there's a much longer list than that. But people who got tired of living under the reign of a king fled to America. And then King George began to make it so unbearable for him in 1776 that they wanted tossed off the control of the king across the sea. And sermons began to come from the text like I read this morning about the things that are wrong with a king. People came here to be free. And Christ says if we know the truth, the truth will set you free in John 8. 32. So, what is the truth about kings? That's what we're going to look at this morning. What is the truth about kings? George Washington knew the truth about Kings, and when the war was over, The American Revolutionary War was over and the people wanted to form a government. The first thing many of them said was, We need to have a king and we want George Washington to be our king And some of you know what George Washington said. He said, We have but one king, Jesus Christ. We don't need them. We just come out of reigning and being ruled under a king. He said, if you have a king, he will make his own rules, he will make his own laws, and he'll change them when he wants to. He may go by a different name. In Egypt, the king was called the Pharaoh. In Rome, the king was called the Caesar. We get that term. In Russia, the king was called the czar. And in America, we now have I think 30 or 40 some czars, little kings throughout our government. George Washington knew that you did not want a king. In verses eleven and twelve, we were told what the king would be like: the king shall reign over you or rule over you. You will become his subjects. He will take your sons, uh draft them and grab them and take them into his his uh armory and into his army and into his navies and He will take your sons for himself for his chariots to be his horsemen. Uh he'll take some of them and they will they will plough or ear the ground. They will reap His harvest, they will no longer farm their land and their olive yards and uh and their vineyards, they will farm the king's property. In other words, along with that in making the instruments of war your sons, the king will govern in such a manner that he will come become eventually the main employer of the nation of Israel. Shall have your sons, shall have your daughters. He will become the main employer of the nation of Israel, reigning over all of it. The young men of the nation, they will be subjected to jobs they would have never chosen for themselves. They will be subjected to farming or arming for battle. Two things that they're that's hard work either way. And for those who think, well, I wouldn't mind being in the army, I wouldn't mind joining the army, I I I you know some of us here we did that, we joined up and we want to be heroes and fight for a country, do something for a country, and we envision ourselves over there with a rifle, you know, killing the enemy And we got over there to some war zone sometime and and training and I know Pastor Davis over in Saudi Arabia and we end up over there with potato peelers on kitchen duty, you know. We weren't war heroes We end up with jobs we didn't even want, jobs we never would have asked for. But when you have a king, he will arm the nation, he will have an army, he will subject your young men to jobs they never would have chosen for themselves Back to reading 1 Samuel 14 of the first king that Israel gets named Saul, there were sore or very harsh wars against the Philistines. And Saul saw, and any strong or valiant man he saw, he took him out of the tribes of Israel and put him in his army and sent him to war. We used to call that the draft here in America. We don't have the draft anymore. Just when the economy gets so bad and you need a job real bad, what do you do? Young men are enlisting because they can't find work anywhere else. And it wasn't just the men that the king would take, it says that the young women, who at one time would work at home The you read the Proverbs, wife, and the women and the daughters and the children, they would work at home until they were married. Now they'll work outside the home for that. King. He will grab your daughters, it says in verse 13. He will take your daughters, and they will become his cooks and his bakers of all the delicate dainties and sauces of the pageantry pomps and parties that your king will throw. And you know that as as well as anyone when you see even our president when he throws a party at the White House Or if they go to China on some foray or something, they bring along forty or fifty cars and four or five large airplanes And they they take the whole Taj Mahal when they were in India. They took all the floors of Taj Mahal for I think they brought something like four hundred secret servicemen with them. I mean it gets expensive after a while in order to have that kind of pageantry, you need to have a lot of the sons and daughters of the nation working for those who rule over them. And so they would take the women, our daughters as well. And in addition to that, the king would take your fields, it says in verse 14, and they will take your vineyards, and they will take your olive yards Will he be compensated for them? Oh no, the king won't compensate you for them. It says here, he will take them They had a term they used back then. It's not in the Bible, but it's used throughout the scriptures. The application of it is. It was called the king had eminent domain. He could just declare the property is no longer usable for you, that the kingdom has need of this property. And so it was that Ahab and Jezebel. They fell upon a piece of property, Nabus Vineyard. Remember that? And the king wanted it. And if the king wants it, he's the king. He can take your vineyards, he can take your fields, he can send out his Bureau of Land Management and take away thousands of acres of Clive Bundy if he wants it, if there's a reason for it. And sometimes when he takes the property, he just distributes it to his servants and his officers. Eminent domain, taking the property, redistributing it. It says here in verses 14 and 15 that after he's taken your property and your vines your fields and your vineyards and your olive yards, that he will redistribute, that he will give them to his servants and to his officers. That's redistribution of the wealth. That's communism, by the way And that's what a king does. When a king rules by solid fiat, he can take what he wants and give it to whom he wants. He makes all the rules and they can change daily Samuel says you really want a king, O Israel. Do you really want someone that rules over you like that? Is you might ask you, well, is it a sin for the king to grab these things? Is it a sin? He's the king, can't he do what he wants? Well he will do what he wants, but is it a sin when he grabs these things The scripture says it is. Ezekiel 46 and verse 18: the prince or the king shall not take of the people's inheritance by oppression. He couldn't take Naboth's vineyard. Naboth denied the vineyard to Ahab. He said, I cannot, it's not my land to sell, it's my inheritance. I pass it on to my children. I can't give it to you. And so King Ahab goes in crying and weeping before Jezebel and Jezebel says, Well well we can take care of that. We'll hire some liars to say he's blasphemed the Lord and he's and he's a seditious against the kingdom of of Israel and we'll have him stoned and put to death And so they did. They had neighbor. In fact, because when he's dead, his inheritance passed on down to his children. They also killed his children. What does it say that a prince may not, a prince shall not take up a people's inheritance by oppression, Ezekiel 46? But a king will do that. He's not supposed to But he will take your property. He will not recompense you for it. He will say, Emma Domain, I have the right to take it. In fact, in our land, under the Constitution Those who are reigned overs could not take our property, if not even under eminent domain, unless there was a purpose like a hospital or a seaport or a military installation. There had to be a real good reason to take your land and not because some turtle out in the desert might die if your cow stepped on it. Hmm. So Nabah's land was taken by King Ahab, and Samuel tried to warn the people of Jehovah. Israel that if you want a king to rule over you, he will take your sons and employ them on his farm, on his land. He'll take in fact what was once your land will be the king's land and then your sons will Farm the king's land. It's still wrong today to take a man's inheritance The scripture says it is wrong to take a man's inheritance. Not even the prince or the king shall take of the people's inheritance. And yet today in this country He may not be called a king, but those who rule over us, when you have a pension, And you die and you leave that pension to your wife? Do you know there are some states that tax that pension Do you know there are some states that Maryland's one of the taxes your military retirement? Jim knows that? It's taxed in Maryland. If Jim moves to a couple other states, if he goes to Wyoming and Florida, other states, they won't tax it, but Maryland taxes his He serves our country for twenty years. His miracle his re military retirement is not supposed to be taxed. But the federal government, oh they tax all of it and a lot of the states are jumping in on it as well. But when he dies, that is his wife's That's his wife's inheritance. She inherits she gets his pension. And when you tax the pension, you are stealing from her inheritance. Same with the Social Security. They s when I was up until the time of Jimmy Carter was president, Social Security was never taxed, not by the state government, not by the federal government. Under Jimmy Carter Like a king, he decided to tax my wife's inheritance. When I die, now he taxes my will tax my Soul Security when I start to collect it. And some of the states will tax it as well. But that's my wife's inheritance. That is taking the people's inheritance by oppression You can see maybe why in the days of George Washington they would preach this stuff because they had the paper tax, they had the stamp tax, they had the tea tax. I mean it just went on and on. He said, Well, you have a king ruling like King George. This is what you get. And Samuel was trying to warn the people of the same thing, of how they would come after and take your homes. And your property. That's your inheritance. Debbie and Fred Miller know about that. They've got the farm. And they're all the concerns that are there. You want to pass it on to your children But they want to tax it, don't they, Debbie? And they don't tax it as agricultural taxation. You know, agriculture is kind of cheap compared to industrial commercial property. But when you got a farm you want to pass on your children, they want to tax them, not a not at farm value. They want to tax that at uh is is if we would build homes on or you might rezone it for commercial. They want to really hit you for it. They are taking away the inheritance Maybe only a portion of it, but a large portion of it. And the scripture says the prince shall not take of the people's inheritance. by oppression. And George Washington and Benjamin Franklin and all these men they didn't like the way the king was taxing, taxing, taxing. and eating into the inheritances that they wanted to pass under people. Christ warned, Woe unto you that devour widows' houses or their inheritance in Matthew 23 and verse 14. Oh, and the king doesn't stop there. Yes, he'll take your wife, or rather he'll take your sons He'll take your daughters. He'll take your inheritance. But then he also has a tax structure that Samuel warms about in verses 16 and 17. He will take a tenth of your seed So after you bring the corn in the field, you have all the corn gathered in the bins and the granaries, if you got the flax and the and the oats and the wheat, he comes and he takes the tenth of that And then he'll take a tenth of your sheep, every tenth sheep, and every tenth cow, all of your flock. He'll take all of that too And if he's really got an imagination, the king will probably come up with some kind of a rain tax or a flush tax or an amusement tax or a piggyback tax for all those real greedy imaginations. Kings like that will come up with even more taxes. This one could be on the sermon audio this week, I wonder. Ah these are the consequences, the royal consequences of wanting the government to rule over you to be governed, to have a king that rules over you. And it says in verse 17, if you have a king, you shall become his servants. We started out in 1776 as a government of the people, by the people, for the people, and we elected those to serve us. And they were the servants. But somewhere along the line it got switched, and now we serve them at their pleasure. We have a king. Don't we in America, lots of kings in America, determining what our job will be? Oh, you can't have that job. Oh you can't go to that college. Oh you can't you can't have a degree in that. Young lady was taking a degree, she wanted to be a psychologist and take a degree and she had she worked out she was all the up to her doctorate degree, she take her final theses and they found out she was a born again Christian. And they've refused to give her her degree. Completed all the work. Even refined thesis. They'll tell you what jobs you can have when you have a king. They'll tell you where you can work. They'll tell you who you can have for a doctor. They'll tell you which hospitals you can go to. Do you know if you're a cancer patient under the new Obamacare? That you cannot go you cannot go to uh an uh Anderson uh cancer center in Texas. It's not on the list. You can't go there. Do you know you can't go to the Memorial Sloan Kettling Cancer in New York? It's not on the list of Obamacare. Do you know you can't go to Mayo Clinic in Minnesota? If you have cancer, it's not on the list. They will tell you who your doctors will be, what hospitals you can attend, where you can get your care. That's when you have someone that reigns over you. And Samuel was warning about all this. The king determines your job, your places, and where you can work and where you can live. No longer will the government Of Israel served the people as Samuel had served the people, as Moses and Aaron had served the people, but the people now become the servants of King Saul. And we'll be reading about that in the chapters to come. How totally different is the Lord Jesus Christ? The Lord Jesus Christ is the King of Kings. And you know, he's not a human king. He's a he's a godly king. He's a righteous king. And we the description of Christ, the King of Kings, here's the description of himself in Isaiah 53, 12 He will be the righteous servant. Now that's a king. That's a godly king who's really there to serve the people. It says he will be our righteous servant, bearing our iniquities. That's the way a king should govern, but Samuel said they won't They won't govern like the Lord Jesus Christ would govern. Christ our King. What did Christ say if He's your King? That your yoke is easy and your burdens will be light, Matthew 11 and verse 13 But did King George make the yoke easy and their burdens light? No, he did not. And I don't know how much of our history we really know. I went through public school. I don't know much history at all. A big learning curve for me for the last 20 or 30 years. But I I'll just share this with you. When King George I became King of England, It was through marriage. You know, we know how that happens sometimes. They'd combine and it'd be kind of like a a peace treaty and they'd arrange marriages. Well there was one of these marriages and so it would be through the arranged marriage. Along comes King George I and he's now made King of England. King George I was from Germany He was a German. He couldn't speak one word of English, but he was the king of England. Can you understand after a while where the people in the colonies didn't like King George being their king? He was a German. Well he dies. And his son takes over. That's King George II. Well, King George II was born in Germany also. He did learn to speak some English, and that was kind of nice, but where do you think his loyalties lie? It didn't lie with the English people And when he dies, his son takes over. Now granted, King George III, in 1776, King George III was actually born in England. But his father and his mother and his father's father, they were all Germans. And where did his loyalty lie? It didn't lie with those people in the colonies in America. It didn't lie with George Washington. It didn't lie with the Parliament in England. And so you can understand perhaps why things got a little dicey in 1776. They didn't feel like King George, the German King Georges had not treated them well. But Christ said his yoke would be easy and his burden would be light. It's no different when King Rehoboam comes along, another king of the days of Israel. They come to King Mary Above and they said, You know, your father, he was pretty hard on us and he had some burdensome tax structures and and the yoke on us was very heavy. Could you lighten up a little bit And King Rehaboam says, heavy yoke, I'll add to your heavy yoke. My father chastened you with whips, I'll chasten you with scorpions. 1 Kings 12. Oh, the kings that Israel ended up with And how they reigned over them. Is there anyone here this morning that really places your hope in the right man coming along to run this country and make things all that better? I I don't think so. If you're looking for because you know what you're looking for, if you're looking for the right guy to come along to change things and make things all that much better, you're looking for some sinner to save this country It's just gonna be another sinner. And we like Israel will end up crying out again Verse 18, as they cried out, and the Lord will not hear them. He wouldn't hear them because they weren't living right. First off, they wanted a king and God didn't really want them to have a king yet But they wanted the king. They were l they were a nation living contrary to God's word. And when you live contrary to God's word as a nation, you'll only reap royal consequences. It is true in Deuteronomy 17 and 14 and 13. That God told them that there would come a day when Israel would want a king. That day will come. He didn't say that was a good idea, but God said there's going to come a day when Israel wants a king. And Samuel better warn him of what the king will be like. And so he said they're going to cry out as they begin to cry out. You'll cry out someday under King Saul, you'll cry out some day under King Ahab, you'll cry out someday. under uh King Rahaboam going to cry out, and the Lord will not hear you because you're not living as God would have you to live. God will not hear your weeping and he will not hear you because you didn't believe him and you wouldn't listen to him and you wouldn't follow him. So now he's not going to listen to you. In fact, we read in Isaiah 1 and 15, yea, when they make many prayers, I will not hear, God says in Isaiah 1:15. He will not hear them. He will hide his face from them, Micah 3. 5. Nevertheless, with all these warnings of Samuel, of people wanting to lean on someone to rule over them and reign over them and provide for them and take care of them, he said it will not work that way But if you want to do all that, he said, this is what you'll have. And then it says in that verse 19, nevertheless the people said, Nay, we will have a king over us. Kind of reminds you the last couple elections we had when people were being interviewed and they could hardly wait for for their candidate to win because He will take I won't have to worry about a house payment, I won't have to worry about a cash payment, I won't have to worry about a phone payment, I won't have He's gonna take care of everything. Hmm. They said, Nay, Samuel, nay, Samuel. It will never be as God says. It just can't be that bad. It won't work out that way. Nay, we don't believe you. And even if it's true, we will still have a king Whatever it costs, we will have a king. Whatever befalls us, we will have a king. Whatever happens to our children, we will have a king. Whatever happens to our children's in Paris says, we want a king And so they they went and they made themselves a king. In fact, it it just got worse and worse. I mean, look at verse 4 last week, we didn't read it today. It said, They came to Sam and said, Make us a king. Verse 4. But in verse 19, nay, we will have a king. You know, before they're asking, Samuel, make us a king. And then by the verse 19, we will have a king. Hmm. They wanted a king. It's kinda hard, isn't it, sometimes? You've got this invisible God that's promising to take care of you. But all around you you see people without God that seem so happy And you wonder what would it be like to live as though there was no God? I mean they seem to be getting along pretty good. They seem to be doing pretty well. They seem to be happy. I mean, maybe we should try life without King Jesus, huh? Maybe we should try life without a God. David got to position like that in the Psalms where finally he says that he didn't understand why the wicked prosper and they live a long time. You know, and I think that's the way we look sometimes at the world out there. They don't go to church, they don't pray, they don't read their Bibles, uh, you know, they could care less and they're getting along pretty good, they don't have cancer. They're not in car accidents. They seem to be doing quite well. And that's where David was too. He said, The wicked prosper and they live a long time. What's the advantage of being a Christian? And then David says, and then I considered their end. And I understood. They would perish for all eternity in a place called hell. And David, he understood. We need to understand that as well. One of the first lessons of Christian we lean to we need to learn is to ignore the world's ways. It may seem like it's working, it may seem like it's okay, but we need to ignore the world's ways and consider their end. Do it God's way, young people. Old people too. Do it God's way. All of us should do it God's way. Even if you're the only one willing to do it his way, do it God's way. Then he'll hear your prayers. And if you won't, he won't hear your prayers. It says here that they would have this king and the king would fight their battles and and that's what they wanted. They thought they could just sit back, oh good, now the king's gonna fight our battles Well he's gonna hide he's gonna grab your sons to go and fight those battles. And really, could any king do a better job than Samuel? I mean when you really look at it, you go back to the the battle of Ebenezer Samuel's prayers and God's thunder had been all that was required at Emaneser. I mean, you didn't have to sacrifice your sons out there in the battlefield if you had God on your side. Israel always won their battles when they trusted in God. Stonewall Jackson was like that. He was a man that always trusted in God. The only battle he ever lost was The only battle he ever lost, I think, was in was in Kearney Kearney or Kearns. What was it? Kern's Dan. The only one he ever lost. It was on a it was on a Sunday. It was on a Sunday. He always made it that's a Sabbath day, that's a day of rest. That's God's day. But he saw an opportunity. He saw an opportunity to surprise them and take them on. And who would expect Stonewall Jackson to attack him on Sunday anyway? And it was just a perfect opportunity. He goes charging down to surprise him the daylights on him. And it's the only battle that he ever lost. When you trust in God. And that's the way it was with Israel. Every battle they ever fought. They always won it when they trusted in the Lord. But they want a king to fight their battles. You know what? They're King Saul He's going to fight our battle. He's going to die in battle. Do you know when they had judges like Samuel and Moses? None of the judges ever died in battle. Oh, we want a king to fight our battles. Well, your king's going to die in battle. And Saul does. When we have these outrageous lusts, when we have these outrageous desires And we all have them sometimes. They take over us and they rob us of our reason, our ability to rationalize. And these people here, they had this outrageous desire and lust to have a king. Do you know if they just waited twelve more years, God was going to give them David? As their king. They just waited twelve more years. You know, that's why I love it in the Bible. Wait on the Lord. Wait, I say on the Lord, Psalm 27. And so when Samuel heard these words of the people He rehearsed them and says in the ears of the Lord, Boy it must be nice to have God's ear. It must be nice to notice you have God's ear. Do you ever feel like when you're praying that you have God's ear Wow, that's a wonderful feeling to know that God is really listening. That He's He's catching every syllable, everything you're saying, He's weighing it heavily, and He's going to do something about it. To have God's ear, would you like to know that you have God's ear? I'll give you three things to help you know that you have God's ear. First off, use Christ's name in your prayer. He said you ask him my name, right? Ask in my name and you shall receive. If you want to have God's ear, ask in Christ's name. Quote God's words in your prayers. No one ever doesn't we all love to be quoted? Oh uh Oh, somebody thinks I said something that's that's worth quoting. Quote God's word in your prayers Oh, and if you really want God to hear your prayers, here's a guarantee. I don't care who you are, I don't care what your spirituality is right now, I don't care where you are with God right now, you can get God's ear like that. Guaranteed. Third thing to do in your prayer, repent. He will listen to that. You repent of your sins. You ask God to save you. Oh my goodness. You go to the front of the line. You know, there's five billion people out there praying right now, but if you repent, you've got his ear. There's probably somebody here who hasn't done that, or hasn't thought of that. But Samuel had God's ear, and you can have God's ear They wanted a king, and so now this is where they're at. You know there was a major restriction on choosing a king? That is in Deuteronomy 17 as well. You want a king? I know you're gonna want a king someday. And when you want the king, we'll give you king. You won't be happy the king you get But there was a restriction, good king or bad king. This was the restriction. And you can look at later on today in Deuteronomy 17, 15. In any wise, you've got to get a king, this is the one thing you've got to do right. In any wise Set him king over thee, one from among thy brethren. You know, put someone over the top of you to reign over you, it had to come from your brethren. It couldn't be a stranger put over you It had to be, it says here, from among the brethren, thou mayest not set a stranger over thee which is not thy brethren. In other words, who's going to rule over the Israelites? He must be an Israelite. He couldn't be of a foreign ancestry. He must be one born among them. He must be one of their own. He must be homebred. Sounds like our constitution, doesn't it? Do you think the founding fathers of George Washington understood the importance of having someone born in this country to be your leader? Of course he did. They had what? King George born in Germany. They were tired of that. And so in the Constitution they wanted someone born in America to run America. It all goes back to the Bible when you really get night down to it, doesn't it? And so God gave them a king. God gave them what they deserved. They didn't believe God. They must have thought God was a liar. And so they got themselves for a king, a liar. Do you believe what Christ, the King of the Jews, said this morning? Do you believe what Christ says in the Bible? If you do not believe what's in this Bible and what Jesus Christ, the King of Kings, said, you will suffer royal consequences For all eternity. Let's pray. Father, we do thank you this day. That we have a king, as George Washington said. We didn't need another king. We have a king in Jesus. And Lord, we are so grateful and we can hardly wait till the day He comes back and He reigns. with his feet on a Mount of Olives and He reigns here for the thousand years of the millennium. Lord, we look so forward to that day when we know He's reigning from heaven, but oh for the day when he comes in the flesh and with all eyes will see him And he will reign, and he will rule, and he will judge righteous judgment. Oh Lord, come quickly for that day we pray. In Christ's name. Amen. Ask if our Deacon Larry would close the third today, please.