Turn in your Bibles, if you will, or open your hand out to the inside, where we're going to read the ninth chapter of Hebrew and verses twenty-three through twenty-eight, and then we'll get into our discussion question. Hebrews chapter 9, 23, 28. Oh, I have a note here to say hi to Matt. Good morning, Matt. I got the shirt. All right, we're good. Hebrews 9, 23 to 28 is our passage for today. Hear now the word of the Lord. It was therefore necessary that the patterns of things in the heavens should be purified with these. but the heavenly things themselves with better sacrifices than these. For Christ is not entered into the holy places made with hands, which are the figures of the true but into heaven itself, now to appear in the presence of God for us, nor yet that he should offer himself often as the high priest entereth into the holy place every year with the blood of others. For then must he often have suffered since the foundation of the world But now once in the end of the world hath he appeared to put away sin by the sacrifice of himself. And as it is appointed unto men once to die, but after this the judgment, so Christ was once offered to bear the sins of many. And unto them that look for him shall he appear the second time, without sin, unto salvation. Thus ends the reading of this portion of Scripture. Okay. Well, one of the hardest things I do every week is really not so much flushing out the theology. That's kind of a benefit. I enjoy doing that. It's not like I'm unfamiliar with this patch of scripture. The tough thing is coming up with a question. So bear with me sometimes if the questions are too high, too stupid, too obscure, but I'm hoping sometimes simple works This week is a simple question. I kissed it. Keep it simple, stupid. That's the most popular acronym in the Pentagon. Alright, so what are some things in life that you only do once? I'm only here on rare occasions, so I don't mean to dominate, but uh I'll give you several. Graduate from Mariness Roman Catholic High School. Graduate from a Catholic high school. Yeah, hopefully you only do that once, alright? Not that I know anything about it, but married hopefully Yeah, we're supposed to marry once. Right. Okay. Doesn't always work out that way, but keep that example in mind because we'll flush that out a little further. Anybody else? What are some other things you only do once Yeah, well he has the the discussed with uh He has the he has the he has the he has the baton then we'll get to you. Join the Marine Corps one time. You join the Marine Corps one time and then you hit yourself in the head saying, What was I thinking? You're always a marine. Ah, always marine. What's uh absolutely never form a marine. Uh at first we s uh we started with uh marriage, but they said there should be another marriage of time. But the only one time is the salvation. Okay, very good. Yeah, saved only once. Okay, good. She points to Gabriel, so we've got a thumbs up there. It's a point on the man wants to die Okay, from the text, you die once. And I would say you only buy a Ford once. You only buy a Ford once, and then you say never again. So why why uh so you picked a number of things, graduating from high school, joining the Marine Corps. Marrying, dying. I'm going to skip salvation and dying for a moment because uh that's pretty you know clear that that's a one-time deal. Well, uh actually I'm not gonna exclude those. Uh we'll get to that next. Why are these only done once? Why only one time? Why not twice? Why not three times? I'm not talking marriage here for a moment. Just uh It's the nature of the thing. You can only do that once because of its very nature, of what it is. Okay. Because of the very nature of it. Alright, I like that. Okay. Because it's not really a choice. It's You know, salvation is not a choice and ultimately though people commit suicide, death is not a choice. Hmm. Yeah, you can't commit suicide twice. Yeah So let's talk about the things where you're supposed to do it once, like join the Marine Corps, and then somebody re-ups and does. What's the good or the bad thing that happens If the thing you're supposed to do once, you have you do it again, what's the goodness or badness that comes from it? What does that imply? Yeah, only uh rare occasions, so it's a necessary Uh it is unnecessary and it's a waste of time. It diminishes the original thing done once for all. Okay. It might be evidence of fears or doubts, that is unbelief, that what was done was not enough or uh was not completed, but more was needed. And if done again, I say this with some humor, could possibly lead to and promote a compulsive disorder. Interesting. Yeah, that was quite the mouthful, but you've uh certainly covered a pretty good gamut of things. I like that uh thoroughness there Sounds like an astronomer who thoroughly scans the sky for every possible source of illumination. Uh he should only get baptized once. I know a a friend of mine he got baptized three times. He was he was sprinkled as a baby, then he got immersed as an adult, and then he thought he should have been poured So he sprinkled for it and and I asked him why he did it three times. He said he wanted to cover all the bases. So he didn't feel that one was sufficient and he wasn't sure which one was. So I think Oprah Winfrey had the same thing where she also got uh went through some Jewish right. No, she was quote unquote checking all the bases. Yeah, checking all the bases. Yeah, right. There's a lot of things that we wish we only did once, but we do over and over again and Well now you're getting back to marriage again. You know, I was thinking more about st stomping my toe on the Close to the bed that I built. If I ever build another bed it would put the legs in another corner. Yeah, that's pretty smart actually. Yeah, why do they put them so close to the corner so? I built this bed, it's my fault. Oh okay. Yeah. Uh that's good. Good discussion. Get your mind thinking about things that are done once. And so that's kind of what we're gonna look at today. And um this once business. Things done once. So I've got three uh outlines here, uh three kind of headings uh that I put these uh five or six verses into patterns before the appearance His personal appearance, speaking of Jesus, and his only appearance. So the patterns before the appearance, it's interesting because there's a word that appears In verse 23, it says the patterns of things in the heavens, referring of course to not only the tabernacle, the temple, the furniture, but also the priests themselves. The very Men that were staffing the whole operation. The Bible calls them patterns of things in heavens. They were a pattern. You ladies know what a pattern is, at least those who sow. You go to the Fabric store, Joanne's fabrics, you look in the pattern, you're looking for a pattern for a dress, and you're not looking for the dress. It's just a pattern. From that you're gonna Maybe modify it or take it as it is and buy the right fabric for it and make you address pattern. Uh that word pattern is interesting But it's reinforced by the word in verse 24, it says, which are figures of the true. It's a totally different word. Calls them patterns, calls them figures. I kind of got excited about that word pattern because the way that's normally translated in the Bible is the word example. You know what an example is. In fact, examples, I'm convinced, beyond a shadow of a doubt, is the best way to teach math. Any math where somebody just gives up, it's stands up there and bladders away is a useless feature. Give me some examples, right? It's all about the pattern. That's what math is all about. Show me the pattern, and then you give me a different equation or problem. I just go back to my example as a pattern and try to plug in the same numbers and run with it. That's the best way to learn math. Absolutely hands down. It's a pattern We as humans learn from patterns. That's why Jesus' parables are so instructive. They're examples, they're patterns, and we can fit our own unique aspects and life instances to that. There's an interesting wordplay going on in the Greek here, and I'm going to kind of give it the Vinsklutha rendition, if you will. It's a verse 23 and 24 It was necessary that the show pieces, because that word pattern has to do with a showpiece, like a court exhibit, it was necessary that the show pieces should be purified with these But Christ is entered into heaven to show himself in God's presence, God's court for us. In other words, these were the show pieces. But Christ was the one who showed himself. So there's a play there on words that illustrates that he is the substance of it. God's multiplying his figures in the Old Testament. So the common translation for that word pattern is the word example. For instance, again in your bullets, and I draw your attention, John 13, 15, at the foot washing, Jesus says, I have given you an example, a pattern that ye should do as I have done to you. It's a pattern. It's an example of service, of self-sacrificing service, debasing service on the behalf of others. No task in the Christian church should ever be considered too small. James 5. 10, take my brethren the prophets who have spoken in the name of the Lord for an example of suffering affliction. There's that word example. It's the sufferings of the faithful. That serves as examples. To fellow believers. Look at what that brother or sister is enduring. What a God-glorifying example of Christ's likeness to us. And then in 2 Peter, on the negative side turning the cities of Sodom and Gomorrah into ashes, condemned them with an overthrow, making them, that is the Saudis of the Saudis, the cities of Sodom and Gomorrah, the Sodomites making them an example unto those that should after live ungodly. God's wrath on the wicked at Sodom and Gomorrah was listed as an example. Little archaeological fact. Josephus records that the ashes of the ancient cities of Sodom and Gomorrah were visible in his day And that word example does in fact mean a visible representation, a visible pattern Those ashes of Sodom and Gomorrah stood there as an eternal monument to God's wrath against the Sodomites. You think God's opinion has changed concerning them? You think these foolish churches were embracing them and hugging them and yea, even anointing them as ministers Are missing something? Yeah, they're missing the example that God's wrath falls upon such individuals. Well, so a pattern is typically a very simple example everybody can learn from. So God multiplied his figures in the Old Testament tabernacle. He did it to fully illustrate what would and did actually occur in heaven. And then lo and behold, we have his personal appearance. And we see that in verse 24. Again, that word appear shows up twice. Verse 24, to appear. in the presence of God for us. He says in verse 26, In the end of the world, and I'll talk about that phrase in a moment, hath he appeared to put away sin by the sacrifice of himself. You know, these are some of the most ignored phrases in Scripture. They really are. They really are some of the most ignored phrases in Scripture Saints should take comfort in and be fully assured of God's completed and full work on their behalf. Yet some people will use other passages of scriptures to beat down the saints. You know that? People can use the Bible against you. It's called twisting the scriptures. It's called resting the scriptures. Resting it. We don't use that word much. It's not R-E-S-T. It's W-R-E-S-T, like a wrestler. It grapples with you and drags you to the ground. It becomes a ground grappling match and they're just, you know Wrestling. And some people will do that with the scriptures. I'm going to just put out two scriptures before you to illustrate ways that what we just read in Hebrews is ignored And is used to beat the saints into a works gospel. And let me show you what I mean. For instance, in 2 Corinthians 5. 9. He says, wherefore we labor that whether present or absent we may be accepted of him. We labor, we work. It's the saints, the apostolic man. And then he goes on to say this. This is the Apostle Paul under inspiration. For we must all appear before the judgment seat of Christ, that everyone may receive the things done in his body according to that he hath done, whether it be good or bad. What's the implication? What's the implication of that? If someone's trying to drag you into a works gospel, what's the implication of that verse if they're trying to apply it that way? Okay, judgment that Christ didn't uh appear on behalf of his people. In fact, personally be judged not Christ and his fish. Yes, that you personally have to appear, that you will personally be uh accounted for, that your own personal record will be brought up, good or bad, because it says good or bad And then that is going to be the standard and he's going to assess it. And then based on that, and of course who among us can say, yeah, I I I haven't done too many bad things, I'm not, don't have anything to worry Yeah, you begin to worry. And so that can be used as a club to beat you to bring you back to work. So unless you're doing X, Y, and Z, you're just not. It says we labor to be accepted of him. Oh. Wow, and that can get people worried. Same thing is true in Romans 14:10. It says, Apostle says, Why dost thou judge thy brother? Why dost thou set it not thy brother, for we shall all stand before the judgment seat of Christ? Well this is even stronger. It's talking about brother Your brother, and it says we all, well, that would mean brethren, shall stand before the judgment seat of Christ. Wow, that sounds like I I really am going to stand there. I'm going to be I'm going to absolutely be judged for everything I do. That's very much what it appears to be teaching. And so that's why I say these passages in Hebrews are the most ignored and misunderstood passages in all scripture. Because the passages I just read to you, and we're going to keep reading because there's context to be taken into account. could be misapplied, and that's a key word misapplied, to drag God's born-again believers back into a works gospel. Christ, folks, has already appeared before the judgment throne on our behalf. 2 Corinthians 5 is true. You shall appear, and you have appeared in the person of Jesus Christ. To be judged. He's been judged. And you were there in him. You were there in him. That's the only way this works. Is I If the psalmist says if God should mark iniquity, who shall stand? I mean if God finds one sin, James says he who is guilty in who offends in one point is what guilty of all. And he says, No man can tame the tongue. It's a world of evil. How many of us can say everything I've said has been perfectly holy, righteous, true, and upright? I I have no regrets about anything I've said in my life. How about anything you've thought in your life? Oh, great day We're sunk. No, it's not a confession. Ideally it was full of sexuality. We must understand that justice, and that's the key word, justice, has been satisfied in Jesus Christ. Justice has been satisfied. For instance, look at Hebrews 9. 26. Again, he says, now once in the end of the world. That's an interesting phrase. The atonement, folks, is quite curious. How many sins, Freddie, did Jesus die for? All of them. Past, present, and future. How does that work? You can't do that with the blood of a ram, of a bull of a gun. How would you know you you there's no equity or merit in it? The Roman Catholics have this idea of super irrigation where If the priest kicks in a little bit, he will uh pay forward some of your debt out of his abundant righteousness. Can you imagine the arrogance of that individual? He has no righteousness. He's twofold more the child of hell than you are. And he has appeared at the day of judgment, once in the end of the world. That word world is cosmos. It could also be rendered or I own, excuse me, it could mean it could be rendered end of the age. It certainly was the end of the Mosaic covenant, but it's the end of the world. As it were, he has stood there at that time for us. He's an eternal Savior. He's an eternal redeemer. He can pull that off. I can't That's why he's a suitable arbiter, a mediator. An arbitration is something you go to to settle a dispute outside of the full court legal system. And when that arbitration has occurred and settled, the court recognizes it as legit. If you try to appeal and you bring it before the court, they say, have you gone to arbitration? Yes. What did they say? Well they rendered this way. That's what it's rendered as. There's no redoing of the case. And so in Hebrews, when it says he's our mediator, it can also be rendered he's our arbiter. We have gone to arbitration already, right? Romans 8. 1 says, There is therefore now no condemnation to them which are in Christ Jesus. Condemnation unto hell is an impossibility for believers. How do you know they're believers who walk not after the flesh, but after the spirit? That's how you know they're believers. First Corinthians 6. 3 says, Know ye not that we shall judge angels. So, yeah, we're in the courtroom We definitely appear, but we're in the jury box. We're over here in the jury box. They're all in that courtroom. They're all present. But it says we shall judge angels Well, why aren't we standing in the court of the condemned and the accused? You've been through arbitration. Christ has appeared Well, is Christ's work going to be accepted by God the Father? Well, I hope so. And I know so. How can He not accept the work of the Son? I think some people see Satan standing as a great accuser, bringing up all our thoughts, words, and deeds before we were saved, after we're saved, embarrassing us, just trying to muddy the church as it were. But we have a pardon The pardons, he covers it all. And our meteor, our lawyer is Christ standing here before his father And he said, okay, he's got all these accusations he's going to bring up. Excuse me. Before he brings them up, the Lord Jesus Christ says, Father, I pardoned them already. Oh, have you got anything he hasn't pardoned? And Satan has to say, no. You know, it's done. It's just done. Yep, good illustration. Good illustration. I have seen presidential pardons before Uh there was one hanging on the wall inside of a secure facility I operated at for an individual. I I don't feel at liberty to name, but it was a uh it was a big case. And President George Bush's name was on that pardon. And he was pardoned. He was exonerated as an individual in the intelligence community. And it was quite quite interesting. We read in Colossians 3, 24, it says, Knowing that of the Lord ye shall receive the reward of the inheritance, for you serve the Lord Christ. You see, Judgment Day. When we use the word judgment, we tend to think of condemnation. But the saints actually, in a right understanding, the saints actually long for judgment. They want the judgment of God. They want God to issue a right judgment. Lord, I am in a sea of wicked people. Lord, I can't condemn them. I can't Fill in the blank to them. I can't take revenge, but you can. Lord, please render judgment on the wicked And declare me to be correct. Declare me thy servant to be right. Think of Elijah at Mount Carmel. He's praying briefly, O Lord, may it be known that you have turned the heart of these people back and that I am thy servant. And God answered speedily God rendered judgment on that. And he rejoiced in it. You see, judgment day for the saints is a day of exoneration. It's an exoneration. You're exonerated. You're cleared. You're revealed to be the sons of God. You're declared to be. No, you people were all dead wrong. These are my children. They were a messenger among you. You summarily rejected them. You did not embrace what they said. You didn't believe the testimony concerning their son. Therefore Depart from me, ye that work iniquity. I never knew you. Come ye blessed, he says to the saints Inherit the kingdom prepared for you from before the foundation of the world. The saints look forward to that time. And that's what the very end of our passage says. In Hebrews 9. 28, isn't that what it says? Unto them that look for him, he shall appear the second time without sin, unto what? Salvation. The complete fullness of salvation. New bodies. A new heaven and a new earth. Oh, there's a lot of new. There's a whole lot of new. Freddie, do people like new homes? They love new homes. Do they like new cars, Mike? New toys, new binoculars, new whatever your thing is? Christmas time? New We like new things, a new job, there's an excitement, new body. A new body, right. Yeah. I can't give you a Christmas gift, you ain't gonna float your boat unless it's a new spine. Folks, never confuse justification, which is what we are talking about. And the only fill-in-the-blank I've got in my handout is to make it super simple. Never confuse justification, that is a one-time deal. A one-time deal, Christ is paid for sins, you are declared just, it's done, it's finished. Never confuse justification with Sanctification. It is an ongoing process. God would have his people to be holy people. Holy means to be clean. We read about a passage recently in Deuteronomy where if you go abroad in the camp and ease yourself, you better have a paddle in the back of your weapon to bury that which cometh from thee. Because the Lord thy God walks in the camp and he wants to walk on holy ground, meaning clean ground. You can imagine it. God has to tell us what to do with our sanitation system. Because if He didn't tell us we wouldn't do it. That's an example of what holy is is to be clean. It's to recognize What is clean in God's eyes? And filthiness of the flesh is one thing, but filthiness of the spirit is another, and that's a deeper problem. And that's a lifelong pursuit that we'll never fully accomplish until Christ returns and gives us that new body. Never confuse justification with sanctification And works righteousness is a stain that keeps coming back to the church again and again and again and again. It just doesn't go away. It just you would think it would be so clear, but it keeps coming back. Listen to this bold language in 1 John 3 Whosoever is born of God doth not commit sin. Now that word doth not commit does not mean he automatically everything he does is perfect. What it does mean is that he doesn't abide in sin. His lifestyle, his pattern, his life is not like that old man. He's not someone who's comfortable. Ignoring God's claims. He's not comfortable with that. He does not commit sin. For his seed, God's seed, remains in him, and he cannot sin because he's born of God. You know, in the first instance, that refers to Jesus Christ He's born of God. And the second it refers to the true believers who have God's Holy Spirit. You can look at Ezekiel 36, 27. He puts his spirit in them, causes them to walk in his statutes. God does that So the law cannot demand once at Christ, then at my hand. Such would indicate that Jesus' work and sacrifice was somehow insufficient. I think our brother mentioned that to us a little earlier. What if he had to go back and get another high school degree again? That meant they went looking back at the record and saying, whoa, whoa, wait a minute. He got an he got an F minus in math. He can't graduate He's he's got to come back. He's got to take it all over again, and then he's got to graduate again. Or the baptism. Why didn't the first baptism work? Well, I don't know, there was something deficient in it It would just mean if you repeat something that's supposed to be done once, it says, well, the first thing was insufficient. Alright? Well, if I have to appear before the judgment throne, and Christ has already appeared before me, and I have to give an account Forget about the ramification to you, the ramification of Christ is bigger. It says, well, Jesus, you slipped up a little bit. You didn't cover that one, pal. Thanks a lot You left it to me. Really? That's not the savior I know about the scriptures. That's what that statement says. That's why it's a damnable heresy. It says Christ's work on the cross was insufficient That would mean the blood wasn't sufficient. The blood wasn't sufficient. Nice try, didn't work. Really? Since when is Christ's death on the cross ever presented as the Anything but an unmitigated complete and total success. You never find that it's a failure. You don't find it. And that at a time when you really need it. At a time when the blood really counts. Like a fort, it just doesn't come through. I've been in churches where they want people to stand up and talk about the testimony, give all the four sins they committed before they were saved And it becomes a real carnal who can top the other person being the biggest drunk, the biggest drill value. It just goes on and on. It's out of it was It shouldn't even be discussed. Right. Why bring it up and and make some sort of a carnal Sunday school class where everybody's trying to one up each other all rotten or makes them feel better Oh maybe they don't think of forgiveness, so that's a public testimony of forgiv I yeah. Let's just follow up on those two passages we opened this with 2 Corinthians 5. 10 follows up by verse 11, knowing therefore the terror of the Lord. In other words, everything that we read in 2 Corinthians 5. 10, where he said That we must all appear before the judgment seat of Christ, knowing therefore the terror of the Lord, there's no joy in that passage in verse 10. We persuade men. But we are made manifest unto God. Notice the distinction. We persuade men, the implication is we persuade unsaved men of the terror of the Lord. But we, we saints, are made manifest unto God, and I trust are also made manifest in your consciences. Right? That's A pure conscience is one of the fruits of salvation. A blessed assurance is a fruit of salvation. Soccery. Mm-hmm. Romans fourteen eleven, which is the latter part of Roman the sec next Statement of the Romans fourteen ten, why do you judge your brother, set it not your brother? The Lord, every knee shall bow to me and every tongue shall confess to God. Well, saints have no problem bowing to God. We have no problem confessing his name. In fact, you find that. When you jump forward to the book of Revelation, you see they're doing exactly that. You uh uh and we'll read that at this next point here that we're gonna get to here. I'm jumping ahead of myself. So let's talk about his only appearance. His only appearance. He appeared once. That's all it took He doesn't need to redo it. He did it well the first time. It's a job. Don't you love it when you can do a job well done? I hate plumbing jobs because it always requires three trips to the plumbing store. I've narrowed it down to two Because I've learned the first time you go buy extra parts. You can always return them later. But the leaks gotta get stopped now. Buy extra parts. Free tip note for you, Matt. Notice the repetition of the word once, and that's where I got excited about this particular passage. Verse 26, it says, once. And the end of the world hath he appeared. Verse twenty eight. Appointed unto man once to die. Verse twenty eight Christ was once offered to bear the sins of many. You see, these verses are hammering home the reality of Jesus' single visit before God's courtroom. One time, one visit. Christ is our arbiter, the mediator. He satisfied all of his elect's final court appearance. It satisfied. He took care of it. There's no need for a second trip And look at this language here in Revelation 18, as we wrap it up here. It says, This is speaking about the destruction of that great city, Babylon. And it's a great figure, I believe, of Could be resurrection of a particular city, could be of a particular region. I believe it's representative of the whole world at that time. And what we read is this, they cast dust on their heads and cried, weeping and wailing, saying, Alas, alas, that great city wherein were made rich, all that had ships in the sea by reason they were cautioness For in one hour is she made desolate. In one hour. One hour. One time Death of Christ, we're exonerated. One hour, the whole thing is made desolate. Rejoice over her, thou heaven, ye holy apostles and prophets, for God hath avenged you on her. There's the vengeance, there's the rejoicing. At that time. Mighty angel took up a stone like a great millstone, cast it into the sea, saying, Thus with violence shall that great city Babylon be thrown down and shall be found no more at all. They're sunk. All our sins are cast in the depths of the sea, but Babylon in its entirety will be cast in the depths of the sea. They will be gone, driven out of mind. In one hour the wicked perish and the righteous are exonerated. And look at the response of the righteous in the very next section, Revelation 19, verse 1. After these things I heard a great voice of much people in heaven. saying hallelujah you see that's the confession that's the testimony you're going to be singing hallelujah salvation glory honor and power into the Lord our God For true and righteous are his judgments, for he hath judged the great whore which did corrupt the earth with her fornication, and hath avenged the blood of his servants at her hand. Notice what they say she corrupted the earth She corrupted the earth. Whatever that city was, she had a global impact, a global reach. It's the city of that great whore, the handmaid of the devil. Did you hear the saints' confession? Did you hear their confession? That's the confession you'll give. Jesus is Lord. You've judged the whore. You're Lord. You're King. You're the King of King of Kings. You have smashed them all down. And so my point is this that for the believer in Christ, God's only accepted mediator, for he or she who is fully persuaded of Jesus' work of atonement that it satisfied the God, the judge of all the earth, then Jesus' second coming will only be a source of great joy for you. A source of great joy. When these things begin to occur, Scripture says, lift up your head, for your redemption draweth nigh, the redemption of the body. That's all you're waiting for. It'll be a day of exoneration, a day of the revelation of the sons of light. And therefore, because of that truth, because of that foundational point, Because you've been justified by faith on the basis of the shed blood of Jesus Christ. That and that alone God accepts. You lay a hold on that by faith because of that, because you stand on that. Therefore, we live our lives in an earnest expectation. We don't desire to shame that worthy name Why would you want to shame that? That's the thing that's going to bring you great joy. That's the thing that's your savior. Why would you want to live in a way that shows that you're out of league with that? I thought that's the thing that you're happy about. I thought that's the thing you're interested in, you're looking forward to. Why would you shame it? It would be like mocking your invitation to your uh tenth grade uh uh age ten birthday. You know little kids have birthdays, the mom sends out birthday invitations and the boy little kids looking forward to it. All the all of his buddies are gonna come over, they're gonna have a good time Well, why would he take that invitation and be ashamed of it and tear it up and mock it? Why he wouldn't want to live that way. He's gonna, that boy's gonna live in expectation of that event What day is it, Mom? Is it yet? Have you made the cookies yet? All right, do we have this ready? I mean, he's just on all ten toes, bouncing up and down. He can't wait. Because he believes it. A firm persuasion and assurance of this truth are in fact the grounds on which sanctification occurs. Real sanctification doesn't occur in fear. It really doesn't. The more I love a quote, it's a memorable quote from Ray Comfort. You know, he's a tremendous evangelist, and if you've never followed his YouTube channel, Living Waters, you ought to He and he he's not ashamed to talk to anybody. He likes to pick out the most, shall we say, interesting individuals to speak with. You know, the guy that's got the tattoo around his neck with the spiked up green hair. That's the one he wants to go talk to And he gets some very interesting responses. He talks to everybody. And the thing I uh one statement he's made is that he says, Don't don't ask God to give you less fear. Ask God to give you more love. Love for the lost. Love for the unsaved. Yeah. That's the f that that is a very uh memorable point to care for these people. Because you must be persuaded that apart from Christ, they are Heading down a train track, there's a horn blowing, there's a light coming, the rails are rumbling, and it's coming fast and hard and sure, and it's on a downhill run. They are gonna get hit And they are closing their eyes as if though nothing's about to happen. Yeah. Christ came not to call the righteous. The Pharisees looked very righteous. Yeah, absolutely. Part of Christ's coming. So any other belief system, whether it's thousands of years old in the Catholic Roman Catholic uh tradition Any vain tradition being held in the past, any concocted idea from your own mind will not work. Any other system will not work. The God of the universe has no other way. I love that in Isaiah, he says, I know of no other gods. I like that comparison. He says, Well I'm up here, I can give you the cat's eye view, the the bird's eye view of it, I don't know of any other gods. I sit here alone, I don't see any other gods. It's Jesus or nothing. It's kind of that simple. And yet, oh my, how many ways can it be taken off the radio? Comments, questions? Pastor Bert Front. Okay, we'll let our our rare visitor. Um I'm not going to name names because it's coming back as I've mentioned before, uh, in New Evangelicalism, conservative new evangelicalism, Calvinistic New Evangelicalism, through the doctrine of final justification. You're probably aware of it. And it takes an aspect of truth and the wording used is terrible and leads to old Roman Catholic ideas of work salvation. In one form or another. And I don't want to say any more on that because there are OPC churches that propagate that. They've had issues with it. It's also known as the Federal Vision. Federal Vision. There's the PCA church where that runs in where we, you know, my opinion it slips in because you get a bunch of people that you know nice suits and they think they're doing pretty good in life, but you know, maybe you over here, you need some improvement and so, you know, we we gotta We gotta kinda push him along somehow. We gotta we gotta get a cudgel out, Jeffrey. We gotta we gotta do something. We gotta we gotta get him, you know, to looking kind of righteous here. We gotta do something It's again the the the recurring plague is the confusion of justification with sanctification. Yes. Absolutely. Our state versus our standing. Mm-hmm. I like that. If I could just point out a couple verses that I pray these verses constantly because I think they relate to this. Husbands love your wives, even as Christ also loved the church and gave himself for it That's already been done. He gave himself forth. And why? That he might sanctify and cleanse it with the washing of the water by the word, comma. So all that's past, future, that he might present it to himself, a glorious church, not having spots and wrinkle. There's still spots and wrinkles And they will be removed when we're presented as the bride, which is at the end of time. And so I pray constantly, Lord, today remove some more spots and wrinkles from your church, because that day is coming. Very good. You'll see these little nuggets teaching this throughout scriptures if you look at it carefully. The basis is always justification, because Christ filled in the blank, therefore ye One's justification, one sanctification. And you can't you can't So just like Satan was thrown out of heaven because he wanted to be like God. He wanted to be in control, even of man's salvation, which is impossible for him. The same thing for these churches that have false preachers. They want to maintain control, so they want to say, I have the answer for your standard. Not Christ. Come to me. Come back to church. Pay your money. And I will be the answer for you. So not not Christ. They'll talk about sin all day, make people afraid of hell and come to me though, not to Christ. That's that's the way of Well if that's Catholicism, they have the only way of salvation. Many other churches as well. Amen. There are quite a few that do that as well. That's why the Apostle Paul says, you know, don't be d beguiled from the simplicity That's in Christ. Folks, what I taught today was a simple message, right? Once. Mrs. Ross, was that hard? You understand once? She got once. This is not her heart and I'm not picking on you but but I am picking on you. This is a this is a once deal This is not hard. It's Jesus Christ. He's perfect. He perfectly fulfilled all he sought to accomplish. Period. Hard stop. You can't add or take away from that. And yet, men do that, don't they, Jeffrey? For exactly the reasons you articulate. What is the passage? They sanctify themselves to Christ afresh. Crucify me again. They crucified themselves and suddenly got a fresh. The Mass, which is held every day in the Catholic Church, is called the sacrifice for the Mass. There are still sacrifices that must be made. Christ having done once is not enough, according to Catholicism. And I I talk to people all the time, they they say, Well, uh what about the people on other planets? I said, there's people on other planets? We never found any. Have you found planets, really? Well what if our people are the planets? I said, Well they're all gonna go to hell. Well why would they want to go to hell? Because Christ sat down after he sacrificed himself once Well he can go to the different planets and sacrifice himself again. I said, no, it says Christ was once offered. He can't go to the other planets and sacrifice himself again And they said, Well, uh then God could send one of his other sons. No, because Christ is his only begotten son. They said then they're all going to hell. I said, Who? The people of the planets There aren't any people. Yeah, we're all going to hell. Oh my. Yeah. Science fiction. We'll bring that in too. Why not? He probably got it from his uh neighbor who was a professor at uh your former uh you wonder why buildings fall down. Well let's close in prayer. Uh son, can I ask you to close in prayer? Can you do that? Thanks. Heavenly Father Lord, uh we thank you for the price that was paid at Calvin. Lord, uh we when we look in your word, sometimes we wonder why you suffered such great agony at the cross. uh why you came down to rescue us. But in in the same book we also see the answer that um you came for your glory And you came for us to to save us. And Lord, we look forward to that great day when we will all be with you. Uh and indeed, Lord, it will all be for your glory. And in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.