Turn with me in your Bibles this morning, please. The book of Judges and the sixteenth chapter. Judges chapter sixteen. And we're going to consider The life of Samuel this morning. The story of Samuel is presented for us in the Word of God from chapters 13. Through sixteen. And it is a very, very familiar story. Most of us probably first learned the story of Samson. Did I say Samuel? Yes, but you meant Samson. I meant Samson, pardon me. Most of us have known the story of Samson from childhood. And yet, what a profound and grave warning we find in this portion of God's Word I'm going to read just a few verses in chapter 16, verses 18 through 21, and our text this morning actually will be from verse 20. So, Judges chapter 16, starting in verse 18. And when Delilah saw that he had told her all his heart, She sent and called for the lords of the Philistines, saying, Come up this once, for he hath showed me all his heart. Then the lords of the Philistines came up unto her and brought money in their hand. And she made him sleep upon her knees. And she called for a man, and she caused him to shave off the seven locks of his head. And she began to afflict him, and his strength went from him. And she said, The Philistines be upon thee, Samson. And he awoke out of a sleep and said, I will go out as at other times before, and shake myself. And he wist not that the Lord was departed from him But the Philistines took him and put out his eyes and brought him down to Gaza. And bound him with feathers of brass. And he did grind in the prison house. Let us pray. O Lord God, now bless thy truth to our hearts we pray. Point us to thy word and to thy son. In Jesus' name. Amen. A dear friend of mine, a pastor, once described this twentieth verse of Judges chapter 16. As the saddest verse in all of Scripture. My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me? That is a very sad verse. And yet, Christ, though he uttered those words, knew exactly why his father had forsaken him. His father had forsaken him, had forsaken Christ, because my sin was upon him. But what a horrible contrast we have here of Samson, a Nazarite from the womb. Chosen by God to begin to deliver Israel from the Philistines. And he wakes from his slumber And he says, I will go out as before, and I will shake myself. And he. wist not that the Lord was departed from him. God's blessing, God's hand, God's strength was taken from Samson, and he didn't even know it. How sad. The account excuse me. The account count begins In chapter 13 with the birth of Samson. And we find the historical context in verse 1 of chapter 13. Chapter 13 and verse 1, and the children of Israel did evil again. I'm going to eat again today if the Lord doesn't take me to heaven before lunchtime. I've eaten many times before. When we do something again, it indicates that there is a pattern. That this has been taking place and it will continue to take place. The children of Israel did evil again. And every man did that which was right in his own eyes. It's repeated over and over again. And the evil that they did in verse 1 of chapter 13 was in the sight of of the Lord. How men love to think that God doesn't see their evil. How men hide deep uh try deep to hide the counsels of their heart But they did evil again, and the evil was in the sight of the Lord, and the Lord delivered them into the hand of the Philistines for forty years, because of their sin there was A retribution. There was a consequence. But in the midst of this time when the children of Israel are again doing evil in the sight of the Lord, God was merciful. And God was gracious. And in verse 3, the angel of the Lord appears unto Samson's mother and says, You're going to bear a child. And like so many women we find in Scripture, she was barren until God granted her a child But we find in this thirteenth chapter of Judges that an angel appears to Samson's mother. Isn't it interesting interesting That Manoah, her his father is mentioned by name, but we don't know the m name of Samson's mother. We're never told that. Her name is never mentioned in scripture And yet the angel of Jehovah appears to her before he appears to Manoah, just as it was with Mary when the angel and an angel of the Lord came when Gabriel came to Mary. But we find very clearly in chapter 13 That this angel that appears first to Samson's mother and then to Manoah, Samson's father, is not a created being. For we find that Manoah wants to do honor, and the angel cautions if you're going to sacrifice You must understand that you're not sacrificing to man, nor are you sacrificing to a created being, but you are sacrificing unto Jehovah. You are sacrificing unto the Lord. You see, Manoah did not even know who was speaking to him. And again, we find this throughout Scripture because remember when Moses is in the backside of the desert and he sees a bush that is burning and he says, I'm going to go see this great sight. This interests me. I want to see what it is. And he's cautioned, Take off your shoes Because you're on holy ground. And here we find with Manoah and his wife, they did not understand in verse 6 Uh the woman came and told her husband, saying, A man of God came to me. His countenance was like the countenance of an angel of God, very terrible, but I asked him not whence he came, neither told me he. his name, told him he he didn't tell him to tell him his name. And so we find in this thirteenth chapter The account of the birth of Samson, where they dress a kid and make a sacrifice, and the angel does wondrously. And then as the flame returns to the sky, Christ himself, the pre-incarnate Christ The same one that appeared in the burning bush that burned and was not consumed, the same one that appeared beside the wall of Jericho rises back to heaven in the flame. And Manoah and his wife say we're going to die because we've seen God. Folks, that background is very important. Because the commandment given to Manoah and his wife was that Samson's unnamed mother was not to drink strong drink. She was not to partake of that which was unclean. And no razor was ever to touch the Head of this man born, because from his very wound he is a Nazarite to God, and the whole purpose of his existence Is he will begin to deliver Israel from the Philistines. God has been gracious to Israel in their sin. We do not find them crying out in repentance before he is born. But rather, God said, I'm going to be gracious. And one that is barren is going to bear. And that child is going to be a Nazarite from the womb. In verse four, the third word of the verse, chapter thirteen, now therefore, beware. And we find that Manoah and his wife obeyed. And down in verse eight Manoah entreated the Lord, O Lord, my or O my Lord, let the man of God which thou descend come again to us and teach us what we shall do Under this child that shall be born. Oh God, come and teach us. This is important. And you know Uh I I regret that when my children were younger I didn't have this written on the wall of the nursery. I didn't think of it at the time. But oh, what a great text for young parents. Teach us what we shall do unto this child that shall be born. Oh God, we cannot. do what needs to be done of ourselves or of our own strength. And I believe that Manoa and his wife did a good job. And we find in the early ministry of this man Samson, a great and mightily used servant of God. And that's the second thing I'd have us to see. We've seen his birth, but then the ministry of Samson. God had promised before his birth That Samson was ordained of God to deliver Israel from the Philistines. And he begins to do that very thing. In verse 24 of chapter 13, and the woman bare a son and called his name Samuel. And the child Samson, excuse me, called his name Samson, and the child grew, and the Lord blessed him and the Spirit of the Lord began to move him at times in the camp of Dan between Zora and Estal. And in verse chapter 14, as it begins, we find Samson seeking an occasion against the Philistines. And this is very interesting. He goes down to Timnath and he sees this woman of Timnath and I I've heard a lot of criticism against Samson for engaging with this woman of Timnap, but I believe the text bears out that he was doing God's will. You see, Israel was so backslidden, and Israel was so wicked that they weren't with him. That they were not willing to take a stand with Samson against the Philistines. And so Samson had to find some way to pick a fight with them. And so beginning there in verse 1 of chapter 14, and Samson went down the Timnah and saw a woman in Timnath of the daughters of the Philistines. And he came up and told his father and his mother and said, I have seen a woman in Timnath of the daughters of the Philistines. Now therefore get her to me to wife Then his father and his mother said, Is there never a woman among the daughters of thy brethren, or among all my people, that thou goest to take a wife of the uncircumcised Philistines? And Samson said unto his father, Get her for me, for she pleaseth me well. And I think that phrase is where a lot of the confusion in this passage comes. She pleaseth me well. Literally what that phrase means is to be right or to be straight or level, or to fit a purpose. And what Samson is saying here is, get her to me because she fits my purpose. She will suffice well. He needs to pick a fight. with the Philistines. And so uh it wasn't just that she was pleasing to the sight because if you look at chapter fifteen and verse two you find out she had a sister that was prettier. She had a f had a a sister that that if it was just a matter of, hey, this one's a pretty one, the sister would have done better, but but she pleaseth me well, she'll fit my purpose. And if you look over to chapter 15 And verse 11, you'll find that 3,000 men of Judah went up to the top of the rock of Edom and said unto the Samson, Knowest thou not that the Philistines are rulers over us? What is this that thou hast done? And he said unto them, As they did did unto me, so have I done unto them. In other words, here are three thousand men of Judah that are coming up to Philist to Samson and saying, What do you think you're doing? Remember when God sent Moses to deliver Israel? Another deliverance, you see the similarity And the children of Israel said, What are you doing? Now we have to go out and get our own straw. Now we have to make twice the bricks. Israel was so backslidden that when God sent his chosen messenger, they weren't even ready. But in verse 4 of chapter 14, but his father and his mother knew not that it was of the Lord that he sought an occasion. He sought an excuse. He sought some reason to be able to go into the Philistines and to beat them up good. Because they were the enemies of God's truth. He sought an occasion against the Philistines, for at that time the Philistines had dominion over Israel. And so he goes down to Timnath And in verse 11, we find that a young lion, not some old cat that's about to die, you know, with with a mangy tail and this fur coming out. But a young lion comes out and roars against Samson. And if Samson had not been following the Lord's will, the lion would have had dominion over him. But we find instead That the Spirit of the Lord comes mightily upon Samson. In verse 6 and the Spirit 14, 6. And the Spirit of the Lord came mightily upon him, and he rent him as he would rent a kid. And he had nothing in his hand, but he told not his father and his mother what he'd done. And so we know the story. This supposed bride of Samson, his espoused wife, betrays his riddle to their friends, and the result is that Samson takes thirty men of the Philistines and he slays them. He slays them and takes their garments. And so Samson's supposed bride is given to his companion, which gives him more calls. And so when he finds his bride is given to his his companion, he takes foxes and ties their tails together and puts a torch between their tails and sends them in to the crops of the Philistines that are just ready to be harvested. Isn't God's judgment, right? Remember Gideon who was thrashing in secret because the Philistines because um The grain was being stolen by the Midianites. And here, the grain of the Philistines, which has been stolen from the Phil from Israel, it is burned with fire. And then in chapter 15, verses 9 through 17, we find Samson takes the jawbone of an ass, and with it he slays 1,000 men. Not a very good weapon, but mighty in the hand of a man who is chosen by God. And so again in chapter 15 and verse 14, we find that the Spirit of the Lord came mightily upon him. And we find in verse 20 Actually, it's starting verse 18 of chapter 15. That Samson judges Israel for twenty years. In verse 18 of chapter 15, and he was sore at thirst. This is after He slays a thousand men with a jaw burned up and an ass. He was sore athirst, and called upon the Lord, and said, Thou hast given this great deliverance into the hand of thy servant, and now I shall die of thirst and fail or fall into the hand of the uncircumcised. But God clay out in a hollow place in the jaw, and there came out came water thereout there out. And when he had drunk his spirit came again, and he revived, wherefore he called the name of the place Ekhok uh In Hokora. I knew I'd messed that up. In Hokuray That word means the fountain of one who is calling. And so to summarize, we find the mighty ministry of this one. He is instructed by God. He's following God's leadership. He goes down the Timnach to pick this fight with the Philistines, even though even his father and his mother are saying this isn't what you should be doing But he knew he was in fellowship with God, and he knew it was God's ministry that he goes. We find here when he's thirsty, he calls on God. And we find again and again and again the Spirit of God coming mightily on this man, Samson, in um thirteen twenty-five. The Spirit of the Lord began to move him In 146, the Spirit of the Lord came mighty upon him. 149, the Spirit of the Lord came upon him. 1514, the Spirit of the Lord came mightily up One of him This is a man who is being greatly used by God. He's listening to God. He he's the he calls the name of the place where he slew with the jawbone of the a the ass, the place Of the one who calls on the Lord, the fountain of the one who calls on the Lord. What a great and mighty servant of God! One who is depending on God, one who is in fellowship with God, one who is doing the work of God. And in these 20 years, In these 20 years, God has indeed begun to deliver Israel from the Philistines. They can't eat their crops because foxes are burning them. They they can't order society. They can't take a life away from somebody. Their whole structure of authority and thumb on Israel is being destroyed In the hands of a mighty man of God who has yielded to God, who has listened to God, whose hair flows down his back as his token. Of his vow before the Holy God. Surely the future's bright. Surely this ministry will continue for a long time. There have been 40 years in which the Philistines have oppressed us. And now for half that time, God's champion has stood forth. If only the story ended with chapter fifteen. If only that was all that we knew of Samson. But in verse 1 of chapter 16, then it's an important word, folks. It's a little little word, but it's important. Then went Samson to Gaza And Saul and Harlot and went in unto her. And the then chines us back to chapter fifteen. You see, chapter 15, verse 20 tells us that Samson judged Israel for 20 years. And chapter 16, verse 31 tells us the same thing again. And so I I believe we can accurately say that chapter sixteen is a one year period. One year, give or take a little bit, after slaying a thousand Philistines with the jawbone of an ass. A blind Samson is grinding grain in the prison house And we don't know how long he was there. He may have been there many years in the end of chapter 16 before his death. But so quickly we find a terrible downfall. We do not find the Spirit of the Lord coming on Samson when he took the gates of the city all way on his back after spending the night with a harlot. And those first three verses where we find that Samson's with the harlot and the Philistines finally is there and they come and they're watching in the morning. And he takes the gates of the city, posts it all up to the side of the other. It doesn't say anything about the Spirit of the Lord coming on it. And when we find him, Breaking the green, the breaking the cords with which Delilah has bound him, we don't find the Spirit of the Lord coming on him. And when we find him breaking away the ropes, we don't find the Spirit of the Lord mentioned there, nor do we find the Spirit of the Lord mentioned when he goes away with the beam and the pin and his hair. We don't find it in those passages. And he woke out of his sleep and said, I will go out as at other times before. And shake myself. All I have to do is shake myself. I can do this before, yeah. Personally, I've been preaching for thirty-some years. I can do this, folks. I can stand up in front of an audience and talk for an hour. And some of you know I can talk a lot longer than that. But that's nothing more than carrying the gates of a city up on top of a hill. Except that the Spirit of the Lord come mightily upon his word and bless it. You see, man can do a lot of things. Man can accomplish a lot of quote-unquote tasks, but man cannot do the work of God apart from the Spirit of God. I love to tell jokes, folks. I can entertain people. But there's no product to it. And so, what caused the downfall of this great servant of God? First of all, I believe Samson's downfall was brought about by self-indulgence. By self-indulgence. In that first verse we find that he goes into a harlot. Flee also, youthful lust. Now I'm sure Samson was a handsome man with bulging muscles and what have you. I go to the gym a couple times a week and there are some guys in the gym that You wonder how they fit through a door without hitting their shoulders because you know they've built all this muscle and and so on and uh most of them are pretty pretty proud of their appearance. It's obvious just watching him strut around in front of the mirrors. I'm sure Samson was a was a handsome young man, and he was young. We don't know his age, but I would say he probably began his ministry when the Lord began to move him at probably around 20-ish, maybe. And so he's probably in his the prime of life at this point But he goes into a harlot. He gives in to the lust of the flesh Proverbs 6 tells us that by means of a whorish woman, a man is brought to a piece of bread, and the adulteress will hunt for the precious life. Ye adulterers and adulteresses know ye not that friendship with the world is enmity with God Know ye not that they which run a race want run all, but one receiveth the prize, so run that ye may obtain. And every man that striveth for the masteries is temperate in all things. Now they do it to receive a corruptible crown. But we and incorruptible. Paul said, Therefore so run uh I therefore so run not as uncertainty, so fight, not as one that beateth the air, but I keep my body under And bring it into subjection lest by any means, when I have preached to others, I myself should become a castaway. It's 1 Corinthians 9, lest I myself should become a castaway. How often have we seen a ministry that began out began so promising? So blessed of God come to utter ruin. Because the servant of God was just simply self-indulgent. Forgot who his master was and became a master to himself. He forgot what his purpose was. Samson, why do you have these muscles? For your own gratification or for the deliverance of the people of God from the Philistines? Samson, who is to glory in these muscles? You? Or the God who gives the strength. Oh, how easy it is for us to begin to think about ourselves. And what I want and what pleases me Rather than remembering, as the priests of the Old Testament had upon their breastplate, holiness unto the Lord. Sampson's downfall began with self indulgence. And then Samson's downfall was brought about by self-reliance. This is what I'll do. I'll go out just like I had before, and I'll shake myself. This will be sufficient. This is all I need. I can do this. Brother Brother Vince has a has a phrase I like, you know, I got this. Well Here we find this one, Samson. He thinks he's got this. It's the one we do. I've been asleep. I have been here with Delilah where I had no business being. She has driven me to despair of life day after day after day. Samson, what's your strength? Samson, what's your strength? And I had played around with this. And I've gotten closer and closer and closer. to betraying my truth, believe me, betraying my vow, to betraying the Lord that gave me the strength. And I have whittled away at my resistance and broken down my reliance on God till now I think I can tell her the truth and all I have to do is go out and shake myself. And it'll all be okay. My dad used to say, Don't let the mule get his nose in the door. Because before long he'll be in the living room. Neither give place to the devil. And that word place that Paul used is a word which describes a beachhead It's a toehold. An invading army, first of all, has to get a beachhead, just like we did in Normandy. Just a place to unload tanks and men. And from there you can conquer all. Satan begins with a little beach head in our lives. And rather than trusting in the source of his strength, he trusted in himself. You see, Samson's hair was no different than yours or mine. Longer. But it was just hair, folks. It was hair. Had to be combed, had to be washed, never to be cut. But it was hair. His strength was not in his hair And when he told Delilah that his hair was the secret of his strength, he was mistaken. The secret of his strength was his vow. It was his vow to the Lord. The hair was simply the outward manifestation of the vowel. The hare was simply the testimony that he had been a Nazirite from his birth And that his hair was not cut because it was his testimony. It was his symbol of difference. He broke his vow, and that's what happened to his strength. He broke his covenant with the Lord His hair was a matter of his covenant obedience to God. And that's what he broke. Remember back in thirteen and four, the warning, beware. Beware I pray thee, and drink not wine nor strong drink, and eat nothing that is unclean, for lo, thou shalt conceive and bear a son, and no razor shall come on his head. For the child shall be a Nazarite unto God from the world. He broke his vow. And so his downfall came by self-reliance. He relied in his own strength. But we also find that he relied on his own stand. He relied on his own strength rather than God's strength, and he relied on his own stand. Here I stand. Come on, Philistines, come against me. Look at verse 16 of chapter 16. Verse 15 of chapter 16 16 and verse 15. And she said unto him, How canst thou say, I love thee, when thine heart is not with me? Where was Samson's heart supposed to be? With the Lord. Not with Delilah. You see, rather than standing where he's supposed to stand, standing in the truth of God, standing in his vow, he's beginning to stand with a wicked woman. Thine heart is not with me. Thou hast mocked me these three times. Well he had mocked Philistines before, but he had done it in the power of God. Now he's not in the power of God. And hast not told me wherein thy great strength lieth. And it came to pass when she pressed him daily, get out of there! You see, the harlot of Gaza, he spent the night with her and left a little bit early at the middle of the night. But here with Delilah, he's back again and again and again and again. Therefore let him that thinketh that he stand take heed lest he fall. You see, again, he's playing around with sin. He's trying to stand not in the strength of God, but he's trying to stand on his own. And so we find that she calls for the Philistines. And she calls for a man to cut his hair, and she's the one that begins to torment him. And so I find that Samson fell because of self-reliance, of self-assurance, his his his thinking that he could do this on his own, of self-indulgence But finally, Samson's downfall was brought about by selfishness. By selfishness. Why was he born? Why was a barren woman given a son? Because he's going to deliver Israel from the Philistines. He was a Nazarite from the womb. What? Know ye not that ye are not your own? For your ball with a price. Therefore, glorify God He was selfish. God had ordained him to be a leader of his people. God would ordain him to be a deliverer of his people. The good shepherd giveth his life for the sheep. Brethren, every one of us are ministers of Jesus Christ. Some have the glorious privilege Of verbally proclaiming the truth of God to an audience. But all of us have the glorious privilege of proclaiming the truth of God to one. We are ministers of God. We are not our own. We are bought with a price. And our purpose is the glory of God. But Samson was selfish. Samson said, My needs are greater than the needs of God's people. My pleasure is more important than the prophet of God's people. He was selfish. Jeremiah 23 and verse 1. Woe unto the pastors that destroy and scatter the sheep of my pasture, saith the Lord. In Zechariah 11, verse 17, woe unto the idle shepherds that leave the flock. Ezekiel 34, verse 2, thus saith the Lord God unto the shepherds, woe unto the shepherds of Israel that do feed themselves should not the shepherds feed the flock. Woe unto the child of God who doesn't understand that he's a servant of God. He's an ambassador for Christ, and he has an obligation. To that calling. Samson fell because of his own selfishness. Samson began to deliver Israel, and he judged Israel for twenty years, for half of the forty years in which Samson The Philistines had oppressed him. He did a lot of great things in twenty years, but what could he have done with forty? Sixty. Could Samson have still been serving the Lord eighty years? I believe he could. What a great tragedy that Samson fell. And so we find in verse 23 and 24 of chapter 16. And the lords of the Philistines gathered together to offer a great sacrifice unto Diana their God. Had Diana gotten him any victory? Had Diana triumphed over Jehovah? Had Diana triumphed over Samson? You see, when the child of God fails to live for God, the enemies of God rejoice. How often have we seen one who claims the name of Christ fall into sin and the world is gleeful? Boy, the news media loves to get a hold of that. The Lords of the Philistines gathered together to offer a great sacrifice. This isn't a little one, folks, this isn't the big one. A great sacrifice unto Dagon their God. And to rejoice, for they said, Our God hath delivered Samson, our enemy, into our hand. And when the people saw him, they praised their God, for they said, Our God hath delivered him, and delivered into our hands, our enemy. And the destroyer of our country, which slew many of us. Samson hadn't done a thing. God had worked through Samson Dagon hadn't done a thing. But Dagon got the praise. How sad and how tragic it is. And so we've seen the birth of Samson, the ministry of Samson, the downfall of Samson. But I said, wouldn't it have been wonderful if the story had ended with chapter 15? But aren't you glad it doesn't end with 621? The fourth thing we'd see is the restoration of Samson. Isn't God good? Isn't He gracious? Chapter 16, verse 1, howbeit the hair of his head began to grow again after he was shaven God could have left him bold. God could have left him bold. But the hair of his head began to grow. You see, he was a Nazirite from the womb. He didn't get himself into this and he couldn't get himself out. You see, if I choose Christ, if I make a good decision to be saved, then I can undecide. But I didn't decide. He decided for me. And that's why no man can pluck me out of his head. It's all of him And not at all of me. You see, if I am saved because I made one right one right decision, then I'm saved by one good work. Because a good decision is a work, it's something I do. But he saved me, and because he saved me, I acknowledge that it's all of him, and not of all of me The hair of his head began to grow again after he was shaved. And in verse 28 of chapter 16 And Samson called unto the Lord. Oh, hallelujah! He's gone back to the jawbone, folks. The last time we found Samson calling on the Lord, it was at the jawbone. But now blind. And grinding in the prison house, he calls on the Lord. And Samson called on the Lord and said, O Lord God, remember me, I pray thee. And strengthen thee. His self-reliance is gone, isn't it? I'm not going to shape myself as if you were at other times and go out. Oh no, Lord, it's gotta be you. Strengthen me. I pray thee only this once. Oh God. That I may be at once avenged for the Philistines of my two eyes. Hebrews 11:32 And what shall I say more? Or what shall I more say? For the time would fail me, the tell of Gideon Of Barak, and of Samson, and of Jephthah, of David also, and Samuel, and of the prophets. Wouldn't you love to have your name there? Oh, what glorious company to have your name listed there and Samson's listed there. Isn't God good and gracious? Isn't He merciful? If we confess our sins, He's faithful. and just to forgive us of our sins. And I love that phrase, faithful and just. He's faithful. That means he do what he says he'll do. And he's just. It is God's legal prerogative. To forgive my sin. The death of Samson, verse 26 through the end of the chapter, and here we'll close. And Samson said unto the lad that held him by the hand, Suffer me, that I may feel the pillars whereon the house standeth, that I may lean upon them. Now the house was full of men and women, and all the lords of the Philistines were there, and there upon the roof about three thousand men and women that beheld Samson beheld while Samson made sport And Samson called unto the Lord and said, O Lord God, remember me, I pray thee, and strengthen me, I pray thee, only this once, O God, that I may be at once avenged of the Philistines in my two eyes. And Samson took hold of the two middle pillars upon which the house stood, and on which it was borne up, the one on the right hand, and the other on his left with his left with his left. And Samson said, Let me die with the Philistines. And he bowed himself with all his might, and the house fell upon the lords and upon the people that were therein. So the dead which he slew at his death were more than all which he slew in his life. And his brethren. And all the house of his father came down and took him and brought him up. And buried him between Zorah and Estal in the burying place of Manoah his father. And he judged Israel twenty years. Young person, young man, young woman, with all your life in front of you, beware. Take a warning. God can use you for great things. Beware. Adult, you've done pretty well the first twenty years. Don't let it in here. Don't let it in here. Because the roaring lion is still seeking whom he may devour. Senior Saint, your race has been well run, but it's not done. It's not finished yet. Don't give up at the end of the battle. But oh may we all one day say with Paul, I have fought a good fight. I have kept the faith. I have finished my course. Let us stand for prayer.