Lists out four very fascinating Old Testament characters. Today we are at a fellow named Samson. Perhaps you've heard of Samson. He's a notable figure, and to be perfectly honest, he was a struggle to go through because we're supposed to find some kind of faith lesson. Well, let me open it, however, with a question. Now the questions are designed to get you thinking generally in a path that hopefully the Bible study will take us. What is the most unusual way of hiding something? that you've ever seen or heard in your life. One online uh listener said, uh, I don't know what it is, but uh my refrigerator sure does a good job of hiding things. I open it up and look for things and I cannot find them. And that's why there's two open bottles of ketchup in the fridge because I can't find the first one. So yeah, hiding things. What's the most unusual or unique way of hiding something that you're doing? Okay. Putting it under a carpet, kinda hiding in plain sight. You just put it underneath the carpet, yeah, kinda like with dirt. Yeah, that's a good way. That's a good college trick, Joey. Don't sweep, just throw it under the gr under the rug. Other ideas. Put it where you think you'll remember where it is. Oh no. Put something where you think you'll remember where it is. Yes. Yeah when you go look for it you can't find it. Um you remember those big canned hams used to get they're like four inches thick and I we loved those in Jamaica but you couldn't get them and the Jamaican government didn't want you to bring them in for some reason. So one of the missionary families took one of those hams that probably weighed four pounds and put it in the backpack of their three-year-old to go through customs in the airplane. So uh poor guy is walking like this, this thing on his back, and they get the customs and the customs agents are going through everything, and of course children are brutally honest And so the little boy says, I've got a chicken in my bag. So his mom tries to try to, of course it's a ham. His mom tried to sh rice. I got a chicken in my bag. And finally, after he said it about the fourth time, the customs agent said, you don't have a chicken in your bag And let him on through. But Bryce had a ham in his bag. Jerry, I'm gonna pick on you. I'm gonna say one word and I know you know what this is, but you're gonna explain to everybody what it is, because I'm doubtful that these ladies know what it is. About hunting? The word ghilly. Oh. Yeah. So have you ladies ever heard the term gilly? It's called a ghilly soup. Have you ever heard of that? It's gilly. Gilly. It's G-I-E. A suit? It looks like you're wearing moss. So just a suit of moss and leaves and other natural-looking vegetation that blends into a woodland environment. So you could wear just a basic shirt and pants that are camouflage color, but this takes it another level where it's actually got things hanging off of you. Um and it's uh very effective. You can I I've walked past someone uh in a ghillie suit and had no idea they were there until someone pointed out, hey, you know, don't shoot over here, there's a guy over there. I'm like, oh, okay. Yeah. It's useful in turkey hunting as turkeys are very um very effective at finding things. So yeah, thank you. I knew you'd knew a ghillie soup. Those are very effective ways of hiding things. You know the Bible does a lot of hiding David talks about searching the scriptures as for hidden treasure. There are ways that God hides things. Verily thou art a God that hideth thyself, it says in a place of scripture. He is a God that is somewhat mysterious in his ways of doing things. And Samson is one of those, I've titled it today, Samson's Secrets. There are certain things about Samson perhaps you might not have recognized. So we're going to march our way through this account and if you will turn in your Bible to Judges 13. If you don't have one, I've got one on the stand over there. Judges 13. And then we will be looking I will summarize chapter 14, 15, and 16 because Samson occupies four whole chapters of Holy Writ. Can you imagine? Here's an individual that you read about in four big chapters Moses, you have a good chunk of real estate, so do you? Let's have the same with Joshua. Baric, no, he was one chapter Next week we'll read about Jephthah. He's one chapter. Enoch was just a few sentences. And here you've got four chapters for Samson. We're going to look at his promising start in Judges 13, and we're going to walk our way through the first few verses, and then eventually we're going to get to summary, because I'm pretty sure you know Much of the other story, and if not, I'll summarize it for you. Judges 13. 1, we read this. And the children of Israel did evil again in the sight of the Lord. And the Lord delivered them into the hand of the Philistines 40 years. We've seen this playbook before. Israel messes up. God says you're going to be at the hands of fill in the blank. This time it's the Philistines. Before it was the Ammonites. Another time a different group of people. They were always being oppressed. And they'd be oppressed for a good long while. They'd cry out. And it seems that this is something that Israel does. I had a note in my Bible from years ago, IBIA. Israel blows it again. And this was another chance they had to mess it up. Well then we keep reading in verses two to five of chapter 13. And there was a certain man of Zora. Of the family of the Danites, he's from the tribe of Dan, whose name was Manoah and his wife, now she's unnamed, we just know it as Manoah's wife. His wife was Baron and Baronot. And the angel of the Lord appeared unto the woman. Interesting. The angel comes to the woman, not to the man. And said unto her, Behold, now thou art barren and bearest not, tell me the obvious, but thou shalt conceive and bear a son. Well that's really good news, a message from heaven. You're going to bear a son. Now therefore beware, I pray thee, and drink not wine nor strong drink. Eat not any unclean thing. These were all things that were mentioned in the Levitical Code of Moses For lo, thou shalt conceive and bear a son, and no razor shall come on his head, for thy child shall be a Nazarite unto God from the womb. He shall begin to deliver Israel out of the hand of the Philistines. Well, this sounds pretty good. You know, the Danite couple live in Zorah. Zorah is on the border of Dan. The tribe of Dan is north of Judah. So now rather than being in the southern part, this is now in the northern part. And this border Of Zora, this border town of Zora is really close to Philistia, where the Philistines were at. Philistines had five lords, they had five major cities, a lord over each city, and they were near the uh one of the Philistine cities called Gath, where the champion of Gath, uh Goliath, came from. This would be much later in the scriptural account when David goes to fight him. This is a long time before that. So this is a place where there's a lot of intermingling. They're close to that border, but that's exactly where their oppressors are centered at. Is Philistia, the Philistines are suppressing them, and they are right against the border. And so far this sounds pretty good. I mean From what we've heard before, IBI, hey, Israel blows it again. God raises up a deliverer. The deliverer shows up. He beats up on them, he leads a great army, he destroys them, he's like Moses, leads them out, and then it's back to peace again. We've seen this play repeatedly throughout scriptures, right? This sounds like this is going to be the same story. It's looking good. I'm not going to read the verses 8 to 14, but basically Manoah gets this insight from his wife. Hey, an angel talk to me? He says, really? He beseeches the Lord, you know, can you please come and tell us how we're to raise this child? What are we to do? Okay, don't eat anything, got it, but what are we to do? The angel comes back to the woman. She goes and grabs the man And the angel says the same thing. Everything that I've said to the woman, beware that you do that. He's a Nazirite from his womb. And so he insisted on that set of instructions. No alcohol, no strong drink No unclean food. He's an Azurite. And an Azurite vow has certain things, one of which is you don't cut their hair. I know you mothers like to have sons with well-cut hair. Not so with an Azurite. Everything would get long and bushy and shaggy. That's how they were to be. It was the blessing of God from Amos two eleven. God said, You know, have I not given you prophets and of your young men Nazarites? That was a gift of God. A Nazarite was separated, devoted consecrated to the service of God. So far we have a pretty good start. We have a young man from the womb who's ordained, elected of God. To be devoted to the service of God, and part of his devotion, part of his service is to begin to deliver Israel from the Philistines. That was his devoted purpose. That was his set purpose. from the wound, from before there was a a flicker and a wiggle in her tummy. Before there's any of that. This child was ordained of God to be a deliverer for Israel. And he was set apart for that, and the instruction of the woman was, don't you deviate. I think the angel came to the woman expressly because mom is very influential in the life of the boy. Dad's out working the fields doing a lot of hard, heavy labor, sweating in the sun. It's very tough. And the woman was told, don't you dare deviate from that Of course, you know the rest of the story. The strength was in his hair. That was where the strength was. And so, lo and behold, we find out as an offering is made to the Lord. that the angel appears to be a pre-incarnate Lord Jesus Christ. Every now and then you would have a theophany, a God appearance, either as an angel or a man in the Old Testament. And we know that from these verses. So look now at Judges 13. We're going to go from 15 to 23 for a moment. Manoah said unto the angel, The Lord, I pray thee, let us detain thee until we shall have made ready a kid for thee. He's very happy for this angel who wants to entertain him. Good Middle Eastern culture. Please stay a little longer, we're going to make you a meal. a wonderful cultural thing. And the angel of the Lord said unto Manoah, Though thou detain me, I will not eat of thy bread. And if thou wilt offer a burnt offering, thou must offer it unto the Lord For Manoah knew not that he was an angel of the Lord. As far as Manoah knew, it was a man who came and spoke to him. Very interesting Manoah said unto the angel of the Lord, What is thy name, that when thy sayings come to pass we may do thee honor? When he begins to deliver Israel, oh the angel, they don't know, Gabriel, Michael, whoever came to us, what's your name? Now listen to what the angel answers. Angel of the Lord said unto him, Why ask us thus after my name, seeing it is secret? That's an interesting word, that word secret. It is an adjective. Seeing my name is secret, it's a secret name. And it is a word that is related to what we read a little further on. We'll get back to this, but look at what happens next. So Manoah took a kid with a meat offering and offered it upon a rock unto the Lord. And the angel did wondrously, that's our same word, in a different form, and his wife looked on. The angel did wondrously. That's the verb. And it has to do with To separate by a miraculous distinction. My name is Secret. You could say my name is Wonderful. And we read a root of that in the book of Isaiah, where it says, his name shall be called wonderful. That's the same word. One's an adjective, one's a verb, one's a noun. It's all related to it. And I was fascinated by that word, secret. My name is secret. My name is Wonderful. My name is Wondrous. We think of it as wonderful. Oh, he's so wonderful. It's not that sense The sense is this. How many of you like to watch little magic tricks, little YouTube clips of magic tricks? Some guy dealing a card and he flips it around, he changes the colors, he's got a different thing, and you go, how did he do that? That's the sense of this word wonderful. He's doing things that you see, but you can't understand what's going on or how he did it. In Psalm 139 it says he do us things that are past our understanding, too wonderful for me. His knowledge is too wonderful. In other words, I don't understand how he's able to pull this off. That's what the angel tells Manela. Why do you ask after my name? It's a secret. It's a wonder beyond what you can imagine. He's basically telling him, yeah, you're you'll figure it out eventually. And eventually he does, because we continue reading, for it came to pass, this is now verse 20 of the 13th chapter For it came to pass when the flame went up toward heaven from off the altar that the angel of the Lord ascended in the flame of the altar. When's the last time you see that happen? Some guy's cooking a meal. Now I know some of you like a lot of greasy food. You might get a grease fire going and it goes po-woof. And you might have something envelop you. But to disappear in the flames with it? That's an interesting magic trick. Never seen that happen. That's a pretty unique one. He ascended In the flame of the altar, and Manoah and his wife looked on it, fell on their faces to the ground. The angel of the Lord no more appeared than Manoah knew he was an angel of the Lord, and he said, We're going to die because we've seen God That was his conclusion. We're going to see God. His wife said, if the Lord were pleased to kill us, he wouldn't have received a burnt offering from our hand. They received it because the angel consumed it with fire. That's an indication that God received your offering Your request has been granted by giving a receipt. Neither would he have showed us all these things, nor would as at this time have told us such things as these. I think that was a pre uh incarnate version of the Lord Jesus' name is wonderful. Verse 19, they said, we have seen the Lord. That's the word Jehovah. So they called him Jehovah. It's wonderful. Yeah, they saw God and yet did not die. Well, so far we have solid evidence that God is in all of this. There's an angel visitation The people have sinned, God brings the Savior, his ordination, he's going to be a Nazarite, his instruction to the woman, his vanishing in the flame His instruction to them. God's in this. Does anybody doubt God is in this at this point? This seems to be where God is taking. So he's got a wonderful, promising start And then things begin to take a very strange turn of events. How many of you have been in ministry and all of a sudden things go Sideways quick, or you think you're serving the Lord, you're just a good Christian family, and your family goes bonkers, what happened here Sometimes life throws us what we call curveballs. Things come to us in a very weird way. Well, be encouraged. God may still be in that somehow. Now, I would encourage you when you go home to read chapters 14, 15, and 16. I'm not going to read them for you today, and I'm not going to drag us through it very quickly, though it would be profitable, yet time doesn't permit me to read them. So what I am going to do is I'm going to summarize each chapter for you, but then we're going to go to a focus verse. One verse in particular, or two. that I believe highlight a very interesting point in this whole narrative of Samson. Alright? So with your permission, let me do that. So in chapter 14, because they're in this border, Samson gets a little older He goes across the border and he finds a girl over there who really likes. Says, Dad, get her for me. He wants to marry a Philistine woman. Now you would think, well, that's on the wrong side of the tracks for sure. God prohibited that. Actually, in Deuteronomy 7. when he listed the nations that your sons were not to marry, nor your uh daughters were to take husbands from. Philistia was not one of the nations. Technically speaking, Philistines were not specifically called off as being off-limits. So I find that kind of interesting. Well, he goes over and on their way over with his parents, they separate from him. A lion comes roaring to him out of the bush. He tears it apart with his bare hands and says, The Spirit of the Lord came upon him And he tears this line apart with his bare hands. Interesting, a lot of children's books depict Samson, you know, kind of like Anton, this big buff dude, really fit and in shape, you know, really in strong shape, you know, just Lifting all kinds of trumps. I kind of think he's more like Vince. This little skinny dude that you wouldn't expect to be. Very powerful. The Spirit of the Lord comes upon him and go, whoa How did this guy get so strong, right? I don't think it was something that was a but that's just wishful thinking on my part. Anyway, probably was my canton. He tears apart this lion. Later on their way back, he finds that bees have made a beehive in there, and there's honey in the carcass. Happened mighty quickly, mighty short period of time. He takes some of it out, takes it to his parents, and where'd you get this from? He then goes and has the wedding with this Philistine woman. There's thirty of her bride guests there And he poses a riddle to them and says, if you can answer my riddle, I'll give you thirty changes of garment, one for each. If you can't, then you give me thirty garments. They couldn't answer it in seven days. The wedding feast lasted a long time Oh, to have that kind of money, to have a wedding feast that lasted seven days. I'm doing good to get seven hours out of it right before the rental's up. Gotta clean up. Time to go. Well, the Philistines uh laid sore on the woman who uh told them the secret to his riddle And they answered, and he said, if you had not plowed with my heifer, you wouldn't have answered the riddle. And so he goes down to Ashkelon, kills thirty Philistines, and hauls their clothes off of them, and says, Here, there's your clothing He didn't go to Nordstroms, he goes to their backyard and kills them. So that is chapter 14. And that's the setting of that. My, what a rough start. I mean I've seen some shotgun weddings well, I've heard of some shotgun weddings, I haven't personally seen any, uh where things are rough and I know at some weddings security was called in because we didn't want the ex to show up and cause troubles. But uh I haven't uh had a case where right after the wedding the uh groom goes out and kills thirty family members um and takes their clothing and says, Here you can have all this. I I mean that's That's kind of a bizarre. That's bizarre. It's a little unorthodox, shall we say. It doesn't sound very Christian behavior But look at 14 verse 4, because again, there's an interesting statement here we read, because he requested this Philistine woman, and from the get-go, mom and dad, just like you and I would do, say Isn't there someone of your own people? Why do you have to go to the Philistines? And look at what you read in fourteen, verse four. But his father and mother knew not that it was of the Lord That he now that could be he uh Samson or that could be he the Lord Can you stop that please? Sought an occasion against the Philistines, for at that time the Philistines had dominion over Israel. It was of the Lord that Samson was interested in a Philistine woman. Now that really puts us back in our heels and says, this is unorthodox. What's going on here? I like the commentary that that I found in in one of the ones that I read. Um And it was this statement from Jamison Fawcett Brown. It says this, the Lord, by a chorus of retributions and vengeance, was about to destroy the Philistines' power and the means which he was to employ was not the forces of a numerous army as in the previous judges, but rather the miraculous prowess of a single-handed champion of Israel In these circumstances, the provocation to hostilities could only spring out of a private quarrel. And this marriage scheme was secretly influenced by the Spirit as the best way of accomplishing God's plans. You know, don't think that little family spats can't turn violent. You ask any police officer what's the most dangerous call that they ever have to answer Does anybody know what it is? What the most dangerous call? It's not an active shooter. That's not to them that's not dangerous. Domestic violence. Somebody's in the house, and it can be a man just as much as a woman. It can be a grandma just as much as a grandson on meth or fentanyl. And they come in and it can get explosively violent, surprisingly quick, and it's hard because you have to make split-second decisions as an officer as to what to do. And so nothing has changed. And the Lord knows human nature. He knows us very well. And so we read from scriptures the testimony that this interest in the Philistine woman was of the Lord. Well, the destruction of these other Philistines in Echelon reaches the news of the Philistines, and we read about their response in chapter 15. So to summarize that chapter, they hear about this and they get upset and they want to take vengeance. So they go to the wife and to the father. Uh because Samson had come and said, Well, I want my wife back after he beat some. He says, Well, I thought you utterly despised her. You ran off. And so I gave your wife to one of her companions. And so enraged he uh uh ties three hundred foxtails together, puts a burning uh fire in between their tails, and they burn up the Philistine fields And the Philistines come to the father and says, what's up with this? And he says, well, because I gave Samson's wife to another. So the Philistines kill the Philistine father and Samson's wife. And now he's really upset, and so he goes out and slays a bunch of them and he smites them and he kills them. In fact, he slayed a thousand Philistines with an unusual instrument of war With the with the donkey's jawbone, with the jawbone of an ass. He didn't suffer a scratch. That's a blunt instrument. That's hand-to-hand combat I can't imagine how that field of battle looked. That's chapter fifteen. Again, a very unusual account as to how God is going to rescue them from the Philistines. It's this family squabble, it's this marital quarrel that he's got. I want you to turn to what I think to be the most interesting chap of chapter 15, and that's in verse 14. Judges chapter fifteen and verse fourteen, we read this. Speaking of Samson, it says, when he came unto Lehi, this is a Philistine city, near where Timnath was, where near Zora is his hometown. The Philistines shouted against him and The Spirit of the Lord came mightily upon him. Boy, oh, to have the Spirit of God come mightily upon us. And the corns that were upon his arm became as flax that was burnt with fire, and his bands loosed from off his hands. He had been bound up by his own people, the Jews, delivered to the Philistines, say, okay, here he is, take care of him But he just ripped them right off just like you were popping thread. Verse fifteen, and he found a new jawbone of an ass, and put forth his hand, and took it, and slew a thousand men therewith You know, folks, anytime you read something very unusual in the Old Testament, you may sit there and look at it and for a couple of years think that's strange, I don't understand it. Now don't go down the path that This is just some bizarre account that never really happened or ah they're just making stuff up to make Samson look strong. Oh no, it really happened. It really did happen You must look at the scriptures with the eye of faith. This is God Almighty. The words of the Lord are pure words, purified seven times in the furnace of earth. They're very pure. God in councils of eternity past thought out and chose every word to put it down precisely the way he wanted it. Just like a craftsman who's laying down ceramic tile made of irregular pieces to form an image and a picture in the course of his setting of the tile in the mosaic chooses the color, chooses the placement. chooses the location and sets it exactly in place specifically the way he's doing it. And with the eye of faith, I'll tell you what this is a picture of. This is how God works through preachers and prophets. With the jawbone of an ass, he'll slay a thousand. Hosea says, I have slain them with the mouth. I have hewed them by the prophets. I have slain them with the words of my mouth. That's in Hosea 6. 5 This is how God affects preaching. It's the most unorthodox way. Because God took it. He took it. It's in his hands. And that jawbone of an ass slays thousands. It's his spirit. Does the jawbone of an ass get any credit? No. What can it do? Nothing. Unless it's in the hands of Almighty God. That's how preaching works. So there's strange things that go on here, but God's teaching us something from all of this account. We continue on into the 16th chapter, and again, we're not going to read through it verse at a time, but I want to summarize it for you. I don't know many fathers who have named their son Samson. He's not exactly what you would call a role model for your father's. My son married a harlot. Who wants to have that? as their example. Not many. They might name him Sam short for Samuel. Now there's a notable fellow, but Sam's son, uh no, I don't think so. Samson's life takes a very bizarre turn here in the 16th chapter. He goes and he finds a harlot in Gaza, and the Philistines discover he's there, captured in the city. No, he takes the bars of the city gates off and hauls them away, that's phenomenal. If you've studied biblical archaeology, city gates were ridiculously heavy. They were intentionally sufficiently strong so that it could thwart adversaries trying to come in when you close and lock them up. Samson just hauls them away up to the top of the hill no less. He uh later then falls for a woman named Delilah. And everybody's heard of Delilah. And she gets bribed by the Philistines who are tirelessly trying to discover what is the secret to his strength. They keep coming to her. They keep asking, what is the secret to his strength? Where is all this secret? Why? Why is he this way? He tells her one thing and and he says, Oh, if I'm bound with this I can't be held back and that doesn't work. He uh un unveils the ambush and doesn't succeed But however, she finally does succeed. She immediately cuts his hair when she's asleep on his knees. She calls the Philistines in. They capture him. His strength is gone. He's no longer a Nazarite. The sign, the apparent strength that he had has now been cut, means his purpose has now been removed So he's not a deliverer. Now he's an average Jew. He falls into their hands. They make sport with him. They haul him into their temple of Dagon, and they're going to make sport with him And apparently this took place over a period of time because as his hair began to grow back, and he's brought into a large Colosseum. The Philistines are going to make one last show in sport of him. As his hair is growing back, he asks the men, he's now been blinded. And he asks the man, please, put me by the pillars of the temple so I can hold up. And so he gets between the two pillars. And he says, Oh Lord God, please. So he's still a praying man. This one time, this one time, give me my strength. And God did, and he destroyed the Colosseum, and he killed 20,000. Philistine, lords and princes, no less, the headshed of the opposing power, and it also sadly took his own life And he his life was listed as that which is 20 years. Our key verse to look at is in Judges chapter 16 and verse 30. Judges 16, 30. We read this. It's the last sentence. Samson said, Let me die with the Philistines, and he bowed himself with all his might, and the house fell upon the lords and upon all the people that were therein. So the dead which he slew at his death were more than they which he slew in his life. And that is the end of Samson. Well, what I find as you go through all of this, and again I've given you a brief summary of these three chapters And I encourage you to go and read it. And you might be mystified as I was for a long time. You know, I've been studying the Bible for a while. I'm not a novice in this portion of Scripture It's been a some season since I've looked at it. Some things I've seen as types and pictures of Christ, but the more I've studied Samson I have found twelve ways in which he is a glorious picture of the Lord Jesus Christ. Now you might go, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, hold on here, wait a minute He's you just said you wouldn't want to name your son after him. You know, we're to follow Christ, not Samson. What is it about this man that's a picture of Christ Well remember, he shows up in the hall of faith. Daniel doesn't show up in the hall of faith. Job, whom I would have thought had first billing, is not in Hebrew's 11. Why is Samson in the Hall of Faith? Twelve pictures as to why I think he's a glorious picture of Christ. Hear me on this. I'm gonna have you by the eighth one. Or the ninth one. First point is this the people were in sin and therefore they needed a savior. That's the context we have. They were in sin. They had no idea how to get out under the bondage of the Philistines. They had no strength. These people were powerful. They were very powerful. They controlled them. They ruled over them. They lived and intermingled with them. There wasn't any rescue from these people. It kind of sounds like Lebanon. at the hands of the Muslims. They're embedded. They're there. The Christian majority there cannot get the upper hand. Not going to happen. Second, an angel wondrously announced his birth just like Jesus. He had a wondrous announcement. You agreed with me that God was in all this from the beginning, that it was God's ordination, that it was a theophany of Christ that appeared. An angel announced his birth Not only like Jesus, but also like John the Baptist. Number three, he was a child of promise. God promised this to Manoah's wife Just like Isaac, just like John the Baptist, and of course just like the Lord Jesus. He was a child of promise. Number four, he was ordained for the Lord's work of salvation from the womb. Samson was ordained to be a deliverer of the people. Even so the Lord Jesus was ordained to be a deliverer. Thou shalt call his name Jesus, for he shall Save, rescue, ransom, pull back his people from their sins. Number five, his wives often betrayed him As Jesus was often betrayed by his first bride, Israel. Remember, Israel, God said. was the bride. He called her a bride. And he said, I chose you not because you were great. Not be and in Ezekiel he uses very graphic language. But he uses language to indicate you weren't even really pretty. You were there in your blood. You weren't too terribly attractive. But I came to you. You see. And what did they do? Oh, they loved him and hugged him. Oh, they loved him all. No. They betrayed him. They betrayed him again and again and again Number six, he occasioned the casting away of his first bride. Israel was cast away. Even so, Samson's bride was cast away, the first one. Number seven, he loved disreputable women who should have been scorned. Jesus chose Samaritans and Gentiles and made them his bride. Basically, Christian, what makes you think you're such a peach before God? Do you think you're really that good? Oh, I'm glad he picked me. Well of course he picked me. That's a definition of narcissism if I've ever seen it. Narciss was a Greek god, mythical Who spent all of his time staring at the pool of his reflection in a pool of water, just marveling at how beautiful he was. That's what he spent his time doing. Do you really think you're such a peach and that's why God picked you? You think it's the Marine slogan he's just looking for a few good men? No God's looking for losers. And that's all who Samson's wives were with a bunch of losers. And they should have been scorned. And that's who he chose. Eighth point. He was zealous to avenge. When something happened, he was zealous. You've done what to my wife? He was zealous to avenge Even so the Lord Jesus was zealous for his house. The zeal for that house hath eaten me up. If you're not convinced yet, this next one's going to get you. Point number nine. With his own arm he wrought salvation for his people. With his own arm. There was no big army. There wasn't a massive force. He didn't get aid and attendance from the Egyptians. He didn't have outside help. It was his own arm He was a unilateral victor and champion. He was the only one who whooped up on the Philistines. Nobody else joined in. He and he alone was the deliverer. Number 10, he killed more in his death than in all of his life. You know, we read in Uh Colossians two fifteen, if I can pull that up quickly. Colossians two fifteen, uh we Hear this. It says that he spoiled principalities and powers. He made a show of them openly, triumphing over them in it. And Hebrews 2, 14 and 15 tell us this. If you remember when we were in that portion of Scripture, Hebrews 2, 14 Forasmuch then as the children are partakers of flesh and blood, he also likewise partook of the same, that through death he might destroy him that had the power of death, that is the devil, and deliver them. Who's through fear of death for all their lifetime, subject to bondage? He was a great deliverer in his death. Number 11. The one closest to Samson betrayed him. Likewise, Judas betrayed Christ. He was very close to Jesus. He was right there. And he went and told the secret. Twelfth point, and it was the revelation of the secret to his strength, to Samson's strength that killed him. Likewise, when Jesus reveals his identity, they seek to kill him. We'll close here in Matthew 26. Look at Matthew 26, if you will, in verse 63. When Jesus discloses his identity. Which he was reluctant to do. He said, Tell us plainly now, if thou be the Christ, tell us plainly. He said, The works that I do, did they not testify? But then finally in Matthew 26 at his trial in verse 63, the high priest says this. The high priest answered and said unto him, that is Jesus, I adjure thee by the living God that thou tell us whether thou be the Christ, the Son of God, and Jesus said unto him, Thou hast said. You said it, buddy. That's exactly who I am. And did they just, glory, hallelujah, he's here, wonderful. The high priest rent his clothes, he spoke in blasphemy. What further need have we of witnesses? As soon as the secret was disclosed They wanted to kill him. And that's exactly what happened happened to Samson. Matthew Henry makes this statement here that uh Samson was himself a riddle, a paradox of a man, who did that which was really great and good by that which was seemingly weak and evil. Because he was designed not to be a pattern for us who must walk by rule, not by example, but a type, a type of him who, though he knew no sin, was made sin for us. and appeared in the likeness of sinful flesh, that he might condemn and destroy sin in the flesh. Like Jesus, Samson was not at the head of a court Nor in the seat of judgment, nor in the field of battle, but he was a terrible scourge to God's enemies and Israel's oppressors. That much we can say of Samson. And now do you say, now do you see why I said earlier, what's the strangest way you've seen of hiding something? And here's a figure called Samson, one that we would look at and a little distasteful But the Lord Jesus came, and he did, and he took upon him the most distasteful thing, and came for distasteful people And was betrayed, and yet with his own arm wrought a great salvation for his people. Does not Samson belong in the house of faith? Even at the very end of his life, he's still praying to God He's still asking God for help and deliverance, and he still receives it. And so this is our curious figure, Samson. Consider what I say, and the Lord give you understanding. Antonio, would you close us in prayer? Let's pray. Father in heaven, Lord, we look to you. Thank you, O Lord, that you've preserved your word and given it to us to read. And uh in the volume of the book it's it's written of Christ, it's written of His. Pray Lord that we would continue to see this. Lord help us. uh not to read the scriptures with a veil, oh Lord. Yes. But even openly, even plainly seeing it. Lord, we pray that you would teach us, give us much light. See Christ in the volume of the book and to uh grow in grace and knowledge of him and help us even to be uh faithful as uh as we read of these many uh as this uh faithful cloud of witnesses as we did in Hebrews. Please conform us to the image of Christ. And pray you would bless our upcoming time here gathering. Help us to worship you in spirit and in truth. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen. Amen