We are continuing in Hebrews 11, and today we're going to get to the first woman mentioned in the Hall of Faith. I think that's interesting that she finds her way in here. So let's read Hebrews 11, 11 to 12. You can follow in your bulletin or pull it up in your Bible. Hebrews 11, beginning in verse 11, we read this Through faith also, Sarah herself received strength to conceive seed, and was delivered of a child. when she was past age, because she judged him faithful to had promised. Therefore Sprang there even of one, and him as good as dead, so many as the stars of the sky in multitude, and as the sand, which is by the seashore, innumerable Thus ends the reading of that portion of scripture. Well, the discussion question goes like this. What are some of the unusual ways that God uses people in service to his kingdom? What are some of the unusual ways? He just uses everybody. Okay, everybody. And in what ways are some of the different ways? Are they all preachers? Some of the ways are uh seeing bad things that have happened to others who have managed to come through it okay, and other things are people who prosultize. Okay, yeah. Some uh when you say see bad things happen to others, I'm assuming you mean and then they help. They're like counselors Something like that. I'm sure that that has in influenced others to realize that they can get along with one eye. Oh, I see. All right. As an example of suffering affliction. Yeah, that's my closest. Sure, sure, sure. Yeah, uh that that's that's certainly one way, absolutely. God sometimes uses common talents talents. Um in other words when we were building churches in Jamaica, we'd have a group of men come in, they weren't carpenters. They weren't plumbers, they weren't block players, but they had enough skills to very successfully build a very strong, usable building, and the Lord used them for that purpose. I think there's a list in Ephesians 4. He gave some apostles, some prophets, some evangelists, some pastors and teachers, all for the perfecting of the saints. Okay, yeah, those are some of we would call maybe the the the the big ways, uh which gets to my next question. What do some consider to be the big ways? And you've started us off on a good list of those. Uh Mrs. Ross identified those who are evangelizing, committed to foreign missions. That certainly is a big way. What are some of the other big ways that people consider that Starting schools, starting churches, running Christian camps, big ministries like that obviously. Yeah, very large high profile type things. Now let me ask another one, and just kind of getting to some of what we're going to touch on today, what are some of the small ways? The small ways God uses people are just encouragers. Yes. Yeah. Um I've been at a church where there was uh a lady there who was a great encourager. Yeah, and it's nice to have that one. That really gives you a nice shot in the arm for the week Some great encouragement. Other ways I've thought of, just to share with you some of my thoughts, certainly not something that would have been known in Bible times, but what about people in Mission Aviation Fellowship? They just fly the plane. They just taxi things. Because oftentimes ministers of the word, or even those who are in the medical profession, they donate their time medically abroad. Those are other ways. I would still consider that a big way But they're not actually primarily there to evangelize. Maybe they're there as a dentist. They're just there to help demonstrate and illustrate needs for the poor. Here's the yes Lisa. So would that also mean um each gift that God has given each people different gifts? Some people keep things, you know Yeah, very good. You're tying it now to gifting. God's gifting, which is a really good thread to pull on. I hadn't thought of that, but you're spot on target. You know, God gives individuals gifts, not so they can serve themselves Right. We would say if God gave them a gift and they become saved, then obviously they want to use their gift for the furtherance of the kingdom in whatever capacity they can, wherever they're at. And there's a lot of different ways people can in fact serve the Lord. We had two fellows Um one of them was a fellow in Florida who gathered stuff from missionaries. And he could he could get you pr a printer, he could get you a copier, whatever you wanted. And then he had a good friend who lived in Montago Bay who did all the customs work for us. Because if if if the American missionaries showed up at customs, they would charge huge duties and all kinds of hassle. Jamaican guy shows up and stuff just So that was their ministry. Yeah, he would get the stuff, he would ship it to Headley, and we'd figure it figured out from Headley. There are a lot of different ways I thought of another one too, a um uh well maybe I'll share that towards the end because I want to get it. I don't want to rabbit trail too much. Good discussion. Good get you thinking about different ways to serve the Lord. I think too many of us think, well, I'm not a pastor, I'm not a teacher, so I can't serve the Lord And I think today's lesson is going to illustrate a very interesting way in which someone, a woman, an older woman, was called to serve the Lord Well, let's kind of look at a little bit of background as I am wont to do. So turn in your Bible to the eleventh chapter of the book of Genesis and put the reference in your handout, but I didn't fill in all the verses because I think it'd be helpful if you follow along. in your scriptures. If you don't have that, that's okay. You can listen and I'll read through it. We're going to start very briefly with Genesis 11 and verse 31. It's a very short verse, actually. It says of Abram's wife, giving more detail, it says, but Sarai was barren. She had no child. This is the very first character introduction we have to Abram's wife Sarai. We read that he was of his father Tirah. He had two brothers. Nahor and Haran, Haran begat Lot, Haran died, the call came, Abram leaves, but in the description of his family, Sarah had no child. So I did a little math because I've been told if you're an engineer and you can't express it in numbers, you don't know what you're talking about. So she was barren, had no child. Well Is there a way we can put a number to this to kind of get a feel and a sense for the sting of it? Well, we can look at Seth's lineage. You can in fact scan with your eyes back up to the earlier verses of Genesis 11 starting at verse 10, and you can begin to look at the birth age of the notable son. And from verses 10 through 22, by my calculations, the average is 31. 4 years. So 31. 4 years along in the patriarch's life, we have a the birth of a of an of a notable individual, son. Now, we also know from Genesis 17, 17 that Sarah is 10 years younger than Abram. So at this particular point in time, if Abram leaves at age seventy-five, that makes Sarah how old or Sarai. She's sixty-five, but the average birth age of that first notable son is thirty-one. She's well over twice. that age. What's the average age you suppose in our culture today when a woman uh enters childbearing uh gives birth to her first child? What do you think that average first age is I don't know, I haven't looked it up, so I'm asking you ladies. Fourteen? Average. Well, maybe in schools. I just know I knew it was fourteen years old for this. Uh you've heard something that's gone way up. So 14 for a lower end, that's they've just reached sexual maturity. And then more like 25, 26. 25, 26? I was going to say the average used to be around 20, but it's gone like Okay, somewhere 14 to 25. I think we can agree somewhere in that range. Well double those numbers. 28 to 50. Can you imagine a 50-year-old still not having children? That's kind of the situation we have with Sarah. And I just leave that there because I as a man can't process that. I don't really know what that looks like. And we have to ask the question, well, whose fault is this? Why isn't she bearing children? God's fault. Yeah, yeah. We would have to confess it's the it's the Lord here is shutting up the womb. In fact, in the previous uh in in in the later chapter In chapter 13, when he goes into Egypt, uh we find that God had fast closed up the wombs of Pharaoh's house because he had taken Sarai. And then after Pharaoh released her. He opened up the wound so that things could go normal again. Sometimes it has nothing to do with the fertility of the parents. It has to do with the Lord saying, nope. Not happening. Well now we get to Genesis 16. So now let's fast forward through a bit of history here, turn a few pages to the opening verses of Genesis 16. There we read this. One more time, the next time we have another comment on Sarai, other than their trip through Egypt, was this. Now Sarai, Abram's wife, bear him no children. And she had a handmaid, an Egyptian, whose name was Hagar. And Sarai said unto Abram, Behold, now the Lord hath restrained me from bearing. See, she knew this. She knew this. I pray thee, go in unto my maid, and it may be that I may obtain children by her. And Abram hearkened to the voice of Sarai. Now, we know a little later that Ishmael is born when Abram is 86. So how old does that make Pharaoh? She's now 76 years old. So somewhere between age 65 and 76, a lot has gone on. So ladies. And I really want your opinion. What do you think is going on through Sarai's mind based on what we just read here in Genesis 16? She gave up. She gave up. Okay. Yep. And what else is going through her mind? Ladies. A little bit of dis sorry. A little bit of what? Disbelief alive. A little bit of disbelief. Okay. Um disappointed. I'm sorry, disappointed? Yep. Yeah, okay. Okay, so she didn't find a child coming from her, but she said, Go to my handmaid. Now why would she suggest going to the handmaid? Because you give up having children. Okay, but I mean um a lot of women give up having children, but because God has promised there would be a child So she still believed the promise of God. If it were me, I would be just like, Well, God can't use me. I can't be part of that promise. But it's still God's promise, so Yeah, yeah. I'm sorry, what's that? She has hope. Yeah, isn't that interesting? She she still has hope and belief in the promise of God, right? Because Otherwise, what's with this drive to have a child? You can't have a child? Oh well, I guess it's not just meant for us to have children. Um, you know, we got lots of servants in the house. Abram had plenty of servants in his house. We read at the conquest of the five kings uh in a later chapter of Genesis that he had three hundred and eighteen born in his house. So there were plenty of babies and youth in his house. There were servants. You know, she could have said, I'm content to be a childless queen just to rule over these people, but she still has hope in the promise of God, and perhaps, and I don't think I'm reaching She's going over this in her mind. Well, God said that of Abram, God really didn't name me. I'm really not part of this program. Okay? So she's disappointed. She wants to see the promise of God come to pass, but it's really not. Well then we go to Genesis 17. And I'm covering this because of what we read in Hebrews 11, that she's a woman of faith. And so we're trying to look for where those elements of faith come in at. Genesis 17, we read this. I'm in verse 15, Genesis 17, verse 15. And God said unto Abraham, so now God has changed Abram's name from Abram to Abraham. as opposed to Abram, an exalted father, to Abraham, a father of many nations. God said unto Abraham, As for Sarai thy wife, thou shalt not call her name Sarai, but Sarah. shall her name be. Notice God added an H to Abraham's name. It was Abram. Same thing with Sarah. So he's it's a multiplying addition, if you will Sarah shall her name be, and I will bless her, and give thee a son also of her. Yea, I will bless her, and she shall be a mother of nations. Wow. Kings of people shall be of her. Then Abraham fell upon his face and laughed and said in his heart, Shall a child be born unto him that is a hundred years old, and shall Sarah that is ninety years old bear? This is where we get the age difference. But notice now he's a hundred. And she's 90. This is a mighty long ways into the journey. This is some 35 years later. This is three times the average age of when a child is born. And Abraham said unto God, Oh, that Ishmael might live before thee. And God said, Sarah, thy wife, shall bear thee a son indeed, and thou shalt call his name Isaac. and I will establish my covenant with him for an everlasting covenant and with his seed after him. So Sarai means princess, that restricts her honor to one family. But Sarah means the princess of multitudes. It's going to multiply her honor. You know, infertile marriage remains a stigma even to now. In various ways, shapes, and forms, there is still a bit of pressure. There are a lot of couples who desire children. And praise God through medical means of in vitro fertilization and the like. I haven't deeply considered the theological ramifications of this. But there are ways that the unsaved will seek to have children. There's also ungodly ways of doing it. But there is an interest, a God-instilled interest in the propagation of the human race. So this is Sarah's pain that we've reviewed here. This is the characteristic that she's had to live with. But now I want to look at her testimony. I want to consider her testimony and continue with me to the next chapter of Genesis into the 18th chapter, Genesis 18 and verse 9. In the 18th chapter, This is the famous account of the warning of the angels who come to Abraham. He's going to tell Abraham that he's going to destroy Sodom and Gomorrah. Abram is concerned about his nephew Lot, whom he knows to live there, and there's some discussion and negotiation. However, before that Dialogue occurs. We read in verse 9 of Genesis 18 as the angels appearing unto him as men Speak. We read in Genesis 18, 9, and they say unto him, and they said unto him, Where is Sarah thy wife? And he said, Behold, in the tent. And he said, I will certainly return unto thee, according to the time of life. And lo, Sarah, thy wife, shall have a son. How thick are the walls and tents? Probably not very thick. They're typically camel skins, skins of some animal. They weren't heavily insulated with R thirty-eight insulation made by Dow Corning, right? This is this is pretty Sound penetrable material, and Sarah heard it in the tent door which was behind him. And then we read, now Abraham and Sarah were old. and well stricken in age, and it ceased to be with Sarah after the manner of women. She's getting it all hot flashes Telling Abraham, come here, come here, come here, go away, go away, go away, come here. She's going through it all. It ceased to be with the manner of Sarah. Therefore Sarah laughed within herself, saying She's within herself now, and Scripture records the thoughts of her heart. After I am waxed old, shall I have pleasure, my Lord being old also? This is just a quick thought through my and honestly, can you blame her? I mean, you gotta really can't falter And the Lord, now this is where we find indication that these angels here are Theophanes' early representation of God Himself, and the Lord, God speaking through the angels, either way it works. And the Lord said unto Abraham, Wherefore did Sarah laugh, saying, Shall I of assurity bear a child which am old? Is anything too hard for the Lord? Ooh, that's kind of a bit of a slap there. At the time appointed, I will return unto thee according to the time of life, and Sarah shall have a son. Yeah. Well Sarah knew it was a slap in the face because we read in the last verse of 15. Then Sarah denied, saying, I laugh not, for she was afraid. And he said, Nay, but thou didst laugh Ladies, in your opinion, what is Sarah's frame of mind? Is she buying this? Would you buy this? Yeah, you know, you just you're like, um, I hear you Lord, but I'm just not buying it. I'm not sure I'd want to. Yeah. Right. You're like, you know. I bang my knee against the tent stake or my ankle against the tent stake and I'm down for two weeks. And then the last thing I need is some little extra stretching program. That'll that'll do me in for sure Yeah, I mean it's really quite the incredible thing. She has a laughter. What type of laughter do you think that was? We laugh for different reasons. A derision. Yeah. That's a good one. Yeah. Then we go to Genesis 21 and verse 1, where we read the fulfillment, because you know how the story goes. Genesis 21, beginning in verse 1. And the Lord visited Sarah as he had said. And the Lord did unto Sarah as he had spoken. For Sarah conceived and bare Abraham a son in his old age at the set time of which God had spoken to him. And Abraham called the name of his son that was born unto him, whom Sarah bare to him Isaac. Abraham circumcised his son Isaac, being eight days old, as God had commanded him And Abraham was one hundred years old when his son Isaac was born unto him. That made Sarah 90. And Sarah said, God hath made me to laugh, so that all will all that hear will laugh with me. And she said, Who would have said unto Abraham that Sarah should have given children suck? For I have borne him a son in his old age. And the child grew and was weaned, and Abraham made a great feast the same day that Isaac was weaned. Now, in your opinion here, what does Sarah's response indicate Men or women. response. Yeah. Certainly is a a lot of joy at that at that point, no doubt. She's she's really quite amazed that I I can't believe it. I'm actually looking at a child You know, incidentally, Isaac's name means laughter. It's no coincidence that God heard her laugh, and that was the first laugh of derision, a laugh of unbelief. And yet God says, Yep, that's going to be the name of the child. You're going to live with that for a while. I've never noticed this you were reading, but in verse 7 that word who Who would have said this? The only one that can say this is God. Yes, indeed. There is an acknowledgement that look at how God works. So after the child comes, after she's delivered of the child, she has great rejoice. When she sees it, then she believes it. Maybe she w her progeny went on some part of it went on to form the state of Missouri, right? The show me state, show me that I'll believe it. That's a sort of source. Sorry, Joe. My point is this. If I look back in history here, the history that God records, I don't see faith In her conversation, I don't hear peals of faith leading up to the delivery of that child. I hear a laugh of derision. I hear questioning I don't really hear this great sense of, yes Lord, you've said it, I'm carrying on. You know, she's not got her flag planted, marching behind it, you know, and In the Lord's army, and we're gonna make this happen. I know it's impossible, but God with be with me. I can do all things through Christ who strengthens me. I don't read any of that I read exactly what, I mean I I I'm not a woman, but I suppose if I were a woman I would say that and maybe even worse. Like you've got to be kidding. But look carefully at our text in Hebrews 11 to see what God identifies as the evidence of faith, because here's an interesting insight. It has nothing to do with what she says. Her words are recorded to give us the inside of her heart, and that's a tremendous blessing of God. But Hebrews 11 and verse 11, and I'm just focusing on that first part, says this. Through faith also, Sarah herself received strength to conceive seed. That's before the child is born. and was delivered of a child when she was past age. The testimony of Hebrews 11, whoever the penman was for that, is that she is a woman of great faith. You know, elsewhere in the New Testament, the Apostle Peter also writes that she was a woman of exemplary behavior. We find in 1 Peter 3, and it's in your handout, 1 Peter 3, 5 through 6, we read this, for after this manner in the old time The holy women also who trusted in God adorned themselves, being in subjection unto their own husbands, even as Sarah obeyed Abraham, calling him Lord. Whose daughters ye are as long as ye do well and are not afraid with any amazement. We have two accounts, and we're going to get to a third Of Sarah being identified as a strong believer. But the text records a lot of unbelief coming out of her mouth. How do we reconcile that? Well, let me give you a couple of handles that I think are are good and useful. Number one, Hebrews keeps emphasizing Faith is the substance of things hoped for, the evidence of things not seen. And I would submit to you that faith manifests itself In your talk as well as in your walk. Now, Sarah was reproved. She was reproved by the angel. Oh, I heard that. No, I didn't laugh. Yes, you did. I heard it, and you're gonna call your son laughter. He's gonna take it back and put it back on. So the only thing I can deduce, given that the New Testament gives a huge stamp of approval on her, in fact puts her in The Faith Hall of Fame. I mean that's pretty big, right? There's a lot of people that play baseball. Not too many of them get to the Baseball Hall of Fame. You got to do something really good You can't be striking out continually and make it to the Hall of Fame. She makes it to the Hall of Fame. And that is a woman. I don't know yet if there's a female baseball player playing in male baseball that has made it to the Hall of Fame, but that's kind of what that's like here. So true believers, when they are reproved, like Sarai was by the angel, will change their thinking. They will change their thinking. Scripture here and in other places presents us with this idea many a time. Because saints are not true, faithful saints are not devoid of sins. They have sins, plenty of them. But when reproved, they do change. And God will give them space to repent. For instance, the old the best account I can think of really was Matthew 21, 28. The Lord Jesus was giving an example. He often taught his disciples and confounded the Pharisees with his parables. They had a double-edged sword to it to encourage one, condemn the other. He said, What think ye? A certain man had two sons And he came to the first and said, Son, go work today in my vineyard. And he answered and said, I will not. But afterward he repented and went. And he came to the second and said likewise, and he answered and said, I go, sir, and went not Whether of them twain did the will of his father? And they said unto him, because they at least could understand that much, the first. Sarah is like that son to whom the father said, go work in the vineyard, and she said nope, but afterward repented. She changed her thinking. She didn't do per se anything radically different other than her mindset. Her trust continued. She says, okay. She repented. How did she repent? She quit offering handmaids to Abram and Abraham, saying, this is how this is going to come to pass. That's one way of repentance we see. She doesn't continue to push that avenue She believed the second admonition that came through from the angel. No, this will happen. And in fact, we find out even more fascinating insights about Sarai. From the Apostle Paul, who wrote often of deep things, hard to be received, which they which are unlearned and unstable do rest to their own destruction, as they do the other scriptures. Turn, if you will, to Galatians 4, or you can look in your bulletin. I have it there as well. But it might be useful that you just admire this because I'm really impressed. by this consideration of Sarah. Galatians 4. 22 we read this. For it is written that Abraham had two sons, the one by a bondmaid. Now that bondmaid would be Hagar. And the other by a free woman, that would be Sarah. But he, who was of the bondwoman, that would be Ishmael, was born after the flesh. To be born after the flesh does not imply Isaac was of Immaculate Conception. Sarah was not the Virgin Mary. She actually Conceived with her husband and bore Isaac. This is talking about trying to fulfill the promises of God in our own strength, with our own plan, in our own ways. He who was of the bondwoman was born after the flesh. But he, this is now talking of Isaac, he of the free woman was by promise, which things are an allegory. So what you and I have just read in that historical account of Genesis, and it's every bit historical, there's no fiction. No myths include place names that are real. It doesn't include makeup countries. It includes real countries and real cities. And these are real people. And yet God, through their lives, was working out a much grander story that is relevant to us today. He says it's an allegory. These are the two covenants. Whoa! The birth of those two children represent the old covenant and the new covenant. This is some deep stuff. This is some heady stuff But listen to how he describes it. He says, the one is from Mount Sinai, which genders, which gives birth to bondage. Well, that would be Hagar. That would be the servant. In Abraham's house, no less. Under Abraham's roof, no less, following the direction of Abraham, and it says that's Mount Sinai. This do and live. This do and live. The law commands you to run but doesn't give you legs. It commands you to climb, it doesn't give you a ladder. It tells you to fly and doesn't give you wings. You are unable unable to really fulfill the law. And if you think you can, you're lowering the law. You got a different law in your mind than that Perfect law of God, because to offend in one point is to offend in them all. Agenders to bondage, which is agar, for this agar is Mount Sinai in Arabia And answers to, is the handmaid to, is the servant of, answers to Jerusalem, which now is, the Jerusalem now is, is talking about the one in Israel, the city there, which at the time of Hebrews had not been destroyed This is why some the well it we're reading in Galatians uh as well as Hebrews. It doesn't reference the destruction by Titus, and so it's talking about Jerusalem. Now it is, it was still around And is in bondage with her children. They're in bondage. Why? Because they're still under the law, to do everything under the law. They've rejected the Messiah. The law points to the Messiah. But they've rejected him. But Jerusalem, which is above, is free, which is the mother of us all, all through the elect So Sarah is a picture of Jerusalem which is above. She's the mother of us all. Isn't that amazing? And there's a lot we think about that. We read from Hebrews 11. 12 as we continue in that verse that therefore sprang there even of one and him as good as dead. Folks, this is a fantastic picture. Because it says God works best with dead things. The have nots, the cannots, the want-nots, the believe-nots, those who are resistant. But when they become convinced of the promise of God, They say, Yea and Amen, Lord, in your strength and your power it will happen. I love that promise you gave last week. Could you repeat it about subduing the iniquities? That was a glorious promise. Oh yeah. That will subdue all our iniquities and cast our sins into Thou wilt subdue our iniquities. I I had not considered that as a promise and and I'm I'm going to commit that to memory. I really like that one It's in the power of God. It's saying, well, I don't have any skills to serve the Lord, but do you have a willing heart to serve the Lord? We think of people who do have skills and gifts, and yes. But oh my, God just wants a willing heart. I can't do it, Lord. I'm so overloaded, I'm so overwhelmed. You're right, you can't do it But God can. Because zero plus a million equals what, Jeffrey? A million. Well, you'd like to have a million right now. Maybe I should use it. There is there's a popular saying that God will never give you something to do that He won't that you can't do. And that's totally false. God gives us a numerous thing. Yes. Believe on the name the Lord Jesus Christ now shall be saved, but I can't believe I'm dead. In and of ourselves, we will not find that. But with the command, he will Yeah. And repent. I mean just repent. I I I can't I still find it difficult to go shop at grocery stores. They know I guess that the grocery stores I shop at uh are populated by people about my age. And so they want to continue to pump into my head all the bad music from my day and I get it recycled again And it stirs up all this old stuff and that's gotta be repented of. Right? I mean it's bad enough I have to go into some grocery stores, take my glasses off, other times I'm gonna have to go in glasses off, earplugs in, I'm gonna be walking around. You know, with a king. And the reason I ask the question, what is zero plus a million, is in Galatians 4. 28 we read this, for it is written, Rejoice thou barren that bearest not. Break forth and cry, thou that travailest not. It's just an indiscriminate reference, because there's a broader audience than mine Paul is using that quote from Isaiah in connection to Sarah and the two covenants, because he concludes, for the desolate, that's Sarah. has many more children than she which hath an husband. That would be Hagar. That would be Jerusalem, which now is. Insofar as God's concerned, the children that endure are far more from Sarah. Then the multitude coming from the unbelievers, from the wicked, even if they're religious, even if they're religious under the right religion. It's an amazing truth. And then the conclusion of Galatians 4. 29 is this. Now we, brethren, as Isaac was Are the children of promise. We would conclude Isaac's verse is a miracle. This is a flat-out miracle. There's just no way a hundred-year-old and a ninety-year-old had babies I read an interesting news article of late in Germany, some 60-some odd-year-old woman, I don't know if she was 61 or 66. Did any of y'all see that? This woman bore her tenth child. In her 60s. And the obstetrician said, yep, normal birth, no complications in the delivery. It was by C-section, but 60s, you kidding me? And he says, well yes, she's normal, healthy. It's not that it was in vitro fertilization, anything like that. I mean that's some of the oldest I've seen. Sarah was in it. She was 89. That's way over the top. We have two octogenarians in our midst here, and I'm sure they're not anxious to have a child at that point. Yeah, no thanks. No not signing up for that. Um it says we are the children of the promise. Well, I want to give us a few conclusions from this. What are we to do with all this, right? We're not We can't go back in time and say, yeah, I can when I encounter that situation in my life, I'll do better than Sarah. That's not the point of this. God's using it as an allegory to say It's a historical account with spiritual ramifications to it. What are those spiritual ramifications? Well, I'm going to give you the first one from a missionary her name is Evelyn Ricker. It was one of the greatest quotes I've ever heard from a missionary. She recently passed I recently several years ago, over the age of 90, 90 something, still in the mission field, her husband still plugging along good and strong, and she said a marvelous quote, which is this We are responsible to push the rock, not move the rock. I like that. I like that. That's a statement of faith. It's a rock. It's a mighty big rock. And by God's strength, if he wants to move it, he'll move it. And he'll do it when I push on it. It's not going to be possible. God does this so many times. He takes the most unlikely, the most unqualified, the lowest of low the the do-nothings, the people who are just not really with it, those are the ones he takes out of the bottom of the dunghill and says, I'm going to show you my power. And because he believes me, I'm going to work great things. And then to the women, I want to say this. Dead women work by faith, trusting in a living God to work in his time. You know, this is true. Often the church is depicted as a woman, and so this is true for the church at large. We speak as a dying man to dying men. And but in some respects the men are already dead and we're looking for a resurrection. I like two last points I have here, and I'm going to kind of keep it simple. And maybe not too terribly profound. God can turn ordinary housewives into great pillars of faith. Isn't that interesting? An ordinary housewife, God can turn into a tremendous pillar of faith. I think that's really encouraging. You know, our society right now really downplays motherhood. raising your children at home, they really downplayed that. And we used to have an honorable saying in our land that the hand that rocks the cradle rules the nation, rules the world, and raising up that next generation. That remains true. But somehow in our day we are trying to push women all too quickly into far too responsible positions, positions that are better handled by man, I'm sorry to say. But somebody's got to be home to nurture the children. If I had to pick between my wife and I, she's a better nurturer than I am. She's more compassionate, more empathetic. more tender, more sacrificial, willingly sacrificial for the child of ruin womb. Who better if we had to have the vote than to do that? So God can turn ordinary housewives into great pillars of faith. And my last point is this. God can use the weak and the elderly in very great ways. She receives this commendation because she was weak and she was elderly. The scripture says, yea, even dead. As far as she was concerned, she had one foot in a banana peel and the other one in the grave. She was ready to depart. But God can use such a one. And the example I was going to give earlier, I reserve to now, which is this. Anna, a widow of fourscore years, from her uh uh from her virginity after she'd had a husband for a season. I'm mangling this passage. I should have looked it up, but it came to mind as we were discussing earlier Anna, a widow of fourscore years, served God night and day in the temple with prayers. She served God with her prayers. She served God. She was a servant of God. One of the ways you can serve God is in prayer. Don't underestimate that. You know, to have somebody on your legal team constantly there at the judge's house, at the judge's courtroom, by the judge's bathroom, by the judge's car door, constantly beseeching for Your case or the case of others is a tremendous privilege. We have to pay attorneys to do that stuff, and I guarantee you they're not doing it as often as some older women can pray. So I leave you with those encouraging thoughts as we uh reflect a bit with Sarah. Let's close in prayer. Father God in heaven, we thank you for this example of Sarah.