Our gracious Father, indeed, we can pray the Lord hath done great things for us whereof we are glad. Lord, we come before you this morning with thanksgiving and into your courts with praise. And yet, Lord, you know our frame. You remember that we're dust, you know the chaos of the world around us. Father, we do pray that as we assemble in this place and assemble online this day, Lord, that you may free our hearts and minds from the cares of this life and the thoughts of other things. Open thy glorious word to our hearts. Open our hearts and minds to receive thy truth. Lord, bless us by thy truth Improve us in grace. Continue your work of purifying to yourself a glorious church without spot and wrinkle. May the distractions and the bird of the air be driven far from us, that we might behold the glories of Christ in the Word. that we might be drawn to thee as we've never been drawn before. Father, make us a people of prayer. Lord, make us a people of thy word. Make us a people who are pilgrims and strangers to this world, but journeyers. Lord, we are between the Red Sea and the Jordan. We have been saved. We have gone through the Red Sea, red picturing the blood. We have come through one sea. And Lord, we will cross over Jordan into the promised land in your time if Christ does not come back first. But Lord, we desire in between the two waters to live in faith with thee. Bless us your people we pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Our call to worship this morning is Verses well I had it written down. Verses three and four of Psalm 106: Blessed are they that keep judgment. And he that doeth righteousness at all times. Remember me, O Lord, with thy favor that thou bearest unto thy people. O visit me with thy salvation. That's not the call to worship I had, but it's a good one. Turn to your blues songbook where we will sing The Servants of God, number 136. Uh the blue opening hymn, 136. You servants of God, your master proclaim. 136. And we're gonna sing all four stanzas And God bless your broad his wonderful name, the name of victorious of Jesus. His kingdom is glorious, in total, our night, Almighty, to save. And shall we start his presence we have for safety? Salvation through Jerusalem, Salvation through God's Lord Lord and South. Always gonna lie, when they tell the blog, and things never cease me. Well we uh have returned to our time of the confessional reading and so we're gonna ask Anton to cover that for us. Good morning. Please turn to the back of your bulletin. This morning we'll be finishing up the 21st article. Regarding the satisfaction of Christ, our only high priest, for us. Christian, in what do you believe? Wherefore, because we say with the Apostle Paul that we know nothing but Jesus Christ and him crucified We count all things but lost and dumb for the excellency of the knowledge of Christ Jesus our Lord. In whose wounds we find all manner of consolation. Neither is it necessary to seek or invent any other means of being reconciled to God. And this only sacrifice, the once offered, by which believers are made perfect forever This is also the reason why he was called by the angel of God Jesus, that is to say, Savior, because he should save his people from their sins. The message from the Bible is clear that all have sinned and fallen short of the glory of God. This is humanity's biggest issue, their sin problem. Everybody sinned and they have to pay for it There's a great depth to it, to any individual sin that you have. We saw how Adam and Eve were cursed from the garden, even for that one sin But then there's also a great multitude of sins. And this really is the big question. What do you do with your sins? This is a message that applies not just to Christians, but to everybody around the world. Everybody, anybody who's listening to this message right now, whether Here in person or online, this message applies to you. You have a real problem with God, and that is your sin. And so what are you going to do about it? A lot of people have uh thought up and invented many of their own ways of dealing with it. Because we were created in the image of God, we understand and we can feel the weight of our sins, we can understand that there's guilt for our wrongdoings, for the transgressing of God's moral law Some people try to suppress it. Some people try to put away the idea of God that He won't do anything about it. But we read from the Scripture that the eyes of the Lord are in every place beholding the evil and the good, and God will hold all men accountable. Some people try to think of other ways to deal with the sin they'll try to punish themselves or they'll try to outdo their sins by their good deeds. And they'll even create false gods that will have other ways of pleasing and atoning, making an atonement, making a covering for their sin. And I had a relative uh several years back who was smitten with some serious health issues that was leading to this relative's death. And they asked me, uh because they had this burden of their own sin. They said, well I I have this issue with sin. I know I have it. I want to get rid of it. And I heard from somebody that there's this uh statue or little figurine of Michael the archangel that can be purchased that's claimed to be able to put away sins. They asked, what do you think about that? On the one hand, it's a good thing that somebody actually acknowledged the burden of their sin and the desire to get right before they die. And yet on the other hand, what a grief that the true and plain teachings of Scripture are put away, are put aside, are considered as a primitive thing. Ah, what could this mean? Just the death of Christ. They look for all these other things, all these other means. But truly, this is the only claim, this is the only method that God's given us to put away sin, to make an atonement for sin. We know nothing. We proclaim nothing but Jesus Christ and Him crucified. That's the only place. That's the only way that atonement can be made. It's through the blood of Christ. The real God who created heaven and earth, the one who will judge you, only accepts the one payment for sin, and it's the sacrifice of Christ. And it's even like it was in the time of the first Passover in Egypt. God only spared the homes that were covered by that blood of the Lamb, by those that were faithful to Hear God's message and they knew that angel of death was coming. If they covered their home, then their son will be spared. So it is. For you, anybody who's listening, unless you're covered by that blood of Christ There's there's there's no other atonement for sin. We don't invent, we can't find something else. You can try, but it won't work. It just won't work. And so I'll leave you with this verse as Christ declared in that last uh supper, that last meal that he had with his disciples. before his crucifixion, speaking of his own blood and the efficiency of it, he said, For this is my blood of the New Testament, which is shed for many, for the remissions of sins. Thank you, brother. Well Let us go to prayer together before the great King of Heaven. I will obviously be praying aloud, but pray along with me in your hearts. Agreeing is touching these things. Our great God and Heavenly Father, indeed we do rejoice in who you are. Lord, we would all be purchasing little images of some supposed saint. In order to assuage our conscience, if it were not for the grace of God. Lord, we read in the writings of the Apostle Paul how God has delivered us from idols. And Lord, man has within him, because he was originally created in the image of God, man has within him an earnest desire to worship. But man will make all kinds of gods and idols for himself, and he will never worship the true God, because he is incapable of worshiping the true God apart from grace. And oh Lord, if you had dealt with us in justice, we would be worshiping idols today. We would be out in all manner of iniquity. The only thing that separates us from them is the grace of God. And so, Father, we thank you that you indeed have called us from darkness to light. We thank you that your own elect were chosen in Christ before the foundation of the world And Lord, even within this assembly, there are many that can testify that there was a day in their life when they were engaged in all kinds of iniquity and worshiping all kinds of elements of this world. Until the day they were arrested by grace, transformed, changed into something that they had not been before and could not have imagined. Because you saved them. We thank you. We praise you. And yet, Father, we know that among this assembly There is a long list of unsaved friends, co-workers, relatives, acquaintances that know not this grace. And Lord, we earnestly plead before you that you might save them. Just as David pled for the life of his infant son, so we plead for the life of the unbelievers. O Lord, that you might save them, that you might deliver them from idols, we pray. Father, we know that there are many cares of this life in our congregation. And Father, we thank you that you promised to supply our needs. We thank you, Lord, that you can scatter manna in the wilderness, that you can change bitter water into sweet. Lord, that you own the cattle on a thousand hills. You are not dependent on finances as we are. And yet, Lord, you know the heavy burdens of the congregation. You know, Lord, those that are seeking employment and those that are uh seeking business and struggling with the cares of this world. And Father, as we prayed in our uh in our call to worship prayer, Lord, we pray that you would free our hearts from those things in this hour. And yet, Lord, we look upon you in faith. Who could have imagined manna from heaven? Will the Lord give us bread in the wilderness, the children of Israel said Lord, you are able in all of our struggles of this world, whether they be financial, political, or social. And so, Lord, we call upon you to deal with those things And free our hearts and minds from the burden thereof. Father, several of our congregation have in recent days or months had injections Lord, that are intended to be of great benefit to the body. Sometimes they are, sometimes they are not. Lord, we don't put our faith in the elements of man and the creations of man or the um facilitating of man. But Lord, we know that you use means for the health of your people. And so Father, we pray that you would work in these situations. What do we pray for those that are battling with cancer? What do we pray for those that are battling with sciatica? What do we pray for those that are battling with diabetes? We pray for those that are battling with the aches and pains and joints that are under the curse of sin and are simply wearing out. Lord, we pray for those that have had major surgeries in the last few years. Lord, we pray for our dear sister who is recovering from a transplant and will continue in that recovery, Lord. Always the chance of infection. But Lord, you have spared her life, and we rejoice in that. Lord, we continue to pray for our dear brother who had lung surgery now, I believe it's approaching four years. And continues to do well. Lord, bless and strengthen and help their Father. Lord, we have our brother with us today. He was with us in great weakness. And Lord, we we pray that you continue to strengthen his body, Lord. His desire is always to be here in person. Lord, we pray for two of our sisters this morning that are not with us, that would be here if the body allowed. Oh Father, bless and strengthen them. Lord, I pray for my own mother-in-law who will have surgery on Wednesday. Lord, help and bless there. Father, we have presented before you thus far in our prayer a burden for the lost and concerns for the world and concerns for health. And Lord, those are appropriate prayers to bring before you. But Father, our greater prayer should be, O Lord, give us a true love of Christ. Give us a true hunger and thirst after righteousness. Give us a true overwhelming desire to be conformed to the image of Christ. Search us with a candle. Lord, reveal to us our secret faults. Reveal to us those things that are holding back our Christian walk. And Father, may we be a people that are consumed with Christ. That, Lord, as the old hymn says, turn your eyes upon Jesus, look full in his wonderful face. and the things of earth will grow strangely dim in the light of his glory and grace. And Lord, though th although those words are not from Scripture, they bring forth a biblical principle Lord, that if when our eyes are on Christ, the winds and the waves that Peter sank in don't matter. And so, Father, may we not just bear the name Christian. But O Lord, may we be Christians. May we truly be followers, disciples of Jesus Christ. Christ. Or Blessed Mission Bible Church. Or what a precious and sweet oasis this is. We pray for our far flung congregation that are able to join with us and enjoy the teaching and the confessional reading and the time of prayer and the preaching But are unable to join in the fellowship after. Lord, be with them and bless and encourage them. May they know fellowship with us, though scattered afar. Lord, we pray for our dear ones in Alaska at this time, Father. Give them a good place of feeding and fellowship, we pray. And Lord, we pray these things in Jesus' name. Amen. Please turn to Psalm eighty nine for our responsive reading. Once you found Psalm eighty nine in your Bibles, please try it. We will be reading just the first eighteen verses, Psalm eighty nine. Maskil of Ethan, the Ezraite. I will sing of the mercies of the Lord forever. With my mouth will I make known thy faithfulness to all generations. For I have said, Mercy shall be built up forever. But my faith shall establish in the very heavens. I have made a covenant with my chosen. I have sworn unto David, my servant. Thy seed will I establish forever, and build up thy throne to all generations. And the heavens shall praise thy wonders, O Lord. thy faithfulness also in the congregation of the saints. For who in heaven can be compared unto the Lord. Who among the sons of the mighty can be likened unto the Lord? God is greatly to be feared in the assembly of the saints, and to be had in reverence of all them that are about him O Lord God of hosts, who is a strong lord like unto thee? For thy faithfulness round about thee, thou rulest the raging of the sea. When the waves thereof arise, thou stillest them. Thou hast broken Rahab in pieces as one that is slain. Thou hast scattered thine enemies with thy strong arm. The heavens are thine, the earth also is thine As for the world and the fullness thereof, thou hast founded them. The north and the south, thou hast created them Tabor and Herman shall rejoice in thy name. Thou hast a mighty arm, strong is thy hand, and high is thy right hand. Justice and judgment are the habitation of thy throne. Mercy and truth shall go before thy face. Blessed is the people that know the joyful sound. They shall walk, O Lord, in the light of thy countenance. In thy name they shall rejoice all the day, and in thy righteousness shall they be exalted. For thou art the glory of their strength. And in thy favor our horn shall be exalted, and altogether for the Lord is our defense, and the Holy One of Israel is our King. May the Lord add a rich blessing for the reading and hearing of this holy word. We turn to our uh sermon psalm number 535 in your song book, how good it is to thank the Lord, number 535. And this is the Batoon of St. Petersburg. It's one you know. It's my hope is built on nothing less. Should be a familiar tune. 535, the Psalm, an adaptation of Psalm 92, and we close with the Amen. All four stanzas. How good it is to take the Lord and place the make those high for sure. I'm not with morning life to tell my face for To say and all our sick break. Oh Lord, with joy my Lord is Experience before the wonder great words, the whole on thou has brought A foolish man knows not a word for evil life. When as a grass though wake it grow when spinners for Belo, then is there true and high for thou, O Lord, art thrown on high, thy goal. Shall fall before thy mind, so wick it shall be put to price. Shall fur and dwell, and in the house of God shall dwell, he shall be like a goodly tree. And all his life shall fruit be for righteousness, the Lord and his life. I rock and him thy cross. That psalm and that rendition of it is quite a sermon of its own, isn't it? Turn with me in your Bibles to the book of 2 Corinthians and to the 12th chapter, and I'm going to read verses 7 through 10. Very familiar passage, taking a different approach to it than than I've ever considered before, and pray that the Lord will apply his word to my heart and to the hearts of the hearers as well. 2 Corinthians chapter 12, verse 7, 8, 9, and 10. And lest I should be exalted above measure through the abundance of the revelation. There was given to me a thorn in the flesh, the messenger of Satan, to buffet me, lest I should be exalted above measure. For this thing I besought the Lord thrice that it might depart from me. And he said unto me, My grace is sufficient for thee, for my strength is made perfect in weakness. Most gladly, therefore, will I rather glory in my infirmities, that the power of Christ may rest upon me. Let us pray. Father, now bless thy glorious word. Set aside the human instrumentality. Lord, you have chosen the foolishness of preaching. And Lord, you have chosen foolish and unfit men to be thy preachers. And yet, Lord, the spoken words, the written sermon, is not the foolishness of preaching. And the foolish man who stands and speaks is not truly the preaching. But rather the preaching of which thy word speaks is that mysterious and miraculous work whereby the Spirit of God proclaims truth to the hearts of the hearers. And so, Father, we pray today that your Spirit would speak to our hearts through the Word. And we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Folks, this is a profound passage. This this is an amazing word. Look with me again The first thing I'd point out to you is that the first line of verse 7 and the concluding line of the verse are the same, lest I should be exalted above measure, lest I should be exalted above measure. Paul repeats it twice. And so before he even gets in to the problem that he has dealt with, he acknowledges that God had a purpose. But it wasn't just some random bad thing that happened. But Paul said, this has happened lest I should be exalted above measure. In other words There was something more dangerous to Paul's walk with the Lord than the problem he faced. You see, pride goeth before a fall, and a haughty look before destruction. And so Paul begins our passage for this morning by saying twice, lest I should get too full of myself. Lest I should be exalted above measure, lest I should start to think that, hey, I got this, folks. Our brother loves that phrase, God's got this. You know, Paul here had to be knocked down so he knows, Paul, you don't got this, brother. You're not capable of this thing. Oh, you have been caught up to heaven. You have been stoned. You have met Christ on the road to Damascus. You have been given divine inspiration. God has spoken his word to you, buddy. You're getting too big for your breeches. And so Paul says, lest I should be exalted above measure. Folks, a thorn in the flesh That keeps back our flesh is better than God allowing us to go on in our flesh. And so Paul twice acknowledges that God had a purpose in this thorn in the flesh. You notice also the verse that says, and lest I should be exalted above measure through the abundance of the revelation, I've already touched on it a bit, there was given. to me. Did you ever get a gift that you didn't really want? Did you ever get a gift that I mean Here's a gift! And it's a hand grenade with a pen pulled out, you know? That word given's a glorious word. It is the same word, I give unto them eternal life, and they shall never perish. It's a word that indicates a gift, but it typically indicates a good gift. A beneficial gift. A profitable gift. I don't know what you think about vaccinations and it's just a silly illustration, but we give a child a vaccination in order to protect them from a greater danger. Who likes getting a vaccination? Who wants a needle stuck in them? Yeah, I'm I'm in the generation that has a little dinger on the shoulder, you know, where I got my vaccinations We give gifts, and God knows how to give good gifts to his children. Paul doesn't say I was afflicted with this sword in the flesh. Paul doesn't say this thing randomly happened to me that was bad. No, he says, lest I should get too full of myself and start trusting in my strength, there was given Unto me this very painful circumstance. A thorn in the flesh And then in verse 8 he says, For this thing I besought the Lord twice that it might depart from me. That word besought is an interesting word Doesn't mean ask. It means beg and plead. Now this wouldn't, hey God, take care of this for me. Oh Lord. And folks, I you know don't mean to stretch the scriptures here by saying this, but when Paul says he besought the Lord thrice, I don't think it was one, two, three, and done. I think it was morning, evening, and at noon. Okay. Uh he he's besought the Lord according to the Old Testament pattern. He prayed and prayed and prayed over this thing. I besought the Lord according as God is to be besought. I pled with God. Please, Lord, why this? Please, Lord, this is such a hindrance to my fellowship. Please, Lord, this is painful. Please, Lord, take this away from me. Sought the Lord twice or thrice that it might depart, and that depart is the same as, depart from me, ye workers of iniquity. Be gone. May this thing be gone. May I be rid of this sickness. May I be rid of this person? May I be rid of this situation. God, just get me out of here. And he said unto me God does not speak to us in audible voices today. God speaks through his word. If you have a what we call a red letter edition Bible where the words of Christ are in red, you'll notice that here in 2 Corinthians, it's in red. God God spoke to him face to face. God gave him an inspired word. This isn't something I just got an impression But God He said to me, My grace is sufficient for thee. God, please. Please, God, take this away. What are the great discouragements that believers have? Well, there are many things that are greatly discouraging to a believer. I believe one of the greatest is unanswered prayer. And we pray and we pray and we pray over this same thing and it just seems like God's not here. So that can be very discouraging. Even more discouraging, I believe, can be a negative answer to prayer, where we have prayed for something and prayed for it and prayed for it, and yet God says no. God says no. Just like a child who desires something that we as a parent know will be very, very harmful to the child. And yet they want it. All they can see is what they think it is. All Paul could see was what he thought it was to be delivered from this thorn in the flesh And God said no. God declares his grace is sufficient. Paul said, I need this. God said, no, you don't. You already have what you need. You have my grace, and that is sufficient. God said, I will give you what you really need. He giveth more grace. He giveth grace for every trial. My grace is what you need in your weakness. My strength is the solution to your problem, Paul. You see, if Paul had taken away, sorry, if God had taken away the thorn of the flesh, Paul would have been left in his weakness. Let me say it again. If God had taken away the thorn of the flesh, Paul would have been left with his weakness. But because God let the thorn in the flesh remain, the strength, the might, the power of God was resting on Paul. The end of the verse number nine, that the power of Christ may rest upon me. Folks, what would you rather have? Deliverance from your problem or the power of Christ to overcome your problem. Deliverance from your problem, the removal of the thorn, or the grace of God. To work through the thorn and be strengthened by him. And so We read in 2 Corinthians 9. 8, and God is able to make all grace to abound towards you. And in Romans 5. 20, but where sin abounded, grace did much more abound. And so this morning I want to go through what may have been Paul's thorn in the flesh, and we do not know. Let me say that straight off the top. We do not know. But we can look at Paul's ministry in life and see a multitude of things that were thorns in his flesh. that he may well have prayed that God removed. And I believe also we can see in our own lives that we suffer a lot of the same thorns. And so, first of all, Paul's storm in the flesh may have been physical. And this is the one you hear most often that Paul had some physical ailment And there's a lot of evidence for that. In verse 7, he does say it was a thorn in his flesh. He doesn't say it was a thorn in his spirit. He doesn't say it was a thorn in his heart or in his mind It doesn't say it was a thorn in his acquaintances. He says it was a thorn in his flesh. So if we take that just at face value, it may well have been something physical, but we don't know. That term thorn indicates a sharp piercing or cutting of the flesh. In fact, it's amazing how many idioms we use on a regular basis that come straight from the King James Bible. We talk about a thorn in the flesh. You talk about the most influential book in history. It is the Bible, and the most influential interpretation of scriptures is the King James Bible. It has stood the test of time. It was used as the English primer alongside the um I forget the name of the other one, uh McGuffey Reader. In the early colonial churches, that is where the children were taught to read and write. It was a thorn in his flesh. It was something that assaulted him greatly. In the Old Testament, Israel was warned not to leave the inhabitants of the land And that's where this is coming from. In in Numbers 33 in verse 55, he but it said God says, But if ye will not drive out the inhabitants of the land from land from before you Then they it shall come to pass that those which ye let remain in them shall be pricks in your eyes and thorns in your side, and shall vex you in the land wherein you dwell. It's gonna be something sharp stoking poking you. Yeah, there's there's I start saying there's nothing worse than something in your eye. There's a lot of things worse than something in your eye. But something in your eye will will annoy you. I injured my right eye using a router. Thirty-five years ago I got a piece of formica in my eye. And Still, if I blink in my sleep, it will tear open that injury. They did what they call a stromopuncture on my eye, which is basically a skin graph on my eye. It'll always be there. Something that pokes you in the eye. Well, that's the way Paul is describing this thorn in the flesh. Or if you get a a thorn under your skin and maybe you don't notice it at first, but two or three days later your finger swells up and it begins to fester. And it's amazing how such a little seemingly thing can rule your whole being. Folks, you know, when your back hurts, everything hurts. A lot of you know that very well. It may have been something physical he deals with. And it's interesting also that Paul says in verse 10 he would take pleasure in his infirmities And that's the same word that Christ used when he was going to visit with Lazarus. When he said when Jesus heard that, he said, This sickness, this infirmity is not unto death. Paul told the Corinthians he was with them in weakness. And so a lot of people speculate that because Paul wrote a large letter to the Galatians and said that the Galatians would have plucked out their own eyes, that it was some eye problem that Paul had that he was speaking of. That is certainly a possibility. But we cannot prove or support that by Scripture. But folks, I certainly can say that a lot of us as believers have a physical thorn in the flesh. We have an ache or pain We have a disease in our body. We have a condition that just seems to constantly, every day we think about it, you can't get out of bed because it hurts. And folks, how those things can weigh upon our spirit and drag us down. And we can pray morning, evening at noon, praying three times God deliver me from this. I could do so much more for your kingdom if you took this away. I could be happy if you took this away. My life would be so much better, Lord, if you would just do this one thing. And sometimes God says, No. No, I have a purpose for that Yeah, they they used to take people's tonsils out. God had a reason for the tonsils. Okay? Man might want to remove something that God in his wisdom has put in the body, but it has a purpose. In the same way, if there is a physical thorn in your flesh, if there is a physical condition that weighs you down, And you've prayed over it morning, evening, and noon, and God's answer has said, no, my grace is sufficient. Understand that God has a greater purpose for it. God may be using that thorn in the flesh to keep you back from a great evil. God may be using that thorn in the flesh to prepare you for a great service. The second possibility of Paul's born in the flesh is it may have been social. It may have been physical. It may have been social. I knew a man in Jamaica. He was a friend of mine, an unbeliever, but um a man that was very helpful to us and he made the comment on several occasions that Jamaica would be a marvelous place if there were no people. And I I think I think a lot of us have been in that situation. How wonderful my life would be without people. People are annoying. People cause you problems. Paul said in First Corinthians fifteen, verse thirty-two, if after the manner of men I have fought with beasts at ephesus And he most likely wasn't talking about fighting lions in the arena. He wouldn't have survived that most likely. But he was most likely talking about unbelieving men who were beastly to him against the gospel, those that caused him great afflictions. In 2 Corinthians 11, just the previous chapter, Paul says in verse 32, after the I'm sorry, in uh verse 24. Of the Jews five times received I forty stripes, save one. Thrice was I beaten with rods, once I was stoned, thrice I suffered shipwreck A night and a day have I been in the deep, and journeys often in perils of water, perils of robbers, perils of mine own countrymen, perils by the heathen, perils in the city, perils in the wilderness, perils among false brethren. You know, he covers the gamut there. You know, there was a lot of social problems, people that were just An affliction to the man's soul and the man's spirit. In Psalm twenty-seven Psalm 27 is one of my favorite Psalms. Verse 4 is my life verse. One thing of my desire of the Lord, that will I seek after, that I may dwell in the house of the Lord all the days of my life, to behold the beauty of the Lord, to inquire in his temple I chose that verse as my life verse when I was about fifteen. But verse twelve of that psalm, David is praying, and he says, Deliver me not over to the will of mine enemies For false witnesses are risen up against me, and such as breathe out cruelty. Paul had a lot of people that hated him. He was coming with the message that would deliver men's soul from death. And they hated him. David in 2 Samuel 16 is having to run from his own son Absalom. His own flesh and blood. David, who had Absalom's death, would cry, Absalom my son, my son, Absalom, my son. And yet, as David is running, we find that Shemai, one who is of the household of Saul, a servant of Saul's household, comes out and says, Thou bloody man, you deserve what happened to you. Because of what you did to King Saul. What had David done to King Saul? Nothing. David had an opportunity to kill Saul and he didn't do it Shimei called David a servant of Belial or Belial. In other words, a servant of worthlessness, basically a servant of the devil. But David was God's anointed king. You see, Saul had many people that hated him and rose up against him, and they even used the most painful situation in his family against him. Saul's thorn in the flesh may well have been people. It may well have been a social thorn in the flesh. We don't know. Paul's thorn in the flesh may have been very personal. It may have been very personal. I just mentioned that that David had the rebellion of his own son brought up against him. Paul may have been subject to overwhelming depression. Overwhelming depression. We find this throughout Scripture. We find that Moses was very depressed. We find David very depressed. You find Elijah praying they might die. King Saul had an evil spirit that would come upon him, and that's why they brought David to play the harp in the first place. Saul may have been subject to overwhelming depression. In 2 Corinthians 12 and verse 10, he says, in necessities and persecutions and distresses for Christ's sake. I think most of us know what it is to have a dark day. Some of us know what it is to have a dark month. There are times when our spirit is just so overwhelmed with the cares of this life. That we, you know, our our brother talked about being in a tunnel or a cave. And some of us know what it is emotionally to be in a spiritual tunnel or cave and we just can't find light. And we read the Word of God and it just it's just a book to us. It's not his word. And we pray, and it seems that the heavens are brass. Paul knew that too. Paul talked about it. He said we're troubled on every side. Yet not in distress. And that's not a contradiction of what we're saying here. We're not in distress because God is in control of it all, but we're ple de we're disp we're perplexed. said, but not in despair. Paul may have known overwhelming depression. Many of God's servants did. David prayed in Psalm 77, verse 8 and 9, is his mercy clean, gone forever? Doth his promise fail forevermore? Hath God forgotten to be gracious? Hath he in his anger shut up his tender mercies? That's a very depressed servant of God. Paul's thorn in the flesh may well have been a depression, a very personal thing. Paul's personal thorn in the flesh may have been a besetting sin. And again, we can identify here with the apostle the good that I would I do not. The evil that I would not, that I I do. And we may pray, God, deliver me from the temptation. And yet the trial of our faith worketh patience. God may allow us to continue to endure the temptation to strengthen us. God has a purpose. Lead us not into temptation to deliver us uh but deliver us from evil. And Hebrews Chapter twelve and verse one wherefore, seeing we are compassed about by so great a cloud of witnesses, let us lay aside every weight and the sin which doth so easily Easily beset us. You know, the the old saying, you know, he puts his pants on one leg at a time. You know, these men were men just like us. They suffer the same trials and temptations we do. Paul's throne in the flesh may have been a besetting sin. And you know what else? Satan loves to remind us of our sin. Paul's besetting sin may have been guilt. It may have been guilt You see, he said, I persecuted the church, and that's why I'm less than the least of all the apostles. You ever imagine that when Paul is visiting a church There may be someone in that church who Paul killed their dad. He was consenting to the death of Stephen. When he's going about, some of the unbelieving Jews may have been children of believing parents. That may have been the source of some of their hatred for Paul. Wait a minute, you stone my dad for what you're doing. Shouldn't you be stoned? Paul may have borne a great thorn of guilt. Now, folks, there are a lot of believers that have repented of sin. And yet as the one of the Ron Hamilton songs says, though my sin comes to hold me. It's forgiven and yet, boy, it comes back and afflicts and burdens and pokes you in the eye and thorns in your flesh. We don't know for sure that Paul's thorn may have been a personal thorn of depression or besetting sin or guilt. Fourthly, Paul's torn in the flesh may have simply been functional. It may have been the cares of all the churches, which he mentions, that which cometh to me to be daily, the cares of all the churches. It may have been that in which he was engaged in. Just overwhelmed. Remember the disciples when Christ said, Come yourselves apart and rest a while, for they were so busy and coming and get eating, they didn't have time, or coming and going, they didn't have time to eat. Sometimes we can get so engaged in doing the Lord's work that it's no longer the Lord's work, it's just a burden. It just becomes a problem. The functionality of life. Folks, I I tell you, it is so easy as a pastor To spend all week preparing a message and realize I haven't spent five minutes in personal devotions And personal feeding of my soul that has nothing to do with the message. Oh, I'm reading God's word and I'm engaged and I'm blessed and I'm praying. But it's all about the message and not about what is my soul need. When I was at Banner, I actually bought another devotional book from the Puritans. Just for that was actually two devotional books from the Puritans. Just because it has nothing to do with the message and it is some other pastor feeding my soul. Because we can get so involved in the functionality of life That we fail in our time with God. And beyond that, Paul had to live. He needed a new pair of sandals He told Timothy in one passage to bring the coat. Yeah. He had the daily cares of life. What am I going to eat? Early on in Jamaica, I was reading uh a m missionary journal and encouragement for missionaries, and it mentioned that one of the most discouraging things for a missionary in their first term is all the physical things they have to do in addition to ministry. Because, you know, a young person heading for the mission fields all excited and ready to go and they just have this picture of twenty-four-hour a day evangelism. And they get to the mission field and realize they gotta live here. And let me tell you, living in a third world country takes more time than living here. Um I did all the shopping just because it wasn't safe in some instances for Penny to drive or to be out alone. I then when the kids came along she was homeschooling, so I did all the shopping. You can't go to the grocery store and get what you need You've got to go to the market and you've got to go to this vendor over here and you've got over here. It was an all-day process. And folks, when something was broken, here in the States, you could run to the hardware store and they got 30 Of whatever you need. But in Jamaica you didn't have that. A lot of times you had to call a friend in Florida and say, hey, can you get me such and such? And when you come in six weeks, can you bring it with you? You know, Paul may have just had a just a functionality. He wanted to be out there evangelizing, and yet he had to make tense. He had other things that occupied him. And not to get too personal with this, folks, but I battled with my phone for ten days. And I literally spent nine literal hours spread over about six different conversations on the phone with somebody in the Philippines. For a problem that was not in my phone, it was in their computer system, and I told them again and again, it's in your system, it's not my phone. I finally bought a new phone and had the same problem. And so they said, Oh, there's something wrong with your phone. And I said, No, it's a brand new phone. It's on your end. Finally I got someone who was able to say, Oh yeah, yeah, this is wrong. And it took them about ten seconds to change something in their computer related to my uh phone number and got it working. So if you called me this week I didn't ignore you, I've had phone problems. But folks, those little things, God, why? Lord, take this away. Lord, this is such a hindrance to my peace. It's such a hindrance to my service. Lord, this is a thorn to my flesh! And God says, No, you're getting too big for your britches. Lest you should be exalted above measure. No, I have a purpose in your problem. I'm going to use this to show you that rather than removing the problem, my grace is sufficient in the problem. And so Paul's trial may have been functional. But then finally, and folks, this is where I lean towards with this. Paul's problem may have been, and in my heart probably was spiritual. If you look there at verse 7 again, lest I should be exalted above measure through the abundance of the revelation There was given unto me a thorn in the flesh, the, not a, the messenger of Satan, to buffet me. That word messenger is the word angel. It was given an angel, a dark angel, a fallen angel, a demon Was given to buffet me. And you notice our King James capitalizes Satan. It's a proper name. A messenger of Satan to buffet me. Remember Job? We find that Satan appeared before God, and God said to Satan, okay, go ahead. Take his livestock. Take his goods, his servants, take his children, take his health. How's the message messenger of Satan? You see, even the rebellious angels Even the rebellious angels are still under God's command. We find in 1 Kings 22, where Micaiah is before Ahab and Zedekiah. And the Lord asked, how am I going to trap? Well, let me read it to you. 1 Kings 22, verse 20. And the Lord said, Who shall persuade Ahab that he may go up and fall at Ramath Gilead? And one said on this manner, and another said on that manner. And there came forth a spirit and stood before the Lord and said, I will persuade him And the Lord said unto him, Wherewith? And he said, I will go forth, and I will be a lying spirit in the mouth of his prophets. And he said, Thou shalt persuade him and prevail also. Go forth. A lying spirit. We find that God sends the unbelievers a strong delusion. But they may believe a lie. Simon, Simon, Satan hath desired to have you. Folks, the forces of evil are very real And the way Paul states this as an angel from Satan to buffet me, it may well have been a very real angel. Remember that Michael was on his way to the assistance of Daniel But the prince of Persia withstood him. You see, Paul talks about the abundance of revelation And folks, where there is the abundance of God's Word, there will be the abundance of the opposition of the evil one. Paul may have been contending with a very demon. And the crisis was so great that Christ spoke directly to him. I pointed out that this red letters there is Christ speaking to him. Be sober, be vigilant, for your adversary the devil, as a roaring lion, walketh about. seeking whom he may devour. Folks, that's a lot worse than physical. That's a lot worse than social. That's a lot worse than functional. That's a lot worse than personal. He was fighting the forces of hell. And he said, God, get me out of this! Help me, help me, please. And God said, No. No, even in this, my grace is greater than the forces of hell. You are too weak to stand up to this, Paul. But my strength is made perfect in weakness. God's strength is made perfect in weakness. And that word perfect means complete. It means applied. When God's strength is applied to my thorn in the flesh, then the gates of hell cannot prevail. And I believe that's what Paul was talking about here. And a messenger of Satan was opposing him. But folks, that's that's just the introduction. Now for the message. I'm kidding, but but folks, the the conclusion here has been such a blessing to my heart. Verse 8 again, for this thing I besought the Lord thrice that he might depart from me. Verse 9, and he said unto me, My grace is sufficient for thee, for my strength is made perfect in weakness. Most gladly therefore will I glory in my infirmities, that the power of Christ may rest upon me. Therefore, I take pleasure. Folks, the joy of the Lord is our strength. And I've often said I have no joy, therefore I have no strength. But folks, Paul's joy in the Lord was brought about by his infirmities. Paul's joy in the Lord was the response of the physical, the social, the personal, the functional, and even the spiritual. These things drove him to Calvary. These things drove him not to trust his flesh, not to get built up in himself, but rather to trust in God. Rather to lean on the grace of God which was sufficient. God, I could do so much more for your kingdom if you took away my sickness And God says, no, you will do so much more for my kingdom with your sickness. God, I could do so much more for your kingdom if you would remove these people that are always bothering me. And God says, no, those people are pushing you forward in the kingdom. Lord, if just my phone was working, my day would go so much better. And God says, no. No. I'm teaching. I'm working. I'm directing. That word, pleasure, is a beautiful word. We know all things work together for good to them who love God, to them who are the called according to his purpose, for whom he did foreknow he also did predestinate to be conformed to the image of Christ. In other words, all things work to f work together for good. In the process of Christ's likeness, all the problems are part of God's chipping away from the stone to make the statue, which is the image of Christ. That word pleasure is the same word that God the Father used of God the Son. Behold, my servant whom I have chosen, and my beloved, in whom my soul is well pleased. This is my beloved son, in whom I am well pleased. It's the same word that Paul says, I will be well pleased, because God is well pleased, not to answer my thrice prayer. I will be well pleased because God is well pleased that I'm sick. I will be well pleased because God is well pleased that these people are opposing me. I will be well pleased, because God is well pleased. This is my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased. God the Father took pleasure in the Son. God the Father ordained the ministry of the Son. God the Father ordained the suffering of Jesus Christ. And this is where it really comes into focus, folks. God was well pleased in his son, and yet he set his son to the cross. God was well pleased in his son, and yet Christ Bore, all manner. Christ prayed, If it be possible, let this cup pass from me. And God said no. There is a purpose in this cup. Lord, let this thorn be taken from me. No, Paul. No, Joe. Take pleasure in the thorn. Because it is part of my plan. Because my strength is made perfect in weakness. Yet it pleased, same word Old Testament, yet it pleased the Lord to bruise him. For we have not an high priest which cannot be touched with the feeling of our infirmities, same word Paul uses, a glory of mine with our infirmities. Not be touched with the feeling of our infirmities, but was in all points tempted like as we are, yet without sin. Christ knew the physical thorn in the flesh. He became very tired. He knew all the same childhood sicknesses. He knew all the physical pains. Jesus Christ knew social thorns. He was hated of the Jews. He was betrayed by Judas, who was his friend. Jesus Christ knew the personal thorns of the flesh. Judas's own friend betrayed him. Jesus Christ knew the functional thorns of the flesh. He was hungered. Jesus Christ knew the spiritual assault of the devil. He was tempted in the wilderness. You see, all things work together for good. For whom he did foreknow, he also did predestinate to be conformed to the image of Christ. Folks, all of our thorns make us like Christ. Let me say that again. All of our thorns work together to make us like Christ. Paul, I know this hurts. I know you don't want it. I've heard your prayers three times. I have something better than the answer you desire. I have my grace and my strength. Paul was willing to be pleased with the will of God. In Luke 32, Luke 12, 32, Christ says, Fear not Little flock. For it is the Father's good pleasure to give you the kingdom. And that is that same word that we find Pleased. And then again in First Corinthians one twenty one. After the wisdom of God The world by wisdom knew not God. It pleased God by the foolishness of preaching to save them that believe. But then the capstone of it all, I think, is 2 Corinthians 5, verse 8. We are confident, I say, and willing rather to be absent from the body and present with the Lord. And that word willing is pleased We're pleased to be absent from the body. In other words, we are willing to die for the cause of Christ. Folks, we have a lot of prayer requests. We have two full sheets. We have a lot of physical needs. We have emotional needs. We have financial needs. We have spiritual needs. We have social needs. You know, pray for so-and-so. I'm not getting along with them. Folks, God could answer every one of those words according to our will if he wanted to. But our prayer is not my will, but thine be done. And God often says, No, my child, I have something better than what you desire. But the pathway to the better. is through the Thorn. Father, we thank you for the majesty and glory of thy word. This is not a book of fairy tales or fables. This is a book of sound instruction. We don't need another revelation. We have everything here we have need. To give to us all things that pertain to life and godliness is the best way to put it. We thank you for your word. Bless your word to our hearts, we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. Thank you, brother. Appreciate that very much. And so we turn to our closing hymn, 699. Tis so sweet to trust in Jesus. 699. If you're able to rise, please stand for our closing yep. 699. We'll sing all four stanzas It is so sweet to trust in Jesus, just to take him at his word, just to rest upon his brother. Just to draw the slave the Lord Jesus, Jesus, how I trust him, how I put him more and more. Jesus, Jesus, precious, Jesus, hold for grace to trust him more for how three to trust him. Jesus just who trust his wending God just healing twenty Jesus, Jesus, how I trust him, how I trust him or adore. Jesus, Jesus. Jesus on short way to trust him more Just wait to trust him Jesus trust once All to me just from Jesus and please take my husband and joy and peace. Jesus, Jesus, God. I trust him, how I broke him more and more. Jesus, Jesus, precious Jesus, no more things to trust him. I'm told why I learned to trust me. Precious Jesus made your friend and I know. Thou art with me, wilt me with me to thee. Jesus, Jesus, thou white cross and thou white protein. And Lord, Jesus, Jesus, precious Jesus, go for race to trust him more. Maymen, came out, please be seated