We'll be reading today uh in John chapter five, verse thirty nine That'll be a portion of the scriptures we're going to be looking at for this sermon. Before we start to read, I'll open with a word of prayer. Father in heaven, Lord, we pray that you would help us now, that it would be you that helps us to open your word and to meditate upon it. And to bring the right thoughts regarding it, Lord. Please help me in the speech and the time of bringing uh your word to your sheep, Lord. May it be edifying. And uh help, Lord, to encourage and to strengthen the saints. Lord, we pray you'd bless this time now and uh grant us your spirit to discern your word. We pray this in Jesus' name. Alright, so if you have your place in John chapter five, we're going to look at verse 39 and read to the end of the chapter. Search the scriptures, for in them ye think ye have eternal life, and they are they which testify of me. And ye will not come to me that ye might have life. I receive not honor from men, but I know you that ye have not the love of God in you. I am come in my Father's name, and ye receive me not. If another shall come in his own name, him ye will receive. How can ye believe, which receive honor one of another, and seek not the honor that cometh from God only? Do not think that I will accuse you to the Father. There is one that accuseth you, even Moses, in whom ye trust. For had ye believed Moses, ye would have believed me, for he wrote of me. But if ye believe not his writings, how shall ye believe my words? And so we have the writings, the the scriptures that the Lord has given us here in our Bible that He's preserved for us. So I just have us to consider what is the world? Those that are openly unbelievers, what do they think of this book that we have here? Well They think that it's just one of many religious books, perhaps like the Quran and all those other things. Maybe a book of some morals. And of course, just written by man, because they wouldn't believe that it's as it is written by uh God Himself, inspired word of His. And what is it that false believers think of this book, the scriptures? Well, they can have a whole host of ideas. And of course the one that the Lord cuts at them is that they would have thought that this is a book that will teach them how to work their way to salvation. Of course it's not. Some others think that it's a book on prosperity, how to obtain wealth. And uh Yvonne and I encountered a man at one point in our walk a few years back that was trying to convince us or tell us of how the scriptures in their entirety, the the main message is about how to obtain wealth. He was so certain of it. And that just uh that makes me think of when the disciples asked the Lord to explain that parable of the sower And his response to them in Mark four, he said, Unto you it is given to know the mystery of the kingdom of God, but unto them that are without all these things are done in parables That seeing they may see and not perceive, and hearing they may hear and not understand, lest at any time they should be converted, and their sins should be forgiven them. And so when a person is outside the true faith, is outside the wisdom that's given of God, that spiritual discernment, how dark their understanding can be of these holy scriptures. And now let's consider what is it that God says about the scriptures. Well, if we look at John 5, that beginning verse 39 that we started to read from, says, search the scriptures, for in them ye think ye have eternal life. And they are they which testify of me And so I would uh point to the fact that the main purpose of these scriptures, the the priority message that's there Is that this is a book about the Lord Jesus Christ. This is what Christ tells them. That these scriptures that are contained here, they are they that testify of Christ. Of course, the context of this when Jesus is talking to these Jews is after healing a lame man on the Sabbath day, they sought to kill him. And here were these Jews, the ones that he came to, their their promised Messiah, and yet they denied him. And so he's speaking to them here, uh hitting right at the condition of their heart. And so the Jews had the scriptures. They had the Old Testament that prophesied of Christ, and yet does having the scriptures itself give you eternal life? What if we even have the right scriptures? The King James Version, which is preserved Word of God, and it doesn't have all these newer revisions that cut out words. If we just ho have the word and if we read it, perhaps even memorize scriptures, are we guaranteed eternal life by that? Well no, of course not. We have to encounter the Christ that's preached in these scriptures. Right. Without that encounter, we're still in darkness. And of course uh in Romans chapter three uh Paul talks about this advantage that the Jews have. He says, what advantage then hath the Jews, or what prophet is there of circumcision? much every way, chiefly because that unto them were committed the oracles of God. And so they had the word of God. This was the only group of people in the entire world that had the scriptures, the true message of the Messiah that would come, their Savior, and yet they still denied him. And so there ought to be a knowledge and understanding of the Christ that's preached in the scriptures. In Hebrews 10, verses 5 and 7, it says, Wherefore, when he cometh into the world, he saith, Sacrifice an offering thou wouldest not, but a body hast thou prepared me, in burnt offerings and sacrifices for sin, thou hast had no pleasure. Then said I, Lo, I come In the volume of the book it is written of me, to do thy will, O God. So those sacrifices and offerings They couldn't please God, the ones that were written of in the Old Testament. No, but they were the ones that pointed to Christ in the volume of the book, in the entirety of the scriptures. From the beginning to the end. It's written of Christ, the Savior that would be to come And of course, from that scripture I'd have us also to understand that it's in the volume of the book that it's written of Christ. This is not a side point This is not just the little article that we should know and it'll help us get by. No, but this is the main message as a word to say. It's about Christ. And so if you missed Christ in the scriptures, you missed it all. And even in Luke, uh, the twenty-fourth chapter, Christ comes uh first veil to the two that were on the road to emails. And he expounded to them how the scriptures spoke of him And Luke 24, verse 27, it says, And beginning at Moses and all the prophets, he expounded unto them in all the scriptures the things concerning himself. Pastor Job preached a message that was actually titled Beginning at Moses and All the Prophets a few years back, where he walked through many places in the Old Testament where Christ was clearly prophesied. From the seed of the woman that was promised to come and crush the head of the serpent through all the Old Testament sacrifices. It was clear. It was clear that uh this was about Christ. And of course, we do see them all throughout the scriptures. From the creation, even the Sabbath day that points to that rest that we can have in Christ And the fall in the garden where Adam and Eve were covered by an animal that had to be slain. And through all the the sacrifices and offerings, these all pointed to Christ. And so what we see of Jesus Christ in the scriptures is that he's the omnipotent creator. He's the sovereign king, the holy one of Israel, and the glorious Savior. If you've missed him in the scriptures, you've missed everything. And so if you turn back to John chapter 5 and those last verses of the chapter, Jesus gives them a warning and a rebuke. And verse 45 it says, Do not think that I will accuse you to the Father. There is one that accuseth you. Even Moses, in whom ye trust. For had ye believed Moses, ye would have believed me, for he wrote of me. But if ye believe not his writings, how shall ye believe my words? So, seeing that Christ is so clearly prophesied from the beginning to the end, even of the Old Testament. There was no excuse that these Jews would have had for not receiving Christ when he had come in the flesh. And so the Lord tells them, He has no need. to accuse them to the Father. Even these writings of Moses, those first five books in the scriptures They will accuse the Jews of their unbelief. They rested in these scriptures, sought them for eternal life, and yet they missed the big picture They miss that Christ is the way, the truth, and the life. No man comes to the Father but by him. And so that's the first point, is that Christ is revealed in the scriptures That's why we search the scriptures. I'd like to consider a second point of why believers ought to search the scriptures. And that is that believers should search the scriptures to be constantly, continually said by them. In Matthew chapter 4, when the Lord responds to Satan's temptation, he tells him, It is written, man shall not live by bread alone. but by every word that proceedeth out of the mouth of God. A believer can't survive on physical food alone The physical food, of course, feeds the physical body, but it does nothing for the spiritual body. The spiritual body needs the spiritual food, which is that word of God. And of course, take note that the Lord says that the man shall live by every word that proceedeth out of the mouth of God. It's important to consider all of the scriptures and be diligent in looking through all of the word and not just have some easy familiarity that perhaps you could tell somebody else, but rather a true believer will take diligence to study and live by every word that precedeth out of the mouth of God And of course what a danger that is when these newer Bibles will think it okay to just cut out many of the words. Not even just words, but whole verses and passages. What a scary thing that is. And of course, for a new believer, there's a new birth. There's a spiritual beginning. And so just as a new child that's born in this world requires food, So it is for a believer. They need to be fed and grow by the word. And in 1 Peter chapter 2, the first three verses It says, wherefore laying aside all malice and all guile and hypocrisies and envies and all evil speaking, as newborn babes, And here is the command. Desire the sincere milk of the word, that ye may grow thereby, if so be that ye have tasted that the Lord is gracious. So if a person truly is a believer, truly is a new creature that's in Christ This is what their desire ought to be. Their desire ought to be for that word. And for what purpose? To grow thereby. Of course, as a new believer, they'll start with milk. That's what's needful, and that's all that might be palatable to them. But with time there still ought to be a growth, consuming then meat that would be nurturing to the spiritual body. And of course, there's many desires and distractions that come up in the world that try to snatch away this desire. The Lord spoke about them in the Parable of the sower, the cares of the world, those are the thorns, they grow up and they choke the word. And so this is what the apostle here commands That there ought to be a desire for the word to grow thereby. And uh we see that Peter speaks of this in more than one occasion. In 2 Peter 3, verse 18, it says, But grow in grace and in the knowledge of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. Again, Peter got it, that Christ is the main uh message, the main person, the main one we look to in the scriptures, and so he says to grow in the grace and in the knowledge of the Lord Jesus Christ. And how do we do that? Well, we have to search the scriptures diligently to do that. And I'd have us, if you would, turn back to Proverbs chapter 2, the passage we read for our responsive reading. We can see something of the diligent search that ought to be taken from these scriptures. In Proverbs chapter 2, starting with verse 1, it says My son, if thou wilt receive my words and hide my commandments with thee, so that thou incline thine ear unto wisdom, and apply thine heart to understand Yea, if thou criest after knowledge, and liftest up thy voice for understanding, if thou seekest her as silver, and searchest for her as for hid treasures Then shalt thou understand the fear of the Lord and find the knowledge of God. Isn't that what we're talking about? The knowledge of God And here it is. If you search for it diligently, the Lord gives you the promise. Then shalt thou understand the fear of the Lord and find the knowledge of God. The search is not uh lackadaisical, right? This isn't one that's a lazy, I'll pick it up when I want to, type of thing. And uh I recall the quote from Spurgeon that was cutting when he said, There's dust enough on some of your Bibles to write damnation with your fingers. And so isn't that so true that the uh time and dedication we spend to the scriptures, to reading them, to meditating upon them What a reflection that is of the state of our soul, whether we're strong, whether we're built up, or whether we're weak. if we set those things aside. Or perhaps that they have absolutely no interest or care to us that shows that, hey, perhaps we are still condemned, not in Christ, not having a renewed mind at all. And so the regenerate heart will want to learn of Christ, will want to study the scriptures. Imagine a man searching for gold if he knew that a place was there that contained gold. You were given one ten by ten uh square foot area where you were told, hey, there's gonna be gold somewhere there, just start digging. It'll be somewhere within the next hundred feet y you'd probably see that a man would take diligence, he would lose some sleep, lose some comfort of living to go and find that. Because he knows the reward would be so good. Because he knows that, hey, with whatever I get of that gold, what will it do for my house? What will it do for my own wealth and growth? And so it is with the scriptures. You know that the treasure is hidden here in these scriptures. And so may the Lord help us to search them diligently, knowing that If we do apply ourselves diligently to them, the Lord will reveal Himself, as it says here, we'll find understanding and find the knowledge of God. And of course, may the Lord uh help us to not be content in just the little things. How easy it is to say that, well I'm a believer. There was a point in time when I did some searching and that was about enough. I can give a fairly basic explanation of the gospel and that's content for me There's no need to do anything more uh diligently. I've I'm just about in the right place. But no, may the Lord help us to seek that growth as the apostle by the Lord's word commands us. And the third point I'd like to make, the reason why believers ought to search the scriptures, is to walk by them. is to learn not to just be a hearer of the word, but also a doer of it. We see that genuine scripture searching yields genuine living by the word If you're truly committed to searching the scripture, to know what it is God says, then you will be committed to also follow and walk as Christ walked, as we're commanded. In James chapter 1, verses 21 and 22, it says, Wherefore lay apart all filthiness and superfluity of naughtiness, and receive with meekness the engrafted word. which is able to save your souls. But be ye doers of the word, and not hearers only, deceiving your own selves Much of the book of James talks about what a genuine faith is and how uh a true faith is displayed in works. No, we do not work our way to be saved. But if you are saved, you're going to have a desire to serve the Lord, even with good works, to abide by what he says to do. And so the believer will hold fast to what the word says is good, and will, as chew, will cast away those things that the word says are wicked. The believer will agree with God that, yea, verily, we are depraved sinners, and we are in great need of the Lord. And if not, if a person ignores these things, if they simply turn to the scriptures for a little to hear a couple of interesting facts And yet it has no penetrating impact on their life. This could be very much so a sign that they are deceiving themselves, not a true believer. I have a encyclopedia at my house that has several volumes. From time to time I like to pick it up and look through it There's interesting animals and chemicals and all sorts of different topics and subjects that you can look at and find out interesting facts. And I would do that from time to time, look at it and then close it and put it away. But it had no impact on my life. After I closed it it it it it absolutely did nothing for me. And how grievous that is, if that's uh the relationship that we have to scriptures, to open them up Look at them, find some interesting facts that we can share with somebody, perhaps discuss them, maybe they're true or not, and then close it and it has no impact on our lives. When the world in the flesh pulls us away from what the Scriptures command us to do, may we stand with the Scriptures. This is, of course, a true sign that somebody knows the Lord or not, if they're going to be pulled by the flesh in the world with their mind, or whether they're going to hold fast to what the scriptures say. And I found an interesting warning of conditions of some people that would call themselves to be believers in Ezekiel chapter 33. If you would turn there, it is an interesting passage. I think this is the main big passage we'll look before um we close, but we'll take some time considering it In Ezekiel chapter 33, verse 30, it says, Also, thou, Son of Man. The children of thy people still are talking against thee by the walls and in the doors of the houses, and speak one to another, every one to his brother, saying, Come, I pray you. And hear what is the word that cometh forth from the Lord. And they come unto thee as the people cometh, and they sit before thee, as my people, and they hear thy words, but they will not do them. For with their mouth they show much love, but their heart goeth after their covetousness. And lo, thou art unto them as a very lovely song. And one that hath a pleasant voice and can play well on an instrument, for they hear thy words, but they do them not. So we can see how this passage here directly uh uh connects with what James said. Those that are hearers and not doers, deceiving themselves. And it's just interesting how uh here it's written of what the Lord uh told Ezekiel. It's interesting what he says about these people. That they come as the Lord's people. They're there to hear his words. They'll even call the others. Hey, come out And they show much love with their mouths. They show to the creature, perhaps, and to others they, oh yeah, this is great. But they have no care to do it. They're still altogether speaking against it. Those that are not for Christ are against him. And so are these people here Jesus of course quoted uh Isaiah in Matthew chapter fifteen, speaking of a similar kind of people. He said, This people draweth nigh unto me with their mouth, and honoreth me with their lips. But their heart heart is far from me. And so it is possible. This is what we see of of of false people, false converts, false believers. They'll say and honor the Lord, perhaps even the Scriptures, they'll be content coming into the church every Sunday And yet they don't truly uh care for the Lord's word. They have no penetrating effect on their heart. They'll still be walking in their same ways. And what interesting language that is there, where it says, Thou art unto them as a very lovely song, one that hath a pleasant voice, and can play well on an instrument. It's a lovely song to them to hear this. It's exciting. It's fun. It's perhaps something that they're used to. And there's some level of uh joy and comfort into it. It's a lovely song. Yet it has no penetrating effect. And so that's a warning, of course. to uh stray away from simply hearing and giving amens in the right places, but rather may it truly uh apply to our hearts and may we seek to walk with the Lord. This of course was uh my story as well. For the first few years after hearing the gospel I would, amen, many things. I heard the gospel and I would uh if somebody else would tell me it, or if I'd hear preaching, I'd say, yeah, that was good. That was great. But I'd have just about no interest in reading the scripture. It would be just like reading that encyclopedia. I'd pick it up from time to time. Maybe learn a couple of interesting facts and then close it and it had no lasting effect. But we know that a true child of God is is transformed. They're a new creature in Christ. All things are become new to them. And so it wasn't until I I heard in the preaching somebody asking Uh friend, is there any sin that you're holding on to? And then it clicked. Ah yes. A believer does Do something. If they're saved, they will indeed follow the Lord. They will indeed cast away their sin. They'll agree with God. They'll turn to Him They'll have a great desire for the scriptures and for fellowship, even for the preaching of the word, for a true uh salvation in others. They'll have a desire for that. But those that are false will go along hearing it, and it'll have no impact on them. In Matthew seven, verse twenty-one, the Lord said, Not everyone that saith unto me, Lord, Lord, shall enter into the kingdom of heaven. But he that doeth the will of my Father, which is in heaven. And so the Lord often talked about, you'll know them by their fruits. A good tree won't be bringing forth bad fruit, and likewise a bad tree won't bring forth good fruit. So if one is truly saved and knows the Lord, they'll have a desire to to seek the Lord, to serve Him, to walk as the Lord commanded us to walk. And so may the Lord help us To search the scriptures alright, not as uh the Pharisees, thinking they had eternal life in them, and yet they missed the Christ. They missed the main message. And may the Lord help us to be fed continually by the scriptures that we have. And may the Lord help us to search the scriptures to walk as he commanded us to walk. Let's bow our heads in prayer. Father in heaven, we thank you for this time in your word, and we pray you would indeed help us to search your scriptures aright. Help us, Lord, to walk in your ways, not only to be hearers, but doers of your word, and to not deceive ourselves. Help us, Lord, to indeed grow in the grace and in the knowledge of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. We praise you that He is indeed the uh main subject given here in the scriptures, and may we not miss him. May we not get uh torn away by all the wind of doctrine that men can bring forth. Please be with us, Lord, and we praise you for your word. We ask all this in Jesus' name. Amen.