Our theme verse here at Mission Bible Church is the first portion of that sixth verse Seek the Lord and ye shall live We begin this morning by considering the proposition that is put forward to us. Seek the Lord, and ye shall live. What does it mean to seek the Lord? How is it that we seek the Lord? And as we look at the context of this verse, we find that everything before it and everything behind it is talking about judgment. And so it's very clear that if we are to seek the Lord, the seeking of the Lord must begin with repentance. For that is what is being spoken of here. And if you look there again at verse four, it says, For thus saith the Lord to the house of Israel, Seek ye me and ye shall live, but seek not Bethel, nor enter into Gilgal nor pass by Beersheba, for Gilgal shall surely go surely go into captivity, and Bethel shall come to naught. And if you look there at verse 6, the last part of the verse, seek ye the Lord, and he shall live, lest he break out like fire in the house Of Joseph. Our God is a consuming fire. God demands righteousness. The wages of sin is death But seek ye the Lord, and ye shall live. And so to begin to consider seeking the Lord, we must look closely at the matter of repentance. And look what it says there. Seek not to Bethel. Well what is that and why is that important to us? What do we learn from that? Well, what was Bethel? Well, Bethel, the name, means the house of God. And the place, Bethel, that is mentioned here, that we're not to seek to was the place where Jacob, when he was running from his brother Esau, had lighted upon a place. He was tired. He was exhausted. He has left his family. He is frightened. And he takes a stone. And he uses a stone for a pillow. I slept last night on a very comfortable pillow. But imagine a stone for a pillow, not very comfortable. And as he slept, he dreamed a dream. And that dream was not a nightmare or a terror, though he said later on this is a terrible place that he didn't mean it was terrible because he was frightened there of wild beasts or frightened there of being alone. But he said it's a terrible place because this is the house of God. For in his dream that night he saw a ladder Going from the earth to the heaven, and the angels of God ascending up and down that ladder. And he said, Surely this is the house of God, and this is the gate of heaven. We're talking about repentance. It seems like the house of God should be the place to seek, doesn't it? It seems like it's like, well, well wait a minute, you're not you're saying here don't seek to the house of God, and so there must be a reason why the prophet, God through the prophet, is saying, don't seek to Bethel. Bethel, the place where Jacob had had this great dream, and the place that he had named Bethel, had become a place of idol worship. It had been polluted. Don't put your faith in a church, folks. Don't put your faith in the denomination. Don't put your faith in a body of believers or in a presbytery or in any man-made structure. Put your faith in God alone. Seek ye the Lord, not seek your church Seek you the Lord, not seek your denomination. Seek ye the Lord, not some fancy preacher on TV. Seek ye the Lord, and ye shall live. Man corrupts everything he puts his hand to And here, this place which was called the house of the Lord, because there Jacob had known great fellowship with Jehovah, and Jehovah had promised him, All this land you're lying on, I'm going to give it to you. and your children. And yet Jeroboam had risen up against the house of David And it wasn't just the house of David that Jeroboam had risen up against. Jeroboam rose up against the God of David. And the kingdom was divided. And Jeroboam, trying to gain influence and trying to gain power, said, how can I get these people to follow me? Religion. And so Jeroboam had made two golden calves. Aaron only made one. Jeroboam doubled him. And the golden calf was still in Bethel to this day. You see, the people needed to repent. They needed to turn back to Jehovah. They needed to throw away their own religion that they had made for themselves and throw away the idols. And turn back to God. And so we the people are to turn to God. If we truly are to seek the Lord, it begins with genuine repentance. Lord, we have sinned. We need to seek Jehovah because we have departed from his way. We have polluted even the worship of the great high God. Seek the Lord, and ye shall live I was going to have you turn to 2 Chronicles there, but I've already highlighted the verse, but it is 2 Chronicles 13, if you want to read that later on on your own, that talks about the golden calves. They had forsaken The worship of Jehovah, they had put up their own golden calves, and it even says there in 2 Chronicles 13 that they had cast out the sons of Aaron. They had done away with the priesthood that God had ordained. But not only does it say that not to go to Bethel Enter not into Gilgal. Now what does that mean? What's it going to do about Gilgal? Remember when the children of Israel crossed the Jordan River? And they were getting ready to go up against the cities of the promised land that God had promised to them. And they were coming up before Ai, but first they had or and Jericho, but first they had to get across the river How do you get all these people across the river? They didn't have boats. Well, the ark of God was drawing to the bank of the river And when the priests stepped down into the Jordan, what happened to it? It fled back. It opened up And just as they had passed out of Egypt into the wilderness with God opening the Red Sea, so God opened the Jordan, proving that he was with his people, proving that he approved of his servant Mu uh Aaron Uh his servant um Joshua Joshua boy my mind went blank there proving that he approved of Joshua The priests stepped into the water and the Jordan opened up. And they took twelve stones from the middle of the Jordan, and they came out and they built there an altar to Jehovah, and that was Gilgal. Gilgal was where they built that altar, memorializing the crossing of the Jordan. But Gilgal had become a place of idolatry as well. Enter not into Gilgal. It's interesting, it says enter not into it, because Gilgal reminded him of entering into the Red Sea or into the Jordan. Enter not into Gilgal. Don't look back to your past spiritual victories. Don't look back to, well, look at all the good I've done. I've done all these things for the Lord. Lord, Lord, have not. We prophesied in thy name, and in thy name cast out devils, and in thy name done many wonderful works. I must be okay, because look what I've done for God Look at I've even seen miracles. No. Seek ye the Lord. Don't go back to Gilgal. Gilgal's past. Gilgal can't help you. Seek ye the Lord. And ye shall live. And so the very heart of this concept of seeking the Lord, first before we can seek the Lord, we have to get rid of all of our junk. You can't run a race with weights. When I was in high school, I used to walk around high school with weights on both ankles. Because I was playing basketball and I thought it was gonna make my legs stronger. I don't think it did anything besides make me tired. But I would wear these weights because they were gonna make me strong and I could jump higher But when it came to the game, I didn't have the weights on, did I? Well, if we're going to seek the Lord, we've got to cast off every weight and the sin which doth so easily beset us. And we might run with patience the race that is set before us. And so, seeking the Lord begins with repentance. You can't seek the Lord and carry the baggage of religion with you You can't seek the Lord to tell him about all you've done for him. You can't seek the Lord and continue in your sin. If I regard iniquity in my heart, the Lord will not hear me Now speak the Lord and ye shall live. But it begins with repentance. But then also it happens to notice that seeking the Lord requires diligence. It requires diligence. You can't seek the Lord casually. You can't seek the Lord part-time. You can't seek the Lord occasionally. You can't seek the Lord when the feeling hits you. Seeking the Lord acquires the energy of the entire soul, entire being. It is a consuming passion. To truly seek the Lord. I didn't have you turn to 2 Chronicles 13, but I do want to have you turn now to 2 Chronicles 15. Because there in 2 Chronicles 13, where I didn't have you uh turn, it was talking about them turning away Jeroboam uh making his golden calf and the Kingdom of Israel split from Judah. Judah going with the family of David and following the priesthood. Israel going with Jeroboam and their two golden calves. So you had there Aza, or so you had Abijah there in 2 Chronicles 13. In 2 Chronicles 15, we come to Azah who was the son of Abijah. And here we're going to see seeking the Lord with diligence. I'm not going to read the whole passage, but let me read verses one through five and then we'll jump down to verse eight. And I'm going to kind of pause and highlight some of the things here as we go through this. passage. In verse one of Second Chronicles fifteen. And the Spirit of God came to Azariah the son of Obed, and he went out to meet Azah and said unto him, Hear me, Azah, and all Judah and Benjamin The Lord is with you while ye be with him. And if ye seek him He will be found of you. What a glorious promise. Seeking he shall find. Knocking it shall be open. Asking he shall receive. He will be found of you. But if ye forsake him He will forsake you. That's what happened in Israel, isn't it? Jeroboam is seeking after calves. 170 years later we have this warning in the book of uh uh of Amos not to go to Bethel, not to go to Gilgal. But if you seek him, he will be found. If you forsake him, he will forsake you. Verse three Now for a long season Israel, that's the kingdom that was had gone to idols, hath been without the true God, and without a teaching priest, and without the law. Because Jeroboam had turned from Jehovah and built Golden calves, they had been without the true God, without a teaching priest, and without the law Verse 4. But when they in their trouble did turn to the Lord God of Israel and sought him He was found. Okay, repentance is available. They had really departed from God, but when they sought him, it was found. Go down to verse 8 now. And when Aza heard these words and the prophecy of Obed the prophet, he took courage and put away the abominable idols out of the land of Judah and Benjamin, and out of the cities which he had taken from Mount Ephraim. And he renewed the altar of the Lord, which he had, which was before the porch of the Lord. And he gathered all Judah and Benjamin and the strangers with him out of Ephraim and Manasseh and out of Simeon. For they fell to him out of Israel in abundance. In other words, the people that had gone with Jeroboam's kingdom, with Israel, now they're returning to Judah. What are they doing? They're repenting and coming back to the true God. And so they're coming out of Israel in abundance, and when they saw that the Lord God was with him, so they gathered themselves together at Jerusalem in the third month, in the fifteenth year of the reign of Azah, and they offered to the Lord The same time of the spoils that they had brought, seven hundred oxen, uh seven oxen and seven thousand sheep, and verse twelve is where we're heading there And they entered into a covenant to seek the Lord God of their fathers with all their heart and with all their soul. Now what happened here? You had people in that northern kingdom that had been followers of idols. They hear that Jehovah God is blessing in Judah in the house of David under the priesthood. And they come. And they don't come empty-handed, do they They bring spoil, 7,000 oxen and thousand, 7,000 sheep. They bring them to return to the sacrifice, and they entered into a covenant with the Lord. We're going to seek you with all of our heart. and with all of our soul. Now you see that connects back to chapter 13 we didn't read. Seeking the Lord is not a casual thing. It requires the diligence of the entire heart and soul. And interestingly enough That concept of diligence is found in the very word, seek the Lord. You see, there are twelve different Hebrew or Aramaic words that are translated in our King James Bible as Sikh. The reason God ordained the original autographs of Scripture to be in Hebrew and Aramaic and in Greek is that they are very expressive languages. There are very fine nuances that can be found in those languages which don't express themselves perfectly in many other languages. God in His sovereign will, who ordained that faith would come by hearing ordained those original languages for the scripture. And that's why they're important. And Brother Vince and I talked to you some about the importance of those original manuscripts and why we must be authentic and pure But this word Sikh has 12 different Hebrew or Aramaic words that are translated Sikh in the New Testament. This particular one indicates searching with diligence for the purpose of worship. Now let me show you an example of that. In Leviticus chapter ten and verse sixteen, this word Sikh is found two times, and neither time is it translated Sikh in our in our King James, but it's the same word that seek here in Amos five. Leviticus ten verse sixteen, and Moses diligently sought For the goat for the sin offering. He diligently sought it, and it was for the purpose of worship. He sought the goat for the sin offering. The word diligently and the word salt are both this word seek. Now, seek the Lord. Not just, oh, where is he? No. Seek him. Diligently sought. Seek him out for the purpose of worship. Where is he? Where may I find my God? How can I be pure before him? How can I know fellowship with him? There are a lot of things we seek for occasionally. But this is the daily seeking. This is the diligent seeking. This is an all-consuming seeking. And it's found in the very word. But this word seek also means to inquire. And a good example of that is in Genesis 25 and verse 22, where Rebekah has been promised seed from the Lord, and there are twins in her womb, and there's a struggle in her womb. And it says there in Genesis 25 and verse 22, and the children struggled together within her. And she said, If it be so, why am I thus? And she went to inquire of Jehovah. Lord, you've promised me children. But why is there such pain in my womb? Why is there such struggle? Why am I feeling in my body such turmoil? This is your promise. It shouldn't be this way. Ah, how we must seek to the Lord in our turmoils, in our trials, because the Christian life is not easy. It is not a bed of roses But speak ye the Lord, inquire of Jehovah God, and ye shall live. But there's one other nuance to the meaning of this word seek. This word also means to frequent or to tread in a particular place. It means to go there often, to frequent someplace. Some of us frequent a particular restaurant or frequent a particular whatever. It means we go there frequently, where we're constantly there. In Deuteronomy 12 and verse 5, but under the place which the Lord your God shall choose you out of all the tribes. to put his name there, even unto his ab habitation shall ye seek, and thither thou shalt come. The word seek there is this same word seek. It means to go there frequently. You see the diligence there. Oh, I prayed and God didn't answer, so I'll move on now. No, not at all. My father used to say pray and then when you pray, pray, and then when you're done praying, pray some more. If we are to seek the Lord, it is a matter that begins with repentance and continues with diligence. Oh, may we truly seek the Lord. What a glorious proposition is put before us And yet how do we seek the Lord? We've really covered this already because we've been knocking it around a bit, but how do we seek the Lord? We seek the Lord in prayer. And we seek the Lord in His Word. And I'm not going to comment a whole lot on those two. We seek the Lord in prayer, and we seek the Lord in His Word. Rather than expound on that with my words, let me just read several scriptures to you. And I think you'll get the point. First Chronicles seven verse fourteen. It's my people which are called by my name, shall humble themselves and pray, and seek my face, and turn from their wicked way. Then will I hear from heaven and will forgive their sins and will heal their land You see the repentance and the diligent seeking that is there. John chapter 5, verse 39, Jesus speaking to the scribes and Pharisees. Search the scriptures. For in them you think that you have eternal life. Seek the Lord and ye shall live. Search the scriptures, for in them you think that you have eternal life, and they testify of me. Jesus says, whose very name Jesus means Jehovah is salvation. Who was Jehovah in the flesh? Seek the Lord and ye shall live. And then we have Daniel. Daniel, the great prayer warrior in Daniel 9, verses 3 and 4. Daniel says, and I set my face into the Lord, deceit by prayer and supplication with fasting and sackcloth and ashes. You see the diligence there. You see the earnestness in his seeking. And I prayed unto the Lord my God and made my confession. You see the repentance there? And said, O Lord, the great and dreadful God, keeping covenant and mercy to them that love him and to them that keep his commandments, we have sinned. And have committed iniquity, and have done wickedly, and have rebelled, even by departing from thy precepts and from thy judgments. You see what Daniel's doing there? He's repenting. And he's pleading earnestly, seek ye the Lord, and ye shall live. Ask and it shall be given unto you, verse Matthew 7. Seek and you shall find, knock and it shall be opened. James 4, verse 8. Draw nine to God. You see the seeking there. And he will draw nigh unto you. Cleanse your hands, ye sinners. Ye see the repentance there. Cleanse your hands, ye sinners, and purify your heart, ye double-minded. Get rid of the Idols that Jeroboam built for you. Purify your heart, you double-minded. Be afflicted and mourn and weep. Let your laughter be turned to mourning and your joy to heaviness. Humble yourselves in the sight of the Lord, and he will lift you up. We seek the Lord by prayer and through his word. Seek ye the Lord and ye shall live. What a glorious proposition this verse gives to us. But not only do we find a proposition, seek the Lord and ye shall live, but we find a promise. Seek the Lord and ye shall live. Oh how beautiful a statement that is. It's appointed in the man wants to die and after this the judgment. Every one of us here knows someone or has known someone who has died Life is the process of dying. Death is all around us, and death is coming for every one of us. But seek the Lord, and ye shall live. When Christ was preaching in Luke chapter 13, We read, and there were present at that season some that told him of the Galileans, whose blood Pilate had mingled with their sacrifices. And Jesus answered, He said unto them, Suppose ye that ye these Galileans were sinners of the. Above all the Galileans because they suffered such things? I tell you nay. Except ye repent He shall all likewise perish. Oh, but those Galileans, they were wickeder than anybody else. They were terrible wicked. Surely God's going to punish them, but I'm not spad I tell you, nay. Except you repent, you shall all likewise perish. I'm sure every one of us can think of somebody that's wickeder than we are. But you know what they say about pointing a finger? There's always three pointing back at you? No, this is to all of us. Seek ye the Lord. Well, what a glorious promise. Seek ye the Lord, and ye shall live. And essentially what that verse is saying is, seek the Lord and God will remove every vestige of the curse from you. Because as in Adam all died, even so in Christ shall all be made alive. And gloriously in the continuity An agreement of scripture, we find that in this very passage. Look at verse 8 of Amos 5. Verse eight of Amos five, Seek him, seek him that maketh The stars and Orion. In other words, seek the Creator God, the one that made you, the one who made the Garden of Eden, and the one who made the garden where Adam fell. Seek him that maketh the seven stars in Orion, that turneth the shadow of death into mourning. There it is. There it is. As in Adam all died, in the Garden of Eden, the shadow of death came upon mankind because of sin. Seek the Lord. And the shadow of death is removed in the light of Jesus Christ. How do you remove a shadow? You shine a brighter light. As in Adam all died, even so in Christ shall all be made alive. Seek the Lord, and the shadow of death is removed. It is dispelled in the light of the world. I am the light of the world. world, he that followed me shall not walk in darkness. And so seek him that maketh the seven stars of Orion. And turneth the shadow of death into morning, that maketh the day dark with night, and calleth the waters of the sea. Seek the Lord And so he says he promises us life. And so now I'd like to take some time and consider what this promise means. The obvious is eternal life Seek the Lord and live eternally. The wages of sin is death, but the gift of God is eternal life through Jesus Christ our Lord This is the promise he hath promised us, even eternal life. 1 John 2, verse 25. 1 John 5, verse 11. This is the record that God hath given unto us eternal life And life is in his son. We read for our responsive reading this morning Isaiah chapter 55, verses 6 and 7. Seek to the Lord while he may be found. Call upon him while he is near. Let the wicked forsake his way And he will abundantly pardon. And so obviously, God gives us eternal life in the seeking of Him. But you know there's more than that. Remember I said that Christ came to destroy and remove every vestige of the curse? Not only does God give eternal life to those that seek Him, He gives abundant life to those that seek Him. He gives abundant life. John 10, verse 10. The thief cometh not but to steal and to kill and to destroy. I am come that he might have life And that ye might have it more abundantly. God does not promise to the believer simple existence. He promises abundant life. This is not a promise of wealth and power. This is not a promise that you're gonna be the wickest Wickedest. Richest man on earth. I probably the richest man on earth isn't wicked as many talking about a Freudian tongue slip. This is not a promise that you're going to be wealthy. It's not a promise that you're going to be healthy. It's not a promise that you're going to be powerful. It's a promise that your life is going to be abundant. It's a promise that the joy of the Lord is the strength of the believer. It's the promise that I can have joy in spite of sorrows and suffering. Folks, I'm prone to depression. I get blue. I get downcast. Don't ask my wife about it because she can tell you But the joy of the Lord is the life of the believer. And when everything is as bad as it possibly seems like it can get, I still have the Lord. That's right. And I can still seek to him. You know what worry is? Worry is me talking to myself about things I cannot change. You know what prayer is? Me talking to God about things he can change. Why worry when you can pray? How do we seek the Lord? We seek him in his word and we seek him in prayer. God has promised to the believer abundant life. Oh, not talking about the nicest car and a big bank account and all the foolishness that the world thinks of. But it's talking about the abiding joy of the Lord, which overcomes the trials. It's talking about the knowledge that no matter what man says against me, God knows the truth. It's talking about no matter what disease. May be in my body that the doctors can't figure out. God can heal it. It's talking about it doesn't matter how great my need is, God can meet it. It's talking about how no uh no matter how hard my heart may be in sorrow and in grief, he has borne my griefs and carried my sorrows. It's talking about the fact that those that seek the Lord have life that the unbeliever can. never know anything about and that he may want with all his being but he can't buy it because it's not for sale. He can't find it because he's looking in the wrong places. Seek the Lord and you're gonna have a life. Have you heard the phrase get a life? I'll tell you where to get it, folks. Seek the Lord and you'll have eternal life, yes. But seek the Lord and you will truly live. How what a glorious and blessed promise this is. Paul talked in Philippians 4 verse 7 about the peace of God that passeth understanding. Have you ever been in a trial? And yet known peace? He said, where is this peace coming from? Where is this calmness? And I think even more so than that, you can look back at situations you've encountered in life and you say, how do they ever make it? And then instantly your heart says, because God carried me through. Because he bore me on the wings of angels through trials. That's the life that God gives here and now to those that seek Him. The 103rd Psalm Bless the Lord, O my soul, and all that is within me, bless his holy name. Bless the Lord, O my soul, and forget not all of his benefits. Who forgiveth all thy iniquities, who healeth all these thy diseases, who redeemeth thy life from destruction. And that redeeming of thy life from destruction isn't just talking about eternity. It's talking about here and now. And I think most of us can testify that if it were not for the grace of God What a mess we would be. What jail cell would we be in this morning? What iniquity has he redeemed us from? What iniquity are we incapable of? But he has redeemed my life from destruction right here and now. Keep back thy servant also from presumptuous sins. Let them not have dominion over me. It's nothing but the restraining hand of God that keeps the child of God back from the worst iniquity you could ever imagine Seek the Lord, and ye shall live. And that 103rd Psalm continues in verse 5, who satisfy thy mouth with good things, so that thy youth is renewed. Like the eagles. That's not talking about the blessings of heaven, folks. That's talking about God's blessings right here and now But not only does God give eternal life and God give abundant life, God gives daily life. What a miracle. What a miracle that my heart still beats. The doctors can tell you how and why, but they can't really explain it. What a miracle that my mind thinks. My mind doesn't always think straight, and it doesn't think as well as it used to. But my mind functions. The diaphragm draws down and pulls air into my lungs and that air is absorbed by the lungs into my blood and that blood is pumped by my heart through my body and that blood reaches the brain. What a miracle And God does it every second. He holdeth my soul in life Psalm 68, verses 8 and 9. O bless our God, ye people. Make the voice of his praise be heard, who holdeth our soul in life and suffereth not our feet to be moved. God gives me daily life. Why did I wake up this morning on on the time change day an hour earlier than I would have woken up otherwise? Because God woke me up this morning. There's an old course, don't try to tell me that God is dead. He woke me up this morning. He gives me daily life. And no man can take my life until God is done. I am invincible. I am immortal in the care of the God whom I seek. Because he holds my soul in life. He gives me daily life. For me to live is Christ, and to die is gain. In Acts 17, verse 28, for in him we live and move and have our being. But in the process of God giving me life, he gives me the things I need to live And I've shared with you before what a blessing the story of Elijah is. He's running from wicked Jezebel, and he gets out into the wilderness and he says, Lord, it's enough now, God, take my life from me, for I'm not better than my father's And he lays down and he sleeps and when he wakes an angel shakes him, wake up, and there's a cruise of water and a pot of food. And he lies down and sleeps again, and the angel wakes him a second time, and there's water and food. Elijah prayed to die, but God gave him what he needed to live. Lord, take my life from me. It's enough I can't take anymore, God! And instead of God taking his life, God gave him what he needed to live. He needed rest, he needed water, he needed food. His physical body had been taken to the end of his extremities And God gave him the things you needed to live. And if God had answered his prayer and taken his life, there never would have been a chariot of fire, folks. God had so much better for him. He was at the end of his wits. He couldn't take anymore. Lord, take my life out here in the back of the desert where nobody knows where I am. And God says, no, here's sweet food and water. I've got a chariot of fire. To carry you to heaven. You're not gonna die! You're not gonna die. You're gonna be taken to heaven in a chair of fire without dying. Seek the Lord. And you shall live. God gives daily life day by day God fed the children of Israel in the wilderness with manna, with quail, and with water out of the flinty stone. Consider the ravens. For they neither do they sow nor reap, which have no stove or storehouse or barns, and God feedeth them. How much more better are ye than the fowls? Consider the lilies of the field. They toil not, neither do they sow. Yet I say unto you, in that glorious statement from Christ, I say unto you But Solomon, remember I said we're not talking about being rich, wise, and powerful? Solomon was rich, wise, and powerful. Solomon in all of his glory didn't look like a rose. Solomon in all of his glory wasn't clothed as beautifully as the lily of the field. Seek the Lord and he shall live. But not only does God give abundant life, and God give daily life, God's promise to those that seek Him long life. You know, I think most of us would like to live a long life. Uh when when someone is sick, they they they pray, Lord, heal me, spare my life. God offers long life. That doesn't mean that someone's wicked because they die young. Uh we can find a lot of uh uh Stephen. Stephen was a young man He died in the service of God, but God promises long life. In Psalm 91, verse uh sixteen, and then I'll drop back to verses fift fourteen and fifteen of that Psalm. Psalm ninety-one, with long life will I satisfy him and show him my salvation. But the verses prior to that are because he has set his love on me, therefore will I deliver him. I will set him on high because he hath known my name. He shall call upon me and I will answer him When I will be with him in trouble and I will deliver him and honor him with long life, will I satisfy him? Seek ye the Lord, and ye shall live. God promises long life to those that seek Him. Solomon asks for wisdom. that he might be an effective and efficient leader of God's people. And God said to Solomon, because you didn't ask for riches, because you didn't ask for long life. If you look in the list there. I'll give you wisdom, but I'll give you riches and long life as well. God promises long life to those that trust in him. He that abideth in the secret place of the Most High, or he that dwelleth in the secret place of the Most High, shall abide under the shadow of the Almighty. Isn't that what we're talking about here? Blessed life. Long life, daily provision, the presence of God. God has promised those things to him. Glory ye in his holy name. Let the heart of them rejoice that seek the Lord. Paul was in prison. Paul's back was beaten. He and Silas had been preaching the Word of God. They had been doing what was right in the sight of God. And now they're in prison. Their feet and their hands are in stocks. Their backs are bloody with the whip. Are they complaining? Are they, oh, woe is me? Are they, this isn't fair? Are they, I didn't do it? No. They're singing praises at midnight. Sounds to me like they're alive. Sounds to me like they're living in the joy of the Lord in spite of everything that is going on around them. What a glorious Proposition, seek the Lord and ye shall live. What a glorious promise, seek the Lord, and ye shall live But my friends, what a glorious person? Seek the Lord! Seek Jehovah! Has man ever let you down? Has man ever betrayed you? Has man ever lied to you? Has man ever falsely accused you? Has man ever been unkind? Has man ever been unjust? Has man ever been unfaithful? Has God ever been any of those things? No. No. I have a glorious proposition. Seek the Lord. Not riches, not wealth, not this world. Seek the Lord. A glorious promise, and you shall live. Because we seek a glorious person. We seek Jehovah God. Ye fearful saints, fresh courage, take the clouds ye so much dread, are big with mercy and shall break. With blessings on your head. Judge not the Lord by feeble sense, but trust him for his grace. Behind a frowning providence, he hides a loving face. His purposes will ripen fast, unfolding every hour. The bud may have a bitter play taste, but sweet will be the flower. Blind unbelief is sure to err and scan his work in vain. God is his own interpreter. And he will make it plain. Psalm 105, verses 3 and 4, glory ye in his holy name. But the heart of them rejoice that seek the Lord. Seek the Lord in his strength. Seek his face forever more. And so we have this glorious church, this glorious text. Seek not Bethel, nor Gilgal, pass not to Beersheba, for Gilgal surely shall go into captivity, and Bethel shall come to naught Seek the Lord and ye shall live through. My friend, what are you seeking for? What is the aim of your life? Young person, what are your goals? Why are you seeking education? Why are you making plans? What is it that you are about? Ah, yes, we must Make our plans and set our courses. It is wise to to map out a path before us. But in everything we do, we must first seek the Lord. Seek His will. Seek His guidance. Seeking the Lord begins with repentance Ah, Lord, is my heart right before you? Seeking the Lord requires diligence. We seek him with all of our heart. And in seeking we will surely find. Seek the Lord. And ye shall live. Let us stand for prayer