Samuel chapter eight. In just verses one through nine, in fact I probably won't read all of verse nine if you follow with us in the reading this morning. And it came to pass when Samuel was old that he made his sons judges over Israel. Now the name of his firstborn was Joel, and the name of his second was Abiah, and they were judges in Bathsheba. And his sons walked not in his ways, but turned aside after lucre, or filthy lucre, or illegal gain. And took bribes and perverted judgment. And all the elders of Israel gathered themselves together and came to Samuel unto Ramah. And they said unto him, Behold, thou art old. And thy sons walk not in thy ways. Now make us a king to judge us like all the other nations. But the thing displeased Samuel when they said, Give us a king to judge us. And Samuel prayed unto the Lord. And the Lord said unto Samuel, Hearken unto the voice of the people and all that they say unto thee. For they have not rejected thee, but they have rejected me, that I should not reign over them. They no longer wanted God as their invisible king. They wanted a visible king. And in verse 8, according to all the works which they have done since the day that I brought them up out of Egypt, even unto this day, wherefore they have forsaken me and served other gods So do they also unto thee, or so do they forsake you, Samuel. Verse 9. Now therefore, hearken unto their voice, albeit yet, protest solemnly. Unto them. Beginning at verses one through three, when Samuel was old, he made his sons judges over Israel. That seems like something you would do. You would want to uh instruct them, you'd want to be set a great example before them, you'd want to pray with them and pray for them that they'd be faithful And then he would set them in there to take over the job as the judge of Israel. And he had certainly done all of that. He had he had instructed them and he'd been a great example to them and and he was a praying man for sure What more could Samuel have done? What more can any parent do but to pray for their children, instruct their children, and be a good example for their children? And when we've done all that, sometimes we end up with children, as Samuel did here. It does remove the guilt that we have instructed our children. It does remove the regret that we have been a good example before our children. It does remove the remorse that we have prayed for our children. But yet it's it's a tough thing to face when your children do not walk in the ways of the Lord. And so he had this here. Now his sons it says, Walk not in his ways, but turn aside. After Lucre, that's that's gain, but it's illegal gotten gain or filthy lucre, sometimes referred to in scripture. And they took bribes and they perverted judgment. It has been the grief of many a godly man, of many a holy man, as we go through scripture to look at how their children turned out. We saw not that long ago Eli and his sons Hopni and Phineas And how they were laying with the women at the door of the sanctuary and they were stealing from the sacrifices. And now we have here Samuel and his two sons. and how they're taking bribes, they're perverting justice. And we'll get further on in the scripture and we'll find that David's sons, Adonijah And Absalom, and we can go on and off the list how disheartening it is that godly parents sometimes have a A straying son. We hope sometimes they're a prodigal son or a prodigal daughter, but as in the case of Eli and Samuel and David, we have a record of some of their children that were not And it is a sad thing when our children don't follow us in the Lord, follow us in faith, and they become hopeless and graceless and Christless as it was here with his children. And I As I want to sometimes uh encourage you and and not have you beating yourself up over this, we have to understand that salvation is of the Lord. We can instruct them, we can pray with them, we can be the example before our children, our grandchildren, our nephews, our nieces. But the fact of the matter is no matter how much we do, we have no regrets that we do all of that We have no remorse. We have we have no guilt, but the fact is we can do all of that and still salvation is of the Lord. Salvation It does not come by the blood, it does not come by who our flesh and blood is, it does not come by the will of man, it is of the will of God, John one and verse thirteen. And so when all is said and done, salvation is of the Lord. And if you're saved this morning, do you appreciate just how close you came to not being saved? You may attribute it to the prayers of your grandmother or some other saint in the family, and certainly God uses those prayers, but salvation is rare. And difficult. And so we find here another godly man with ungodly children. He may have had other children, but these are the only two we read of. And so they are hopeless, and they are graceless, and they are perverting the things of God, they're perverting the law, they're perverting judgment. They are after the filthy lucre, and I would say this morning, is there a particular sin that rules your soul? Is there a particular sin that you just never seem to get victory over? You never beat it back, you never defeat it, it always wins in your life If you're in a situation like that where there's sin in your life and you never defeat it, you never beat it. In fact, the truth of the matter is if there's sin in your life that you love it, If there are no struggles against sin, if there are no victories against sin, this is not good. That is not a good sign. There ought to be some victories in your life. There ought to be some defeats over some sin problems that you have. And if there's not, this is not a good sign. Because it tells us that you still love your sins. Paul says, I know what I should do And I do it not. And I know what I shouldn't do and that I do. Paul said, I got the struggle in me, the soul and the spirit against the flesh. There must be a struggle if we're still alive, if we are alive in Christ, that there's no struggle. And you love your sins Not good, not good, not good. And that was the case here with these two sons. And therefore it says in verse 4, the elders of Israel, they gathered themselves together, and they came to Samuel onto Ramah, and in verse five, and they said unto him, Behold, thou art old. Old? Old? Is that ever told you you're old? Thou art old. What happened to the law of kindness is to be in your tongue? Is the law of kindness in your tongue? Do you ever just walk up to somebody and say something that's not very nice, not very kind? It may be true. The truth can be spoken in love. The truth can be spoken kindly. But they just walk up and say, Samuel, you're old When I look back in my life and the work in this church, I think I can eliminate nearly every problem I've ever observed firsthand. If we just spoke to each other in kindness. These elders lacked kindness. We're supposed to speak to one another as our words should be like apples of gold framed in silver. Speak the truth, but speak it in love. And and don't just say, I apologize for that. I told him I was sorry. That didn't seem to work. Well not if you said it that way. I've said this I've seen some people say, hey, I I I just uh you know you tell your kids you ought to apologize, your little sister. Okay, I'm sorry. That is not speaking in words that are like apples of gold and frames of silver And so these elders, they lacked the tongue of kindness. And they came and they said Thou art old, first jab, second jab, thy sons walk not in thy ways Well that was true about Eli's sons, and it was Eli's fault, but it's not Samuel's fault here. We find that Samuel was a good father and a godly father. And it wasn't his fault. And then the third jab is, we wish to replace you. Make us a king to judge us like all the other nations, verse 5. In other words, you know, it wasn't just that we wanted a king, but by the way, we want a judge. We want a king to be our judge. We want to replace you. You know, generally, if you're old or older, that means you're wiser, you're more experienced, and you're more appreciated, and that's when you become more valuable. But they want to get rid of old Samuel. Think it not strange when the worldlings want to get rid of you because you're old. They want the newer model, or they want the younger, uh, they want the less experienced, uh the the one who is younger and cheaper and less experienced model. They don't have to pay him as much. We're all getting older, it's going to happen to us too. They don't appreciate the fact that we're wiser and more experienced. We're more expensive, they think. And so if Samuel's old, someday someone will say that to you too. They didn't even ask for a moral king like Samuel who was moral and upright and godly. They just want a king. I mean here's a list of things you want in the king. They didn't give them a list of things they wanted in a king I mean we want this king. We want someone to judge us. We don't want you to judge us anymore, Samuel. We we don't care if the king's moral. We don't we we just want a king. And what makes them think that that king's children are gonna be any better than Samuel's kids or Eli's kids? They just want, dare I say it, they just want change. I mean, sometimes people think change would be wonderful. Let's just have change. They didn't ask if the king was moral. You know, the Bible says in Romans 13 and 3 that the rulers are a terror to evil. The rulers are supposed to be good. They are supposed to be moral. They're supposed to be a terror to evil. I wonder if people even care today if their rulers are moral. I mean you you watch what's running for office up there and what's holding office. Apparently in this day and age if you want judges and rulers over you in this nation or any other nation. It seemed like the criteria is, are they charming? Are they humorous? Are they intelligent? And do they look good? That's the kind of rulers we get. Charming, humorous, intelligent. And then they, a Psalm 2, says, the kings and rulers take counsel together against the Lord and his anointed, wanting to break their bands asunder and cast away from them All that is godly, God sitteth in the heavens and he laughs And those we elect and those we appoint and those we want to rule over us, it says that God is vexed with them and his sword is pleasure. It says he'll break them and dash them in pieces when his wrath is kindled, but a little. But that's the kind of a king that they wanted, and they were going to get one. We'll discover the kind of a king they're getting his name of Saul So be warned. Be warned at the kind of people you elect The kind of people you support, the kind of people you want to rule over you. Because you'll end up with people who will restrict your prayers, redefine marriage, and tell you when life begins And when yours ends, God is not mocked. Whatsoever a man soweth, that shall he also reap. And they're about to reap as they replace Samuel, a godly man, with an ungodly king. As any nation will reap what they sow when they do the same thing. And so I want you to note here That Samuel and when he is told all of this that the three jabs he's old what his sons are doing they want to fire him or replace him. I want you to see what Samuel's comment was He withstood the comment about the age. He was old. He withstood the comment about his sons. It was true. But the third thing it says in verse 6, but the thing that displeased Samuel, verse 6 was when they said, give us a king to judge us. That drove him to his knees. You had something this week that drove you to your knees? Or last week? This morning? Things happen in our lives. Sometimes you say could have happened at a worse time. Or it's things come in threes and that things came in threes here for Samuel and the third thing it doesn't seem as bad as the other things, but it was a straw that breaks the camel's back, whatever, and and so here we have it that comes in threes. The third thing was the thing that really got to Samuel. And it drops him to his knees. And it says in verse 6, and Samuel prayed unto the Lord. Philippians 4, 6 says that in everything make our requests known unto God. That's what Samuel did. So if something has dropped you to your knees this week, Pray. Pray not that it will change immediately, but pray that it'll change the way you feel about it. before you get off your knees. If it doesn't, stay there. Stay on your knees in prayer until you feel better about the situation. So often God has to change us and not the situation before He ever ever changes the situation And so it brought him to his knees in prayer. And the Lord said unto Samuel, Hearken unto the voice of the people in all they say unto thee, for they have not rejected thee, but they have rejected me. That I should not reign over them. God says, Samuel, you're looking at just you're being old and them replacing you. They're replacing me, Samuel. They don't want me to reign over. They not only don't want you to reign as judge in Israel, but they don't want the invisible king. They don't want me to reign over them. They want a visible king to reign over them. These elders and these people who came and they didn't want God as their king anymore, and we read through the scriptures that Jesus was King of the Jews and that God is our king and God reigns over us and God rules over us. They didn't want God ruling over them. They didn't want God reigning over them. They didn't want God in their life at all. It kind of sounds a little bit like what's going on in America today. They don't want God as their king. They have no king but Caesar. We haven't heard that from the people in America yet, but that's pretty much what it is. They don't want King Jesus ruling over them. They have no king but government. That will rule and reign and provide and sustain and protect, they think. The elders had forgotten Not that many years ago, what had happened at Ebenezer. See, if you go through and read this whole chapter, the one of the reasons they want a king They want a king that can lead them out into battle. They want a king that can go out and fight their battles for them. They want a king to go out there and destroy the Philistines and the Canaanites and the Moabites and the Amorites and the Jebusites and the Phariseites. They want a king that can lead them into battle and do all of this for them. Where do they think this king's gonna get an army? From their sons But they want this king to do it. They forgot what happened to Ebenezer. Ebenezer, they're at Ebenezer, and here comes the Philistines. They're charging up the hill. And the Philistines got swords, they got spears, they got shields, they got they got all kinds of forms of weapons and slings and so. And here's Here's the Jews. They have no weapons. The weapons were taken away from them. They had sword control and spirit control in that day and shield. They had nothing but hose and rapes and and you know scythe to cut the hay and then the grain. They didn't have any weapons and here they come charging up the hill. And God says to them, stand back and watch what I will do. And God thundered and lightning and came down upon the Philistines and God destroyed them in the very presence of the Jews. And they didn't have to send one soldier onto combat at Ebenezer. But they'd forgotten that the Lord would fight for them, how that God did fight for them. They'd forgotten how when God's people had an enemy, he sent frogs and fleas to the Pharaoh. When God's people had an enemy, he sent hornets among the Hivites. When God's people had an enemy, he sent an angel against the Assyrians. What do you need a king for when you got a God like that? They wanted this king And there would obviously be consequences to follow, getting rid of Samuel, getting rid of their invisible king, getting a visible king, there would be some obvious consequences. And we'll read about them in the chapters ahead. The rejection of God brings consequences. If if you could see the consequences this morning, if I if I if I just open up a vision on the wall or like a almost like a movie screen, if you could see the consequences in the future of your sins, do you think you would change some things in your life to avoid those consequences? Well, here's the movie screen. Read it. In here are the consequences, in these holy scriptures, the consequences of a sin you're about to commit. Or when you've committed and haven't repented of, it's all laid out here in black and white, and as you read it, you'll you'll envision quite readily What the consequences of your sins will be if you don't repent. They didn't see the future consequences. They didn't want to see the future consequences. They rejected God, rejected his word, rejected his man. And where there is no vision, the people perish, but he that keepeth the law, happy is he. Proverbs 29, 18. There is no vision. You look in here and it'll give you a vision of the consequences of sin. If you don't look in the Word of God, you'll have no vision of the consequences of sin. And without a vision of the consequence of sin, there'll be no desire to keep his laws, and happy is he that does. But they didn't want to be reminded by Samuel of what those laws were and what those consequences would be. And truth be known, if you were to go back to Deuteronomy in chapter 17 and verse 14, God had actually promised Israel that there would come a day When he would give them a king. When he would decide to give them a king. Not when they wanted a king, but there's going to come a day when God was going to give them a king. But they couldn't wait for that day, and they hadn't waited for that day, and they wanted a king now. God had promised them a king, they wanted a king now. If God had promised a king in the future, well for them this was the future They wanted a king now, but it wasn't to fulfill scripture, it wasn't to fulfill Deuteronomy 17 that they wanted a king. They wanted a king that could lead them out into battle. The motive for having a king was wrong They wanted to get rid of the morals and they wanted to get rid of the man of God named Samuel. They wanted a king for the wrong reason. Their motives were bad. And what would be the consequences of having a queen a king before God's time? What would be the consequences of having a king and it wasn't with the proper motive? The consequences would be giant problems in the name of Goliath and his family that would soon come. The consequences would be giant problems. corrupt kings such as Saul and there's a whole list of corrupt kings in the book of Kings. So the consequence we had giant problems, corrupt kings, and I have no other way to say it, but girly gods, because that's what they got. They started worshiping pagan goddesses. Oh, there were pagan gods they worshipped also. But they also had all these girly gods. There was a feminist movement breaking out in the land of Israel. That was the consequence. In fact, that's what they said in verse 5. Make us like all the other nations. All right, I will. You're going to have your girly gods, your giant problems, your corrupt kings. I'll make you like the other nations. Yikes. This is a sin problem. They want to be like all the other nations. Young people, I'm gonna tell you something that you don't know. You've heard it, but I'm gonna tell you too, because you don't know it personally America was so different when I grew up. You didn't hear people swearing in public. You didn't have people out on their front lawns on Sunday morning washing their cars and cutting their grass. They were all going to church. Or at least they were indoors, in their house, sitting there, so nobody everybody thought they were gone at church We didn't have the corrupt politicians we have today. We didn't have the filth on TV and the filth in the movies. You are living in a country that I hardly recognize. But you are living in a country that has become just like all the other nations. But there was a time when America was all by itself. It was the only nation. It was called a Christian nation. So different. Because your leaders, your elders wanted Rejected King Jesus. And they wanted someone else to rule over them. They didn't want God's word to rule over them. They didn't want the scriptures to reign in the hearts of the people. They wanted a new sheriff in town. They wanted a new king to reign over them. Just like Israel here. God here uses the sins of these men, however. It's not like, oh, now things are out of control. That's not what God wanted. Now what's God going to do? Has He got Plan B? Is there a contingency plan? God doesn't need plan B. God doesn't need a contingency plan. He has from the foundation already set in order. Even the sins will accomplish his purposes will further his eternal plan. The wrath of man shall praise thee. Psalm seventy-six and ten. Nothing is out of control, nothing is unforeseen. Nothing changes, nothing slows down God's plan or interrupts God's plan. These elders thought they were Pretty important that they were going to bring in their first king. Well, it's the children of these elders who it also would reject Jesus Christ as King centuries from there, centuries from now, these elders, their children's children's children, would be the first one to shout, We have no king but Caesar. John nineteen and fifteen. This is the heart of those when they don't when they reject God's word and they reject God's man, they want a king alright. They want and when they say we have no king but Caesar, what were they saying? They were saying, we've got the government of Rome. We don't need a King Jesus. And that's where people are today. We don't need God. We got government that will feed us and clothe us and protect us. Yeah. And they'll decide when to stop feeding you too. And they'll decide when to stop protecting you. And they'll decide who gets what job and who does don't do you know there are I gave I won't remember all of them, but right now the governor decides there are seven jobs that Christian Children, if you're Christians, there's seven jobs you need no longer apply for in this country. Don't bother applying to or starting a bakery company if you're a Christian. They're already shutting down the bakeries of Christians who will not make birth make anniversary or wedding cakes for gay marriages. Don't think you're gonna go into a floristry shop because they're already shutting down shops where they won't make floral arrangements for gay marriages. Don't start a bed and breakfast and think you can run a hotel and tell people they can't have that room because they're not married. They're shutting down hotels all across this country. It's happening now. There are jobs you can't have as a Christian. You want the government to take care of you? Well they're going to tell you the kind of jobs you can have and the jobs you can't have. And just in the last year there's been seven different got seven different types of jobs you can no longer do if you profess to be a Christian. Here in in Maryland at the uh Baltimore County uh College Young fellow was there and he was applying. He wanted to be a radiation technologist or whatever I think it was was. And he got through the whole, he had great grades, he had good grades, he was fine. And they said, by the way, last question that I think it was the last question they asked them, uh what's the most important thing in your life? He said, Jesus Christ, out. We will not have you at this college. It's in court now. It's going to go into lawsuit. But I'm telling you, you want government to take care of you? Oh, they'll take care of you You want Caesar to rule over you instead of King Jesus? He will. Oh, yes, he'll do all of that. Those are the consequences, and we'll see those consequences in the weeks that follow here. The rejection of Christ as the King of the Jews, what did that accomplish? Providentially accomplished him dying on the cross and the salvation of God's elect. So rejecting Christ didn't stop anything, did it? In fact, it accomplished a great deal for us. You reject Christ, he's crucified. Our sins are washed in his blood. The betrayal of Christ by Judas did the same. It didn't stop anything. It was beneficial for us. So God uses sin to accomplish his purposes. God uses sinners and saints to accomplish all his purposes. Yet how much better it would be if he that doeth the will of God For he will abide forever, reading John 1 John 2 and 17. Wouldn't it be better? If God's going to accomplish all his purposes, whether you're a sinner or a saint, he said, Well, hey, I'm doing God's will too. I'm a sinner, I'm still accomplishing God's Yes you are, but what a better thing it is to accomplish God's purposes By being a saint. Lord's promise that for you you'll abide forever in happiness. That wasn't the case of these elders. They weren't doing the revealed will of God. They were confronting Samuel. They were in rebellion. Like so many of their their herites before them, they were in rebellion. It says in verse 8. Since the day I brought you up out of Egypt, even unto this day, wherewith they have forsaken me and served other gods. He said their fathers before them, their fathers' fathers before them had done the same thing Ever since they came out of Egypt, there's been this ilk, there's been this body rejecting God, rejecting his word, rejecting his people, wanting to live like the other nations So they haven't rejected just me, they have rejected you too, Samuel. But as he rejected Moses, as he rejected Joshua, as he rejected Gideon. What happens when a nation is weary of being governed by God's Word? God will give them rulers and judges and the consequences they deserve Let me say it again. What happens when a nation rejects being governed by the Word of God? God will give you rulers and judges and the consequences that that nation deserves. And so God instructs Samuel here in verse 9, therefore, hearken unto their voice, howbeit yet, protest solemnly unto them. They're about to learn the hard way, aren't they? You reject God's ways, you reject God's word, you reject God's demand, they're about to learn the hard way, aren't they? Did your parents ever let you learn something the hard way? They ever let you have your way and then sat back to watch you moan and weep and cry and I can remember, you know Kids have come to their parents, why did you let me do that? Well, you're raised such a stink about I never let you do anything. So I let you do that. And now you're mad at me because I let you do that How many parents would like to tell their kid those shoes are not practical? But all the girls are wearing elephants and heels, right? They're all wearing them from the latest fashion for only 95 hours. Yeah. And you'll wear them for about 99 seconds and realize mom and dad were right. How about you want this watch? It's really a nice watch and it's even waterproof to 40 foot underwater. So you wear it in the shower, you wear it in the bathtub, and your parents say don't believe everything you read That watch for $29. 95 is not waterproof. I got one of those watches I got on right now. It's waterproof. I read the small print. You know what it says about being waterproof? It does. It says waterproof to 60 feet underwater. But it also says it is not waterproof in rain because rain hits at a pressure that is greater than 60 feet underwater. It isn't waterproof. But your kids will buy that wash because it's waterproof and it'll be broke by the first rain. Why'd you let me do this? You tell them, son, I don't like that girl. Oh, I love her dad. She'll break your heart. And she does. You tell them, before you go outside, put some bug repellent on, put some sunscreen on. I don't need any of that stuff. Why don't you let me go outside? In fact, it burned upright. Sometimes we let them learn their lesson the hard way, right? Sometimes God lets us learn things the hard way. as well. Expensive, yes. Experience is a good teacher. But it's expensive and it's painful Lot lost a wife, but he learned a lesson. Don't go living in Sodom. It'll mess up your whole family. Samson lost his eyes David lost a baby. Experience is a good teacher, but it's expensive and it's painful. God will say later in Hosea, God read in Hosea, that's a long, that's that's many, many books forward. But he will say in the book of Hosea, in chapter 13 and verse 1, I gave them a king in my anger. Ah, you want a king? Oh, I'll give you a king. And they got King Saul and a lot of other wicked kings that followed. In the wilderness he says, I gave them the request. You want quail? You want meat? I'll give you quail. I'll give it till it's coming out of your nose. And you're throwing it up out of your mouth. I'll give you, you want meat, I'll give you quail. He said, I gave them the request. But I sent leanness into their soul. Spiritually. Psalm 106 and verse 15, they were dying on the limb spiritually. The prodigal son got his inheritance early as requested. And he learned, oh, what a lesson he learned. He learned that dining among the swine of the world. was not as lovely as living under his father's house and his father's rules. Young people, think about that one. You're fifteen, sixteen, you want to run away from home? You want to go out there and live with the swine in the world? You're gonna find someday you can look back how living under your father's roof and rules wasn't so bad. I don't know what the age of everybody here is where they join the army. Anybody here? I joined at seventeen. Anybody else join early? Do you want to get away from home? Did you join early, Ed? Yeah. How how how old were you? Twenty? Okay. What isn't a great deal, Ahmed you're tired of all those rules and regulations and someone telling you what to do. Oh, finally free! I'm in the Marine Corps. Oh my goodness I was in twenty seconds on these yellow footprints when I realized you remember the yellow footprints you stand on? It was at that point I already knew with this guy shouting in my ear This eardrum over here is vibrating. He's already shouting at me like I never heard anyone shout, and using words I never heard at home before. I knew within twenty seconds I had made a big mistake. So if I had a watch, they'd take my watch from me, they took my rings from me, they took my wallet from me, I'd know it I even took my hair from me, they took everything from me. But only I had left, the only thing I had left was Three years, eleven months, thirty days, twenty-three minutes and thirty seconds left of what I'm going through right now. I learned how good things were under my father's roof and rain. That's where we are today. America needs to learn how much better off we had it when Christ was ruling our nation, when Christ's word was ruling our nation. People, frequently we we think what we have in the here and now is better than what's offered in the hereafter. We sometimes believe there is a hereafter, so they want to get everything they can now in the here and now What, pilgrim? Pilgrim, what do you prefer? A plump bank account or the promises of Christ to come? I mean there's some great promises that Christ has given us. You want a plump bank account or you want the promises So some great promises. He says, The my name ask and you shall receive, that your joy may be full. John sixteen and twenty five. Ask and you shall receive. No, I gotta tack down, he says That your joy may be full. If you ask for something, he'll give it to you if it will fulfill your joy. If he doesn't think it will fulfill your joy, you won't get it. But that's quite a promise. Ask and you shall receive. Isn't that better than having a bank account that's full of money? That someone can hack into and steal tomorrow. But here the elders they were asking for a king and they want the king. Oh They were rejecting the priestly rule from the tribe of Levi. Do you realize that? Samuel is a Levite from the tribe of Levi. From the days of Moses and Aaron, Levites, all the way up to Joshua and through Samuel, they had been ruled, a theocracy as it were. They had been ruled by the tribe of Levite, they had been ruled by the law of God, by the word of God. This was all that was going on for them And and now they want to change that. Satan must have been thrilled to death to get rid of those who rule by the law of God. To get rid of the Levites ruling them. What good can God do with this, you might ask? Well, prepared the way for King David. It prepared the way for a future king from the tribe went from Levi to the tribe of Judah, and we got Jesus Christ as our King. Today, some would say, what good can come from all of this? Distress of nations? Distress? Distress, you see? Luke 21, 25 says, Distress? Lift up your hands, your redemption draweth nigh. That's what's promised thereafter in that verse. Distress? The more distress we got, the more we are assured that distress, or rather that our redemption is drawing nearer and nearer. That's worth hanging our hats on and our hopes on. Let's pray. Father, we just look to you this day, and though we have rejected the God of Samuel, although we rejected the laws that Samuel loved Although our nation wants to be like all the other nations, Lord, you are a merciful and gracious God. And we pray, Father, that you would still give us a period of grace We also pray, Lord, that if it be not a period of grace that it might be true that as the stress of nations compiles and grows, that we are truly approaching the day when our redemption draweth nigh And may it be so, and may we as we always pray, O Lord Jesus, come, come quickly. We pray. Amen.