Pilgrimage to the book of Samuel, we find ourselves first Samuel this morning, chapter thirty, verses one through eight. And just follow with me as we read this. It came to pass when David and his men were come to Ziklag, and that's where all the families of the Of David and his men were kept on the third day, that the Amalekites had invaded the south and Ziklag and smitten Ziklag and burned it with fire. He had taken the women captives, and they were therein, they slew not any, either great or small, but carried them away and went on their way. So David's men came to the city, and behold, it was burned with fire, and their wives and their sons and their daughters were taken captives. And then David and the people that were with him lifted up their voices and they wept. And they wept until they could weep. They had no power to weep anymore. And David's two wives were taken captive, Ahinaim the Jewelitis, and Abigail, the wife of Nabal the Carmelite. And David was greatly distressed, for the people spake of stoning him, because the soul of all the people were grieved, every man for his sons and his daughters. But David encouraged himself in the Lord his God. And David said to Abathar the priest, Ahimelech's son. I pray thee, bring hither me the Ephhod. And Abathar brought thither the Ephhod to David. Remember, Abathar is the high priest now. In verse 8, David inquired at the Lord, saying, Shall I pursue after this troop, or after these Amalekites? Shall I overtake them? And he that is God answered and said, Pursue, for thou shalt surely overtake them, and without fail recover all. When David and his men were come to Ziklag, we have men coming home every day from Afghanistan and Iraq and other places, fields of combat. And we hear sometimes in those stories that they return home and they find that their wife has been crippled in an accident. We'll never walk again. We find sometimes that they return home and their wife has divorced them and already has a new husband. And some come home to bury their wife. Coming home is usually an exciting time. Coming home is usually something you're looking forward to. You finally get to see the kids again. You've been away six months or a year or whatever. And uh or at least it's been in a dangerous field and David and his men, all six hundred men, had been out in battle uh several times, and uh they were excited about coming home uh to a place of peace in the city of Ziklag, where they had left their wives and children. And you can imagine the talk, it's a three day march back on the battlefield, and as they're talking, they're walking back to Ziklag, they're all talking about This son or this daughter is so great, and they're all talking about their wife and maybe they're newlyweds or or maybe it's their fifth anniversary. All this excitement coming back and as they come up over this one rise, they see smoke in the distance Not usual where they see smoke in the distance, and there's ziklag, but perhaps they were burning the dump that day or something. And as they got closer and closer they realized that the fire was not in the dump. The fire was in the city, which put them in the dump. As they got to the city they found that the Amalekites had burned it with fire. And if you go back a couple of chapters, you find that in chapter 27 that Dave and his men, they've been out in the field in combat. Where'd they been? They've been making incursions into the Amalites. They've been going to the cities of the Amalekites, attacking the Amalekites for for over a year. And they go into a city and they kill everybody. I mean they didn't leave any goats or sheep alive. They didn't leave any women or children. They killed everybody. They showed no mercy. And they they did that so that no Malachi could escape and go and tell the Philistines or somebody else what David was doing. Somebody must have got away Because now the Amalekites are getting their revenge on David and his 600 men, and they've attacked the city of Ziklag. They would look forward to coming home It wasn't the homecoming they had expected. Scripture tells us in Proverbs 27, 1, Thou knowest not what a day may bring. We can leave home and go to work this morning and and maybe we don't return. We can go to work this morning and come home and We no longer have three children, but only two. We have no idea what a day will bring. We need to praise the Lord Jesus Christ every time we come home, and things are as we left them. But they weren't for David, and they weren't for his men. They arrived in Ziklag, they'd been burned. Uh gone was their property. That was all burned up. Gone were their cattle. Gone were their wives. Gone were their sons and their daughters. All their children were gone. You have to say to yourself, what could possibly be worse? What could possibly be worse than your wife and children are gone and all your goods are gone, you're st you're destroyed, you know, your whole fortune. What could possibly be worse You could be an Amalekite who loves his sin. You could be an Amalekite who is not born again. You could be an Amalekite who is predestined for eternal damnation. There are things worse. than having lost all your possessions and all your family. Things weren't quite that dreary for David because as he stood there he didn't know whether his children were alive or dead, but he knew this. that he was not lost in sin. He knew that he was born again. And so whatever your situation is this morning, it can be a lot worse than you think it is. In fact, it is a lot worse than you think it is If you're not saved. If you don't know the Lord Jesus Christ, not just as the Savior of the world, but as your. personal savior. It's really an amazing thing that these Amalekites who have had such a bitterness towards David David and what he had done to their cities for over a year. They'd go into the city and they'd strike it, they'd set it afire. And I think it's just a miraculous verse in verse two. They slew not any I mean an attacking the city they killed nobody and capturing the people they killed nobody. They just took the women captive and the young daughters captive and the sons And you have to wonder why they wouldn't take revenge, why they wouldn't abuse themselves, uh or abuse these captives, these women and the young girls and And and why did well maybe perhaps they wanted to sell them as captives, someone said, or they wanted to play with them for a while, as the Muslim jihadists do when they capture the young Christian girls in the schools over there in Somalia and Sudan They capture those young girls and they use them and abuse them. But the Amalekites didn't. Why? God has amazing power To restrain our enemies, to keep them from doing what they lust to do and want to do and desire to do and plan to do. We have an amazing God The Amalekites' intent was surely to destroy everyone as David had destroyed everyone in their cities, and they came in with their blood just ready to cut every throat and disembowel every woman and to do it all. But God restrained them. They intended to kill everyone, but God intended to recover his beloved Israelites So I would ask this morning, are you one of God's recovered children, recovered from sin? Recovered from that sin nature you were born with? Are you one of God's people? Because if you are, you've got so much hope. When there seems to be no hope at all, you've got so much hope. And if you really are one of God's, you know, you'll be so appreciative of being one of the Lord Jesus Christ. own children, one of his lambs, one of his flock, one of his church, one of his people, one of his own. You'll be so pleased that where you are standing or sitting this morning in the Lord, that you will want to, and you will have to, you'll want to weep for others. You'll want to weep for others, as David here in verses 3 through 6. David and his ministers, they wept. They wept for those led captive by these horrendous Amalekite sinners. And how can we sit there this morning if we say we are saved? And we don't weep for others who have been taken captive by sin and sinners. You have to question your salvation if there isn't a time you may have wept over your sins, but have you ever wept over others? And their sins, and how they're being led captive by sinners, Amalekites and Philistines of our day and age David and his men wept, and believers weep for those who are held captive in sin. Lest they be cast into outer darkness, the scripture tells us. Christ talked about it in Matthew 8 and 12, that if we're not saved, but we're not born again, that we'll be cast into outer darkness and will be eternal weeping and gnashing of teeth. I don't think any of us here have ever walked into a body of six hundred men that were weeping. We've had them applauding, we've had them cheering, we've had them laughing in a group of six hundred men and women. What have you ever walked in a room with six hundred people and they were just weeping and weeping until they could weep no more? That's what hell sounds like They are weeping down there and weeping till they can weep no more. And that ought to make us weep for those who aren't saved today. Have you never wept for anyone? Because they were lost Question your own salvation if you have not wept for the the lost and Dave and his men here they thought they were lost all was lost. And we'll be weeping for those who've rejected the gospel of Christ. Because they'll be joining the hundreds and hundreds and thousands and thousands who will weep until they can weep no more for all eternity. It says in verse four that the men wept until they had no more power to weep. And then in verse six it says that the people then began to speak. When they stopped weeping and stopped crying, they couldn't cry anymore. They started talking and they came to the conclusion, let's stone David. Stone the the sweet psalmist of Israel? Stone the man who killed Goliath? Stole the man who is the best friend of Jonathan? Stolen the man that's supposed to be the next king of Israel? We're going to stone David? What's gotten in these people? They are just a broken body of men. They are weeping. They are sorrowful. They're despondent. They just see life is so dreary. Their wives and their children are gone. And they blame David for what happens. This mutiny. This mutiny breaks out. It's a dangerous thing when you have a mutiny of people who are weeping people because they really don't care too much about what they're about to do. And this mutiny breaks out against David. They just felt that things couldn't get any worse and they just couldn't take it anymore. Ever been there? Things can't get any worse. Somebody there this morning? We had a guy this week, didn't we? He just couldn't take it anymore. He went down and shot the newspaper, uh the the TV newsgirl, right? Shot her and the cameraman. He said he couldn't take it anymore. It's a dangerous thing when you're around people who just can't take it anymore. Dangerous for David because they were about to stone him. They blamed him for all their problems and they could perhaps Point to a few things they say, look, if we hadn't been invading the Malachites, if we hadn't been burning their cities and killing everybody and not taking any prisoners, if we hadn't done that We wouldn't be in this situation. It's David's fault. They neglect to remember that they joyfully joined with them and they enjoyed the the plunge the the pillaging and the and the they enjoyed going and destroying the Malachites God had told them to kill all the Amalekites. All of them, women and children. God had told them to do that. And they'd enjoyed falling on God's command. But now that the Amalekites have come back in revenge, it's David's fault. It's not their fault And furthermore, they're out there on the fields that in fact they had just come back from being with the Philistines and they were about to attack Saul, King Saul and his army. And that got stopped, we know, from last week, but they'd been out there doing all these things, and they'd left Ziglag totally defenseless David said, We've wiped out all these Amalekites that are so afraid of us. We don't need to leave a defense here. Let's just go and let's just head out in the field with King Akash and the Philistines and And they blamed David for leaving the city with all the women and children in it not guarded. But the men didn't have a problem with that when they had emerged. They left. And so they blame David. They don't even blame that all this transpired in the province of God. You know, we're we are we're not too keen on blaming God for what's happening in our life. You know when people tell me sometimes I hate my life, I hate my life, I say no What you really hate is the light that God has dealt you. Hate my wife, I hate my husband, I hate my kids. No, no. You hate the kids that God has dealt You hate the wife of God or the husband of God is giving. You hate what God is doing in your life. That's what it really is. And in the promise of God, they didn't see that they were really mad at God. They just saw they were mad at David, and they're they can't stone God, so they're going to stone David. They saw David as the author of their miseries. He had led the race against the Amalekites in 1 Samuel 27. He had left Ziglag defenseless and so forth. It's all David's fault. Really? I bet you all of us here can think back to something happened in our life and we found it was oh well go to psychiatrist well he tell you it's your mother's fault that you are the way you are Or it's the way your father raised you. It's it's never your fault. The psychiatrist. See, he wants you to keep coming back. So he never blames you for the way you are. He always blames somebody else who's not paying the bills. I mean you're paying the bills. You go to see a psychiatrist. She's never going to blame you for what you're going through. It's not your fault. It's your childhood. It's your mother. It's your aunt, your uncle, your brother, anyone but you, because you're writing the checks every day when you leave my office We always blame, like to blame somebody. In fact, never blame ourselves. Blame God if we have to. But Christ taught, and we forget, John 16 and 33, in this world you shall have Tribulation. Why are you the surprise? What was Christ a liar? Did he get it wrong? Did he miss it? In this world you shall have tribulation. You don't have to sit around and point the finger at who you want to blame. You ought to know from the get-go you're going to have tribulation And yes, it's a predestined of God to grow you in grace and knowledge of the Lord, to strengthen you as a Christian, to give you those experiences so you can help somebody else when they're going through those tribulations But you're going to go through tribulations. God didn't promise you a rose garden. Well, he gave us one, but Adam and Eve got tossed out of that one Do you ever sometimes feel like you've been left in the dark about what's going on? In your life? You know, you ever wonder, where is God? What is God doing? I mean, my life is so miserable right now. Where is God? Doesn't he see what I'm going through? Doesn't he care? Do you ever feel like that? Sometimes when life just seems so dark This is the darkest day of David's life. I'm not saying he won't have other dark days But in his light to this point, this is David's darkest life, darkest day of his life. His wives are gone, his children are gone. The men that he loves have been serving with them, their wives are gone, their children are gone. But the men that would lay down their life for him, the minute he's laid down his life for, that he's killed Goliath over it, these men now want to stone him and kill him It is the darkest day of his life. You ever had a dark day in your life where you felt alone? Where you felt nobody cared? Where you felt that maybe everybody hated you By the way, the next time someone says everybody hates me, no one loves me, I don't hate you. Don't put me on that list. Everybody doesn't hate you, but sometimes we feel that way, we feel sorry. alone. This is the darkest day, the darkest day of David's life. And in three days, the news will come to David. In three days of the darkest day of his life, in three days, the news will come to David: Saul was dead, and you are now king of Israel. Wow, what a change. And you know you've been there, haven't you? You're going through some miserable time. It just things can't get any worse. And within a day or a phone call or a letter in the mail, and I've done that. We've had them sometimes things are going so bad and they're so miserable and I'm sure you've been there. And I I get to the point now where Where I say, I just don't know what can be any worse than this. And the phone rings and I say, There's the answer. We answer that phone and things will be all I'm gonna go out and get the mailbox. I just know God's gonna put some in that mailbox and he has My wife, I I know you know she's got problems, she'd like me to talk about. I I just gotta show this one thing with her We're going to the hospital this week. I drop her off at the door and I go out to park the car. And she's walking the door and here stands this big tall Guy with a smokey the bear hat, he's a security guard, big black guy. And she's walking and she doesn't know him from Adam. She's walking through the front doors and we are just We are just burdened with what's going on and how things are going to turn out. And she walks to the door and he says, Good morning. You're in the right place at the right time. Wow, did God send that message or what? I mean things can seem so dark and with one comment, which I remind you you might make to people once in a while. To lift them. It may be that the next thing you say to someone out there will stop them from committing suicide. We'll give them just enough light to go on for one more day. In the darkest hour of David's life, within three days it comes, Saul is dead, and you are king of Israel Wow, how fast things can change. Jacob's out there mourning. He said, I'm going to go down the grave. My gray hair is on my head. I'm going down the grave in sorrow. And then it says, Joseph is alive. Wow, how things change. Jonas is a fish in the belly of a fish, and he's in the bottom of the ocean. And some believe he's probably dead or dying. And three days later, what? Jonas barfed up on the beach somewhere near Nineveh. Christ is in the tomb. Oh, talk about some dark hours for the disciples. Christ is in the tomb. And three days later, he's risen. Don't you let your darkest hours get you down. Don't let it be so dreary. Don't you give up that you want to take it out on somebody else Because God is in control. And if you're saved If you're not saved, this part's not for you. Okay? If you're saved, God is in control, and He loves you more than your husband, your wife, your kids, your parents. He loves you more than anyone. It's gonna be all right. Praise him for it now, before it even happens. Paul calls our tribulations, and we've all had some. Spurgeon says you have more and more the older and older you get. That was encouraging. If you get his book uh was on the waters, what is it? Besides still waters, do not read page two. And I shouldn't have told you that because now everybody's gonna go out and read page two But Paul says we are our light afflictions are but for a moment. He says we're going to have tribulations. Our light afflictions are but for a moment. 2 Corinthians 4 and verse 17. And you say light affliction, you call these light afflictions compared to the cross that Christ died on. Yes, we go through nothing but light afflictions Paul calls it a reasonable sacrifice for the Lord Jesus Christ, what we go through in this life. He bore our sins on the cross. We can concentrate on our circumstances so much that it'll make things appear hopeless, hopeless, hopeless. What happens when we concentrate in our circumstance, it distracts us from looking to the Lord for direction. Isn't that what happened to Peter? He's out in the stormy waters and he takes his eyes off the Lord and he's looking at the stormy waters and he starts to sink, and that's what will happen to us. We can let the circumstances destroy our peace because we take our eyes off the Lord Jesus Christ. I know today are some sorrowful times, some difficult times. There's some fearful times they're living today, and they're distracting many. They're distracting many because they're not looking under Jesus Christ, the author and the finisher of our faith. Hebrews 12, verse 2 That's our biggest problem. Our biggest problem isn't our circumstances. Our biggest problem is we're looking at our circumstances instead of looking up for our redemption, draweth nigh. Christ is called the light because he pushes away all the darkness. Talk about times and things seemed hopeless. Things seemed hopeless when John the Baptist's head was on a platter. Things seem hopeless when Saul was raging down the road towards Damascus. Things seem hopeless when the Pope put out an indulgence that whoever killed Martin Luther We'll be freed from purgatory forever. I mean talk about hopeless times. Things seem hopeless When Christ was entombed in the garden What are we to do when we're facing health issues? What are we to do when we're facing financial ruin? What are we to do when we're facing the loss of a loved one? We do what David did. It's here in verse 6. David encouraged himself in the Lord his God. That's what we do. We encourage ourselves in the Lord. Get your eyes off the circumstances. You need to change directions where you're looking, where you're thinking. And look to the Lord for directions. David encouraged himself in the Lord his God. It appeared that David had lost everything. I mean, the place was burned. Not much survives of fire. He lost all his goods. He was financially ruined. His children, his wife, and family was gone. His friends all wanted to kill him. It looks like David it appears he's lost everything, but he had not lost his faith in God He hadn't lost everything. Is there anybody here who's lost everything? Well, unless you're lost in sin, you can't lose everything. If you're born again, you can't lose everything. In fact, if you're born again, you're going to gain so much. Treasures in heaven where moth and rust cannot Destroy it. David had not lost everything. He still had his faith in his God. And that's what it says. David encouraged himself. Look at the verse, verse 6. David encouraged himself in the Lord His God. His, his, his God. You see that? In his God. David encouraged himself. And there's so many people who walk around. We walk around, I do it. We all walk around. I believe in the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. Sounds great, doesn't it? And I do. I do believe in the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. I mean that sounds great. And we can all say that But David, he went further. He didn't just believe in the God of Israel, I do. He didn't just believe in the God of Abram, Isaac, and Jacob, I do, I hope you do. But he believed in his God. Is Christ your God? I know we can talk about Jesus being the Savior of the world, but is He your Savior? I know we talk about Jesus dying for the sins of the world, but did he die for your sins? It's got to be something personal. You're not going to get into heaven unless you know Christ personally. You know that. People can't get into nightclubs unless they know the dormant Personally. People can't get into uh uh the Delta. When you go out the airport and you go into this delta place where they're real nice secret little places, or if you belong to the Delta Club they'll escort you in and you get You can get veal m uh filet mignon and lobster new bread, get it all, it's just great. Well everybody's just sitting out just sucking on a little cup of water until her plane comes in, right? You can't get in there unless you know personally the people of Delta. And you're not going to get in heaven unless you know Christ personally. You need to know him better than you know your spouse. You need to know him better than you know your children. You need to know him better than you know your brothers and your sisters. You need to know him like you don't know anybody else in the whole world. You say, how is that possible? Read the love letters he has sent you that have survived through the centuries that tells you that he loves you. We have more, we can say more than David said You know, David just didn't say, I turn to the God of Israel, I turn to the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, he said, I turn to my God, he said. Thomas said, My Lord and my God. That's what Thomas says in John 20. 28 when Christ showed him the holes of his hands and his feet. Thomas says, my Lord, my, my, Lord, and my, my God. How much more can we say today? You can say a whole lot more. Christ is just not the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. Christ is not just the God of Israel. Christ is not just David's God. Christ is not just my Lord and my God. Christ is he who loved me and gave himself for me on the cross. Died for me. I never had anybody die for me. Has anybody heard someone die for you? Maybe they pushed you out of the way of a car and they got hit by the car they did. There's not many people gonna say, I had somebody die for me Personally. People go to Iraq, they go to Afghanistan, and they die to keep us free. I understand. But they didn't die for you personally. They were dying for the country. How many of you had someone here who died for you personally If you're saved, you have had one. The Lord Jesus Christ and what a death he died. Wasn't slammed by a car, wasn't hit by a bullet, dragged out, long, intense, aggravating death. He did it. He died for his sheep. And you can't say that unless you love him, unless you're saved, unless you're born again. But if you can, you can brag that you've had someone die for you. Oh. You must really be important that someone laid on a light for you. Yes, you are. If Christ loves you, oh, you are important. You may never get an Emmy. You may never get a uh nine old trophies they get. I can't even think of the names of them right now in Hollywood Pardon? Oscars. But I don't know who said that, but shame on you for knowing that name. But Christ died for me. David, it says here he encouraged himself in the Lord. How did he do it? How did David encourage himself in the Lord? He turned from his misery that was all around him to the message of hope from the Lord God. Because God's word has promises in it. And those promises can support David's broken heart. And he had a broken heart. There are promises in the Bible that thy sins be forgiven thee, Christ said. Wow, what a promise that is He said, My daughter is dead, Christ says, No, she sleepeth. Whoa, what a promise that is. If Ebender Lazarus had not died, I am the resurrection, Lazarus come forth. I mean the things that in the scripture that ought to lift us, ought to support us. When we're brokenhearted, it's all there. It's like going to a doctor and he gets you a prescription and you never take it Here's a prescription for a broken heart. Read it. Absorb it. Meditate on it. Memorize it. This is the promises that will get you through this dreary, Godforsaken life full of tribulation. It's all here. And so, how did David do it? He says, David encouraged himself, and the Lord is God. How did he do it? He turned to the high priest. We can turn to Christ Jesus, he is our high priest. We have a high priest today too. He turned to the high priest Abathar and he says, I pray, bring hither the ephod. The ephad is what they when they look for direction from God, they would pray and they'd And we're not sure quite sure how it worked, but the epha would give them directions of what they should do, and sometimes the the high priest would hear from God. He'd actually audibly hear God and he would direct and that's what happened But how does David encourage himself in the Lord? He turns to the high priest, he says, Bring me Ephod. And I this is kind of a sad thing. Not necessarily what I'm going to say here is that Is how it worked, but many commentators think so. David hadn't asked for the ephod in seven chapters He'd been in battles, he'd had problems, he'd been in confrontations, he had Saul to deal with, he had just been ignoring the ephod for seven chapters. Now maybe maybe the Bible doesn't record that David was using the ephod every day No, we don't know. All we do know is that it is not recorded that David ever looked to the ephod from about the time he took the two wives, the two women as his wives. And in that sinful relationship, it appears that he never went to Abathar and asked for the ephod to see what God would would have him to do. He certainly didn't get the ephod. He certainly didn't talk to Avatar and say, I've got these two women out here, I want to marry them both. What what does the ephod say? What does God say? We know he didn't ask God then. In fact we don't see him talking to God through the ephod for seven chapters until now when he is overwhelmed with what's going on in his life. And for some of you who aren't saved, that's what it's going to take. You're not talking to God, you're not reading his word and you are going to be overwhelmed with tribulation and trials and misery until you do. And some of you never will anyway. It's all a matter of whether God has destined you for eternity or not. He said, I don't know if I'm destined or not. Well, if you're just sitting there and you're not reading the book and you're not praying to God, right now it's in doubt whether God is destined or not. You can take that doubt away today by just asking God to touch your heart. Open your ears, open your eyes. David hadn't looked at the ephod in seven chapters. Until his circumstances were overwhelming. They wanted to stone him. Circumstances can be overwhelming. Daniel ends up in Elias Den for praying Luther ends up because he's preaching Christ, being brought or dragged back to the diet of worms The carnality in the colonies in 1700s was so bad that until Edwards preached sinners in the hands of an angry God, nothing was happening. The colonies were dead, dead, dead. Not in terms of the gospel. But there's always hope in the colonies. There's always hope in the lion's den. There's always hope at the diet of worms. If we look in the right direction and get the direction from God's word, that's the right direction. If you're rarely in God's words, looking for Christ as your Savior, you won't know where to look when you have circumstances that are overwhelming. You won't know where to look in your darkest hour. You need to be familiar with this book now, the Bible now, so when those circumstances come upon you, when you're in your darkest hours, you'll know where to look And when you know where to look You can say, yea, though I walk to the valley of the shadow of darkness, right? Yea, though I walk to the valley of the shadow of darkness, I shall fear no evil. You can't say that what David David said in Psalm 23, 4. You can't say that if you aren't familiar with God, if you haven't got a personal relationship with God You can't say, I can walk through the valley of the shadow of death and fear no evil. I'm in darkness and it doesn't bother me. You can't say that if you haven't been spending time with the Lord. And David had. And so he inquires here in verse 8. David inquires of God, saying Shall I pursue after? Now think about that for a second. I must have been through this chapter twenty-five times. times for it dawned on me. David says, Shall I pursue after the Amalekites? They got your wife, David. They got your kids. You got six hundred guys that want to stone you. They got their wives and their kids. What do you mean, shall I pursue after? Wouldn't we all say, of course you should pursue after. What do you mean, shall I pursue? What does David do? He does what most of us don't do. And Christ taught us what we should do. He said, Your heavenly Father, seek ye first. Matthew 6, 32. David said, as much as common sense is a pursue after them, I want my wife back if she's still alive. Pursue after them. Look what they've done. That's common sense. That's rationalizing everything. But we ought not to do anything, even pursue after the one has grabbed our wife and our children without first seeking God's direction, without praying about it first Paul and Silas in their prison. They're singing and praying and the earthquake comes. Well they haven't sang and prayed and praised God. You need to seek God first. Elijah prays for a double portion of the spirit of Elijah. George Washington, he's fighting the most powerful army in the world, Great Britain. And what does he do? Drops to his knees at Valley Forge and he prays first. Do you think your circumstances are any more endearing or any more drastic or any darker than George Washington's? Any darker than than uh Paul in the jail with Silas, having been beaten and tortured You seek God first, and David did that. David inquired of God, shall I pursue after them? You know what happens when you do that? First off, if you don't pr if you don't check out God first, if you don't inquire of God first, If you don't pray first, your decision, always pray first, lest your decisions are accursed and your matters get worse. Always pray first. And when David does that, wow, he sought the Lord, and what a promise he found in verse 8. He said, What should I do, God? Should I know rashly and common sense? I should go right after them. That's my wife, it's my kids, and they're gonna kill me if I don't You know, well what should I do? And God says, He answered him, it says in verse eight, he says, Pursue, for thou shalt recover all Oh, you'll recover all. You think you're losing something in this world by following Jesus? You're going to recover all in heaven. And more so. By seeking God's direction. What an answer he got. We as followers of Christ need not be dismayed in seeking the direction of the Lord Jesus Christ. Because when you seek Christ's directions, he covers you with his affections. Let me say that again. When we seek Christ first for our directions in life, he covers us with affections. Seek Christ today. If you never have, if you have, you know it it's well worth seeking him again and again every day. We seek Christ and what do we get? Psalm 34, 19, many are the afflictions of the righteous, but the Lord delivers them out of them all. All Cast thy burden upon the Lord, he shall sustain thee, Psalm 55. He shall give his angels charge over thee, Psalm 911. Look at the promises that we seek out God first, that we seek God's direction. He'll give beauty for ashes and joy for mourning, Isaiah 61, 3. In such an hour as you think not, Christ cometh, Matthew 24, 44. And in Revelation 7, 17, and again in Revelation 21, 4 God shall wipe away all tears. Wow, why would we not want to look in here and seek God first for his direction? For the promises. Oh my. What you're missing. If you haven't already done so. Let's pray. Father, we thank you this day. That yes, through the tribulations and the calamities and the catastrophes of David's life, we have learned what to do. Now, Lord, may we go out of here doing it. May we always seek your direction. May we always seek it in your word. Not by the raising of the hands of a majority, not by what seems rational or or what seems probable or or what seems to be the the natural thing for everyone to do, but seek ye first. Seek ye first, and all these things shall be added unto you. We thank you, Lord, for your promises. We thank you for your scripture. We thank you for your salvation. And Lord, may there be many more than just those here today. May there be some that came in without salvation that will not leave without you having touched their hearts As you've never touched them before. And we ask this in Christ's name. Amen.