Chapter four reading that entire chapter four verses. Second Samuel chapter four. We recorded last week how The captain of the armies of Israel had been assassinated by Joab, and we pick up in chapter 4. And when Saul's son heard that Abner That is the captain of the host of Israel was dead or had been assassinated in Hebron. Uh the king's hands were feeble, and all the Israelites were troubled. The Israelites being the eleven tribes that had gone with with uh King Ishap the Shefs. And Saul's son had two men that were captains of bands. Those were large units of soldiers. The name of one was Ba'ana And the name of the other was Rachab, the sons of Rimen, a Berothite, of the children of Benjamin. For Berath also was reckoned to the tribe of Benjamin. And the Barathites fled to Gideon and were sojourners there until this day. So when the Philistines had killed Saul and Jonathan and routed the troops of Israel, those who lived in Barathite, they had fled the city and had gone up into Gideon in Benjamin. Verse 4, and Jonathan, Saul's son, uh had a son that was lame of his feet. He was five years old When the tidings came of Saul and Jonathan out of Jezreel, that is, that they were dead. Israel's army had fled. And the nurse took upisheth and fled with him. It came to pass that she made haste to flee, that he fell. and became lame. And his name was Mithibeshef. And the sons of Rimen, the Barathites, Rachab and Bahana went and came about the heat of the day to the house of Ishbusheth. That's the king of Israel. Israel, who lay on a bed at noon. And they came thither to the midst of the house as though they would have fetched wheat. And they smote him under the fifth rib. And Rakab and Bahana and his brother escaped. For when they came to the house he lay on the bed in the bedchamber, and they smote him, and slew him, and beheaded him, and took his head, and got them away through the plain all night. And they brought the head of Ishbasheth unto David to Hebron. And they said to the king, Behold the head of Ithesheth, the son of Saul, thine enemy, which sought thy life. And the Lord hath avenged my Lord the king this day of Saul and of his seed. And David answered Rachab. And Behana, his brother, the sons of Rimmon, the Barathite, he said unto them, As the Lord liveth, who hath redeemed my soul out of all adversity. When one told me, saying, Behold, Saul is dead, thinking to have brought good tidings, I took hold of him and slew him in Ziklag, who thought that I would have given him a reward for his tidings. How much more when wicked men have slain a righteous person in his own house upon his bed? Shall I not therefore now require his blood of your hand and take away from the earth? And David commanded the young men, and they slew them, and cut off their hands and their feet, and hanged them up over the pool in Hebron. But they took the head of Ishbasheth. Remember he's the king and buried it in the sepulchre of Abner in Hebron. We're introduced to three people here that or maybe four that we haven't noted before. Bahana Rachab, the nurse whose name we don't have, and uh a son of of Jonathan named Mephibosheth. In verses one through three we find that Saul's son, that's Ibisheth, the the king of Israel He had these two men, they were captains, Bahanah and Rachab, the children of Benjamin. So uh Ishbadeth Ishbasheth was the king, and he was also from Benjamin, the tribe of Benjamin Saul was also of the tribe of Benjamin. And these are very trying times. The Philistines have invaded much of Israel. He needs to really have people he can trust. uh people who can be his security, his personal bodyguards, who only they would have access in and out of the house. And he's chosen these two men, uh Bahana and Rakab Show them Bethlehem. It makes it makes perfect sense why you'd pick these two men captains of the bands. And they were often in the king's house. They were serving the king, whatever things that had to be done. He trusted them implicitly And those else in the household that worked there, they recognized these two men, these captains. They had free come and go of the house, no questions asked. The whole household trusted these two men implicitly They were Benjamites. They were captains. They were chosen of the king. Even today, people tend to trust those who appear to be serving the king, don't they? And these two men were serving the king, and if you're serving the king, like people for instance appear to be serving uh the king of kings, king Jesus, the king of the Jews. People tend to trust those people more than they trust others. And so here are these two men, they serve the king and they're they have all the trust of everyone. Uh, unless we forget there was a man named Judas who also served the king. King Jesus, the King of Kings. Even the disciples, because Christ trusted Judas, or so it appeared The disciples trusted Judas. When they heard there was a betrayer among them, they they questioned, said I Lord, is that I no one said, Oh, I bet it's Judas. They they trusted Judas. They trusted so much that in John 12 and verse 6 that Judas held the money bag, held all the money that they had. to buy bread and sustenance for the for the twelve. All the disciples trusted Judas and all the household of Ishfit And as we read through scripture, we begin to wonder just who can we really trust? The answer is found in Philippians two nineteen. Put all you got, put all your trust and all your heart. Trust in the Lord. Jesus Christ. We are going to be so disappointed if we put our trust in man, if we put our trust in the Tea Party. In the conservatives, in the Republicans, in the elections. Friend, I don't care who wins. I care who wins, but I'm going to tell you, trusting man is going to be nothing but a disappointment for all of us of us. Who can we trust? Trust in the Lord Jesus Christ. Philippians 219. Now next we find in verses 4 we're introduced to a nurse who is also serving She was serving the future king. Jonathan was in line, remembered to be the king. But Samuel had come and anointed David instead. But Jonathan should have been the king. And if Jonathan died in battle and he did, who would be the one next in line? Not Ishbasheth, but the son of Jonathan And so here we had this nurse, and she is caring for Jonathan. Jonathan dies in battle. She knows that she has this little five-year-old boy. He's the next one in line to be the king. And so when she hears that Jonathan and Saul are dead and the navy the armies have been routed and and they are fleeing out of Israel and and and and moving as far as they can away from the invading Philistine army, this nurse she made haste and to flee and and and she grabs this young child, five-year-old child, and she's carrying this child, his name is Lephiboshev. This woman was serving King Saul. This woman was serving uh Jonathan. This woman was actually protecting this young little king, or who would be the next future king. She was serving the king. She was trying to preserve his life from the invading Philistines In fact, she was so concerned about his life, she didn't care about her life. She could have just fled. The Philistines are invading, she could have just fled that area. Benjamin, the tribe of Benjamin, on her own and made made pretty good time. But she was slowed down by the carrying with her this five-year-old child. And some children at five can be a pretty handful. And so as she's fleeing rapidly with him, she hinders her own ability to escape because she is serving the king. He may be dead, but she still serves him until she's told otherwise, protect this child, and the child is to be the future king, and so she is serving him. And she drops him. Sh breaks the bones in his feet. We find he is lame for the rest of his life. We'll run across him later on in scripture. As a a young man, here he's just a child. But she drops from Phibosheth while fleeing. My first thought is this: this nurse had good intentions. This nurse had gallant intentions, we should say. But have you ever had good intentions serving the King of Kings? And it just seemed like you made matters worse. It just didn't work out the way you planned it. And maybe people blamed you for the way it turned out. I I'm sure the people blamed her for dropping the child, dro dropping the future king and and maiming him. I'm sure she blamed herself. I should have been more careful, I should have been more cautious. Should have been looking where I was going I bet she was harder on herself and many in Israel were hard on her. But my second thought is, are you hard on others? And you never take into consideration the intent of her heart. We could say she blew it, we could say she really messed up, we could say all of that, but what was the intent of her heart? So are you hard on others and never consider the intent of the heart? One of the reasons she would be hard on herself was she knew that none wanted to serve a lame king. You see, in those days we read in 2 Samuel 11 verse 1, the kings go forth to battle. You weren't just a king and you sat on a throne and someone brought you grapes and And uh waved you with a fan and kept you cool in the summer and and uh hand and foot, you know, whatever you needed that was there for you. That wasn't all of the king's responsibilities were it just to be just to be adored A king was expected to lead in battle, and Mephibosheth was lame. He couldn't lead in battle. Her dropping Mephibosheth meant he was no longer qualified to be king She had destroyed his whole future, as it were. Just as the priest serving the temple or the tabernacle could not be blind, he could not be lame, he he could not have any imperfections in his body. He had to It'd be a perfectly healthy specimen to be the high priest of Israel or even to be a Levite serving the tabernacle or in the temple. So a king could not lead in battle, he could therefore not be king. She had destroyed this young child's future. And Ishbasheth had filled in. And if you don't think kings have to be perfect And must lead in battle, then you've forgotten Revelation 16 through 19, where we read that out of heaven comes Christ, the King of Kings and the Lord of Lords, riding on a white horse, leading in the battle at Armageddon. You don't have we do not have a lame king at the Battle of Armageddon. Kings must be able to lead in battle. And so moving on to verses five and six, we go back to these other two men, the captains, Rakhab and They came upon the heat of the day of the house of Istbesheth. In the heat of the day, it's in fact it says he lay in the bed at noon. It's usually one of the hotter times of the day. And they came, and here's the catchphrase, and they came as though they would fetch wheat. Back then they paid those soldiers in corn or wheat. They didn't necessarily have silver and gold at excess and so they were paid over in the Orient when I was over there years ago. People often got paid in rice, in bags of rice. It's still done that way in many countries. And so it says they came as though to fetch the wheat or the payment for the soldiers that they were the captains over. To pay the soldiers that were serving the king. But fetching the wheat was a pretense, for they planned to kill the king. Wow. Anybody here serving the king in pretense? Everybody thinks you really love the Lord You really sold out the Lord? You the Lord you really trust the Lord and and you are to be a trusted one because you serve the king. These men were trusted, but they came that day not for the week. And it says in verse six through eight, and they smote him under the fifth rib You can find the fifth rib if you run your hands up inside by the solar plexus, all right? You've got all these ribs. The fifth rib actually comes down at right at the top of the the sternum here. There's about three or four ribs that join that area. But the fifth rib, if you want to get someone on the fifth rib, you just grab that rib cage up here by the solar plexus and go up one rib. And that's That's under the fifth rib. You shove a knife in the fifth rib, and not only are you going to hit probably some major arteries and veins, but it'd be hard to miss the liver, which bleeds like crazy. One of the lungs and the heart. That's what you're going to sever when you shove something. And we read that the Abner was killed under the fifth rib. We find it through the scripture. shoved the the spear in the side of the Lord. It was probably under the fifth rib. I mean you go right in fact we know it went into the heart so it had to be under the fifth rib from the lower position of the soldiers. It's a death blow. I mean there it is it is one of the bloodiest areas to hit. It is quick. It is fast. If it goes to the lungs, it takes the wind out of you. You can't even shout or scream in pain. And you bleed out in about 20 seconds. These men knew where the fifth rib was. They knew in battle what they would always aim for. And so they struck him here, it says, under the fifth rib. And then to add insult to injury, they beheaded him. And even more than that, they took the head to Davon in Hebron. You know, we don't know when or where or how we're gonna die, do we? We really have no clue We might die in our sleep, as this king did. Plenty of people do. People die of sleep apnea. People die of crib death. People die falling asleep at the wheel of a car. People die in the sleep of heart attacks and strokes. The firstborn in Egypt died that late that night Many of them in their sleep, didn't they? Frequently, in such an hour as you know not frequently. Goliath? He wasn't sleeping or maybe he was asleep on his feet because he just saw this young shepherd boy coming and he was like, what's this? Goliath never saw it coming, did he? He just didn't expect to die that day. Like he boasted he would take the head of David off and feed his body to the carrion to the vultures of the air. He just didn't see it coming And then you talk about Herod who's out there carrying on, giving a great speech in the book of Acts in chapter twelve, and and the people all that are just ooing and awing and they're looking at him like he's some sort of an idol or a god, and he's just drinking it in And all of a sudden it said the worms came and devoured him in that hour. He just didn't see it coming. Jezebel's putting on her makeup and she hears noise outside and in the courtyard and she sticks her out the window to see what's going on And there's Jehu down there and and he looks up to her and she looks down at him and she s she suspects something's like all all right and she says, you know, you know when Zimri Kill someone in royalty, you know how his end was. He didn't last a week. You're not contemplating that, are you? And he looks up at the window and he sees the eunuchs up there. Now eunuchs generally they do what they're told by royalty But he says, throw her down out of the window. Splat. She didn't see it coming. Been standing in pulpits for over thirty years, I have to tell you, most people don't see it coming. Even when they're sick. Even when everybody else thinks they're sick and nigh onto death, and sometimes people come out of it. But even when people are really, really sick, they'll tell me afterwards, I just didn't think they were going to die. I just thought the Lord was going to turn it around. I just thought we still had plenty of time. King Ishbazeth, he didn't see it coming Was he ready for death? Was he saved? That's a possibility. David calls him a righteous man in these verses But a bigger question is not whether Ishma's had saved or not, but the bigger question is are you ready to die in your sleep? In a moment that you think not? Are you ready to die? Because most of you will not see it coming. What nineteen year old girl? A ninety five year old Crystal just had to leave. I think Crystal taught that girl in gymnastics and so forth. She's 19 years old. Gone this week on 95 at 60 miles per hour. Didn't see it coming. We prayed Wednesday night for a man here with cancer And uh the doctors thought he had some time to go. I think it was Wednesday Tonight he died or Thursday, Miss Carroll? Friday. Nobody saw it coming. Are you ready to die? Oh, worse than that, or maybe more important than are you ready to die? Are you ready for judgment because it says it's appointed on the man wants to die And then the judgment. You know, we don't die and lay in the grave, and maybe in a hundred or thousand years the Lord decides whether you're going to heaven or hell. It's a point of man once to die, and then the judgment. As soon as you're dead, your body isn't cold yet And God is Christ has already judged whether you're in heaven. He said to that man on the cross, this day thou shalt be with me in paradise. I mean your body's not cold yet, and you're either in heaven or you're in hell for a whole eternity. So are you ready to die and are you ready for judgment? Because you're not going to see it coming for the most part. The men in combat in the Afghanistan, Iraq. They get up that morning and put on their boots and they don't see it coming. Probably used to be another boring day peeling potatoes or walking some dusty road Car out there on the road, some drunk. Do you know that two out of ten drivers on the road are drunk or at least have too much they've been drinking You you on the way to church this morning you had to pass one or two people even this early in the morning they were drunk And you didn't see it coming. And so I say this morning: if you're not serving the King of Kings, the Lord Jesus Christ, with your heart. You're not ready. You can be in church every Sunday. You can read your Bible every day. You can pray at every meal. But are you serving the king? With your heart. I'm not saying that by serving the king you have to be a Sunday school teacher or a deacon or an elder or a pastor. You can serve your heart Every Christian's heart ought to be in it for the Lord Jesus Christ. Serving him in adoring him in their prayers. Serving him and telling the Lord how much you appreciate what he's done in your life, praising him and serving him. It can be done without being a Sunday school teacher. But it better be done with your heart. We're to serve the king with our heart. And these two men, they were serving Ishbazeth not with their heart, but they went for his heart. With a dagger. And then for his head. And so Rechab and Bahanah they they said to King David, Behold the head of Ishmerzheth, the son of the Saul, your enemy. Who sought thy life? That is Ishbazeth. We never read that he sought David's life. They're saying, this is the head of the son of Saul who sought your life. And once you note here that they said, and the Lord have avenged my Lord the King this day of Saul and his seed. These two guys, they come in. Carrying the head of the king of Israel and they say, The Lord have avenged you, David They've got blood on their hands and theology on their lips. Isn't that great? Isn't that how people try to patch up and cover up what they're doing Just gotta add a Bible verse or talk about the Lord or God was in it, surely? And so they come with blood on their hands and theology on their lips and they inject the Lord hath avenged thee in the conversation To impress David, who does serve the King of Kings, to impress David, who does love the Word of God, to impress David, who does love the Lord. So they come using This the Lord hath avenged thee. People are a lot like that today. May maybe don't pick up on it so much, but doesn't don't don't people try to impress you with a little bit of their religiosity Make you think that maybe they're served in the king too? I mean, don't you hear people say, I swear to God? Don't you hear people say, it's the gods are truth? Or like Zechariah. Or Zech Zedekiah rather than 1 Kings 22 and 11 and 12. Ahab wants to know, do I go out to war or do I not go out to war? And Zedekiah says Thus saith the Lord, go and you will prosper in battle. And Ahab dies. The scripture says that God sent Zedekiah as a lying spirit. But hey, he sa it sounded good. Thus saith the Lord. And people do that. They like to think that they're godly too, that they go to church a lot too. And they read their Bible too. And how many have heard this one? Well the scripture says, or thus saith the Lord, cleanliness is next to godliness. Have you heard that before? It's not in the Bible. They're lying. God never said that. And God never told Zedekiah in 1 Kings 22 that if Ahab goes out to battle, he will prosper. People lie about their faith. People lie about the fact that they love Jesus or people lie about Uh you see these bracelets? What would WWJ D? What would Jesus do? There's another one out. It's also WWJ D. And it says, what would Judas do? The other side of the coin. You have to ask people sometimes what it stands for. Because there are others wearing it now. What would Judas do? Christ said, People draweth nigh unto me with their mouth and their lips, but their heart is far from me. Matthew 15 So I ask again this morning, Pilgrim, are you really serving the King of Kings with your prayers, your testimonies, and your singing? I look out here and and some people don't sing. Okay You sit there and look at me, and you know I don't sing, well I s I make a joyful noise, I hope. But some of you all right, I don't make a shell phone. I've been told downstairs just microphones on in the last song, and I try to shut it up for the last song because they tell me downstairs it's a solo Some people sing really pretty, but it's not with their heart Sometimes y you hear someone on the radio singing and and they can sing To God be the glory or great you know great thing. And you you listen to it and say, boy, that they got quite a voice. I don't hear their heart in it. Or you hear people pray and boy they can pray and they're loud and they're boisterous and they run the verse again and they they and somebody says, Oh man, you hear that guy pray or or the other or the woman at this Bible say, Oh she just moved you know. But are they praying with their heart? I don't know. We don't know, do we? But we need to be praying with our heart. Like a little child prays to Jesus. You also note of these two captives that they also pretended to be patriots. They weren't just with theology on their lips, but they were patriots because they they come here, you know, and and this this murder, we killed Ishbeshev He was the son of Saul, your enemy, who tried to kill you. And with the death of Isbersheth, this is good for the country. Right? I mean we've had this divide of nation. We got Israel and we got Judah. We got a king in Israel, we got a king in Judah. With this king in Israel dead, it'll bring the country together. This this murder, this assassination, this cutting off of his head, we got it right here. David, look, this is good. What we have done is not only for the Lord, but it's good for the country. It's it's a patriotic thrust to it as well. There are people that tell you that murder is good for the country There are you you read enough of the abortion literature out there, you know what it says? This world is overpopulated. And people are going to be starving to death someday. And so abortion is good. It'll keep the other people from starving to death. Or or the the laser I'm hearing is this one. Yes, we've aborted a lot of babies all over the world, but you know something? We're cutting down on the carbon footprints. This world hasn't got another generation or a hundred years to go. stop the carbon footprint from growing. And so abortion is good. They say that. This is good for the it's a you're patriotic if you're for abortion. Wow. Caiaphas the high priest. He not only had theology on his lips, but he was a patriot too. Did you ever hear him say this one? In John 1, verses 49 and 50? Caiaphas the high priest made a patriotic statement. He did it not because he really thought it was good for Israel, but he thought it was good for him. Same with these two captains It was really good for them. They're going to bring this head, the body part, and it's going to it's going to pay dividends for them to have the body part of Ishvath. You know, some people think the body parts of babies pay pretty well too But here we got Caiaphas, and he's also very uh theology on his lips, and in John chapter one, he's also got this this patriotic statement he makes It's it's it's to preserve his position. Not me to preserve Israel, but this is what he says. It is expedient He's talking about the Lord Jesus Christ. And Caiaphas the High Priest says, It's expedient for us that one man should die For the people, that the whole nation not perish. Oh yes, if we can save Israel from the Romans getting so mad at us that they wipe us out, if we can just kill one person to satisfy the Romans and and this this guy seems to be Raising the hair on the back of the nets of the Romans. We can just kill this one man. We will save the nation of Israel. Well, how did that turn out for Eutaiaphas? What did Rome do Within a couple decades, they just wiped out everybody they could and drove them out of Israel. But it was patriotic. Kill this one man, the Lord Jesus, and we'll save the nation. Kill this and we'll save, we'll bring the nation back stronger and better than it was before. And verses 9 and 10, David responded to them. As the Lord liveth, who hath redeemed my soul out of all adversity. That means the adversity of the devil, the adversity of his own sin nature, the adversity of the world, the adversity of the Philistines. That the Lord hath redeemed me out of all adversity. Wow I wish our country was led by someone that Christ had truly redeemed. I mean someone that really loved our country. David loved Israel. I'd love to have someone in charge of our country who loved Israel. I'd thought I'd be satisfied to find someone who just loved my country. But more than all that, I want someone Someone in office leading this country who loves the Lord because he's redeemed. He's saved. Boy, that knocks the list down pretty small, doesn't it? That's running right now I won't mention any names today. We're not supposed to tell you who to vote for. But when you're cruising over to the ballot box, give us some thought about putting someone in office who's redeemed by the Lamb and His blood. They have a king here who says that, as the Lord liveth who hath redeemed my soul. Wow. When I was told, he says in verses 9 and 10, that Saul was dead, someone thinking to have brought me that as good news. Hey, Saul is dead. I killed him myself. I took hold of him and slew him. He thought I would give him a reward? David says that to these two captains who just killed King Ishbish. In 2 Samuel chapter 1, verses 9 and 10, that Amalekite who came to David said I killed Saul. I mean, when you look at the words, he says in that in verses 9 and 10 of 2 Samuel chapter 1, he says to David Saul is dead. I stood upon him myself and I slew him. Oh yes, that's going to really please King David David was nauseated. David was appalled by what the Amalekites said. That you would have killed my wounded king, my helpless king, my sorrowing king, whose Jonathan lay beside him already dead, his other son. How could you do that to the king of Israel in his sorrow, in his helplessness? How could you do that? Even though it was on the battlefield? How could you do that? And the Amalekite was slaughtered And so David says in verse 11, how much more if I would kill this man who killed my king on the battlefield? How much more when you have slain a righteous man? A righteous person, verse 11, in his own house, in his own bed, in his sleep. Or sleeping in the womb would probably be pretty equivalent to that. that. How do people, how do abortionists kill a baby sleeping in the womb? He's secure, he's tucked in, he's protected, out of sight Almost out of mind. How do they do that? David finds this appalling. He finds it horrifying Cursed be he that smiteth his neighbor. Deuteronomy 27, 24. I didn't read the last part. Cursed he that smiteth his neighbor secretly. Isn't that what these two captains did? They came to the house, they went back into the bedroom, he's asleep, they close the door, no one's around, they muffle his mouth, they slam the The dagger into his heart and his liver and his lungs, they kill him secretly, they cut off his head. Isn't that what an abortionist does in the clinic with the doors closed? A planned parenthood? How many parenthoods have they ever planned That's the unplanned parenthood. And it's over in the confinement of a room with the doors closed, nobody looking, nobody aware, in secret, the abortion kills the baby asleep in the womb. David says you're slaying a righteous man I mean it's a Malachite. He came to me with the crown of Saul and I killed him. You come into me with the head of the king and think I'll do nothing less? How appalling is this? He was a righteous man. He'd done nothing worthy of dead. And David may be implying that he's even a saved man. You kill a man who's done nothing worthy of death, David says to these two captains. You kill someone who's done nothing worthy of death. This is disgusting. To kill a king who's done nothing worthy of death. Well then ponder this this morning. How much worse is it to crucify the Lord of glory and the king of kings, as we read in 1 Corinthians 2. 8? Man, that must really be bad on the chart. That must be taken up on beyond the scale of 10 That they killed the Lord of glory. Crucified the Lord of glory. Crucified the King of Kings. 1 Timothy 6. 14 of Revelation 17 calls Christ the King of Kings and the Lord of Lords. And they crucified. They didn't just quickly kill him. They put him on a cross. Aren't you glad I said they? Oh those sinners. They put him on a cross. Yeah, that's centurion. Oh, he gets Oh yeah. Caiaphas, oh yeah, he deserves what he gets. Oh, the crowd that shot a Christmas, oh yes, they deserve whatever they get. And so does every creature made in God's image whose sins brought him back. from heaven and put him on that cross. We're all guilty. We're all guilty of the death of Christ. Does that just bother you a little bit that your sins made it necessary for him to come down and die such a horrible death? Don't just relax the fact that all some Romans did it and oh the Caiaphas did it and this crazy crowd that was fed the 5,000 within a week they're out there shouting crucified. It's you, friend, it's me. Our sins put Christ In a situation where the only way to save us was to come and die on a cross. Shed his blood. And so in verse 12, David slew Rachab and Bahana. And he cut off their hands and her feet and he hanged them up in Hebron. These two men quickly found and discovered that serving the King of Judah, the way they would they they came to serve the King of Judah, but you know what? They quickly found out it wasn't passing the smell test They hadn't come to serve the king of Judah. They'd come hoping to get some unique promotion for having dispatched the king of Israel. And they quickly found out that what they had done didn't pass the smell test. You know, Christ has warned us the time cometh when whosoever killeth you will think he doeth God's service. And these fellows, they thought they were doing God a service. The Lord has avenged you, David. We're doing God's service. We're serving the king of Judah. That's what we're here for. No. The time cometh when they who killeth will think they've done God a service. These men thought they'd done the Lord a service, that they were the instruments of his vengeance. He said, There comes a time when whosoever killeth you will think you have done God's service because you have not known the Father nor me. John 16 and 2. There are people out there who are still cutting off heads. Who believe they're doing God a service. Muslim jihadists think that this service we're performing, cutting off the heads of Christians This will earn them a place in heaven. Imagine the shock. Imagine the shock On the face of those two in San Bernardino. The moment they died in the service of God, avenging God as they thought. Imagine the shock on their face. as they approached the throne of the great shepherd with the blood of the sheep on their hands. We know the one man and there was a Christian In fact, the the news is blaming the death of those fourteen people on the Christian testifying about his love for the Lord Jesus Christ. And it set the Muslim off. It's not the Muslim's fault, it's the Christian who was making a testimony. His testimony knowing. Well, the world turns things upside down, doesn't it? I can't imagine walking before the white throne judgment Before the Lord, the great shepherd, with the blood of the sheep on your hands. That's the same position the abortion is in, isn't he? He's going to die. Someday and come before the great shepherd with blood on his hands of the little lambs that he has slain. David here cut off the hands that killed Ishbashath. If David were elected next November in this country, we'd probably have abortion hands hanging up all over as a testimony of the horrible thing they had So I say once again dear friend, if you've done something horrible, there's still time. To repent and to really serve the Lord, the King, with your heart and soul. Let's pray. Father, we thank thee this day that thou had been so gracious to so many here. Who really love serving the king. They're not just doing it to get into heaven. They're doing it whether they go to heaven or not, because they know that he deserves to be adored. He deserves to be praised. Father, may you put that same same thoughts Same beliefs in the hearts of everyone present. May from this day forth everyone here who is pretending to serve the Lord begin to serve him with their heart. Serve the King. The King of Judah with our hearts. It's in Christ's name we pray. Amen.