We're going to look at what I call seven points of comfort from the ch Book of Romans and the eight chapters. So if you will let's turn to Romans chapter eight. If you don't have a Bible, that's okay. I'm gonna read it. I'm gonna read it. I've got seven points. I'm gonna cover Oh four to six verses at a time make and extract one particular point of interest. Romans, as you know, is very rich, it's very dense. Every phrase, every single word is pregnant, is literally loaded with spiritual truths and great comforting teachings. Romans chapter eight, I'm going to read verses one through four. It says, There is therefore, there is therefore, now, right now. There is therefore now no condemnation to them which are in Christ Jesus, who walk not after the flesh, but after the Spirit. For the law of the Spirit of life in Christ Jesus hath set me free from the law of sin and death. For what the law could not do, and that he was weak to the flesh, God, sending his own Son in the likeness of sinful flesh and for sin, condemned sin in the flesh, that the righteousness of God, the righteousness of the law The righteousness of heaven itself. The righteousness of the law might be fulfilled in us who walk not after the flesh, but after the spirit. These are classic words, classic text of Scripture. found in hymns, the saints of old throughout time have treasured these words, there is therefore now no condemnation. Statements of faith, the Westminster Confession itself, has three confessional points that use Romans 8 And verse 1 to underscore as the leading New Testament proof for three confessional doctrinal statements. That's how significant this particular passage is. And frankly, as I read it, it needs no improvement. I can't add to it. I can't ex expand on it to make it richer or fuller than it says. as it were, speaks itself. It's true here as in all of God's holy word. But I do want to focus on that word condemnation, because that's kind of the kicker in this passage. There is therefore now no condemnation. What does that mean? No condemnation. Does that mean the unbelieving world is correct when they say you can you you're judging me, you can't judge me? Does that mean we can't go to our children and say, you know, you're doing something wrong, little Johnny, I need to give you a swat? Does that mean uh we can't reprove and rebuke one another? What's condemnation view here? Well if you flip back a few pages to Romans chapter five, five the apostle has just uh left off discussing this business about the sin of Adam and what it produced and what happened and it says in Romans five sixteen and not as it was by one but since sinned, so is the gift. For the judgment was by one to condemnation. The judgment of God that came in the days of Adam By one man, that one man that brought the human race into judgment, into condemnation was Adam. He says, the free gift is of many fences unto justification. Verse 18, therefore as by the offense of one, judgment came upon all men to Condemnation. Even so, by the righteousness of one, the free gift came upon all men unto justification of life. Condemnation that Romans 8 is talking about is the guilt. It refers to Adam's transgression. He sinned and we all fell in him. We've heard this. You're familiar with that. Even perhaps before you were saved, you knew something about the son of Adam and the consequences to the human race, we're under the curse and the penalty of death. This earth was created to be inhabited as a joyful place by his creatures and to forever praise him, and that would have been our chief joy and our main delight. And Adam blew it. He blew it, and we're under the curse, the penalty of death. Well, Romans 8 says, there is therefore now no condemnation. There's no condemnation. This means Jesus Christ has removed the condemnation that fell upon the whole human race. He's removed that condemnation from a specific group of people Who are these blessed people in whom there is right now, right now, no condemnation? They're identified as them that are in Christ Jesus. There's no condemnation to them which are in Christ Jesus. We're either in Adam, where all die, or we are in Christ Excuse me, we're all made alive. But somebody is in either Adam or in Christ, and we are in Christ Jesus, and therefore he has delivered us, his people, from condemnation. How do we know who that us is? How do we know who those people are? They don't walk after the flesh. They walk after the spirit. Now that's the second point. Speaking of the Spirit, back to Romans 8, beginning in verse 5, God has changed and empowered us by His Spirit This is true of every Christian. Every blood-bought son and daughter of Jesus Christ is changed and empowered by the Spirit of God. Listen to this now. Pay attention now. Romans 8:5. For they that are after the flesh, they do the things that the flesh are. They're interested in the things of the flesh. They run after that. They're after the flesh. They do mind the things of the flesh. But they that are after the spirit, the things of the spirit. For to be carnally minded, that word carnal is the same word flesh. To be carnally minded, to be fleshly minded is death. It leads to death. But to be spiritually minded is life and peace. Because the carnal mind, the fleshly mind, the mind of the flesh, that carnal mind is enmity, hatred against God. It is not subject to the law of God. God, neither indeed can be. It insists on its own way. There is a popular tune, a hip swinging guy in the fifties named Elvis Presley came out with it. It was went something like this, I did it my way. I did it my way. And that's what Adam wants to do. He wants to declare it to God. No, I want to do it my way. And so, indeed, he's not subject to the law of God. He's that wild ass colt that will not be subject to a yoke. You just can't put a yoke on this animal and plow ground with him. He's useless. He's just utterly useless. So then, verse 8, they that are in the flesh cannot cannot please God. But ye are not in the flesh, but in the spirit, if so be, the Spirit of God dwell in you. Now, if any man have not the Spirit of Christ, he's none of his. And if Christ be in you, the body is dead because of sin, but the spirit is life because of righteousness. But if the spirit of him that raised up Jesus from the dead dwell in you, he that raised up Christ from the dead shall also quicken, make alive. You're mortal. You're gonna end on this earth mortal. Bodies by His Spirit that dwells in you Therefore, brethren, we are debtors not to the flesh, to live after the flesh, for if ye live after the flesh, ye shall die. But if ye through the Spirit do mortify the deeds of the body, ye shall live. Verses 5 to 8 describe the ground truth reality of the heart of man. It's very simple. It's either carnally minded, meaning it's fleshly minded It minds the things of the flesh. It's interested in the flesh. It's interested in worldly things. That's one option. Or it's spiritually minded. That's something I like about the Bible, is that it casts the entire human race into very simple, easy to understand terms. Terms. Don't let anybody tell you, well, that's your interpretation. It's not up to interpretation. What we don't like is what it says. And it says God puts the whole human race into something that's either carnally minded, fleshly minded, leads to death, hatred against God, not subject to the law of God, that's the mind of the flesh, that's the natural man. Ain't got to do nothing to produce that in these children. That's how they come forth from the womb. That's what their nature is, that's what their interest is. Or they're spiritually minded, minded on heavenly things, minded towards eternal things, concerned about the law of God. They they willingly subject themselves to the law of God. They find a great interest in talking about the things of the law of God And so we can easily find ourselves fitting into the first category. If you've been physically born into this planet, you see yourself fitting in that first category. We all do, and I'll start with me. That's my nature. I I'm much more interested in fleshly things by nature. That's my first reaction. That's the first native thing. That's the first response when it comes to a choice of things in life Do I want to walk in the way of righteousness or do I want to do what I want to do? Do I want to do it my way? Do I want to make an impulse decision based on emotion or feeling? Our entire economic system is built around this. This is the natural man's dispense disposition. From God's vantage point, these are the only two options. It is impossible But for the grace of God to find any interest in spiritual things. It's flat out impossible. I if this child has teeth problem, I can go to a dentist and say, Dennis, the child's got a tooth problem. That's cravity. We can fix that. We can drill that out. If I've got some kind of disease and the doctor takes a blood sample and looks at it and says, well, it's pretty obvious you've got some bacteria in here. We can give you some antibiotics, we'll clear that thing up in three days. Adam can find those problems, but this is the problem in the heart. It's in the heart of man, because out of the heart of man comes the interest and the desires and the actions and the motions of the flesh. That's where it's at. And no doctor in this world can fix that. You can't self-doctor it either. God Almighty has got to come in, he's got to take out that old man, he's got to take out that heart of stone, he's got to give a heart of flesh. Jesus told this to Nicodemus. He told it to Nicodemus in John chapter 3, where he said this. He's talking to a man in the middle of the night. It's dark. An area light. He wants to come to Jesus by night and he wants to talk about the night. to him about spiritual things, he says, we know you're a teacher. Because nobody can do the miracles Jesus that you're doing unless God be with him. He says Nicodemus Unless you're born again, you cannot know, you cannot see, you cannot perceive, you cannot understand the kingdom of God. John 3:6, he says, that which is born of the flesh is flesh It's just flesh. Why do men do what they do? Why do they hijack airplanes and drive them into buildings? Why do they use children as human shields? Like ISIS does in the Middle East, 'cause they're flesh. Why do parents abuse children in California and keep 'em locked up in the base 'cause they're flesh Why does your boss take advantage of you on your job, making you work longer hours or force? Because he's flesh. This is just the nature of flesh. That which is born of the flesh is flesh. That which is born of the spirit, however, The Spirit. It's very different. Very different. And Jesus told him, Marvel not that I said unto thee, ye must be born again. That word must isn't option. It's not a good idea. It's not a suggestion. This is not a self help. tip, he says, if you want to see anything to do with the kingdom of God, you must be born again. It's not a choice. Because when the Spirit of God begins to work, and when he begins to move in his children, and he does so through his word. Changes in fact will come. Jesus described a man that when the stronger man comes upon him, and he cast out the man that was there before. When he comes in that person He casts out that other old devil and he moves in, he takes up residence. I'm I'm mangling that uh account, that parable that Jesus gives. That's what salvation's like a stronger will then that old man comes and takes residence. He comes, that's called the Spirit of God. It's very real. God's Spirit in fact comes. Now imagine here we live in a nice house. We're enjoying time in a nice house here Imagine what happens when somebody moves into a filthy, dirty house. You ever see one of those kind of houses? I think there's a television program called Extreme Makeover. They're really kind of interesting. They find some poor person And uh uh you know, maybe he's a firefighter or a veteran returning from war, somebody that you have some sympathy towards. His house is a wreck. It's just falling apart. And they send him away on a two or three day vacation, they they hire in some high-powered five-star program manager and the this uh Abina's uh you know uh engineering firm uh for construction work and they and they come and they do all this incredible rework and they come back it's like the Taj Mahal, well an American version of it. You know, it's a little McMansion. This thing's fantastic, you know. living room with full of nice furniture and all the holes are gone. It's just it it's incredible what they can do. Well, that's kind of like what it's like when God the Spirit comes in. All those changes don't take place all at once Imagine you have a filthy rundown house somewhere on your street and a family moves into it and the guy's a fixer-upper. Well, maybe he's going to take out some trash first. Maybe he's going to start working on the uh uh inside. You know, for a long time that grass may not go mowed. Uh that roof may still look like a wreck Uh there may still be some holes in the wall, but slowly but surely over time, you know there's a diligent homeowner in there because that house begins to change. So it is with every blood-bought son and daughter of Jesus Christ. When God the Holy Spirit moves in, he begins to make changes. That's the Spirit of God empowering us. And in time it becomes a thing of beauty. And that process is what the Bible refers to. to the sanctification. That's what it's talking about. Third point. God's delivered us from condemnation, the first four verses. Second, God changes and empowers us by his spirit. Third point, verses fourteen to seventeen, God has adopted us as his children. Let's read that for a moment here. Romans 8. 14. For as many as are led by the Spirit of God, they are the sons of God. That's actually at word led can also be rendered brought. As many as are brought by the Spirit of God We're led by the Spirit of God. For ye have not received the spirit of bondage again to fear. You've been released from that fear of death. But you've received the spirit of adoption, whereby we cry Abba, Father, we cry out Daddy. In the Arabic culture, you say Baba, very close to the Hebrew term, Abba, Abba Father. The Spirit itself beareth witness with our Spirit that we are the children of God and, if children, an heirs. Heirs of God, and joint heirs with Christ, if so be that we suffer with him, that we may also be glorified together. You know, speaking of families, when God's Spirit moves in, he also indicates that He's adopted us. It's more than extreme makeover were actually brought into a family. Because when somebody lives in the same house as somebody else, that indicates there's some kind of relationship. When they live there. Well, the only relationship God knows is depart ye cursed or enter ye blessed. He keeps it real simple. The wicked shall not stand in his sight The uh the ungodly are like the chaff which the wind drives away. God will have no ungodly people. He'll have nobody who's not his son or daughter. If you're a child of God, he says, yes, I'm moving in. And oh by the way, you're my son. You're my daughter. I've adopted you into my family. Just as a growth and grace occurs over time, so in due time we enter into the joy of our Lord and gain full access to his inheritance. Edward and Abina have a nice house here, and I'm sure if they tarry and stay in this house for a season, grow old, uh and fat together and eventually die, then uh at some point um Uh Caleb and uh Angel and Trinity uh might be there at a funeral and then it's announced, well, there's a will. And in that will, you have your mommy and daddy's stuff. And that might include the house Uh it's only right. We'd expect that. We wouldn't expect that house to, oh, we've decided to donate to the state of Maryland, Chesapeake Bay Front. Now that'd be nuts. We don't expect that. Right? Uh uh we just y you give it to your children. Right? That's that's normal. We expect that. Well, guess what? If you're a child of God, you also have an inheritance. Luke 12, 32, the Lord Jesus said to his disciples, Fear not, little flock, it is the Father's good pleasure to give you the kingdom. He said in Galatians 4:7, wherefore thou art no more a servant but a son, and if a son, then an heir of God through Christ. You might think, an heir? An inheritor? How how does that work out? Well, it requires certain transaction to occur. Tell me, somebody who knows a little bit about inheritance and wills and all that. How does that work? How do I say get written into the Pike Will and Last Will and Testament? How would that happen? Cam, any ideas? Son, you better figure this out. What does it take to get written into the into the Pike last will and testament should they so choose to write one? What are you gonna do, Cam, to get in there? Nothing? Why is that? Because you're a what? You're a pike. You're a son. Alright? First step is daddy's got a right one. He's got to write a will, and if he hasn't written one, the state's written one for him, and his house may go to the Maryland Chesapeake Bay Fund if he doesn't write one, so that'd be some encouragement to get you to think about that. Has to be written Has to be written. And then second, most important part, what happens before Dad just gives it all over to him Well, it has to happen to Dad before you get all that stuff along with the rest. Yeah, Dad's got to die. God Almighty from eternity past chose the people for Himself. They're called the elect And in part of his divine plan, he said, These are mine, I'm their surety, I'm their backstop. If anything happens, it's on me. Bad on me, if it happened to me, good to them. And he, as it were, wrote them into his will. So that when he, Jesus Christ, the one who wrote the will, the testator, dies, the covenant springs into effect, meaning there is an inheritance. That's why Jesus Christ, through the Apostle Paul, says all things are yours, whether all things present or all things to come They're all there, yours in Christ. You think that's great, and we'll go out and take advantage of it right now. We jump into a car and run off with somebody's BMW. Not the past. Right? You've got to learn what it means to operate in the kingdom of grace. God is waiting for you, as it were, to be matured, to be made over, to be more fully sanctified, to be what? Conformed to the image of His Son. It's right and fitting that the inheritance should be passed to sons, and amazingly, this means also that if we're sons and we get that inheritance, that the God-man, the Lord Jesus Christ, is in fact our brother. Hebrews says, for which cause he is not ashamed to call them brethren. So he's our brother. There's therefore now no condemnation. The condemnation in the curse of Adam has been removed. He's empowered us by his spirit. We're adopted as children into his family, adopted into the family of God, to them that know God, to them that love God. Romans 8 continues, beginning in verse 18 to 25, my fourth point, God has destined us for glory. He is destined his people for glory. He says, I reckon that the sufferings of this present time, and there are real sufferings from the people of God. There's people in North Korea That are in prison and hard labor camps working in a place that's roughly the same latitude as Maine In harsh cold weather, with minimal clothing and minimal food, many of them are called political enemies of the state, read Christian Korea used to be considered the Jerusalem of the Orient, such zealous people for the things of God, and the devil sent in somebody to extremely, grievously oppress them. And yet the apostle says, I reckon. I reckon that the sufferings of this present time are not even worthy to be compared with the glory which shall be not might be, shall be revealed in us. For the earnest expectation of the creature, the creation, waits for the manifestation of the sons of God. It's waiting for the sons of God to be manifest, to be open, to be made clear. For the creature, the creation, was made subject to vanity not willingly, but by reason of him who is subjected to same and hope. from the bondage of corruption into the glorious liberty of the children of God. You know, this whole planet, as it were, is groaning. The Bible says it's waxing old like a garment Here's an interesting fact. You know that the Earth has a magnetic field around it, right? If you don't, there's a reason why your GPS works. It's got to know where true north is. It's got to have a compass. Well that's driven by this thing called the magnetic field. People have been measuring the strength of that magnetic field for the past hundred and fifty, two hundred years. They can measure how strong that is. Those instruments have been around. And they have been observing That oh, every, I forget what the time interval is, don't quote me on it, something like every 150 years, the strength weakens noticeably, almost cut in half. Our magnetic field keeps away a lot of dangerous and harmful rays from the sun. It's unique in uh plants Uh in our solar system, others have magnetic fields. Ours is a sufficient strength to not kill us, but at the same time block all these harmful rays. And yet it's getting weaker It's getting weaker. It's waxing old. Like a garment. You know, I've got clothes in my closet that maybe been around for ten years, some work shirts I carefully hang up, but I ain't got stuff in there that's been there twenty or thirty years, forty or fifty years, five hundred or five thousand years. This earth is getting old, and it's waiting for a deliverance. Verse twenty two. We know that the whole creation groans and travails and pain together until And not only they, but ourselves also, which have the first fruit of the Spirit, even we ourselves grow within ourselves, waiting for the adoption, to wit, the redemption of our body. We are saved by hope. Hopeless seen is not hope, but what a man seeth, why does he yet hope for it? But if we hope for that, we see not, then we do with patience wait for it. God's destined us for glory. That's the key part I want to focus on, this deliverance from the bondage of corruption. You know, these first three points, no condemnation, being spirit-led and indwelt, being adopted as children, they're given to us on a on purpose. They're given to encourage us through those inevitable seasons of difficulties and struggles and challenges and trials and difficulties. If you haven't faced any that are very hard, wait around a little bit. It's It may be medical. It could be job-related. It could be relationship related in the family. There's a lot of ways that God can bring tribulation and difficulty upon your flesh. And those times will come and they become a struggle. It becomes a trial. And God likens our time here on this earth Awaiting this revelation of something called the glorious liberty of the sons of God, he compares it to a sojourn like Abraham, who was wandering through a desert. You ever wander through a desert? Not a lot out there. It's pretty at first. Nice big sky, some interesting looking plants. Yeah, try to settle a few of those plants. You might be a little surprised at how pokey it is. And there's some strange critters that come out and might make all kinds of of howling, slithering noises, and uh it's very, very cold at night in the desert. It's very, very hot during the day, and and it's not a very friendly place to be at. In fact there's not a lot of houses built there. If they do, they gotta pipe in a lot of water. Well that's what our life here on this planet as a Christian is compared to. A sojourn through a desert. It's also compared to a soldier. Compared to a soldier who's on a battlefield, there's a saying in the military, hurry up and wait. They want you to hurry up to get one point. Okay, now you gotta wait A lot of time is downtime in the military, but oh there's those times of brief, intense period of great difficulty when the battle is on and the bullets are flying and and orders are shouting and it's chaos and that wonderful plan we started off with we went in the battle that plan is also overcome by events. Now what do we do? It's likened to Joshua fighting the battles to inherit the promised land. It's likened to a farmer who waits a long time before any fruit shows up on the trees. If you've ever gotten interested in farming, especially with trees, fruit trees, you gotta prune them, you gotta keep bugs away, you gotta fertilize it correctly, you wait, you wait, you wait, and then finally fruit appears, the bud appears, and then the flower, and then you hope nothing eats it. It's a bit of patience. It takes a little bit of work We need to be encouraged through these hard times, lest we lose up lose hope and give up at precisely the wrong time. So close yet so far is a sad ending. You know, even physical ailments are considered a small thing. 2 Corinthians 4, the apostle says this. He says, our light affliction which is but for a moment Worketh for us a far exceeding, far more exceeding eternal, and um let me quote that right, worketh for us a far more exceeding and eternal weight of glory. Well, we look not at the things which are seen, but we look at the things which are not seen, for the things which are seen are temporal. Things which are not seen are eternal. God is a spirit. They that worship him must worship him in spirit and truth. The hope that Is that God will in fact fully cure my body by providing an instantaneous, comprehensive, full In complete makeover, the likes of which no eye has seen. There's a promise in the book of Philippians that I really look forward to. Because I'm starting to get a little older. My back pain is starting to be a little more noticeable. I've started to get these interesting little paintings. Pains of late and I gotta go visit my doctor, but uh I've got these interesting little pains of late in my joints. It's like a little needle you just get stuck in it. I'll be driving down the road, it's like, oh, there's a little leash. I'm wondering, is that arthritis? This is what old people complain about, arthritis, and it goes away after a while, and I kind of think, oh, not a big deal. But it reminds me Little needle pain. Right now is a little pain right there. It disappears. Gray hairs start to pop up. Odd splotchy colors start to show up. All little reminders that say your body It's wearing out. Go working in the yard to dig up some weeds around my trees and some vines. Your body is wearing out. It's wearing out. There's a promise in Philippians. It says, Of the Lord Jesus Christ, he'll change our vile body that may be fashioned like unto his glorious body, according to the working whereby he's able to subdue all things into himself. I'm going to get a makeover. I'm going to get changed, Sarah, and I may not look too bad in the process. There's going to be a change. Back to Romans 8. He's destined us for glory. And he's given us verses twenty six and twenty-seven, God has given us his spirit as an intercessor. Know what an intercessor is? Well, let me describe that after we read verses twenty-six and twenty-seven. Romans eight twenty-six says this Likewise, the Spirit also helps our infirmities, for we know not what we should pray for as we ought. But the Spirit itself makes intercession for us with groanings Which cannot be uttered. And he that searches the hearts knows what is the mind and the spirit, because he makes intercession for the saints. According to the will of God. Intercession. The intercessory role of God the Holy Spirit. This is really a great benefit and a privilege. Um, you know, even when our afflictions and trials seem to be too much, we simply may want to just quit. You know, I felt that. I felt like that sometimes, throwing in the towel, but man, that's just too much. This is a lot of difficulty. This is an awful lot of headache. Boy, if I just didn't have all these problems, life would be wonderful. Yeah, well. You know Elijah said, It's better for me to die. Jonah said that too There's been some notable bold prophets of old who have despaired of life. It's nothing new. These men were mighty prophets, the likes of which we haven't seen in our day If they grew weary, then who are we? I'm reminded of the passage in the book of Jeremiah says in Jeremiah twelve five if thou hast run with the footman, and they have wearied thee And how canst thou contend with horses? And if in the land of peace wherein thou trustest they wearied thee, how wilt thou do in the swelling of Jordan? It seems like the trials of thy life are going to continue to grow and grow and get bigger, God will Be faithful. He's not going to tempt you beyond what you're able to bear, but will with the temptation make a way of escape that you may be able to bear it. What's one of those ways of escape? I'll tell you what it is You can pray, and you've got something called God the Holy Spirit who acts as an intercessor. An intercessor is simply put someone who intercedes. They speak on your behalf. You ever feel like, well, I don't know how to pray to God, I don't know what to say. Fact is, neither do I. None of us do I've never been in his court. I haven't been in his throne room. I haven't witnessed the angels roundabout singing holy, holy, holy The only court I've been to is Rockville Montgomery County Court, you know, I was complaining about a a traffic ticket I got. And I showed up there thinking, yeah, I I'm gonna argue this thing out, I'm gonna, you know, make my way plain and I got in that court and watched a bunch of other people go up and fail. I'm like Oh man, I want to be nailed. Maybe I'll just walk out here and just pay the ticket. This is terri I don't I don't know how to talk to this judge. I don't know what I'm doing. I was afraid of a of a traffic cop judge. How much more the judge of the of the universe? We don't know. We really don't know. Praise God, He's given us some help. I have some court-appointed help. Don't God the Holy Spirit. He intercedes. He fixes my prayers He corrects them. He, as it were, ensures that when I go to him, to his throne of grace, that it's going to be what? According to the will of God. I've got an intercessor. I've got some real help. That's tremendous. Praise God. His Holy Spirit helps us through these times of sore difficulty. What kind of difficulty can we go through, and what kind of help from the Spirit can we get? The Apostle Paul writes about this. If you want, you can go to 2 Corinthians 4. If not, I'll read it to you. 2 Corinthians 4 and verses 8 through 11. The apostle to the Gentiles writes this: He says, We are troubled on every side, yet not distressed. We are perplexed, but not in despair. Persecuted But not forsaken, cast down, but not destroyed, always bearing about in the body the dying of the Lord Jesus Why in the world would God put us on that ton of a program? Gee, that sounds like a lot of fun. Sign me up for it. Really? That's a tough, tough road to hoe. Why would God do it that way? Read the next sentence. That's a purpose statement. That the life also of Jesus might be made manifest in our body. For we which live are always delivered unto death for Jesus' sake, that the life also of Jesus might be made manifest in our mortal flesh. What's he talking about? You know, if um if I endure a difficult time and don't pray to God and and don't read my Bible and don't seek the aid of the saints and put some present my petition to the people of God and I come through it just fine. You'd say, look at what a smart guy he is. By if my dryer breaks in my house and uh I try to go fix that thing. And I don't consult the internet and I just troubleshoot I got my own tools and I go troubleshoot this thing and I figure out how to fix the part. You'd say, that's a smart guy. He knows how to fix his own car. Picking on myself because I can't fix my I gotta bust one out. Ain't getting any better than worse. When we undergo difficult times and trials, the world looks at that and says, Well, they're shot, they're gone But if they bounce back from it as a question, it might be a testimony. But you know, how did they survive that? How'd they not throw in the towel? They're still clinging to their God? How did that happen? Oh, it's a testimony to the world. The Spirit of God is still in them The Spirit of God is what sustains them. It's the Spirit of God that takes you through that. You get through these things by the grace of God, by the grace of God only. You're not sufficient to get through these trials. Hey, listen, we're up against The world, the flesh, and the devil. The world's bad enough. Battle with myself is is is problematic. But the devil Peter came up against the devil. He was a whimpering, quivering, quivering mass at the end of that. Asked Job what it's like to come up to the devil. Lost his business, lost his children, lost his health The one day, yeah, you come up against God's devil and you're sunk. What keeps you floating? Spirit of God The Spirit of God that'll get you through that. That's an encouragement. Yes, you can make it through hard times, and at the same time you can't make it. It's impossible. It's impossible but for the Spirit of God in you. That's the only way you can endure. So he gives us an intercessor, and that is given as a great encouragement. We're kept by the power of God through faith and to salvation, ready to be revealed in the last time. Alright, I got two more points. I hope you hang in there. And my coffee's getting low and cold, and I think we'll make it through here. Because we're in verse 28, we're almost through all of Romans 8. Romans 8 28 says this. God has called us according to his eternal plan. 28 through 30. We know that all things work together for good to them that love God. To them who are the called according to his purpose. It's a group of people that are called the called. Put a capital C on that. The called, the called ones. For verse twenty nine, for whom he did for know he also did predestinate to be conformed to the image of his son that he might be the firstborn among many brethren. Moreover, meaning on top of that, whom he did predestinate, them he also called, and whom he called, them he also justified. And whom he justified, them he also glorified. That's the beauty about God's plan of salvation. It's a package deal. If he's called you He's predestinated you to be conformed to the image of his son. What's predestination mean? Very simple. You ever ridden on a bus? A city bus? What's the city bus like? Well, we go stand forever at this street stop, looking down the road, waiting for this long vehicle belching out smoke to show up. And What are you looking for? Well, besides this big long vehicle belching out smoke with nobody on it, you're looking for a thing on the front that says you know, Lake Forest Mall, Route 58. You're looking for your bus route. You're looking for the label on the front of the bus that says where it's going to go to. I made the mistake one time Yes I am this stupid. I thought all buses eventually get to the same location or whatever, and I'll just jump on this bus because I'm tired of waiting for my bus 'cause it ain't never getting here Yeah, that didn't work. Uh that bus really didn't go where I wanted it to, in exactly the opposite direction, and that was pretty pretty dumb. Yeah. You you're probably marveling at that, Hakalan. Yeah, I could I can be pretty stupid. So no, don't get on a bus that ain't got the right label to it. Well where'd that label on the front come from? Well they set that up in the office. Well that's not fair. That bus is only going to one location. That's just the same. Well it won't work if it ain't if somebody didn't predestine where that bus is going, it just ain't gonna work. God has a bus called Conformance to the Image of His Son. And if you're a child of God, He's gonna put you on that bus. And he don't tell you how it's going to get there, but it's going to get there. You shall be conformed to the image of his son. It may go through some hills and some valleys, it may seem to break down and roll over on his side, it may seem to be All kinds of different things. But when that bus stops and that door opens up and you're off, it will have delivered you to a place called conform to the image of his son. That's what predestination is all about Whom he predestined, he called. Whom he called, he justified. Many are called, but few are chosen. And they're justified. They're declared just and right. And whom he justifies, then he also glorifies. The key words in this passage are purpose and predestinate, and that's known only to him. Now these things are known to us, but they're known to us in the rearview mirror. The Bible talks about predestination and election and his purpose for one reason, to remove pride from you and I We can't ever say, I figured this thing out, I plotted my course, I'm the captain of my fate, the master of my ship, I'll sail to any port I want to. Hardly. Hardly. God Almighty will get all the glory, all the credit, and all the praise, and he insists on it. We can know about God's predestination and purposes in our life. How? Through the rear view mirror. You look back in your life and say, ah. It may be years later, but you'll look back and see. Now I can see why I stumbled up into this particular Baptist church. Now I can see why I never was killed when I was doing those very, very foolish things in my teenage years Wicked habits that should have destroyed me because God had a purpose and a plan in my life. Now I can see why. That's where you see the predestination of God That's where you see the eternal works and purpose. This passage also reminds us that regardless of how bad things might get, God Almighty remains on track with his program. He's not off track. You may not rest assured for weakness of faith, but know for a fact God Almighty has fully considered every possible angle Every secondary effect, every tertiary effect, every nth degree effect, God knows precisely how everything is gonna work out. And in his opinion This is the best way. Yeah, it's a custom fit, trial, and season of difficulty, and that sole purpose is for you to be conform to the image of his son. That's his purpose. You have to believe that. It takes faith to believe that. I'll quote 1 John 3. 2 for you here. It says, Behold, now are we the sons of God, and it does not yet appear what we shall be But we know that when he shall appear, we shall be like him, for we shall see him as he is. That's the hope. Is that when he comes, we meet him, we're going to be made like unto him, look like him. You know, I see Benso children running in this house. How do I know they're Benso children? Well, they kind of look like mom and dad Must see little pike children running around in the snow on their head and you know in the short sleeve shirts in January. How how do I know these are pike? Well they kinda look like mom and dad Right? When Jesus Christ returns, be conformed to his image. Last point, the seventh point, verses thirty-one to thirty-nine, God has loved us eternally in Christ God Almighty has loved us eternally in Christ. Let's read 31-39. What shall we then say to these things? If God be for us, who can be against us? He that spared not his own son, but delivered him up for us all, how shall he not with him also freely give us all things? Who shall lay anything to the charge of God's elect It's God that justifies. Who is he that condemneth? It's Christ that died, yea, rather that is risen again, who is even at the right hand of God, who also also maketh intercession for us. Who shall separate us from the love of Christ shall tribulation or distress or persecution or famine or nakedness? Apparel, or sword, as it is written, for thy sake we are killed all the day long. We are counted as sheep for the slaughter. Nay No, no. And all these things were more than conquerors through him that loved us. And Paul concludes, writing under the inspiration of the Spirit, I am persuaded that neither death nor life, nor angels nor principalities, nor powers nor Nor things present nor things to come, nor height, nor depth, nor any other creature shall be able to separate us, that's a big us there, from the love of God which is in Christ Jesus our Lord Folks, the love of God is unique. It is not fickle. It is not fleeting. It is not affixed by vanity and external trappings. God's love is on purpose. It's by design. It's an eternal love. It never changes. It doesn't wax old or cold. It's constantly unfailing. And as such, it can only be available to his children, whom he foreknew even from the womb. The singular aim of these six closing questions is this. It removes any final argument or doubt from your mind during times of great sorrow, great despair, great disillusionment. Whatever the excuse may be for you to give up hope God, through Paul, is reasoning with us using the logic of faith. He asks six questions. And the answer to these questions gives us hope It says, no one can truly prevail against us because we have the omnipotent one on our side. Omnipotent means he's all powerful. Nothing has gone against him and succeeded. You know, Chris, God's never lost a battle. He has a hundred percent success rate. He's never once lost a battle. And you know what? It's never even been close It's just never even been close. No one can truly prevail against us. Another thing is that given what this sovereign savior has already done for us, it's patently obvious that we shall inherit the world All things present, all things to come. I'm adopted into his family. I want to be conformed to the image of his son. Why? To be struck out in the doghouse? To be left out there No. If he's gone to the great length to pay for my sins so that there's no condemnation, he's going to conform me to the image of his son. He's going to give me his spirit, draw me to his heavenly kingdom What? To kick me out? Hardly. No lawsuit will bring any of this into question. You know, when uh great sums of money are to be had by the sons of men, invariably a lawsuit pops up. When money, great sums of money, are going to go from party A to party B, somebody th gets a lawyer. Somebody's going to go after it. They just Oh, it's not fair. This procedural thing or this law or this whatever, this tree frog is going to be destroyed. They're going to find some reason to go after it. Here he says, no lawsuit will be brought into this. It won't even be presented. You know why? Guess why I'm never going to have a lawsuit brought against me. That'll ever possibly survive in court. The judge is my father. I know the judge. He knows me. Dismiss the case. There's nothing to worry about here. This has no merit in this court. Get rid of it. And he can do it justly. Even the devil and his angels can't condemn us because Jesus' blood has atoned, meaning covered all of my sins. There simply isn't any reason for the charge to be laid. Who should lay any charge to God's elect? And lastly, God Almighty didn't begin this work in you to give up midstream. He didn't bring you there to dump you in the desert. You're just too hard. Man, I I thought I could fix you up, but whoo whee, you're a bigger mess than I thought. Man, this is a lot tougher deal I could deal with. I didn't know Caleb Bensell was this bad I'll tease it. Well, we are worse than we think we are. But it's not too hard for God. Is there anything too hard for God? Is God's arm too short that he can't save? Really? No, of course not. God's either who he says he is or he's not, and he is who he says he is. He's because of his character, he's simply not going to let that happen. The death of his son will not be in vain Christ will not shed his blood in vain. The Spirit of God will not be given in vain. We'll not be conveyed home. We're not going to fall off that bus. It's not going to happen. Our prosperous and fruitful end is sure because of Christ's unstoppable love for his children. And all God's people said, Amen and Amen.