And his father has finally returned from Canaan, and he's lived in the land now for 17 years. I've got a great message on that sometime if you'd like to hear it, because that's another mysterious account as well. You see, they're not annihilated and destroyed, but they are submitted and now they serve you. Because in Joseph's dreams, they all came and bowed to Joseph. And he says that they will bow down. He reigned over Judah seven years and six months, and in Jerusalem he reigned thirty three years over all Israel and Judah. Well then we get to this part that is very exciting. It can also mean quiet or peace. That's all he was. And it particularly claws, and it gnaws at me. And Luke was faithful to record it, capture it, proving the scriptures were correct. Meaning Gentiles will submit to this one, to this Shiloh. Get a correction mark in you from your English teacher, that no, use a plural uh uh pronoun there And it's going to start to collect and it'll dribble out. and you would cast it into this large stone area which had a little bit of a lip around it. Isaiah also says, you shall eat the riches of the Gentiles, meaning all the richness and the fullness that the Gentiles come to bring in, he will receive. And that hatred towards God the way I've depicted it is that uh uh you were basically on heaven's uh top ten wanted list. The title is about Shiloh, the promise of Christ. as as was prophesied. You know, a lot of Half that we talk about this morning, we're over here. I'm not offended. The the priestess told him this is your year. in Genesis 49, verse 8. Uh he mentions the lion's wealth uh prevailing over the neck of his enemies, all all kinds of interesting things. The birthright passed to who? Reuben instead kind of gets a negative blessing. And we know that historically now that this has occurred. So this is Leah's fourth child, and she praised the Lord for the abundance of the children she had, and she called his name Judah. Certainly we would praise the Savior. Thou hast made me the head of the heathen, a people whom I have not known shall serve me. And 1 Samuel, where he describes how God prophesied through him. right around Easter time, the resurrection chapter. Even death itself is referred to as an enemy, and if you've ever been to a funeral, you know what a horrible thing it is because there is a parting of a dear loved one, and that is an enemy, and it's an enemy to God as well. Exactly. And that lower kingdom would be Judah and Benjamin, that would be that southern kingdom that wouldn't rebel ultimately. From eternity, maybe? And we know from interesting left Revelation, one of the elders said unto me, Weep not, behold the lion of the tribe of Judah, the root of David, has prevailed to open the book and to loosen the seven seals thereof. Christ is called the Lion of the tribe of Judah. form the shape of their head and not do much with it. What does that mean about Judah? It may be I I I I don't recall if this word Shiloh is a transliteration of that Hebrew word where every letter is brought forward. Because there wouldn't be anything. particular rulers of two separate nations. Fantastic. Yes. Now, it had to have been a tax, and I can put stop that a lot because how many of you ladies have been pregnant? The year the year the fullness of time. And by that act, it signaled, ushered in the event, the Messiah would come. When do we find that the Gentiles are coming into the kingdom of heaven in a big way? The gospel was confined to the Jews, to the nation of Israel. I'm running short on time. we can begin to understand that vine is probably a metaphorical reference to Jesus Christ binding these two animals to the vine and an ass is colt to a vine. And Matthew was a uh a tax collector, so he's all about accounting. And the disciples went and did as Jesus commanded them, and brought the ass and the colt, and put on them their clothes, and set him thereon. where those two animals are mentioned with that specificity in the scriptures. And so he's describing the Shiloh who will come in very murky language, but pointing out very specific things about him. And thy garments like him that treadeth in the wine fat. Because you would get in and it'd have a little it's basically like a large um flat funnel. Therefore, mine own arm brought forth salvation unto me, and my fury it upheld me. For the day of vengeance is in my heart, and the year of my redeemed is come. I think in God's perspective, as it were, God's multiplying his imagery, who you have bear with me a bit on this, alright, because I'm trying to describe this. The payment of sins in Scriptures is always uh an indication of God's salvation. Worm dieth not, I believe that, every bit of it, it'll be and it'll be ten times worse than that language. ring them out and drink them. them that draw out the breast to feed the child, you're you're giving them easily received food. By your Spirit, open our word to receive your truth and open your word to our understanding. And he's on his deathbed. Far forward to an event for us that would be two thousand years ago, to the promise of Christ, and a very important prophecy at that. That ends the reading of that passage. And you would think that he would bless Joseph above everybody, because after all, he has saved the family in a very bigly way. And his ass is cold unto the choice vine. Where he went away from his brethren, he uh yoked up with some uh fellow of a faraway country and he uh went into Tamar, his uh daughter-in-law, because he wouldn't give And when we were going through the account of Joseph, it was interesting because one entire chapter w took an interlude of the story of Joseph to deal with the story of Judah and his going down into a place And she conceived again and bare a son, and she said, Now will I praise the Lord, therefore she called his name Judah And of course, Jesus Christ is to the praise of God. And uh the multitude said, uh, Blessed is uh she who uh uh gave you suck paraphrasing, but he said, Yea, rather blessed are those who hear the word of God and keep it. Christ uh in responding to the multitude that we're trying to praise his mother, he doesn't pile on and say, yes, and she shall be great and she'll be a co-redemptor. In fact, they are reproved for that. keep building that out. They can't talk. Uh they uh have some dominion taken over them. Turn to Psalm 18 as you keep your hand in Genesis 49, and let's look at Psalm 1831. fade into the background and you realize I don't think David's talking about himself here. There is someone, and I would submit to Christ who says as soon as they hear of me, they will submit. When he shall have put down all rule and authority and power, it really doesn't matter what rule and authority and power is heaped up now when Jesus returns, it is very easily and summarily subdued underneath his And now you follow them. the si his uh his siblings. Then we read in back in Genesis 49. to Joseph. and and submitted themselves and bowed down there. for whom and to whom they shall bow and submit themselves. And then you find him in Revelation on the White Horse as the triumphant king. Golden Scepter, right? the king is telling me to do something or not do something, and at his word others would submit and they would carry out what he would want. It's the only particular time this Hebrew word is used, and it can mean one of two things. the the the old Baptist spirituals would a lot of times use in their songs the quiet waters of Shiloh, you know, they would use that kind of imagery in there. Let's get back to that first part where it says, the scepter shall not depart, nor a lawgiver from between his feet. When's he coming? The Bible is historically inaccurate. That there went out a decree from Caesar Augustus, a real person, archaeology finds, and a ton of documentation has shown that Caesar Augustus did in fact exist. Scholars have said, well, it really should be rendered census. governor that's gonna call for a census back in the old days and just show up and write your name down and keep your wallet in your back pocket. You know, it said earlier, thy brethren, thy father's children shall bow down to thee. That was it. the men of Nineveh shall rise in judgment. Mm-hmm. But he mentions two animals. two animals with uh Virginia creeper that we have in the woods out here and the animals are standing there until these things grow up and wrap around them. See if you can follow with me here. Now don't ask me how that looks. It's ain't hard, folks. The book of Zechariah. of a prophecy in the book of Isaiah. which to go do some digging on your own. I want you to tell me, think in your mind, who is answering all the questions? And I want you to think, who is it that's answering those questions? Coming from Edom, he's got dyed garments. Why aren't your garments red? That was just too funny. So all of a sudden it transitions to this gruesome imagery of God trampling out the grapes of wrath. And hell is God's wrath. Take thy sickle and reap, for the for the grapes of the harvest of the earth is ripe. means a deep, deep price was paid, and it's the equivalent of an eternity in hell on my behalf. Uh the eyes red with wine is another veiled reference to the work of atonement. Set up my standard to the people. that that's the peace that the Bible is. May the fruit of our lips be well-pleasing in thy sight. I guess my also I just want to add this quickly that see this is one thing reason this kind of like Bible studies that we have and that you that we have every Sunday morning that I miss from from time to time and I hate doing it Because it shows you the depth of who God is. You know? where I can sit here and then about it and they can sit here and see the the reality of what this is about in that sense. By nature. Uh the world uh sees this book as nothing but literature. Genesis 49, 8. Verse 8, Judah, thou art he whom thy brethren shall praise. Judah is a lion's whelp. The scepter shall not depart from Judah, nor a lawgiver from between his feet, until Shiloh come. And so God remembering this account where he went into one of his father's concubines. her, uh his uh eldest uh his his third born son to raise up seed to his brother's name. But not unlike other prophetic statements of the Old Testament, they're shrouded in mystery. but without enough detail as to be able to put the whole package around it. Doesn't sound good to me. They shall obey me. understood somehow that God Almighty was speaking through him. and he'll have complete domination. Kingdom. Vice President of the most powerful nation on earth. He was very powerful, very wealthy. That's a very powerful um statement to make, even right there with Joseph in the presence, because they've all been brought to Jacob's bedside as he's there, sick, he's gathered himself up in his final amount of strength to give these blessings to each of his children. uh preeminent state, if you will, that tribe that would be the the main one over there. I have sworn by myself, the word has gone out of my mouth in righteousness, and shall not return that unto me where God placed his name. But you see, this is not just an interesting account of a true historical event. You know, he's called our brother, which is to me amazing thought. Isaiah forty-five and verse twenty-two. Every knee shall bow, every tongue shall swear, or confess, or vow. shall men come, and all that are incensed against him shall be ashamed. in the Lord. Back in Genesis 49, Judah is a lion's whelp. that uh uh Christ is that lion of the tribe of Judah, he's the one that prevails. Thank you for that. The throne. uh their uh authority, their power. It's giving a mark in time, a time marker as to when the Christ will come. And this taxing was first made when Cyrenius was governor of Syria, another excellent way to date events in the scriptures. It all went to be taxed, everyone to his own city. Absolutely it was a tax, and so it's completely authentic and verifiable and valid for them to say tax. And it says it again. well defined her muscles are how y I don't care. But her husband would have to come back with some pretty heavy arguments, hon. Dot dot dot until Shiloh come, unto him shall the gathering of the people be. Now, I want you to make a distinction between the people, which often refers to Gentiles, versus thy brethren. It's in the womb of Mary. binding his foal unto the vine and his ass's colt unto the choice vine. Matthew 21. them and straightway he will send them. and a colt with her. uh a a an ass and a colt, uh the a young uh a young animal, a young uh young uh uh colt. animals. He talks about he's binding this unto the vine, and of course Jesus is that true vine. and trample them in my fury, and their blood shall be sprinkled upon my garments, and I will stain all my raiment nursing fathers and their queens thy nursing mothers. Isaiah 60, 16, thou shalt also suck the milk of the Gentiles, suck the breast of kings, and know that I, the Lord, am thy Savior and thy Redeemer, the mighty one of Jacob. Accept Christ so he can take care of all the things. God saved you you will have peace. has been separated. thousand lifetimes. receives a tremendous promise of blessing, one that old man Jacob somehow is able to penetrate through the eons of time and look And unto him shall the gathering of the people be. Okay. And of course, as Christians, we would say, well, probably as speaking about Jesus Christ, the coming Messiah, there was the promise of the Messiah to come. There's no right or wrong answer, just anything that might have struck you as very curious. And we're looking at this business of the blessing to Judah, and we get to this second phrase that says of the same chapter. As it were, God has given you, his enemy, the necks. Really good guy. And then he goes, nor a lawgiver from between his feet. a king. Do you really think for a minute that that's actually gonna happen? uh third week and uh eleventh hour, would you turn to your husband and say, got an idea? Jews and Gentiles. I don't believe I have ever heard this mentioned from the pulpit. And loose them and bring them unto me. Isaiah chapter 63. And he's traveling in the greatness of his strength. It was his in exchange for me. Very veiled references, but it's all there and it's all pointing to the work of the Messiah, his work of domination, his work of atonement, and his total victory and success over the Gentiles. See that's never included. very uh mysterious sounding. uh about the enemy's neck. Because to have the neck of your enemies is a very common phrase in the Bible, and it basically refers to total domination in battle. What is the meaning of the word, the actual meaning? Well, there could be a case made, I suppose, for calling that word census, but do you know any So that event was captured in Holy Writ as proof of the fulfillment of Genesis 49. Some of the greatest ones with the account of Jonah going to preach at Nineveh where the entire n Assyrian uh king and everyone down uh submitted. Answer. Hmm, interesting. But he says of this one who's traveling from Basra, whom we just agreed was God Himself, whom we know to be the Lord Jesus Christ, it says, Why are you red in your apparel? The last bit of imagery just to fill it out and his teeth white with milk. Scepter of Shiloh. It's in Genesis 29, 35, and uh it says of uh of of her We see in verse 31, For who is God save the Lord, or who is a rock save our God? And when the lawgiver departs from Judah, when Judah loses its sovereignty, when Judah loses its ability to give laws and to enforce them effectually. The scepter has passed from Judah. He goes on. You see, because as it were, God gave Egypt and Ethiopia for us. Any ideas why God might skip over Joseph? Through human clay. What does it mean that these things won't depart until Shiloh comes? Then Shallah would come. Chapter 2, otherwise known as the Christmas story. Luke chose not to focus on this so much. Okay, I'm not an English. And he says, the answer is verse 3, I have trodden the winepress alone. What do my sins deserve from God? Yes. Now, who's he referring to, thy father's children? What woman in her right mind would I cannot see a pregnant woman I don't care how young and But in now we have Bible study time we've been can discuss that a bit. He couches a lion as an old lion, and so he covers the whole gamut of this lion's lifestyle, of this age of the lion. All this was done that it might be fulfilled, which is spoken by the prophet, that would be Zechariah, saying, Tell ye the daughter of Zion, Behold, thy king cometh unto thee, meek and sitting upon an ass, and a colt the fold of ass. Now, this is the there are only two passages I'm aware of in the Old Testament, Zechariah 9 and our passage right here, that mention specifically these two passages. He's talking about the atonement. I've told Brother Vincent State. It's a cub. Um I don't know to be honest. Yes, modern. Let's hop on an animal and let's go all the way back to our hometown and just go visit. I think I'm seeing me in Christ here. Well, I'll have to close it up in Isaiah. It doesn't sound good for them. He says they're not going to lose that until Shiloh come. All ye that labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. Yeah, all of them are a bunch. We find that uh yeah the first is Judah's name. He instead gives it to Judah. Every knee shall bow, every tongue shall swear. He was a teacher. And let's start to unpack this. Almost as if to say he's uh young, old, he's he's all the same. Everybody else called him a king. And so this business of his garments, whoever you view the grapes are that are being scattered and splattered, back in Genesis 49, he says, he washed his garments in wine. Well, I've tried to give you a toehold and a scratch and a a place to start if you like the notes. They can't talk. It says, For he must reign till he hath put all enemies under his feet. What was Joseph known for at this point? Jesus says, I am the vine, near the branches, right? So that's never that's not included. I don't know. The throne, okay. You're sitting around thinking about this thing. says this, and I'm sure you'll immediately think of some New Testament passages that say something very similar. Let's get to another one that's quite interesting, and when Jacob states this in verse 11, he says this And when they drew nigh unto Jerusalem, and were come to Bethphage and to the Mount of Olives, then sent Jesus two disciples, saying unto them, Alright, is there any question about how many disciples are sent out? Our gracious Father, we do rejoice in the depth of your word. That would be his siblings, right? You're sitting around a campfire in Judah. God was pleased not to share it with any other nations. We can never exhaust its riches, the the treasures that are found therein. So he it was a symbol of rule. Two. So he would be, as it were, overcome, overwhelmed by that law of God that would just rain down on him. No more enmity between man and God. And yet to cut him off the Messiah, the middle aged lion, the strong lion is not the end, where he rises he is is risen Judah's not going to lose something. Maybe he did it right, I shouldn't prejudge. It's a young, very young. Maybe I'm speculating a bit there, but to point out that he's young and old, Christ the infant of days, he's also the great hoary head, the ancient of days. This that is glorious in his apparel, traveling in the greatness of his strength? Who does that sound like? It's like him that treads in the wine fat. And so something about Jacob moved as the inspiration of spirit doesn't give that kind of a blessing Oh, thank you. Well does it sound does it sound good for the enemies or does it not sound good for you? They're submit yeah, they're on the verge of dying, basically. Thou hast also given me the necks of mine enemies that I might destroy them that hate me. The ass, the ass is colt, and the foal. He says, he will wash his garments in wine. I'm really trying to stay away from that because I don't want to pollute this passage, but but you know what a mess you become in there, right? There's that cup. Matthew 21. Right, right. And now he wants to uh give his final parting blessings to his children It was Jerusalem where the temple was, and the tabernacle, and the giving of the commandments, and the high priest, etc. While you're turning there, just a little bit of historical context. The whole chapter is him blessing each of the twelve tribes, and he gets now to his fourth child, Leah's youngest, Judah. Yeah, there's this business of Shiloh coming that kind of stands out until Shiloh come and you begin to scratch your head and say, now who's Shiloh? The strangers shall submit themselves unto me. We would say the twelve tribes of Israel minus Judah. I rest a little tentatively on that because that's kind of murky and I'm trying to give you some passages that very tightly connect it. He was actually not a king. Joseph went up from Galilee, the city of Nazareth, to Jah, the city of David, which is called Bethlehem, because he was a house and lineage of David, to be taxed with Mary, his espoused wife, being Greek, with child. And he said to who? We wouldn't praise Mary. Don't I don't I don't know how big of a gate he had to have or if there was a bucket between the two. They shall bring thy sons in their arms, and thy daughter shall be carried upon their shoulders, and kings shall be thy They lost its authority. You can have your house will be pe you'll have peaceful at home and all of that. Historically that would refer to David and Solomon. Yes, that's correct. Turn to our last passage here in Isaiah chapter 63. Well then we look at our next phrase in Genesis 49 and verse 8. You follow a new leader. And so you can go look at their annals and their records to determine when that event was. So Jesus is saying, go to this village, you're going to find two animals. My peace I give unto you. Why would they want to modify that word to say census? And it would dribble out, and that would call the wine fat. He was a really good guy. So historically there was a historical fulfillment of this a great many years later Scepter shall not depart. This sounds more like biblical prophecy you would find from, say, Ezekiel or Jeremiah. We might begin to get the sense that salvation comes from the rich and the powerful and the mighty. There was a hundred and twenty thousand of them that were saved. Because this is how Jesus came into Jerusalem. So why is this false stuff just and people just eating it up? So let's turn to Genesis forty nine and I'll begin reading in verse eight He definitely gets cursed. You can kill them, right? 8 as we continue, it says, Thy father's children shall bow down to thee. Uh sovereignty is kind of the word I'm looking for. I like the word power if we understand it in the sense of authority. Luke has consistently been proven to be very precise. He says Judah is a lion's whelp, he's very young. But what it did indicate was that it was a symbol of great power. You're really getting loaded up with some pretty murky prophetic statements this morning, but I hope I'm giving you a foothold Who is it that speaks in righteousness? Frankly it make it worse. Well it is. That was his common title that he liked. You could also see that this is strictly the Lord Jesus Christ. Matthew did. Saying unto them, Go into the village over against you, and straightway you shall find an ass tied His garments are dyed. From the prey, my son, thou art going up. Then cometh the end, it says, when he shall deliver up the kingdom to God, even the Father. Well, that is a great question for you. But but it's a good observation because shalom does mean peace. Alright? What does he mention? Now there's a lot going on here. Hell is God's fury. The Lord took the cup. We don't need to wonder as it though where this prophecy is going. We would see that, for instance, in Peter, that God in all things may be glorified through Jesus Christ, to whom be praise and dominion forever. This is Jacob speaking to Judah. Thy father. Right. What are they, as a tribe, not going to lose? That's the problem. She's like, I just want this over with. He says, Shockingly, thy father's children shall bow down to thee. And spiritually we have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ. Um it it certain it's a good question. And you know when that was fulfilled? They claw at this particular part here. So he tells them, if you get any pushback, all you gotta do is say this. Right. Um some of it kind of with an edge to it. Well, it would mean that he'll come when the scepter departs from Judah, because it won't depart until he comes. Luke is very specific with the titles he uses for the roles and the positions that people have. And we're going to read the first three verses. It refers to total dominion in battle. So this is part of this prophecy that's given to Judah. Of course you know Philippians says again this language and carries it forward, says unto at the name of Jesus, every knee should bow. Just just to expand on that point, I hope not being ahead in your notes, but um you have the infancy of Christ, but then Messiah is cut off Modern translations, if you get away from the King James Bible, will use the word census. Him? A little SWAT on the backside? Thy hand shall be in the neck of thine enemies. So if you remember for instance from the book of Esther, she could not approach unto him unless he held out the He washed his garments in wine, and his clothes in the blood of grapes, his eyes shall be red with wine, and his teeth white with milk And you see that language in Psalm eighteen. We find in Revelation that Jesus is the Lion of the tribe of Judah, the lion of the tribe of Judah. And that is in verse 10 of Genesis 49, where it says, The scepter shall not depart from Judah. Uh if it was gold and if it's pure gold, it's pretty malleable. You know, you step in this stuff. Right. It's something disappointing though. Fundamentally, basically old man Jacob is looking forward and saying, yes, from the tribe of Judah shall the Messiah come. They're obviously in a seriously compromised position. Modern translations just love to take that word taxed and say, oh well it meant a census. Jacob is talking about the atonement that Christ would do, that his garments would be defiled and stained. Yeah, this is what it is. You don't find that anywhere in the New Testament where praise is given to Mary. If you wanted to hear the word of God, you want to hear the gospel. Now, if you're able to give laws, that means you're able to direct and guide and rule the nation. You kind of follow me here? Verse 2 has a second question. He was very powerful. The full boy fullness of one way. That's never included in the in the radio, TV treatment. You see, and the Son of God, as we know from the Incarnation, is one who comes through the weak, through the lowly. That's the as soon as you get away from the Textus Receptus, you get this little acidic erosion at different places There were many of them out there, and from time to time God would save people that were not of the tribe of Israel or of Judah Go to Matthew twenty-one because this describes a key element of the triumphal entry, which is also captured in Look at verses 1 through 7. So how many animals is Jesus calling to come to him? So let's listen. He says, uh, you're unstable as water, you'll not excel. And it it's if you pay close attention, he listed three phases of the life of a lion. He mentions a foal and an ass's colt. Yeah, all of them are quite um uh pungent, very punchy, uh very very sharp and and divisive. The firstborn was d and the firstborn of old man Jacob was Reuben. He understood that it was God speaking through him. And when do we find in God's program of rolling out salvation to the planet No. Now, wine fat in those days would be a place where you would gather the grapes. Yes, yes. So Jacob is speaking to Judah, thy father, meaning me, Jacob, thy father's children, his Not as the always frame it as you you know, you got a lot of problems and things at home, your family all in disarray And Lord, may the word of God go forth in clarity and power. But to your children it is precious and glorious. And you read about that at the end of the uh the book of Samuel You're discussing prophecies because you don't have TV, CNN, or cable just yet. See, you don't hear people talk about peace with God, that you need peace with God first and foremost No. Boy, God is never late, is he? We don't know yet how they're dyed or what the color is, but they're dyed. I looked, there was none to help. From God's perspective, He has executed His wrath upon me. Remember the disciples asked? I don't know where to which one to go. It's a good good rant. Thy hand shall be in the neck of thine enemies. Why would he not use Joseph as the line of the Messiah? He's the Lord of glory. They've lost their ability to resist that Let me see if I can unpack that. Who is it that's mighty to save? When he says, thy father's children, who who are these people? Them. They're they're they're they're uh utterly conquered You're looking at my notes. We gotta gotta go. I don't think that's an accident, folks. In fact, archaeologically they have quite a few of these remnants still out in the Middle East. I mean you know just disappointing that this kind of stuff goes on. But Judah is nonetheless here identified as Jacob, one worthy of receiving his blessing. Does anybody remember what his name actually means? So it would be the eleven other tribes would bow down to him. In the world he shall have tribulation. Joseph is now mighty supreme ruler. Binding his foal unto the vine David himself says that the Spirit of the Lord spoke through him. He will prevail. But only Luke calls him by his official title Tetrarch. We continue in Genesis 48. And so that's a picture, a f a figure of God meeting out his wrath, because when blood is spilled, life is required. It's still but it's still present. I'm just I'm trying to keep my mind away from a great Lucille Ball, I love Lucy issue where she's in there with the stuffing of the grapes In the hand of the Lord it says in Psalm seventy-five, There is a cup, and the wine is red, it is full of mixture, and he poureth out the same, but the dregs thereof the wicked of the earth shall And so you had that full span of the life of Christ. Take my yoke upon you and learn of me, for I am meek and lowly of heart. And they would collect that into uh uh vessels to gather and then to produce wine That is, Jacob has been there. That means Shiloh will come when? This is not a constitutional republic in Rome, right? It just passed by that act. He came in on two animals. If you wrote that, you wrote him instead of them. His eyes will be red with wine, his teeth white with milk. You know, so you learn something you know, the pre don't get me wrong, the preaching is the fine. He says, Unto him shall the gathering of the people be Was he broke? From the prey, my son, thou art gone up. It can mean rest, for instance, when Jesus says, Come unto me all ye that are heavy laden Okay? And he tramples out the grapes of wrath in hell. It's a substitution. And we thank you for that. That's no offense to Job, because I don't think I've ever heard him preach on this passage of Scripture. That language won't even scratch the surface. Yeah, how do you how do you hold a snake? You are in total domination and submission. Power. Matthew here comes to our aid. Wherefore art thou red in thine apparel? And and so Reuben certainly didn't get any kind of a passing of a privileged uh birthright blessing. Because that word tax is very important. That's the only time I'm aware of Isn't that interesting language? But God is not going to use Joseph's tribe to usher in the Messiah. I must have a mirror back here and you're looking down at my notes here. Because they're using a corrupt edition of the Greek text known as the critical text, which It speaks about brethren versus the people. He's about little details of of certain things. I will tread down the people in mine anger, make them drunk in my fury, I will bring down their strength to the earth. There's nothing more uh uh delicate and provisionary than for a mother to give suck to her child You can get on that rant any time. They will remain as a sovereign nation. Well, it's when Shiloh comes, because up until then But for the most part the gospel had not gone forward to the Gentiles. Go to Luke. Right? I'm going to emphasize certain words, okay? And I have a question for you. Mm-hmm, Can you drink the cup, I'm able to? Right. And that's what God does to us. And yet we all do bow down to him, do we not? His father is the husbandman First of all, in your mind, don't think about taking They're not going to lose power. We know these passages. Uh he'll wash his garments in wine, his eyes are red with wine They are willing servants of you. I wondered, there was none to uphold. The peace that God is talking about that you have peace with God. It's like please. Here's the first question from Isaiah 63 and verse 1. Good morning, Jim. It doesn't sound good for the enemies. David was thirty years old, we read, when he began to reign, he reigned forty years in Hebron. So um The only place that had, thus saith the Lord, was Israel, was Judah. Lord, in a in a thousand But Father, you are gracious by your Spirit to direct our hearts to the Word and cause us to hunger and thirst after it. He gets the necks of his enemies. And so we see that David, whose throne was in Jerusalem, which is the capital of Judah, one of the tribes And then we also read about it during the reign of Reoboam where they all came and And he does prevail And look at verse 44. I love reading the Psalms, particularly if you're looking for Christ in there, because sometimes David, the psalmist, starts to really f Um and um And that word gathering can also be rendered obedience or submission, but the gathering of the people be How many sins does it take to send me to hell? His life for mine. People don't want to hear I tell you nay, except you're He stooped down, he couched as a lion, and as an old lion. And uh he he greatly repented and and of course This is a very ancient one. Let's go on a little long let's go on a road trip, hon. So God is going to ask a question and then an answer is going to come back. Uh and as you step on the grapes, it's gonna produce the juice He, as it were, whoever he's crushing and trampling, and there's various commentators' views on this So the passage that we're reading about is speaking about the Lord God Almighty, the Lord Jehovah God. Now, again, what's interesting is this is the only time that word is ever used in the Bible. Matter of fact they somebody mentioned the other day she was talking about early on the year But you was there any one phrase in particular that kind of popped out at you that really struck you as as interesting? There is an interesting reference there. Go to verse 43. Alright. What is that? As in large with child? So he talks about binding a foal So he's 147 years old It was Judah in Jerusalem You hit somebody in the head with it and they just Not to write our name down, but because we gotta pay a tax. And he came. And much of that same language is in fact repeated and reused as you go forward in the New Testament. And so here he says that No, he was exceptionally wealthy. Luke is a first-rate historian. You can triangulate it so we know precisely when this event occurred. You would say God Almighty, our Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ. And isn't that what happens in the New Testament when people hear the word of the gospel and are converted and changed? It's kind of a symbolic way of saying he's a lion This is another interesting passage, and that leads me to another fascinating account. So with the aid of the New Testament Not one, two. That we're in enmity with God. What does it mean to have your the neck of your enemies? Silenced, right? This is also a prophecy. Cool correct. I'll show you why. The scepter shall not depart. Much like Luke is very precise about certain details, so was Matthew. I don't know how this works out, but when we think about what it means that Christ paid for my sins So whatever hell is and whatever God requires from it and it uses fire and I believe there'll be fire and it talks about outer darkness and I believe there'll be outer darkness where the Lord, you've been good to us this morning. Notice that language, feet, under the feet. And so when he moved that, of course, all of his servants around him recognized Until rest comes, until peace comes. You're dating and you're cross-referencing to Fullness of time. If any man say aught unto you, ye shall say, The Lord hath need of Thy father's children shall bow down before thee. You went up to your father's bed, you defiled it. I'm looking for another word. 8. I don't know how that works. Two animals. Isaiah 49 says this, thus saith the Lord God, Behold, I'll lift up my hands to the Gentiles. In the world he shall have tribulation. And your mercies are new every morning. Freddie, how y'all doing? Christ is the one who shall have complete victory. Thy father's In the Lord shall all the seed of Israel be justified and shall glory He would not, for instance, call Herod It's kind of not what's going on. Oh, here's the answer. Look unto me and be ye saved, all the ends of the earth, for I am God and there is none else. Now now when do lions hunt? When Christ though. There's some very specifics in there His name means praise. Isaiah forty-five and verse twenty-two That's a big statement. The scepter shall not depart from Judah, meaning The Scepter finally departed, and indeed Messiah came. Because as I read them He's been ruler over Egypt for a long time. Yeah, right. Is he weak or powerful? Well, this is a prophecy that actually gives a time The Lord's got need of them. Well that It'll be ten times worse. It doesn't sound good for They will still have Shalom uh does mean peace. I mean that's I mean I I I know my wife's experience. Yeah. Now I think Revelation 5. Luke. You'd His teeth white with milk, Christ's victory receives benefits from the Gentile. As soon as they hear of me. You don't need to pull it out. I really don't. And of the people there was none with me, for I will tread them in mine anger. We pray this in Jesus' name. They're of course online. You see that language all throughout Revelation. As it were, they say, give mercy, okay, you win Right? He's making a distinction between He says, them. And it's interesting that phrase to give the neck of the enemy as opposed to cut off the neck of the enemy. They're taxed. I kind of suspect it was. And he's glorious in his apparel. And it's staining all of his garments, you see. Talk towards him and you. It just makes so much sense Thou hast delivered me from the strivings of the people He And they were correct in that. A census went out. These are Caesars, right? It's just a mess, right? Anything with numbers, he's all over. All right. Total domination in battle. Judah would be that chief That's true And he says this in chapter 2, verse 1. Hmm. Right there. I mean, he's the basically the vizier of Egypt. Spiritually, all of God's children, in fact, do bow down to Jesus. I that speak in righteousness, mighty to save. I don't know how people live with themselves. But I'm not sure that would have even entered into the ears of any of the brethren there because the That's fundamentally what Judah means. From God's perspective, He has shed blood in the beloved, in the Son. Surely shall one say, In the Lord have I righteousness and strength, even to him. You got a fire, you got your nice pot of Turkish coffee going Yeah, that's when he comes, but when is he coming? But it's pretty clear there were two animals involved. And that enmity meaning hatred for one another. Turn with me to Isaiah 45. How many sins do I have to commit before I get constrained to hell? We can. We're in Genesis 49-8 Don't let anybody tell you that But here he says, When Shiloh comes unto him shall the gathering of the Gentiles be. So let's get into it here Just amazing. Now that's interesting because old man Jacob is doing an interesting twist here 5 I'm pretty solid with I'm happy to give you a copy as well. None of that's given Hold it by the neck. Well, when they're middle aged, when they're a little more mature, a little stronger It's very curious language and uh and and I um All went to be taxed, everyone to his own city. And in that ninth month, or I should say that eighth month Oh, okay. The lion's whelp, what's a whelp? What is that time marker saying What do you think? Christ endured all of that and then some on my behalf. You shall find rest unto your souls. But let me help you a little bit. Lord, now as we approach our time of worship, may you prepare our hearts. I don't know what it means. That all the world should be taxed And you deserve nothing but death. So we read a curious account, however, of where Judah His foot is on the neck of his enemies. What are the them? Who is this that cometh from Edom with dyed garments from Basra? And I don't know if that Hebrew Yeah, it it it may. Don't need to worry about it's a I just want to know who you are. Exactly. I'd have to go back and check, but uh it it sounds like it would be. Amen. Now, what is a scepter in An infant You're just a mess. Did you notice that interesting language in there about um Would that be uh kind of akin to Shalom? And those mercies are demonstrated to us as you And if you have, well, I'll give you a pass. Hold him by the neck, yeah. And Jesus Christ validated that says the Reap We read about that in 1 Corinthians 15, a classic passage that's often preached. So the answer to who is it that's And then God asks another question and then an answer comes back. It's glorious, but it's dyed. You don't know what you're asking. Exactly So let's kind of walk through this a bit Um he's kind of both. But when you can can can can exegete to that extent Well you don't attract a big audience if you don't see how they go. And he gets this much right. It's again a familiar passage, but perhaps we can look at it in a new light. Jake. Jimmy, you look like you had a question or comments? Well it's uh What what what does that mean? So there's even greater clarity as to the name of the Lord. She's not here. That's the people they never referenced Yeah, okay So even And he's asking, well, why are you read like that? Who shall rouse him up? Think of that vine as a capital V vine. Was he um He's the It came to pass in those days So let's let's watch this here Luke was a position. He'll put his foot on it What has just happened to Judah? According to his prophecy. It's that kind of rest I can't imagine yours is any different, ladies. Instead it fell to Judah Right. And that relates to the atonement. He's that strong one, mighty in battle. It's just a gruesome picture. And this business of white with milk The last enemy that shall be destroyed is death. He got a lot, he got everything right, but One. You will drink, but you'll not drink my cup. How many do you send out? Right, right So let's look at some of that. Very veiled and very mysterious. He was guilty of one And then we get to verse 40. Do you really think It's not a natural appetite.