So we'll keep keep working our way towards that that end. So this morning I want to talk to you a bit about the sign of the Declaration of Independence. And um the Signers of the Declaration of Independence were a profoundly intelligent group of men, but they were also very religious very ethically minded. In fact there are more than that most of them were Christians. If you were looking a long list you'd find that uh most of them were Anglican Episcopalians. Bible believing of course Episcopalians The second largest group were Presbyterians, uh then there were some Lutherans and some Methodists. Uh there was a deist or two, but not a lot. Most of them were just doctrine. And I want to talk about that for a moment. Um four of the signers of Declaration of Independence were current or fur or full-time. ministers. All right. He signed the Declaration of Independence, John Witherspoon, he was the uh the only one that was a full-time minister at the time he signed it, but there were three other ministers who also signed the Declaration of Independence. So you understand when it starts talking about we're endowed by our creator with certain inalienable rights, uh they really meant creator. They really were talking about So you might want to bear in mind that four of them were ministers and uh one was actually uh an active full-time minister of the time he signed it. And then many, many more of the sign of the Declaration of Independence, although they were not ministers, their fathers were ministers or their grandfathers were ministers. And so they were sons of the clergy as well. Other than that, the individuals that signed it, all but about three, were what you call active churchgoers who contributed significantly to the churches. They were uh maybe deacons or elders something like that. There were there were just just like I say two or three that were deist at that time. The rest were were very active in their churches. And um So we're looking at the signers of the Declaration of Independence this morning. And look at Proverbs twenty nine. I'm having a little bit of a problem this morning. I don't have my glasses. These came out of a desk store in the back. I should be getting my regular s brought in here in a little bit. But the signers were members of uh religious denominations that now this is interesting too. When you look at the the signers of the Declaration of Independence and you look at well that was a very religious time back then, which which it was, you know, they just come out the Great Awakening and so forth. And they were a more religious body of people all across America. And yet the signers of the Declaration of Independence were a higher rate of Christians than even the community or the colonies uh had at that time. So it was actually a significantly higher rate of those who signed the declaration that were active Christian members than there were actually active Christian members in the community. Proverbs twenty nine two says, When the righteous are in authority, the people rejoice. And they were uh as it says here, um uh the righteous people signing that debt. Declaration of independence. The signers have long inspired uh t traditional Christians, that would be what we could talk about as ourselves, long inspired uh really Bible believing Christians even Of this day, who appreciate the Declaration of Independence recognition of God, a recognition of the Creator, recognition of the source of all our rights as enumerated in the Declaration of Independence Saw a film last night we'd be passing out of the church called Come What May. And in this they're arguing that the case of Roe vs. Wade. Roe vs. Wade has said that the reason they could abort the baby because This baby is not viable outside of the womb. It's only uh the mother's only three months or six months pregnant, something like that. And so the Supreme Court ruled because the baby would not be viable outside the womb, that is, it could not continue to live outside the womb at three or six months, it was okay to abort them. In the debate that carries on this film, it's interesting that That uh they that they argued is when does life begin? Well the Supreme Court ruled that they were alive in the womb, but they wouldn't be they but they couldn't remain alive outside the womb So when people tell you, well, when does life begin? admitted the baby was alive in the womb. The baby was viable. The Supreme Court said as long as it remained in the womb, the baby was viable, and you can't be viable unless you're alive. But they said once taken outside the womb, the baby was not viable if the mother was three months pregnant. six months pregnant. So the argument is not is the baby alive while in the womb. The Supreme Court with Roe versus away to admit it the baby was alive. And of course the Declaration of Dependence was supposed to protect all life and so they should be protected It's a great movie called Come What May. We're gonna pass around. It's put out by uh Patrick Henry College. Uh there uh they took a whole group of homeschoolers and made it. It's it's really good. you folks will see that and we'll be passing around the months ahead. But the Declaration of Independence, it's just a wonderful document, wonderful people that signed it and and that wrote it of course. Um and they they were they even believed themselves to be the instruments of providence. When you read their biographies and autobiographies, the size of the Declaration of Independence, they they really felt that um uh and they held the same sentiments And they felt there was a divine intent in the document. They felt there was an inspiration, not inspiration like the Holy Scriptures, but that they had been inspired by God to go forth the Declaration of Independence And uh uh virtually all these signers identify themselves as a part of the instrument or providence of God. Um Proverbs 3 and verse 6, in all thy ways acknowledge him and he shall direct thy paths. The signs of the Declaration of Independence, they did acknowledge God. They acknowledged him in the document. They acknowledged him in the moving upon their hearts to write this document. And to this day, countries all over the world who uh uh revolt or rebel or or take uh upon themselves uh freedoms against their dictators and so forth, they use the Declaration of Independence as a guide for writing their own constitution. So It was used over in Iraq in the last couple of years to guide them in writing their own constitution. The exception in the Science Declaration of Independence would probably be one Roman Catholic who was uh Charles Carroll. Of course you have Carroll County here. And yet he too saw the province of God in what was taking place. He too saw that there was a divine deity and a creator and so forth. So outside of uh Charles uh Carroll uh from Maryland, a delegate from Maryland, and And a couple of the deists I mentioned earlier, everyone was a Protestant, a protester, a uh a real uh Bible believing uh individual. And uh so when we look at the Declaration of Independence, we like to think of But as having been founded on a rock. Matthew seven twenty-five, it was founded upon a rock, the gospel, the church of God. But the Declaration of Independence certainly had uh similar foundations, although we're not saying it's equivalent to the the Bible at all. For other foundations can no man lay than that which was laid in Jesus Christ, first Corinthians one, chapter three, and verse eleven. And the founders and the signers of the declaration believe that. They believe that Christ Was the foundation of all faith. They believed that Christ was deity. They believed in his resurrection, his virgin birth. These were the signers of the Declaration of Independence. I want to run through some names of some of the signers, and uh I think that the the first thing to notice when you look at the signers of the Declaration of the Penance is their biblical names. There was John Hart, John from the Gospel. There was Matthew from the Gospels, Matthew Thornton. There was Philip. Again, we know the name Philip in the New Testament Uh Philip Livingston. There was James Smith, and we recognize the name James uh from the New Testament. Thomas McKean, Benjamin Rush, and so forth. Not only uh loved the Bible, knew the Bible, uh lived by the Bible, but their fathers and grandfathers had named them after uh Old and New Testament kings characters as well. Now having said that, and because we're a Bible Presbyterian church, I just want to emphasize this morning the Presbyterian signers, and that's because we're so many of them. They outnumbered the Lutherans, they outnumbered the Catholics, they outnumbered the the Methodists. They were the the largest group to sign the Declaration of Independence outside of uh the Anglican or Episcopalian Church, which at that time was the largest church in the colonies. I mean most of our colonists came from England, the Church of England. So it was a church But other than that, it was the Presbyterians, and we had twelve signers out of uh the fifty-six signers, twelve signers were Presbyterians Uh John Hart was a Presbyterian and he was a delegate from New Jersey. And he was known as Honest John. So he wasn't just a Christian in name, but he had a reputation as being a very honorable, a very upright man. He was known as Honest John. And Abraham Clark, he was a Presbyterian and he was also a delegate from New Jersey. And he was buried in a Presbyterian churchyard at at Rathway, New Jersey, also a renowned uh churchman. And then there was William Floyd, a Presbyterian. He was a delegate from New York. And he was buried in the Presbyterian church graveyard up there. in New York. Matthew Thorke was a Presbyterian and a devout Christian. He was known as a very devout Christian. He was born of Scottish, uh Irish parents. And he was a consistent and zealous Christian, it says, and a delegate from New Hampshire. Richard Stockton, a delegate from New Jersey also, and a Presbyterian And he was a patron of Princeton. Princeton Theological Seminary of course was a Presbyterian uh seminary. He and his father were uh gave lots of money to that. They wanted to keep that organization going, uh that that uh Princeton Theological Seminary going and they were uh real patrons of it and really really uh contributed greatly to it. In fact it was Richard Stockton who after the war, if you remember during the American Revolutionary War The British had come in and they had uh uh attacked uh down when gone down into Philadelphia and so forth, and they felt that was a hotbed of the American Revolution and they actually took over the campus and all the buildings at Princeton. And uh John Witherspoon and and all the theologians, they had to flee that area, took took what they could with them. Because the British got into the libraries, they burned the library at Princeton, um, they they destroyed many of the buildings, they brought their horses inside and uh housed them inside the buildings and so they had to flee that area. And when the war was over, um, Witherspoon and that they the rest of them they came back to Princeton and they were trying to Trying to purchase books for the new library. Uh they were trying to raise money and funds that they might uh you know try try to get uh the the college and the seminary back on its footing again and uh Richard Stockton was one of those patrons that really helped that. Uh Richard pa uh Stockton was not a very involved with all that, but when the Princeton was in its early years not doing as well, they were looking for um someone who'd be a really a professor with a great name, a great education, someone of renown to set Princeton up and so Richard Stockton he was well aware of a man named John Witherspoon over in Europe. And so Stockton got on a boat and uh our ship and he went over there and he asked Witherspoon if he would come. His wife did not want to come. He really pressed him and finally he left Scotland and he came to America and Witherspoon set up Up was set up as the f as the president of uh Princeton Theological Seminary in the school. But it was due to Richard Stockton that he came at all. And Richard Stockton was a Presbyterian who wanted a great man like Withers And Richard Stockton also signed the Declaration of Independence. It says train up a child in the way he should go, and when he is old, he will not depart from it. We find that many of the signs of the Declaration of Independence had been trained up in the way they should go. And they did not depart uh from it. We look at uh Philip Livingston, I mentioned him earlier. He was a descendant of a Scottish minister. And And so he had been trained up by his uh by his grandfather, a Scottish minister, a Calvinist at that. He'd been trained up in the gospel, and he had an exemplary character. Because he'd been trained up in the gospel, he became a devout uh Presbyterian and a delegate from New York and was one of the signers. George Taylor, a Presbyterian, he was born in Ulster or Northern Ireland. He was the son of a clergyman and also the delegate uh to the state of Pennsylvania. And there again, he had been trained up in the way he should go, and he stuck with the church to his dying days and remained a a very faithful president. Presbyterian, he also signed the Declaration of Independence. James Smith, he was a Presbyterian and he's a delegate from Pennsylvania. His father had actually placed him under the charge of a Reverend Dr. Allison. You know, you remember in those days we had oftentimes were like one-room schoolhouses And you might get an education up to the third or fifth grade. If your family had money or had connections, they would move you on to a higher school of learning. And that generally was you would sit under and at the feet of some uh minister, someone who had d degrees and he could speak Latin and Greek and Hebrew and so if you had the money he became like your personal tutor or your your personal uh instructor cost lots of money and the the families that could afford it or willing to sacrifice would do that. And so we have James Smith and his family knew the way he should go and when he's old enough to depart. And so James Smith, uh a delegate from Pennsylvania, he was placed under the charge of Reverend Dr. Allison He was the provost of the college in Philadelphia, and there he required the knowledge of Latin and Greek. And that's interesting to note too that many of the signers of the Declaration of Independence were fluent in Greek and Hebrew They could pick up the the old church fathers. In fact, sometimes they would even s whole classes were just taught in Latin all day long. It was quite an education. There was a time when he went to Princeton, you couldn't even get into Princeton unless you could prove that you were fluent in Greek and Hebrew and Latin. Couldn't even get in there. Today it's filled with students from Hollywood, you know, some of the jet setters what Brooke Shield I think went there and and Dean Kane and some of the other movie stars and actors. They all go to Princeton now. But they can't speak Greek, they can't speak Hebrew. It's not required anymore. Uh that was a good school in seventeen seventy six. So here we have James Smith and uh his father placed him in the charge of a of a of a minister named uh Allison and uh he learned older languages the Greek and the Hebrew and the Latin And he was uh very lively, they say, in his conversations and his manners around people. But when it came to religious subjects and religious topics, he took on a very uh grave uh attitude and uh Uh it was said that he never suffered in any way in his presence anyone to sneer at or to speak in levity about Christianity. Uh he was a quite quite the sober individual. When it came to talking about Christianity. It says he was a possessor of the sublimer virtues of Christianity, and he practiced all the holiest of precepts. And he was buried in the first Presbyterian Church Cemetery in York, P. A. Thomas McKean was a Presbyterian, a delegate from Delaware And after receiving the usual elementary education, he was also placed under the care of a Reverend Dr. Allison, the same minister, and uh for his further education uh prior to studying law, and he became a lawyer. Uh it reminds us of Jeremiah ten two, learn not the way of the heathens. The signers of the Declaration of Independence were certainly men who had not learned the way of the heathens They had exemplary educations. They were not just plantation owners or farmers out there, uh with slaves as you often hear. They were very, very educated men. In fact, Benjamin Rush, who we're going to talk to you Next, uh was a doctor with an exemplary education. Um he was opposed to slavery from the very get-go. And so you when you hear sometimes that that the signs of the declaration were all slaveholders, they weren't all slaveholders And even some of those who held slaves wish there was a better way, were looking for something different to do and uh to uh free the slaves from one time or another. Uh George Washington felt that way. And uh if you ever run to someone who's knocking George Washington for having slaves, I would love to have been a slave of George Washington's. He bequeathed in his will enough money for every slave to go to college. that he owned. His slaves were all given college educations if they wanted them. Wow. Isn't that great? I mean he sure treated his slaves rotten, didn't he? It was just uh just uh amazing what these fellows were really like. Now Benjamin Rush, he is probably one of the more famous ones and we'll we'll hear more about him But Benjamin Rush was a Presbyterian and a devout Christian. He was a delegate from Pennsylvania, and he was placed under the care of his education by a Reverend uh Dr. Finley. And so here again, men who wanted a better education. sent your son and that's where uh Benjamin Rush did. And uh this uh doctor Finley, I I didn't have a chance to look up enough of it, but he was actually the principal of the academy in Nottingham, Maryland. Now the only Nottingham I know is of is down on uh Blair Road near Silver Spring. That's called Nottingham. So that's pretty close by. That there was this this Christian Institute of Education right down on Blair Road here. And this is where Benjamin Rush was trained. And learned uh to actually become a doctor. Uh he had eminent eminent qualities as a medical practitioner and a philanthropist and as a Christian. And uh Dr. Rush became famous for not During his days as a doctor, yellow fever hit the Philadelphia area. Uh people were were just dropping in droves, they were dying in droves. It got so bad, they were closing what hospitals they had, uh what medical care they had, and the doctors were fleeing the city of Philadelphia Uh you know, the today we wouldn't panic as much over yellow fever. We would know what to do, but uh back then they didn't know what yellow fever was, they just they had it they named it, and people were dying so badly that even the doctors fled the city of fellow Philadelphia. Benjamin Rush was a Christian. He said we can't do this. In fact, he was training young doctors and young medical technicians at the time. And they all wanted to flee. They were all afraid they're gonna die of yellow fever. And Dr. Rush had such a Christian testimony that he just would not allow that uh to take place. And uh so what he he told the physicians that they shouldn't be alarmed, they should not flee the city. And uh he attached himself to sending several of his pupils And he told them that as severe as things might get, it would just disillusion uh everyone in Philadelphia if all the doctors fled. And it would especially disillusion them about their Christian faith if they fled. If you're if you have any thought of maintaining a good Christian testimony, Benjamin Rush said, You will stay here in Philadelphia with me. He said, I'd rather die of yellow fever than my Christian testimony be destroyed that I fled because I was afraid of dying. And so he stayed in Philadelphia and he and his and his and his and the pupils and the and the doctors with him, they all stayed. And they all got yellow fever. And they all lived. And it was quite a testimony of his Christian faith. That's Benjamin Rush, who signs the Declaration of Independence. He not only uh talked a good story about his faith and the gospel, he he really lived it. He stuck his stuck his neck out on the line and uh many of the physicians did not and they fled. But that's the kind of individual he was. He had a severe attack of the fever, and so did many of his pupils. Um and uh there was a time when he couldn't even get out of bed. But uh he survived it and was a great influence and and great uh uh the people of Philadelphia are greatly encouraged by him um and by those students that stayed with him also I have a little problem with these glasses. I'm trying to remember some of the things about him. The court he said, as for myself, I am determined to remain. I may fall a victim of the epidemic, and so may you gentlemen, but I prefer since I am placed here by divine providence in Philadelphia to fall in performing my duty. them. If such be the consequence of staying upon the ground than to secure my life from fleeing, he said, I'd rather die here, and it's the providence of God. I will remain if I remain alone. That was Benjamin Russ. I think of Esther who said, If I perish, I perish. And uh he had a noble heart, and many of the pupils remained with him. They performed their duties faithfully. And uh There is actually while he was in Philadelphia through the yellow fever he kept a diary, a book, which is available. And they say that the description of the dreadful yellow field epidemic is one of the most thrilling pieces of composition in English language today to read of his life in Philadelphia during those days and and uh what they went through and how the people were dying all around them. Uh as a Christian, uh biographers say of him he was a zealous Christian, a consistent Christian, even in his domestic relations uh with his family and those that lived around him. Uh the Bible, he says they said what did the Bible Dr. Benjamin Rush said the Bible is a lamp onto my feet. He was quoting Psalm 119 105. He said it's my guide on all things pertaining Search the scriptures daily. So as busy he was even during the yellow fever, he would sit down and spend some time searching the scriptures daily. Acts seventeen eleven refers to that. He said, For the knowledge in the scriptures appoint me and His belief in uh religion, his uh Christianity, his divine inspiration of the sacred writers, he believed in that. Uh it's a manifested in many of the things that he produced in the scientific realm. He was also quite a uh an entrepreneur in coming up with uh different things for treating people with medical problems Uh he was a chemist, humanitarian, politician, author, reformer, moralist, a soldier in the war in 1776. Uh he advocated temperance, no drinking, and uh uh he was Probably they're not sure. They think he was the youngest signer of the Declaration of Independence. Benjamin Rush, Dr. Benjamin Rush, this great uh Christian and Presbyterian who you know stood out at during the yellow fever in Philadelphia was probably the youngest signer of the Declaration of Independence. He was only thirty at the time and he was already a physic Um his friends that he cultivated friendships with were Thomas Jefferson, John Adams, and Thomas Paine. Sense was written by Benjamin Franklin or at least by some Presbyterian. Common sense is written really by I I think that uh uh Thomas Paine was pretty much an atheist, but he had a great way of writing and and and bringing things out that It made sense to people in in debates and arguments. And uh Benjamin Russ had had read common sense. He thought it should be printed and he he really encouraged Thomas Paine to put it in print And um and so he did. Uh in fact Thomas Paine didn't know what to call this book on common sense, and Benjamin Rush said, Why don't you just call it common sense? So Thomas Paine came up And I re I remember one of the points in the uh in the book uh Thomas Paine wrote Common Sense in order to get the people in America behind uh the Patriots to get them behind behind the the rebels as it were or the revolutionists uh and rather than standing with England who is taxing them, you know, stamp tax and the T tax. And one of the things he said was, and it's it's just a one liner, but boy, it's always stuck with In common sense, Thomas Paine said, Why should a continent, you know, a North American continent or a country listen to a little island? over in Europe because England was a little island. He said, why should this large continent listen to a little island? Common sense. People But it was Benjamin Rush, the young doctor, youngest signer of the Declaration of the Patriots The Presbyterian who encouraged Thomas Paine and they think probably paid for the printing as well, uh, named the book as well. In his latter days he was a co founder and vice president of the Philadelphia Bible Society, Benjamin Russ, which advocated and this is what he pushed As I say he was a politician as well. Uh here he was the vice president of Philadelphia Bible Society. And to his dying days he advocated and pushed and saw to it. That scripture was taught in all the public schools. So when Madeline Murray O'Hare had the scriptures and Bible reading and prayer tossed out, she tossed out what the sign of the Declaration of Independence Benjamin Rush had put In So it gives you a little thought about uh Madeline uh Murray O'Hare and what she had done and and her attitude, of course. If the foundations be destroyed, what can the righteous do? Psalm eleven and verse three Uh Benjamin Rush understood the foundations that were not to be destroyed were those set up in the scriptures. He wanted taught in the public schools, and it was in his day. The final uh and I only have eleven of the twelve Presbyterian signers I could find information on, but the final one of course is John Witherspoon. John Witherspoon had come over from Scotland. Remember I told you at Richard Stockton, one become to Princeton, one to teach at Princeton, and uh John Witherspoon uh was married at that time. He had five children in Scotland. You can imagine getting on a a boat, a boat smaller than this than this room actually th those boats weren't large back there like the Mayflower and uh getting on a boat like that or a ship and coming over to his wife and five kids. His wife did not want to come She'd already had a rough go, but they'd already lost five children. Five of their children never made it through uh the childhood. They died at very young ages. He'd had ten children, and five of them died uh uh before they ever reached uh teenage years. So she sh her health probably was not good. Uh she was concerned about the health of children coming over to a a rough and tumbled country like America. It was Richard Stockton, the sign of the Declaration of Independence, who had to come over and convinced Witherspoon that he needed to come to America and be the president of Princeton Theological Seminary. in college at that time. And uh he did convince Witherspoon and eventually that wasn't as difficult as convincing his wife. Just a little note about Witherspoon. There are no Baptists here this morning, right? Right. Okay. I I there's some information I never like to let out to the Baptists or the Methodists or anybody else. John Willisman's wife dies in America. He's 68 years old He marries a twenty-four-year-old. Okay. Uh of course John Knox did the same thing when he was about fifty-six. He married a seventeen year old or something in Pharaoh. Uh some of these great men of God, uh these great theologians, uh, they just um well Calvin Calvin really was irritated with uh uh Pharaoh when he married the young girl and he She was twenty-four or something like that. He was like seventy-one. Um it's it's a you know, no one's perfect, are they? You you see some stories here about these men. Calvin told Farrell that he in fact he never spoke to him again when he married the young Young girl. And uh but when he died, I've been told that he did do his funeral. Well, John Witherspoon, same thing. He marries a twenty four year old girl when he is sixty-eight. He lives for five more years, fathers two more children So um I guess I just maybe the only thing I can say that's positive about that is you young ladies, you young ladies or whatever ages are, uh you've got a husband, he's a Presbyterian, he may live to be a pretty pretty active uh husband. Thank you. Uh he may live to be a pretty active uh a healthy husband well into his age. And uh men apparently in 1776 weren't much different from men today. But uh that's the only uh there's a a comment on that. There was no no small comment was made about John Witherspoon when he married a again at at that late age and and to that young lady as it were. Um but let me just tell you some other things about with this one. Had not Richard Stockton brought him back uh from Scotland at Princeton, we'd have been shy, another sign of the declaration John Witherspoon uh was a great reformer and uh his lineage goes back to John Knox. He could trace his lineage back to his great great Grandfather was John Knox, and uh who was of course and and his own father was a Calvinist minister in the Scottish Church as well. He took great pains to have his early education of his son of the John son John based on sound moral and religious principles and uh is he was early determined to fit him for the gospel. His father said, I'm a minister, I want my son And it wasn't like when you grow up, what do you want to be, Johnny? It's when you grow up you will be in a pulpit and you will be a preacher. He was just told that from the from the youngest day. Maybe we ought to do more of that. Maybe we ought to do more of that. Start telling our young kids, uh when you grow up you're gonna be a preacher and see what that does to this country. But that's what John Witherspoon uh lived under, uh his father telling him that's what you're gonna be when you grow up. And he wanted to set that foundation at a very young time. The righteous is an everlasting foundation, Proverbs 10, 25. And so his father wanted his son to be righteous. foundation and so his education began uh from the very beginning and went through to the uh the University of Edinburgh. He was a diligent student, he was a delight to his father, and uh he found early on that his mind was not So as much as the father was pushing to go in the ministry, by a young age, he showed a real love. for the sacred literature. He went through the regular theological courses of study and at the age of twenty-two he graduated as was licensed and ordained as a preacher. And uh at a very young age he was widely known all over Scotland for his piety and his learning. Uh Witherspoon carried no notes in his pulpit. I carry notes. Witherspoon memorized all of his sermons. Uh Um contemporary descriptions him that he did not depend upon uh oracle flu oratorical flourishes. In other words, he had a great command of the The English language, but he didn't depend on it. He he could have done a lot of alliterations and he could have been very uh bombastic, but he wasn't like that. He pretty much just stood in the pulpit and spoke to the people with a a uh a a fervency in his heart of course, but it wasn't a a flourishing uh you know, the waving of the hands and the walking around the pulpit. Uh he wasn't bombastic. Uh his language didn't sound like like Shakespeare had written it. And yet he was very capable of doing that. Uh they don't describe him that way. They did not do that at all. In fact, uh he was uh in his free time he liked a garden. He had quite a garden. And uh of course that saves you money if you could raise your own food. And so he had quite an elaborate garden. And one day one of his parishioners came by and uh said uh Pastor John, I I see this beautiful garden, but it doesn't, there aren't any flowers in it. He says, no, my garden doesn't flourish with flowers just like my sermons there's no flourishes in them. He said, I just get to the point and give you the gospel. And that's the just the kind of a person he was. The revolution uh in uh seventeen seventy-six was not something that came difficult to John Witherspoon. Remember John Witherspoon, he's a Scotsman He already hates the English. If you think about Scottish history and the wars between Scotland and England that go well back way before 177 The Scots and the English were always fighting. So when he comes to America and he's at Princeton, uh he up there in New Jersey And he starts hearing about the Patriots and the rebels and the revolution against the King of England, who by the way the King of England at that time was a German. You know, if you think about how can you rebel against the King of England? The King of England was a German who had married into the family and became the king of England So here we got Witherspoon and if people might say, why did he go so readily with uh you know, the uh American Revolution. He was Scotch. He didn't have any problem hating the English. It came very quickly to him. It originated in Scotland. It didn't originate in the colonies. And so uh in fact at the commencement of oration he had to He had a speak at the commencement at Princeton. And in that commencement speech, uh he advocated resisting England, resisting the crown of England. And it became a famous sermon. It was printed up and was spread all over the place. And uh they just thought that this guy was great. That this Princeton theologian hated England as much as as the colonists did. And so they finally put him on local committees, uh war uh correspondent committees and wartime committees, and he figured prominently in England as uh an agitator that led in fact he was such an agitator uh that and if you realize the men that he put out in Princeton uh the number of presidents and vice presidents, and I'll give you that in a little bit, and congressmen and senators and justice, uh Supreme Court justice, whom he had trained over the years, before 1776. When you realize that Williswin, the Scotsman who hated the English anyway, And he was a Presbyterian and he was putting out all these men under him who were were grasping that that Presbyterian rebel streak that he was pushing. And when you realize that that he had had trained all these men, he signed the Declaration of Independence. And so this five of the men who signed the Declaration of Independence were actually former students of John Witherspoon. They they'd come through Princeton, they'd graduated, they got their degrees, they're out there in the world working, and they'd caught the fire of Witherspoon while they were under Is it any wonder that w over in England the word came out that is a uh that That the the the colonists have run off with a Presbyterian minister. That's what they said. And they called it uh they said we're not fighting a colonist, we're fighting the black regiment or the black brigade, which they meant the Ministers wore these black gowns. And they said the Presbyterian Revolution. Well, more Anglicans signed a Declaration of Independence than Presbyterians, but the Presbyterians were so much in the forefront of the revolution that King George called it a Presbyterian revolution. And so he did figure prominent in it, and he did agitate from the pulpit at Princeton. He did agitate in the commencement speech, his speeches And the sermons were printed and distributed around the colonies. In fact, it was under his pressure and his preaching that they removed the governor of New Jersey from his seat. They arrested him, they put him in jail. Wow. That's what Witherspoon's kind of preaching. He got the people so stirred up they went riding, went down the streets, they ousted the governor, they threw him in jail. And by the way, did anybody know who the governor of New Jersey was back then? It was Benjamin Franklin's son, William Franklin, who was not in agreement with his father about the revolution. I saw a book years ago, I wish I'd bought it. Looking for it. It was called Sons of the Revolution. And these are the sons who disagreed with the revolutionary fathers, like William Franklin disagreed with his father. Ben Franklin, uh William Franklin was born out of an illegitimate relationship. Ben Franklin Franklin felt very uh bad that this boy was gonna have a bad start in life, so he gave him the best education he could. No one knows who the real mother was, sent his son to England for a superb education, and William Franklin becomes a real English Englishman does not appreciate the rebellious uh colonies and what's going on in America. And he comes back, he's appointed by uh King George and the Parliament over there to be the governor of of New Jersey and he doesn't treat the colonists very well. He really pushes the taxes. Uh William Franklin and his father do not get along. Uh they don't speak for for decades, uh for a long, long time. And just prior They did speak for a little a little bit, but then they fell apart again, and he never did go to his father's funeral when his father died. But here he is, he's a governor of New Jersey And there's rebellion in the air, there's rebellion in the wind, and here's Witherspoon in New Jersey at Princeton, and he's preaching against the governor. The governor could have had him arrested with British troops and hauled off the jail. And it was probably a matter of who's going to go to jail first, Witherspoon or the Governor? Who would have ever thought the governor would go to jail first? But the people were so stirred up by John Witherspoon that they uh they rioted, they went down and they threw the governor in jail instead. He was eventually released and and shipped off to England just to get him out of their hair. But um he was a man, John Witherspoon, this great uh Presbyterian theologian, was a man that reminds you of Deuteronomy one seventeen, you shall not respect the persons in judgment. He was a governor and uh he didn't respect On july second, seventeen seventy six, in a congressional speech, he urged for in Independence on July 2nd. He declared the colonies were not only ripe for the measure of rebellion, but they were in danger of rot rotting for want of it. He really pushed for the rebellion and for the revolution And uh so that's why the British when they invaded New Jersey, that's why they took over Princeton, because it was Witherspoon who had created such a uh uh a agitation had gotten the governor tossed in prison and so forth and so one of the first targets when the British came was to take over Princeton and to try to capture Witherspoon. They occupied the Nassau Hall, they burned the library, uh other acts of destruction. And uh John Witherspoon it it's it's in the province of God, but of all the signers of the Declaration of Independence, many lost their homes and so forth, but only one signer of the fifty-six signers, only one lost a son in combat. And it was Reverend John Withers. His son James was killed in combat. If you ever go up there and and I was up there this last year of my first trip ever, you go into NASA Hall and they have the list of all the men who died in graduates of Princeton who died in Vietnam, Korea, Second World War, First World War, American Revolution, and you see James Witherspoon engraved in the Granite uh or concrete inside Nassau Hall. I think there were four or five men that died uh who were graduates of Princeton, but only one of them who spotted there was a sign of the Declaration of Independence. And that was James Witherspoon. It gives you kind of a chill when you stand there and look at that name up there if you're familiar at all with the with the history. Placed on some of the most important committees during the war. He had a very conspicuous part in in the military as well as the financial matters. Um give you an idea of what the students that he put out Uh one of the students who knew him very well said that uh of all women he'd ever known, uh there was no one that uh That had a presence. When you walked into a room, or if he walked in, there was such a presence about him that it just caused all the heads to turn. He said, No one ever had such a presence in any room like Witherspoon except for George Washington. And uh I think I've told the story before, but Washington had such a presence too. You you didn't walk up to George Washington, hey general, how's it going? Slap him on the shoulder. You didn't do that if you were if you were uh a congressman or senator. Washington had such a presence that you always you always came to him and in in a very uh calm demeanor and addressed him in a very gentleman could run into a room, see George Washington, shout his name, run across him, throw his arms around him, and hug George Washington, and George would hug him back, and everybody else would go, ooh, because you didn't do that George Washington. He had such a presence. He was he he he looked like a king when he walked into the room. He just he just had that that aura about him. John Witherspoon was like that. Walked into the room, you didn't have to know who he was. You just immediately sensed that somebody special had walked into the room. And so his students wrote of him like that. Uh his students included a president of the United States, a vice president of the United States States, nine cabinet officers, twenty-one senators, thirty-nine congressmen, three justices of the Supreme Court, twelve state governors Uh that's that's you know, wouldn't you love to say w out of this church, out of this group, we we put out all these presents, vice presidents, congressmen. But those are the men that that John Witherspoon trained up and laid a foundation in their hearts to be leaders of the country in America. It's no wonder that this Presbyterian preacher from Princeton, uh, that England thought it was a Presbyterian revolution, all these men he were training were were were men of of great uh accomplishments uh to come and some had already accomplished much by then. You know them by their fruits. We often read that in Matthew seven sixteen, you shall know them by their fruits. You look at the fruits of Witherspoon It's amazing that just a few short years that he taught at uh Princeton, the kind of men that he put out. Um he also participated in the reorganization of the Presbyterian Church. He uh moderated its first assembly in seventeen eighty-nine. And um two years before his death he lost his eyesight. Um I know that one of them was in a horse accident where he fell off a horse and hit his eye on a rock, but by the time he was uh about sixty nine he had No vision in either eye. He was totally blind. And the people would lead him out to the pulpit and they'd set him in the pulpit and then he would preach. Remember, he memorized his sermons. Anyway, so he didn't really need his eyesight to read his notes. Um and yet at that that old age they said he was still uh full of uh fervor and uh vigor and he would break the bread of life eagerly to the listeners at the age of seventy-one when he died. They say of the of all the theological writers, Dr. Witherspoon had few superiors, and as a statesman He held the first in rank, upright citizen, a fond parent, a just tutor, humble Christian. And when he died on in 1794 at the age of I'm sorry, seventy-three Um the papers wrote about him and these were the words they said of him. The closing words at his funeral were this from 2 Samuel 338. A great man has fallen in Israel. And that was John Witherspoon, one of the twelve signers of the Declaration of Independence. So Um and we could do one sometime on the Anglicans. We had Anglicans here, but those were the major signers of the Declaration, Anglicans and Presbyterians. And I hope that gives you a little bit of understanding of why we love the heritage of Presbyterianism. Pastor Dave, would you uh close up the prayer this morning, please?