Well, dear brethren and friends, turn with me to Psalm 98 this morning. I uh realize that this is two weeks in a row. that I preach from the Psalms and I don't often do that not out of any particular pattern but uh It's unusual that I preach from two psalms, but last week's psalm was a was a psalm that talks of judgment and of condemnation and the wrath of God. The psalm this week that we look at is a psalm of great blessing. It's a psalm of joy, a psalm of encouragement. I mentioned to to my family on the way here today that comical phrase, the beatings will continue until morale improves. And God's word is full of rebukes. It is full of condemnation of evil. But as Brother Vince mentioned in Sunday school this morning, in Christ is the love of God Outside of Christ is the wrath of God, and that is so often forgotten in our day and age. But this 98th Psalm Is a psalm of God's people dwelling in his love. It's a psalm of God's people rejoicing in him. And so I'm going to read all the verses, all nine verses of Psalm 98, starting in verse 1. Oh, sing unto the Lord a new song, for he hath done marvelous things. His right hand and his holy arm hath gotten him the victory. The Lord has made known his salvation His righteousness hath he openly shown in the sight of the heathen. He hath remembered his mercy and his truth toward the house of Israel. All the ends of the earth have seen the salvation of our God. Make a joyful noise unto the Lord all the earth. Make a loud noise and rejoice and sing praise Sing unto the Lord with the harp, with the harp and with the voice of psalm, with the trumpet and the sound of the cornet. Make a joyful noise before the Lord the King Let the sea roar, and the fullness thereof, the world and they that dwell therein. Let the floods clap their hands, let the hills be joyful together. Before the Lord, for he cometh to judge the earth. With righteousness shall he judge the world and the people with equity. Let us pray. Oh Father, now as we consider this glorious psalm, open your word to our hearts. Open our stony hearts to receive thy word. And Lord, may we, your people, rejoice in the great God and our King. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. The Word of God is filled with references to the new song. We read Psalm 149. this morning as a responsive reading which speaks of singing a new song. In Psalm thirty-three, sing a new song, play skillfully with a loud noise. Psalm forty, he hath put a new psalm in my mouth, even praise to our God. 96, oh sing a new song to the Lord a new song. Psalm uh 144, sing a new song unto thee. Isaiah 42, sing unto the Lord a new song and his praise from the end of the earth, ye that go down to the sea, and all that dwell therein, the isles and the inhabitants thereof. And then we come to the end of God's revelation of truth in the book of Revelation and chapter 5, and the scene is of the saints in heaven, and it says, and they sang a new song saying, Thou art worthy to take the book, and they open the seals thereof, for thou wast slain, and hast redeemed us to God by thy blood out of every kindred and tongue and people and nation. A new song. The birds sing. I uh love to hear birds sing. I love to walk in the woods and hear them sing and Um I there are several railroad live cams and you all know I'm a big railroad fan. I was watching a live cam from a railroad in California yesterday, watching the drains go by on my computer. But I was fascinated by the sound of the birds because it was in a somewhat desert area and different birds than we hear here in Maryland. The birds sing. But the birds don't sing a new song. When we were in Jamaica we had a couple parrots and the one key parrot would sing old McDonald Had a Farm and we could teach the bird to mimic something. But they always sang the same song. Their voice never changed. The frogs sing a song, but the frog can't move as the cow. And nature sings. We read there of the mountains or the w waves of the sea. And we love to hear the sound of a crashing ocean or a quietly babbling brook. These things that God has created, the wolves sing and the whales sing But their song is the song with which they were created. But here, to the believer, we find the abonation sing a new song unto the Lord. And so we have to understand, first of all, that the new song is the song of a new creation. It is not the song of the old man. It is the song of a new man. If any man be in Christ He is a new creature, or he is a new creation. Old things are passed away. Behold, all things are become new. It's a new song. And it is the new song of God's people that we talk about today. The new song is the song of those that are no longer conformed to this world, but have been transformed by the renewing. of their minds. And so what is this new song that we're talking about? What is it we sing about? Well this psalm is a psalm of glorious praise. We've had a lot to discourage us in in 2020. I don't think, in all honesty, that 2020 was the worst year ever. I've heard people say, oh, it's the worst year ever. There have been a lot of years, far worse than 2020. It was a good year. I lived through it. How many can say that with me this morning? I survived 2020. God brought me through it. I wasn't murdered in Baltimore in 2020. I didn't desire some die of some disease. I still have both my feet and both my hands. I wasn't dismembered. The Lord sustained us and kept us. I didn't lose my mind. My wife thinks I did, but I still got it. This psalm before us this morning is a psalm of great joy. And the first thing I'd like you to see is it's a psalm of wonder. Oh, sing unto the Lord a new song, for he has done marvelous things. And that word marvelous there is also the word wondrous. He has done wondrous things. Things for us. When the children of Israel were delivered from Egypt, they fled into the wilderness and they came to the Red Sea. And their face was to the Red Sea. Pharaoh was behind them. The mountains were on other side other side, and they were about to be destroyed. And God opened up the Red Sea. And the children of Israel walked through and they didn't get their boots muddy because they walked through on dry and dusty ground where water had just been. Pharaoh and his armies decided if they can do it, so can we. Pharaoh and his armies weren't following the ark. They were not following the presence of Jehovah. They were not following that which is right. They were following To pursue and to destroy the people of God. That familiar? Yeah, it happens today too, doesn't it? And we know the story. They were drowned in the Red Sea. And when they were drowned in the Red Sea, we read in Exodus chapter 15, then sang Moses and the children of Israel this song unto the Lord, and spake, saying, I will sing unto the Lord, for he has triumphed gloriously The horse and the rider has he cast into the sea. That's a new song of wonder, isn't it? Wow! We thought we were going to get killed! And the ocean opened up, the sea opened up, and we walked through. But Pharaoh and his armies of saying to do were drowned And then in that same Psalm of Wonder in Psalm fifteen, Exodus 15 and verse 11, Who is like unto thee, O Lord of hosts? Among the gods, who is like unto thee, doing wonders. Doing marvelously. This is a song of wonder. That is the new song of the believer. It says, O sing a new song unto the Lord. The believer has reason to sing. We often hear uh in the news of some great I use the w term great with a parentheses Hollywood figure or some music figure or some person that is really famous and everybody, you know, swoons over them Oh yeah, he he overdosed on drugs last week. Yeah, he hung himself. Uh yeah, he's divorced six times now and They have horrible lives. And they may stand up in front of an audience after they've drugged themselves up enough to get on stage and sing a happy song. But they're not happy people. But the child of God sings a song of wonder. He has saved me just as surely as he redeemed Israel from Egypt, just as surely as he spared them at the Red Sea. The horse and the rider hath he cast in the sea. No weapon that is formed against you shall prosper. It's a song of wonder The child of God has great reason to sing. But it's very interesting. I had never encountered this before, actually studying this week. And one of my favorite commentary stators, actually, Adam Clark, pointed this out, that Mary in the Magnificat Seems to echo this psalm. And you know, we know that Mary knew much of the Old Testament. Let me just very briefly share this with you. Oh, sing unto the Lord a new song. My soul doth magnify the Lord. He hath done marvelous things for me. He that is mighty hath done great things, said Mary. His right hand and holy arm hath gotten him the victory. Mary replies, he has shun strength with his arm and scattered the proud in the imaginations of their heart Psalm 98, verse 2, the Lord hath made known his salvation, his righteousness hath he openly shown. Mary says, His mercy is on them that fear him from generation to generation. Psalm 98 verse 3, he hath remembered his mercy and his truth toward the house of Israel. Mary replies, He hath hope in his servant Israel in remembrance of his mercy. I believe that Mary very well knew the Old Testament scriptures. And she very well in her glorious magnificat given to her by inspiration of God may have been quoting from the Old Testament, just as we find Paul under inspiration. Doing many times, and of course Christ Himself. Mary had cause to sing. The Lord had done great things for us, and she had cause to sing in great wonder. Great wonder at the mercy at the working of God. What wondrous love is this, oh my soul, oh my soul. What wondrous love is this, oh my soul, that Christ the Lord of bliss Should bear the awful curse for my soul. Truly the believer has cause to sing a song of great wonder. But we find also that this song of the believer, this new song, is a song of victory. It's a song of triumph. And that's what Israel was doing there when their enemies were drowned. in the Red Sea. It was a song of great victory, a song of triumph. Oh, sing unto the Lord a new song, for he hath done marvelous things, his right hand and his holy arm Hath gotten him the victory. Doesn't say gotten us the victory. And yes, certainly he has gotten the victory for us, but it's gotten him the victory. It's a song of victory. And again, as I mentioned, we consider the Red Sea song in Exodus 15 and verse 8: the right hand, thy right hand, O Lord, is become glorious in power. Thy right hand, O Lord, hath dashed in pieces the enemy. They have been crushed. What are we talking about when we talk about the right hand of God and his holy arm? Well Toeth believed Ariport, and to whom is the arm of the Lord revealed The right hand of God, the arm of the Lord is a reference to the second person of the Trinity. It is Christ who goes before his people. It is Christ that was in the pillar of cloud and in the pillar of fire in the wilderness. He is the right hand. He is the holy arm of the Lord. And it is Christ that got the victory for my soul. For on the cross he declared, it is finished. He finished the victory for my soul. And so we read in Isaiah 52 and verse 10, The Lord hath made bare his holy arm, and the eyes of all nations, and the ends of the earth shall see the salvation of our God. Doesn't that sound like Psalm 98? again. And in Isaiah 59 and verse 16, and he saw that there was no man and wondered that there was no intercessor. Therefore his arm brought salvation unto him. And his righteousness sustained him. But then we find John in his vision of heaven And there's a book there. And John says, I wept much because no man was found worthy to open and to read the book, neither to look thereon. And one of the elders said unto me, Weep not. Behold, the lion of the tribe of Judah, the root of David, hath prevailed. And that word prevailed has gotten the victory. Hath prevailed to open the book. and to loose the seals thereof. My friend, the song, the new song that we sing is a song of victory. Because Christ has won the victory for his people, O death. Where is thy sting? O Grave, where is thy victory? For the grave's victory has become the most amazing defeat there ever was. Remember back to the Gulf War when Saddam Hussein said it was going to be the mother of all victories and and uh I think it was um Swarchkopf said it was the the mother of all defeats. Well, it wasn't a defeat that came anywhere close to the defeat of the grave. In the day that ye eat thereof, thou shalt surely die. There's no escaping it. There's no getting out of it. You're going to die. It's going to happen. It is sure. But Christ stepped into the picture. And he defeated the enemy that no one else could defeat. The believer sings a new song, and it's a song of victory. We are on the winning side. It doesn't matter what happens in politics. It doesn't matter what happens in science or science so-called. It doesn't matter what happens in the economy. It doesn't matter what happens. We prayed for the persecuted church today. Are they defeated? No. They stand in victory. We sing a new song to the Lord, and it's a song of praise for the victory he has won. But it even gets more specific as we go into the second verse. Well let me mention one other thing. This this this is kind of a this this piece is free. This is this is a side piece. Did you ever consider That the references to salvation are his holy hand his hand, his right hand, his holy arm And I realize when Christ created the world, he spoke. He didn't use bodily parts as we think of. He spoke into existence. But in Psalm 8 and verse 3, it says, the heavens are the work of his finger. And so with his finger he made the heavens, but it took his arm to defeat our foe. I don't know if that's a good application or not, which is an interesting use of words in Scripture. Thirdly, this song is a song of grace. It's a song of grace. Look at verse 2 of Psalm 98. The Lord hath made known his salvation His righteousness has he openly shown in the sight of the heathen. Now, at first glance, it seems like this is parallelism. Okay, and then one of the forms of Hebrew poetry is parallelism, where a statement is said and then it's stated again the same statement. This is not parallelism. This is a contrast. He made known his salvation. His righteousness hath he shown in the eyes of the heathen. And I say that because this term made known is a very pointed and active term. And let me show you what I mean by that. In Psalm 103 in verse 7, he made known his ways unto Moses, his acts unto the children of men. Did he just happen to tell Moses his ways? No. He appeared in a burning bush. You see, to make known is not a passive phrase. You can openly show something, but to make it known is to make sure they get the point. To make it known is to open the cranium and stuff it into their brain. There's no getting away from it. He appeared. To Moses in a burning bush. Consider this one. Luke 2 and verse 15. Let us now go into Bethlehem and see the thing which the Lord hath made known unto us. Folks, that was angels in the sky that appeared to shepherds, not to Herod. Not to the scribes and the Pharisees. But the shepherd said, The Lord has made this known There's no denying it. There's no misunderstanding it. There's no confusing it. It has been made known. That is something totally different than showing his righteousness to the heathen. In John 15 and verse 15, Christ speaking to his disciples, he says, Henceforth I call you not servants, for the servant knoweth not what his Lord doeth But I have called you friends, for all things that I have heard of my father I have made known unto you. I said, I made these things known. Now we read of multitudes that heard Christ preach And after the feeding of the five thousand they came, and Christ said, You came because of the loaves and fishes. You haven't heard. My sheep hear my voice, and they know me And so to make known his salvation is different than showing his righteousness. The world understands that God is righteous. But to those who were transformed to sing a new song, he's made it known. He made his way known unto me after I was through Bible college and after I was ordained into the ministry, one day sitting in my office in Jamaica. God arrested me with his word and transformed me and changed me and I passed from death into life. He made it known. There was no escaping it. There was no questioning it. There was no doubting it. This song of the believers is song of grace. The grace of God arrested my heart. And there's more. In Ephesians chapter one We read verses 7 to 9, in whom we have redemption through his blood, the forgiveness of sins according to the riches of his grace, wherein as he has abounded toward us in all wisdom and prudence, having made known unto us the mystery of his will. He hasn't done that for every man, woman, and child on the earth. But he's made known to us the mischievous will according to his goodness, the goodness To his good pleasure, excuse me, which he had purposed in himself. Paul's own testimony In Ephesians 3, how that by revelation he made known unto me the mystery. Well, how did Paul get the mystery? It was a light on the road to Damascus. It was not just, hey, here it is, take it or leave it. This is a song of grace. He has made known his truth to his people. Now it does mention there the heathen. And it is indeed true that the heathen frequently is a reference to the Gentiles. It's a reference to those that are not part of Israel. He made known his ways unto Moses, unto Israel, and his righteousness unto the heathen There were Rahab's. There were those. Remember Rahab's testimony? We have heard what Jehovah did to the kings. He makes known his righteousness to all men But oh, there is a group separated from those of the world that are his own elect, and to them he makes known. And so it's a psalm of grace. It's a psalm of wonder, of victory, of grace. But also this is a psalm, this new song is a song of the faithfulness of God. Look at verse 3 of Psalm 98. He hath remembered his mercy and his truth toward the house of Israel. All the ends of the earth have seen the salvation of God And that again, that all the ends of the earth have seen the salvation. That's not saving grace salvation spoken of there, but they've seen the deliverance that God gave to Israel out of Egypt. Does God ever forget? Well, no. God doesn't forget. Uh we say that our sins are remembered no more, they're forgotten, but that is the divine act of God's uh prerogative to set them aside. And so when it says that he remembered his mercy and truth, it doesn't mean he forgot it and We were on our way to church I'm gonna embarrass my wife, sorry Penny. We were on our way to church this morning and we were praying and all of a sudden she grabbed my leg and she said interrupted the prayer and said, the bulletins Well, fortunately we did have the bulletins in the car. But she did not remember them coming to the car and suddenly as we're driving to the church she thought we'd left the bulletins. Okay That is human nature. We forget things. Had God somehow forgotten his mercy and truth and now suddenly, oh yeah, yeah, string around the finger. No, that's not what it's saying at all This is not a song of forgetfulness, it's a song of faithfulness. This word remember here is the same word that's used in Genesis 8. When we find Noah and his family in the Ark, and it says, and God remembered Noah. Had God ever forgotten about Noah in the Ark? No. God was faithful to Noah the whole time, and Noah and his family slept in the Ark, but God didn't sleep. Ah, this is a song of faithfulness. It's the same word that was used in Genesis 19 when God was ready to destroy Sodom and the cities of the plain, and it says, And God remembered Abraham and sent Lot out of the midst of the city God had not forgotten about Abraham. God knew about him all the time. But this remembrance was a remembrance of faithfulness. I'm going to destroy the whole earth, but I'm going to remember Noah. I'm going to destroy all the plains of Sodom, but I'm going to remember Abraham. This is also the same word that was used of Rachel in Genesis 30, where Rachel was barren. But it says in Genesis 30, verse 2, or 22, and God remembered Rachel. Oh, he came to her with great compassion and gave her a child. Compare all that with Exodus 20 and verse 8. Remember the Sabbath to keep it holy. We don't forget that it's the Lord's Day. We know what day of the week it is, generally. We get confused sometimes. But we are to remember the Sabbath. We're to be observant of it. We're to be careful of it. And the model is that of God who remembered Abraham and remembered Noah and remembered Sarah. Or to remember it. In Malachi 3 and verse 6, I am the Lord, I change not. Therefore, ye sons of Jacob are not consumed. This is a psalm, a song of faithfulness. The faithfulness of our God. Faithful is he who calleth you, who will also do it. The song of the believer, this new song, is a song of mercy and truth. Look at verse 3. Again, he hath remembered his mercy and truth toward the house of Israel. Is God a God of mercy? Yes, he is. Did God have mercy on those who were beating on the side of the ark? No. Is God a God of mercy? Yes, he is. Did God have mercy on the army of Pharaoh in the Red Sea? Is God a God of mercy? Yes, he is. Did God have mercy on the inhabitants of Jericho? One He's faithful to remember his mercy and his truth. And it's interesting in scripture how often these two concepts, mercy and truth, are linked together. In Psalm 25, verses ten and eleven, all the paths of the Lord are mercy and truth to such as keep his covenant and his testimonies. For thy name's sake, O Lord, pardon my iniquity, for it is great. He's a God of mercy and truth. And as the due believer sings this new song to the Lord, which has been placed in our heart by God. I will sing of the mercies of the Lord forever. I will sing. I will sing. Did Rahab deserve to be delivered? No. She was a harlot. She was a woman of the city. She was an inhabitant of Jericho. Did I deserve to be saved? Did I deserve mercy? Why was I not born in a country where I live and die and never hear the name of Jesus Christ? Why was I not born in some place where I would hear all of Muhammad and never of Jesus? Why was I not born in a place where it's illegal to gather and worship? God placed me in this country and in a pastor's home and in church from the first week of my life. And in Christian school, and in Bible college, and in circumstance after circumstance after circumstance, none of which were happenstance. All of which to bring me to the saving knowledge of Jesus Christ. This is a song of mercy. Oh Lord, you've been merciful to my soul, and your truth is everlasting. That's the song of the new new creature. Psalm 85, verse 10, Mercy and truth are met together. Righteousness and peace have kissed each other. Psalm 86, but thou, O Lord, art a God full of compassion and gracious, long-suffering and plenteous in mercy and truth. And so, because this is a song of wonder at the greatness of God, and a psalm of pray, a song of grace, and a song of mercy, a psalm of fur faithfulness. It must inherently be a song of praise. And that's what we find in verses four through eight. Make a joyful noise unto the Lord, all the earth. Have you heard that before? That's a uh repeated refrain throughout the Psalms. Make a joyful noise. Uh our singing may not be pretty, but oh, it should be joyful. God doesn't say carry a tune He just says praising. And I mentioned earlier that I was watching a a live cam from California yesterday and hearing the desert birds there the cry of of the of the hawks as they as they hunted. Beautiful, beautiful. Not a particular tune, but praise to the Creator It's a song of praise. Make a joyful noise unto the Lord, all the earth. Make a loud noise and rejoice and sing praise. Sing unto the Lord with the harp With the harp and with the voice of psalm, with the trumpet and the sound of cornet, make a joyful noise before the Lord the King. Let the sea roar in the fullness thereof, the world and all that dwell therein, let the floods clap their hands, let the hills be joyful together Amazing grace, how sweet the sound Saved arrex like me. I once was lost like Isn't that the way a lot of times singing the praise of God is approached? Doesn't say quiet, does it? It says loud. And the the water shoots up through through an air hole in the top of the cave and wow. There's power there. I I appreciate the way our pianist plays the piano because it's not timid. It's not it's it's not held back. We're praising the great God of heaven! That's right. Go team Go. Raw, raw. No, you you you you know you you you Don't recommend it, but you watch these idiots and yeah they've got their their chest all painted and all kinds of nonsense going on and they're screaming at the top of their lungs. Right Over a ball game that's gonna be gone. Makes no difference. The song of the believer. It's a song of praise. And I'm not saying that we scream and have disorder in our singing. Not at all. But David was mocked because he danced before the Lord with all his might. You know, if the Lord has put a new song in our heart, we should bell it out. My dear father-in-law, who may well listen to this message. Has said he can't sing pretty, but he he sings to the Lord. Because the Lord has put a song in his heart. That's the song of the new believer. That's the new song of the redeemed. Sing unto the Lord a song of praise. Hallelujah. Glory to God. He's won the victory, it's a song of triumph. He's won, he's done marvelous things, it's a song of wonder He saved my song. It's a soul. It's a song of grace. He has been merciful to me when I deserve judgment. It's a song of mercy. What a glorious song of praise. We recently considered Psalm 33. Rejoice in the Lord, all ye righteous, for praise is comely for the upright. But then finally, I'd point out to you this morning that the song of the new creature, the song of the believer, is the song of hope. If you watch the news, there's not a lot of hope is there? Oh, there's some people that have a lot of hope in the new administration coming in. I don't. But there but there's some people. I I was reading an article the other day about how great it's gonna be and You know, they they gave uh gave President Obama the uh Nobel Peace Prize before he even got in office and you know the the world the world loves to to cheer For let's not even go there. Yeah, for do nothing. So that's that's a good way to put it. But the song of the believer is truly a song of hope. Look at verse nine. Verses four through eight are talking about the song of praise before the Lord, for he cometh. Folks, it doesn't matter who's president, he's coming. It doesn't matter what disease in the world Christ is coming. It doesn't matter what country rules over us, Christ is coming. It doesn't matter what the stock market does, Christ is coming. We have hope. It's been a lot of on the news about how depressed people have been because of COVID. Suicide rates are way up. Why? Because people don't have hope. But the new song of the child of God is a song of hope. And look why he comes. Before the Lord, for he cometh to judge the earth. With righteousness shall he judge the world. You know, our courts aren't always righteous. And the people with equity. Our court's not always equitable. But the righteous judge is coming, and he will judge righteously and with equity. We've got hope, folks. We've got hope that the world knows nothing of. Nevertheless, we according to the promise look for a new heaven and a new earth. wherein dwelleth righteousness, second Peter three, verse thirteen. A new heaven and a new earth wherein dwelleth righteousness. There will not be bars and saloons and dens of iniquity on the corners. You won't have to walk down the street with a three fifty seven Magnum in your back pocket for protection. He comes to judge the world. And we look for a new heaven and a new earth, wherein dwelleth righteousness. Wherefore, beloved, see that ye look for such things, be diligent. That you be found of him in peace without spot, blameless. Because the creature itself, Romans 8. 21 Because the creature itself also shall be delivered from the bondage of corruption. What is the bondage of corruption? It is this old corrupt body Doesn't matter that the new strain of COVID is seventy times or you know, seventy percent more contagious. He's coming to deliver us from the bondage of corruption. The bondage of corruption of this corruptible body and the bondage of corruption of the sin that this body commits. Into the glorious liberty for the children of God. Beloved, now are we the sons of God, and it doth not yet appear what we shall be. But we know that when he shall appear We shall be like him, for we shall see him as he is. Every man that hath this hope in himself purifies himself even as he is pure. Ah, that's the song of the new creature. It's a song of hope. He which testifieth these things saith, Surely I come quickly. Amen. Even so come, Lord Jesus. What is your hope for 2020, 2021? Well, I I know that a lot of our young people are uh hoping towards their the pursuit of their education. uh the next year of college or entering college. Uh I know that some of our young people are are hoping to advance in their careers. I know some of us some of us are hoping to survive another year and we all have hopes and and desires and we look towards the future. And the old saying, I know not what the future holds, but I know him who holds the future. But you know what folks, none of that really matters. But we have hope. We have hope. Christ is coming again. He's coming soon. What a glorious song that God has given. to us believer. This year let us sing the new song to the Lord. Let us stand for prayer.