All right. Well, this is an unusual study, and we're taking a break from our series in 1 Peter, because I've recently retired after working for 32 years across the Department of Defense as a contractor, both as a project lead, as a chief engineer, as a system administrator, as a director, as all different types of roles. And I've had it for the most part with the same company for except for a few years in my own business And as I'm reflecting on looking back at all that has happened during that time, I've um there's I started to write down in the morning all the things that came to my mind that I said, you know From a biblical perspective, here's things that really stand out. As I survey the time when I first got the job offer to the day I punched out and said, you know, I I think I'm really leaving and you really make that decision. There are things that just stand out as you survey the landscape of of the past. And so I've got six things lined up for you. Now it turns out these six things as I went and wrote them down. They were chief in my head. I knew they were biblically based, and I said, well let me find the clearest scriptures that speak to it. As I did that, I assembled them and I realized that I had one passage from each chapter of the book of Ephesians. And it just so happened to lay that way. And I thought, well that's nice. Let me arrange it according to chapter 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6. But I thought, no, that's not really the prominent thing that stands out. So I'm going to keep it in the order of prominence that I saw it. So we'll jump back and forth in Ephesians, and of course there's other places in the Bible we'll go. But uh it does have one portion from each chapter of the book of Ephesians. So with that, let's get into it. And the first thing I can tell you beyond a shadow of a doubt that stands out strong, loud, and clear. after working for all this time, is that God's providence and God's sovereignty is real. It really operates in your life. Turn to Ephesians chapter 1 and verses 20 and 21. The sentence that I'm dealing with actually begins in verse 17, and it says, the Lord the God of our Lord Jesus Christ. And then we get to verse 20 in the second part of that. It says, the God of our Lord Jesus Christ set him, referring to Christ, at his own right hand. in the heavenly places, and notice where he set him at. He is far above all principality and power and might and dominion. Those are all terms we find elsewhere that are used in reference to the angelic realm. Apparently, angels have a hierarchy. There's a government structure to them There's an angel called Gabriel and Michael who are archangels. They're chief angels. So we know that there's at least a layer of chief angels, and then there's some subordinate angels below them. Christ is set even above them. He continues, the Apostle Paul, writing under inspiration, that Christ is set at his right hand above every name that is named. not only in this world, but also in that which is to come. When he refers to someone who has been named, he's talking about a prominent figure. If I were to ask you to name certain prominent politicians The president might come to mind, the vice president, certain representatives of Congress, maybe your governor. You'll know certain names of political figures, good, bad, or indifferent. You'll know them. It doesn't matter where their name resides at, whether it's in the name of this world or in the name of the world that's to come Christ is set above all of that. Now, what significance does that have on the business ventures of one little individual living in Maryland Well, turn to Daniel chapter 4 and verse 25, and you'll see that there's a king who discovered how God rules and what significance he had in his life. It's our good old buddy King Nebuchadnezzar. King Nebuchadnezzar was a proud man, and he discovered that God has the ability to humble him and the ability to restore him. In Daniel 4. 25, the statement came, the interpretation of the dream came to the king from our friend Daniel. He says in verse 24, this is the interpretation, O King, this is the decree of the Most High which has come upon my Lord the King. They shall drive thee from men, and thy dwelling shall be with the beasts of the field. and they shall make thee to eat grass as oxen, and they shall wet thee with the dew of heaven, and seven times shall pass over thee till thou know that the Most High ruleth in the kingdom of men and giveth it to whomsoever he will. One of the things our God does is that he rules over the kingdom of men. I remember telling a co-worker years ago, and he actually still works with the company, God put George Bush in office. He thought that was hilarious. He thought that was really strange. No, our God is the one who puts men up and puts them down. He gives it to whomsoever He will. Well, after Nebuchadnezzar got his lesson and the fulfillment came through, here was his statement in verse 35, this very same king. He's now praising the Lord. And he goes in verse 35 and says, All the inhabitants of the earth are reputed as nothing. And he doeth according to his will in the army of heaven, and among the inhabitants of the earth. Are you an inhabitant of the earth? Well, he definitely rules over you as well. None can stay his hand or say unto him, What doest thou? So certainly Nebuchadnezzar discovered in a very real and personal way that God is one who rules and he superintends in men's lives. We all know what Romans 8. 28 says. I'll refresh your memory. It says, we know that all things work together for good to them that love God, to them who are the called according to his purpose. You know, I've said many times to people that when we teach and talk about the sovereignty of God, you see it plainly only in the rearview mirror If you want to know what to do with your life, if you want to know how to go forward, if you want to know how to make certain decisions, God gave you the Bible. That's the windshield, that's the roadmap, that's how you go forward. And it's general principles Principles that have to be applied to the situation at hand. But God is sovereign in all that. And even though man proposes, it's the Lord who disposes. We may make some plans, but the counsel of the Lord, that shall stand. And I can clearly see that in the rearview mirror. I can see it financially uh from the ability to to pay off uh big debts early uh and to be able to retire at age 55. I see it geographically uh when I move from Southern California to Maryland Three years. We were thinking uh three years before a very significant event occurred, Angela and I were thinking to build a house in Southern California. We picked out the property. Beautiful piece of land. Nice area, great region. Deal fell through. We lost money on the deal. We couldn't build there. We had to cut our losses and walk away from it. But you know what happened three years later A fire swept through that area and burned that entire section of that piece of property to the ground. And I remember talking with the fire department Before we got our permits, or we were trying to get permits, they said, Nope, you're gonna have to build a water tower on this property because you're too far from a fire hydrant. And I thought, a water tower? Who wants to have a house with a forty-foot water tower on it? Well, that was a smart fire uh fire sergeant. And of course we didn't want that. It would have been way too much money and it would have driven the cost into something that at the time I didn't think was of any value. But that whole property burned to the ground. So the Lord made it very clear that one wasn't for me. Because he knew that three years down the road it's going to be burnt down, burnt to the ground. And indeed that did happen. I see it in the timing of job openings. I wish I had kept the sticky note that showed up on my desk from a guy named Mike that says, Vince, we need a man who can do exactly what you're doing in Gathersburg, Maryland. Could you write us a job description of what you do? And just weeks before, Angela and I had been discussing and thinking, gee, wouldn't it be nice to get back to Maryland? Well, I don't have any job offers out in Maryland. I don't know, you know, maybe Texas, you know, Raytheons out there, maybe they'll take me there. But lo and behold, here uh this was our desire, and God kicked open a very big door for us to come out to Maryland. When I went and told him, I said, yeah, I think we'd be willing to relocate. He was strong. He was like, that would be phenomenal, that'd be awesome And it uh it ushered in a very great thing for us to build out here with our experiences of what we had in California. I've seen it in interviews that failed. I tried in vain to get on with certain employers. I tried in vain to get work at certain companies because I wanted to be closer to my job, not have as long of a commute, and I was that close to getting a job uh with a particular customer here in Maryland. Well it turned out that contract was a disaster. It went down in flames. It was a bad contract. The government uh had had uh uh uh picked the lowest bidder and the lowest bidder happened to want to bring me on board and they had a bunch of incompetent people that they picked up because it was the lowest bid and I would have been worked to death Uh those that didn't know what they were doing uh were were leaving and droves and it was a very hard time to keep them on that program. I thank the Lord. That fell apart. That didn't come through. I was so hopeful. I was like, yes, what is it This is so great. Why can't I get in? It was a blessing in disguise. God's providence and sovereignty are indeed real. Men told me in writing over the years certain things would not and could not happen. And yet I found out later it did to my benefit. God overrules. Sometimes corporations have policies. God runs roughshod over that One of the things I've discovered is that if I look back and figure out the way that I have taken, most of the paths I've taken at that time were things I kicked against and resisted I didn't want that to happen. I didn't want this painful thing to happen. I didn't want this to happen. And yet when I went through it, it turned out to be much, much, much for the better. Or other times certain ways occurred that weren't in writing. It wasn't a choice that was on paper. It wasn't something that they figured out. It was through strange sets of circumstances that legally things played out in my favor. Never would have planned it that way. The Lord has a lot of tricks up his sleeve, if I can use a worldly phrase. He knows how to navigate around the sons of men. Don't get upset just because uh a policy says whatever or you know somebody says no or uh you pray to the Lord and He can take care of all that stuff. There's nothing stopping him. He has a million ways to get things done. If he wants it done, it'll happen. It'll happen. I I I came into some painful jobs that God determined for me to have. Painful jobs, lots of travel. I was doing so much air travel on the road that one day I woke up in a hotel. I had no clue what city I was in. Why I was even there, who I was supposed to meet with, I didn't have the foggiest idea. And I lay there in total ignorance on my bed for five minutes, marveling at my stupidity I had over 250,000 miles on American Airlines. I had traveled around the world multiple times the equivalent distance across all kinds of cities, and that's wearisome. Three out of four weeks I was on the road. That is just wearisome. And I finally rolled over in the bed and I pulled out the drawer and I looked at the phone book. Ah! Rochester, Minnesota. Now I know why I'm here. I had no clue. And that was a sign to me that said, I think I'm traveling a little too much But that painful job set the way for later on, so that when I did have a family a new wife, a new baby, and I needed to be home more often, because I had traveled and I had seniority and because I had learned a lot about the customer space and about what they were doing. That they were able to put me into a position which didn't require as much travel because I already knew that customer environment So sometimes God puts you through a miserable lot knowing that, trust me, son, you're going to want to go through this now and suck it up while you can, because later I've got something better for you. But you just got to pay your dues right now. And I've seen that. I've looked back again in the rearview mirror. When you're in it, I called it Joseph's prison. He wouldn't really want to be in prison, but that was the path to being second in command. What leadership book says the way to second in power is through a prison? There ain't one out there that says that. None of them do. But that was God's way to get out there. I've had good bosses that told me things I needed to hear at the right time, and it helped me later on. God sent them all my way without me asking for it. I got shuffled from one boss to the next, to the other, and I chuck it all up to the providence of God And so it's real. It's very real. And I say that to encourage you, because you may find yourself in certain ways and avenues and paths in your career. You think, I don't know what's going on. This seems totally backwards That's okay, you can look, you can try to move, but don't get too down and out if the answer is no. Know this, God is still watching out over you. He's still watching out. The second thing I've learned in these 32 years is that diligence is profitable. Diligence is profitable. Nobody likes a lazy worker. And let me talk about diligence a bit. I've been a supervisor for a number of years and I've had young people that were just getting out of school to people who had already retired from their career and came back to work because they were bored and wanted more work to do and they could teach me a thing or two. I've had to supervise that range of people in between But diligence is unmistakable. You find a diligent employee, that's your best employee, hands down. The Bible teaches this in spades. Let's take a walk through the book of Proverbs. So turn to Proverbs 10. The book of Proverbs talks much about this business of diligence. And these verses would stand out in my mind as I saw certain things happen in my job. Proverbs 10. 4. He becometh poor, that dealeth with a slack hand, but the hand of the diligent maketh rich. You know, my dad used to tell me that some people will simply eliminate themselves on the job. I've had some miserable employees report to me, and eventually they left the company. And they went on and they were a plague and a problem to somebody else. Good riddance. Don't let the door hit you on your way out. It's happy to see them go. But I'll tell you what, a diligent employee is somebody you want to hang on to, and I found that to be true in my own life, to be diligent. Proverbs 12, 24 Says this, the hand of the diligent shall bear rule, but the slothful shall be under tribute. If you're going to advance anywhere in your career, at one point you're going to have to have the word manager in your title Now how do you get to that? Well here's how those decisions are made. The managers and the directors are sitting there having an assessment about the business and they're looking out across the workforce They need somebody yesterday. The business is booming, things are expanding, and they're looking for somebody that they can rely on If it's a good management team, if it's a good company, they're going to look from within first. And that's also the easiest way, because to find somebody with low skills to do a menial job That's a little easier to find than somebody who knows all the nuances of our company and all the ins and outs and all the people and how to handle things correctly. you know, maybe the right thing to do on paper is to go and bark at the finance department because they're doing something wrong. But only an insider would know that no, they're a little testy over there. You have to treat them with kid gloves and make sure you bring Mrs. Smith some chocolate and then you'll get your way. You know, she really likes chocolate almonds. That's how you get your way. You need somebody like that who knows how to operate in the company. Look within. Who do you think they're going to look for? Well, they're not going to look for the person who doesn't pay attention to detail. They're not going to pick a person who doesn't seem to be too concerned about the business, seems to be more concerned about football, or more concerned about their online gaming or hanging out on Facebook all the time or the latest jokes or they're hanging out the coffee in the water cooler all the time. I guarantee you that person's not going to be selected. They may post the position and the person may apply, but I guarantee you management has somebody in mind. They'll come around, psst, we just opened up a job. for a manager. I think you'd be a good manager. Why don't you go apply? Let me send you the link. Right? They want good people to be there And so they're going to look for somebody who's diligent. Proverbs twenty-one and verse five is another one. It says this. It says, The thoughts of the diligent tend only to plenteousness, but of everyone that is hasty only to want. Proverbs 22 and verse 29. This is one I've seen happen in my career personally several times. Seest thou a man diligent in his business, he shall stand before kings, he shall not stand before mean men Mean men doesn't mean meanies like they're going to beat you up. It means arithmetic mean, as an average. You're not going to stand in front of the average Joe. The average Joe isn't discriminating When you stand before very senior government leaders, as chief engineers are wont to be asked to do, when you're making presentation to very senior government officials, These are people who really aren't idiots. They didn't get up there because they're not diligent. Now I'm not talking about political appointees and the like, and even that I would still be careful with. You still need to be very diligent in what you're doing. Because they can lob some pretty tough questions. And I have found that 50% of the time when you're there, they're going to lob a question to you that you really haven't thought of. And you need to stop and honestly reflect and think through, but only you'll be able to answer if you've been diligent in the business. Let me give you some examples of what that means to be diligent in the business. Uh well I'm jumping ahead of myself, but uh uh well let me point it out. Here's the best thing I think you could do. Um it's really very simple. You got to figure out what your internal customer, there's customers, everybody thinks that the customer is, you know, somebody outside our business. Well no, you have an internal customer. If you're in the finance department, if you're in the IT department, if you're in the music department, whatever it is, you're hawking your wares, you're delivering your service for somebody internally who in turn is serving somebody else that's external to the organization. Find out who your internal customer is and what they want and how they like it. And go the step next step further. Find out what their customers want. And how they like it. Go a step further. Find out how that customer serves his. Everybody has a customer. If you understand that value stream, all of these people that are being served, I guarantee you you're going to be very valuable to the organization because you're going to understand and know why you're doing what you're doing. You have to get on board with that You've got to get your head around what this organization is really trying to do, and you've got to come up to speed on it fast. You've got to be a master of those facts. Start a little OneNote database. I love OneNote for that very purpose because it's great. You just dump all kinds of stuff in it. It's searchable. You can go back and find things. There's unique acronyms to your industry. Write those things down and capture them. If there's unique vendors that your business works with, keep a log of who these people are and just start to build up your own little fact pile and become the go-to person for that. People will notice that. Why? Because you're diligent. You're paying attention to what your customers want and need, and that's very important. That's extremely important. It's true for leaders at all levels, but diligence is the foundation on which other qualities are then laid on top. I'll just read a couple of other Proverbs. You can turn while you're there in Proverbs 24. Go to Proverbs 27 Proverbs 27, 23, this is a good one for both businessmen as well as pastors. I think in the first instance it refers to pastors, but it's very true in the business world as well. It says in verse 23 of Proverbs 27, Be thou diligent to know the state of thy flocks and look well to thy herds. I like that word state. It re it relates to status. The Hebrew term is the word face. to know the face of your flocks. The Bible doesn't really commend an armchair leader. The best type of management is called MBWA Management by walking around. Go walk and talk to the employees. Go look at them in the face. How's it going? They will tell you stuff in person. More than they'll tell you in email. There's a lot of people that just won't type and communicate things in email. I'd say 30% of your people will not do that. But if you walk around and talk to them and find out that's good. Just get up, walk, get away from the desk, go walk and talk, just go see how things are going, sit down. If they want to shoot the breeze about a ball game, that's fine, but quickly direct it to Hey, I'm just here to talk about how it's going with work stuff. Anything I can can do for you. What can I do to help you? Because your job as a manager is to remove stumbling blocks. You know, keep the employees productive. You're like air cover. Go go get all the junk out of the way so the employees can get stuff done. That's your job. So show up and say, what can I do to help? Don't say you're here from Washington, I'm here to help, then they'll turn it and run. I've had people who wanted a promotion because they pitched one briefing deck and the customer liked it. I kid you not, I'll never forget this. This young individual had just hired on the company We have been trying for years to come up with a set of metrics on an operational system in the field to figure out how the enterprise is using its system. And we finally figured out what metrics to grab and how to present it. And so we tasked this brand new hire with the job of putting a few charts together to show that. And so she got the job of presenting it because that was now her role. Well the customer went nuts. They're like, this is fantastic Now, she thought she did a great job of assembling the data that had been painfully put together over the past year by many others besides her. She thought it was all because of her. That she did a nice job in PowerPoint. She picked the right font. She had the right colors. Nobody cared about that. It was the data. It was the information she was pitching that was useful. She came into my office wanting to know when she's going to get a promotion. So, well, the way it works is that you got to do that, oh, for another two or three years. And when we begin to see consistently that you're doing this and your customers recognizing you and you're operating in a level of responsibility beyond what your current pay grade is, then we'll talk about a promotion. Well she didn't like that. She said, You sound like my dad. Well maybe I'll listen to your dad. I don't know. Um You've got to really become a master of your of your task and you've got to get on top of that. She didn't bother studying where that information came from. She didn't bother figuring out all the history of that. She didn't understand why they liked that. I could tell she was clueless to all that Well, that leads me to my third point. Things I've learned over the years. The first was the sovereignty of God and the providence of God is real. Second is that diligence is profitable. The third one is No one, and I mean no one, is irreplaceable. No one is irreplaceable. There are some individuals that show up that are just extraordinarily gifted individuals. I have met several software developers that that dress well, show up on time, work hard, produce quality, quality code, can produce a product on the screen you look at and you go, man, is that professional looking They can present well to a customer. They can architect and design things. New challenges are thrown on. Can you change it to do this other exotic thing? And after a few weeks that it's doing it, and you just go, wow, how did we get this guy? And he's incredible, just real raw talent. And then they begin to realize that, yes, I'm very talented, and then they go wave their wares and their resume to somebody else, and they go off after in the been there five years and they get a bigger job and a bigger title. We lost so-and-so. No one is irreplaceable. Turn to Ephesians chapter 4 and verse 8. Now theologically the verse is not entirely aligned with my point, but And if you can think of some better passages, that's great. 1 Corinthians 12 comes to mind, but that's a different context. Ephesians 4. 8 says this, wherefore he saith, When he that is Christ ascended up on high, he led captivity captive and gave gifts unto men. My point is this, God gives a wide variety of gifts to each individual. Now, ultimately, in this passage, the gift that God has in view is that of salvation He's giving the gift of salvation to all sorts of men, to include Jews as well as Gentiles. Yet at the same time, it's the Lord who dispenses abilities to individuals. That's clearly evident to me. I have three children, and they all three have very unique sets of gifts, and there are some that there is no way that I could be able to teach them to do the gift that they have. They have something that I am utterly clueless on how to counsel and instruct them. I can figure out how to go find somebody who can teach them how to further their their goals and objectives, but not me God gives gifts to individuals, and he does so in the workplace as well. It's a blessing when God brings into your company a collection of people who are truly gifted and talented. That's a blessing of the Lord But if that batch leaves, a different set of people will come in with different skills and strengths. Don't panic. It's not necessarily bad. It takes a certain set of skills for a businessman, an entrepreneur, to bring a company up to about a quantity of, say, 25 individuals. But to take it to the next level, up to 100, requires another set of leadership and management skills. And to go from 100 to 1,000 or 10,000 requires yet a different, very different set of management skills. It's extraordinarily unusual. Extraordinarily unusual. I would say, I would liken it to winning the lottery. Where one individual can take the company from his garage to a Fortune 500 company traded on the New York Stock Exchange. That is the exception, by far, and not the norm. Again, that would be entirely a gift of God. When two groups of engineers come together, Group A and Group B Presented with the same problem, the same specifications, the same challenge, the same description of how the customer wants to use it, you're going to have two different solutions Or more. There will be internal competing variances within that. Why? Different sets of gifts, different sets of talents, different strengths. Every engineer is going to play to his strength. Every worker is going to play to their strength. If they're a strong network person, they're going to solve this thing with Cisco routers and firewalls and all this stuff. If they're a strong financier and they know Excel, you better believe he's going to go with Excel on steroids. Some other guy knows a different accounting package and he's going to go bonkers on that. Somebody else is going to do it in Java. There's a range of acceptability. And so no one's irreplaceable. Just a different set of talents and gifts are going to come in, and management's going to react differently, and they'll approach and tackle the problem in a different way. Some people who were in the shadows of this very powerful individual may step up their game. They may come out of their shell. They may start to perform better because this other guy was kind of beating them down. He was so looked after and so sought after that when he's gone now, hey, I can stretch a little bit, I can stretch my wings out, I can try new things. I think I'd like to do something a little different and and maybe emulate this other person a little bit and do it their own way. It works out fine. So nobody is irreplaceable. And by the way, that also means you. Don't ever get a big head to thinking, boy, they couldn't replace me The second I did that, I said, there's no way they could lay me off. The second I said that, man, two months later I had a layoff notice. It didn't matter that I had an 83% win rate on proposals. That didn't matter. You would think, wow, this is a guy that can write proposals. Eight out of ten, he wins. He's on a winning team for it. It takes more than one person to write a proposal. But boy, don't ever think you're irreplaceable because man, you'll get humbled in a heartbeat. Yep, we can replace you. You're gone. You're out of there. Somebody else will come in. Don't ever think that Which leads me very nicely into my fourth point. Turn to Ephesians 3. Turn to Ephesians chapter 3 and verse 8. The point is this. It's okay to think you're an idiot. It is actually okay to think that you're the biggest idiot on the job, and boy, I've got a lot of learning to do. It's okay. Look at the Apostle Paul in Ephesians 3. 8. He says, Unto me who am less than the least of all saints, is this grace given that I should preach among the Gentiles the unsearchable riches of Christ. Notice what he says about himself. He says, I am less than the least of all. He doesn't say apostles He says, least, less than the least of all the saints. Saints in the Bible are not specifically exonerated individuals made after their death and their dead body propped up in a glass case in a building somewhere. We're talking about believers. If you believe in Jesus Christ, you are a saint in the scriptures. He says, you find the lowest saint out there, the most humble door greeter, a disabled person who perhaps can't even speak well He says, I am less than the least of them. And he says he was because he knows he persecuted the church of God. He was aware of his depravity. He was aware of his background. And he knew he just wasn't up to that level of snuff. And look at what great things God did with this man. He wasn't boasting here. He wasn't being facetious or pretentious, speaking honestly. You know, I was never trained to be an engineer. I was in the sciences. Science, it turns out, is about discovery. You're trying to discover some new thing. And I thought I want to go work in that field I'd had a great internship at Union Oil. I made a ton of money as an intern. I knew where my office would be in Houston, Texas. See, that's that pride thing again. You know where you're going to be at. Didn't pan out. As an intern, I had $10,000 signature authority in the 80s, and I had a secretary. That's pretty heady stuff for a guy who's only a junior in college. And it took two years of being an engineer to get near the salary I had just as an intern at an oil company. But when oil tanks, it tanks really, really hard, and it drove me totally out of the state of Texas. And lo and behold, I get a job as an engineer The very group of people I made fun of on college campuses, the ones that I leered and jeered at and thought, because these guys weren't having nearly as much fun as I was. Well now I am one. Uh-oh, this isn't looking good And how I got that was a miracle of grace on top of it. And so I always walked around thinking I am the biggest idiot in the room. I never trained to be an engineer. These guys know how to do everything. They know how to build everything. And wow, I thought they had all the answers And and I and and uh but it turns out that nobody likes an arrogant coworker. Uh engineering is about teamwork, it's about collaboration, it's about solving things. They know how to figure things out Engineering is about creation. Science is about discovery. And when you're collaborating with colleagues and when you're working collectively with people and everybody kicking in their ideas and batting it around, You have to be humble enough to throw your idea out there and not be offended if somebody says, no, that's trash, it's not going to work. Okay, my idea was trash. Well, because I thought I was a big idiot, that didn't surprise me one bit. I felt like you know big doofus. Well yeah, doofus threw a stupid idea out there. Yep, no surprise. They shot that down. I'm sorry for even suggesting it. Oh man, I'm never gonna make that mistake again. Not realizing that's part of the job. Sometimes I put an idea out there and they went, that's great. Can you make a picture of that? It's like, oh okay. And I'll never forget the first meeting I went to where I had this picture of an idea. All these people are there in front of me looking at me like I had the answer. I'm like, it's just my idea. I don't know what do you think. And they're like, okay, that's great. Let's go make that happen. I couldn't believe it. But that's how engineering works. It's collaboration. One plus one plus one is ten. You get more out of each individual when they all work together. Guess what? That's true of any business. An engineer in isolation, I've always said, is a bad thing. You have to be humble, you have to be ever-learning, you have to raise your hand, you have to ask questions. Just don't ask the same question over and over again. When you get an answer, go write it down someplace. You know that fact pile thing I was talking about. Yeah, you've got to do that. When you do that, when you consider yourself an idiot and others better than yourselves It makes others respect you more. People are very respectful because nobody likes an arrogant know-it-all. They just don't like that kind of a person. It also makes the young workers happy to work for you because they can present an idea. Hey, what do you think? I don't know, it sounds good. Because you're willing to take a good idea no matter where it comes from Yes, not all good ideas are good ideas. Sometimes you want to shoot the good idea fairy and say enough of the good ideas. I don't need more footballs on the field. I need somebody to run the football down the field. Go get to work. Don't give me new ideas. Go get to work. There's a time and a place for that. So we see this in the Apostle Paul's letter. He says he's least less than all the least of the saints, and I think that's a good approach. It's okay to think you're an idiot. Just don't try to stay that way. Fifth point, things I've learned. What am I doing on time? We're moving in a fair clip. Like that, we're moving in a fair clip. About to lose my audience to sleep here. I'm gonna try not to be grandpa and drone on about when I was a kid walked up s both uphills both ways in the snow. That's good. All right, you can rest yourself. That's all right. Oh yeah, I know. I get hurting eyes too. Fifth point. And then I got a sixth point, and then we can wrap it up. Fifth point. Walk and these two are related to each other. And men, this is very important. This is very important. Ladies too. Did I miss anybody? Got men and ladies. Got everybody to discover. Okay. Walk circumspectly on the job. Walk circumspectly on the job. What do I mean by that? Circumspectly means to be careful to consider all circumstances and consequences. You've got to think through what you're doing. I'm kind of getting into the non-technical personal side of the job, of a career. Look at Ephesians chapter 2 and the first three verses. Ephesians 2. It says this, and you hath he quickened who were dead in trespasses and sins. Wherein in time past ye walked according to the course of this world, according to the prince of the power of the air, the spirit that now worketh in the children of disobedience. Among whom also we all had our conversation in time past. Notice we all had our conversation in time past. Notice where it's at, time past. In the lusts of our flesh, fulfilling the desires of the flesh and of the mind, and we're by nature the children of wrath, even as others. You have to be s you have to be very, very careful uh in in how you operate on the job. Look uh for a moment to uh Titus chapter two. Titus chapter two and verses nine and ten. I'm going to pull these two verses together here in just a moment. Let's get the scriptural counsel and principles in front of us first. Titus 2, 9 and 10 says this: Exhort servants to be obedient unto their own masters. and to please them well in all things, not answering again, not purloining, that means pilfering or petty theft, but showing all good fidelity That they may adorn the doctrine of God, our Savior, in all things. Now he's talking about servants. All first year Seminary students are taught to be Weisenheimers and they say, well, that means slaves. No, I think the King James Bible did a very fine job of rendering it servants. Not everybody is a slave in the ancient world. And they've rendered it perfectly fine here as a servant. You and I are servants at a job. And there will be times when you will be tempted on your job to compromise your values. as a Christian, that little voice pops up. This is the right way. Walk you in it. Turn ye not to the right hand or to the left. That little voice will pop up And it pops up in my head more often than not when I see a little pile of sticky notes, because I like sticky notes, and I use them a lot at the house. And there's a never-ending supply of them at work. And I hardly ever go to the supply store on my own. And every time I'm tempted to get one, I think, you fool. They give you more than enough money. You don't need to pilfer. You don't need to steal this little thing from your employer. Are you really that broke? Don't sell out your Christian testimony over a stupid pile of sticky notes because eventually people notice. There was one secretary, I remember, that uh she was very prompt at arriving. I mean, you could set your clock by this woman. She'd show up at 0800 on the mark and she was gone at 0500 at the end of the day, or 1700 at the end of the day, she was gone. And everything was just very meticulous. And some of us as a new employee, very young, would go over to her desk and she had two nickels in her desk and they were both face side up, side by side. And we'd go and we'd flip one tailside down. Shut her desk. And we checked the next day, it was flipped right side up, face just lined up perfectly. And we'd go and flip the other one down. It was flipped right side. She had to have those two nickels in her desk drawer at the top right, and they were flipped straight. There are some people who pay meticulous attention. To detail in the office. Your buddy that you watch NFL football with, or whatever, or whatever other stupid thing you're doing with them. I don't advertise doing that, but I'm just saying, you know, in the workplace you talk with people about stuff. They may not pay attention to these things, but somebody there is. Somebody's got to restock that supply cabinet. Somebody's going to notice it. It will get noticed. And you're compromised. Why? Is it really worth it? Is it really worth it? You've got to uh uh don't blow your testimony as a Christian. It was paid for by the blood of nothing less than Jesus Christ Himself. It's not worth it to throw it away for that stupid stuff. You don't want to cheat your customer. You don't want to do that. You don't want to develop a bad reputation. You're reflecting the name of Christ. What does it say in Titus? That when they may adorn the doctrine of God, our Savior, in all things You know, this is the idea is that you're serving the Lord here. This is what you've got to pay attention to. You have to follow through on your commitments. If your word goes forth from your mouth, I will do such and such, follow through on it. And if you can't, you need to go notify them. Hey, something came up. I can't follow through on this. I'm prepared to do X instead. What can I do? You know, if you make a commitment, follow through on it. So don't say anything rashly. You've got to think it through and you get better at that over time. Get into good habits, stick with them, because people are going to figure you out eventually anyway sign on my boss's wall had had this that says uh character is someone who does the right thing when no one's looking that's the person they're also going to try to pick for a manager role too The guy guilty of petty theft, are you going to put him in charge of shipping and receiving? Hardly. One of the funniest cartoons I had to have ever seen was a guy at a donut shop. And the boss of the donut shop's got his hands on his hip with a strange look on his face. And next to him is a woman that's really, really huge, and she's got crumbs falling out of her mouth with her eyes like this. And the and the boss at the donut shop, the caption reads, gee, I don't understand. I'm clearing 500 donuts a week, but I'm barely turning a profit Somebody's helping themselves. Right. Well a good reputation on your job is not only good in front of men It's not only a good reputation in the Lord, but if God should allow you someday, men, to be selected as an elder, it's a key qualification for elder. Look at 1 Timothy 3. 7. You can back that up two pages and you'll hit it. Or three pages. 1 Timothy 3. 7 says this. Moreover, he must, this is not optional, it's not a nice to have. He must have a good report of them which are without. lest he fall into the reproach and snare of the devil. In this context, without means without the church, people outside the church. The implication is the man's not a monk, he's not living in a monastery, he's not in a tent in the desert. away from all these unholy people, it's just me and my holy cactus. No, he's out and among people in the world. Not fornicators of the church, but in the world. Okay? There's a passage I'm referring to, don't don't get me wrong in that. There's a passage that says, uh I would not that you should, you know, go out of the world. Uh uh the where's that passage at? Now that I've gotten myself into it. It's 1 Corinthians which totally disrupted my line of thinking here. Apologize, but I want to clarify what I just said there. John seventeen, fifteen. No. Then he must needs go out of the world. First Corinthians five. 9. I wrote unto you in an epistle not to company with fornicators, yet not altogether with fornicators of this world, or with covetous or extortioners, idolaters, for then you must needs go out of the world. Now I've written unto you not to keep company with any man called a brother, B-A. And he goes on to list these things, fornicator, coveters, psychologists, and so forth. Then that are without are those in the outside world that you and I are interacting with. And as a Christian, you ought to have an extremely positive response back from them. There should be a good reputation To be a Christian in the world does not mean that you're always going to be an object of scorn, that you're going to be persecuted. Many times we're persecuted from self-fulfilling prophecy. We're going to do things that are sloppy and lazy enough that they're going to fire me. And they fire you. Well, they didn't fire you because you're a Christian. They fired you because you're sloppy and lazy. That's why they fired you. I'm persecuted for Christ's sake. No, you're not. You're persecuted because you were lazy. You were sloppy. You were stealing. You were caught doing something you shouldn't have done. And so one of the qualifications for an elder is to have that good report of them that are without. Why, lest he fall into reproach and snare the devil? Can you imagine a man that gets appointed as a deacon, as an elder, a church, and then you find out later that, man, this guy had been Embezzling from his comp from his company. Hundreds of thousands of dollars. Gee, what do you think that's going to do the reputation of the church around probably not going to serve it well at all. It might explode, might split some of the church, it put the church into a state of disrepair. People would question the leadership across the board if you can Have this guy in your midst, what does that say of the rest of you? It's a serious thing. So walk circumspectly on the job Don't don't there's no reason to to sell out Christianity. And beware of compartmentalizing your time. You know, you're on the job, you're probably away from other Christians. So you think, well, I can act like a worldling. And then you go back to the Christians and you put on a different face. You don't want to be a Sunday-only Christian. You need to be, you need to have that integrity on the job as well. Now they're not paying you to evangelize. You're not being paid to evangelize. At lunch break on your own time in the parking lot when it's appropriate, yes, you can share with them. Hey, would you like to come to church? We've got a certain thing going on, but I'd like to invite you out to that. Hey, I came across this thing I read recently. Why don't you take a look at it and let me know what you think? Uh or you know, uh I I watched this video that was a really interesting blessing to the family. Uh Would you like to take a look at it? You don't have to press it. You don't have to press it. They know, they know what you're about. If they got questions, they'll come and ask. But you're not being paid to stand up on a soapbox and preaching your job. You're not being paid to do that. So just keep that in mind as well. It doesn't mean you're quiet about it. You can demonstrate it in your integrity on the job. That's a big way that you can do that. The last point is this, and then this one's aimed at uh Men mostly, but but it can also happen to women as well. The point number six is this. Turn to Ephesians five. While you're turning there, the point is this. To watch out, watch out for seeds of illicit relationships Watch out for seeds of illicit relationships. The Bible tells us in Ephesians 5. 3, But fornication and all uncleanness or covetousness let it not once Be named among you, as becometh saints. Proverbs says, debate thy cause with thy neighbor himself, and discover not a secret to another. Thessalonians says, abstain from all appearance of evil. I have seen single women stop by another engineer's office who is married to have a daily chat. She would casually sit down in his office chair, and they would just have their daily chat for thirty to forty-five minutes, laughing, joking, having a good time. It was a regular thing. I'd walk by and I'd see this gal sitting there with this other engineer who I will not name. And he was married. I knew he was married. She, I don't know if she was or not, to be honest. They just had a grand old time daily for a good thirty to forty-five minutes. They were just sh and they weren't she wasn't inquiring about hard engineering problems and how to resolve them, it was very obvious that they were just having a grand old talk. And it wasn't a an occasional sit-down talk with the supervisor, hey let's have a mid-year review. How's it going? No, this was a daily thing. There was a relationship going on there. A relationship at work. He was quite, he was having a great time and he looked forward to talking to this girl every day. I had no idea what was going on at home. I've seen a married man and a woman walking real close together in the parking lot, a long way in the parking lot going out to lunch. And uh one of them happened to glance behind and see me walking behind them. I was going to the same burger joint they were And they discovered me there and they're like two magnets. All of a sudden they were six feet apart. Yeah, what's going on here? In today's workplace, men work alongside women in very close confines. And you have to maintain a good business relationship because the job requires it, but watch out. That can lead to stability because there's an expectation. I'm talking about a corporate office where I typically worked at. There's an expectation for professional uh relationships for for being professional, which is very stable. It's not chaotic. And that stability can be very attractive to those who are living in unstable homes. Married life can be very difficult. Domestic violence is usually on the top of police officers' concerns for when people get shot and officers get shot. There's a fight going on inside a home. A husband and wife are arguing or a uh some domestic setting and the police come and it's a knock-down, drag-out fight, and it's dangerous. Many people's home lives are rough. And that stability at work and that very professional man who shows up, dresses up, he's behaving well. That woman who's professional, dressed up, nice, behaving well, they look very attractive. They look a lot better than this job headache. And I've seen men who get divorced. And they produce some of the most awesome engineering products because they throw their entire self. They'll work 16 hours a day on a project. I've seen guys there They're punching the clock long before I got there at 7. 30 and they were there past 6 o'clock because I see emails from them at 7 or 8 o'clock at night. And they're doing some incredible amounts of work. Why? Because they just had a divorce And the workplace is even more stable than the home, and they don't have anything to do with it, and they throw everything at there. But there's still a human need for interaction. There's still this human need. Man, be careful with that. Watch out for the seeds of an illicit relationship. It starts very innocently. Very, very innocently You could be sharing, they could ask, hey, good to see you this morning. You know, what'd you do this weekend? How's it going? Oh, that's interesting. And they want to talk about it some more. And then they share some things with you about theirs. And then they go about their business. And they talk about work stuff. Just a casual thing, no big deal, and that's fine. And the next day, same thing. Hey, how about that so-and-so? Oh, that's neat. I understand you like this. And they start to learn more about your life. And that's okay to have a friend at work. But be careful. Be careful. Because it can develop into a close and abiding relationship very easily, especially with somebody uh of the opposite sex and especially if they're married because you don't know what's going on in their home life What you have to do is you have to put a line up. And here's the line. Do not share any marital woes with co-workers of the opposite sex If you and the wife had a big argument that morning, you don't want to go into work and tell your buddies about it. Man, you wouldn't believe what so-and-so did to me or what she said. Nope, don't do that. Do not confide in a co-worker in these things. That's exactly the first path, a good path where divorces occur. What's Mr. So-and-so going to say to the woman who's had a big fight at home with her husband and she's talking to her engineering friend at work. He's very sympathetic. I can't believe he would do that to you. Oh, that's so terrible. Boy, he's really done you wrong. I'm just oh I feel so sorry for you. I'm just shocked. What else? Oh, that sounds terrible. You're crying on his shoulder. And boy, he's liking this because there's more attention. And then we can be texting each other. We can, oh boy, watch out. You're confiding each other. Don't do that. Draw that line. Bite your tongue. Don't do that. Don't go down that path. Save the sweetest words for home, not the job. That's exactly when the devil is going to send somebody your way is the day that you have a miserable time at home. It could be it could be with a roommate. Gee, my roommate, or with a church. You wouldn't believe the stupid stuff this church did Don't go down that path. There's no need to disparage it there. You're there on the job. Keep it focused on the job, on that mission. Watch out for these illicit relationships because that can creep up I can very much creep up. Save those sweet words for the home, not for the job. Don't be extra glowing tonight to people on the job. Use those nice glowing words for people at the job. Use those nice glowing words for your spouse. That's where you need to put that. Be even more forbearing at home than you are in the job. There are some people on the job, they are just nice and polite. They get home and they're just rah-r-r-rr. They're just kicking the cat and they're just ripping a new one. It's like, man, I'd hate to work with that guy. Oh no, he's a great guy to work with And then there's other guys I know I've seen at work, they're just terrible to work with. But he's got a very content wife and she loves him. She thinks he's wonderful because he's totally the opposite at home He's rough on the job. He's nice at home. He's got his priorities straight. I'll close out that point with one thing somebody told me years ago, and it's been it's kept it in my mind, uh, and it's a really good one, to help put right priorities on things. Many different parts of your life are like balls. There's the work ball, there's the health ball, there's the family ball. Work is like a rubber ball. You can drop that. You can drop that ball, and it'll bounce back up because there's always going to be work. There's always work to do. But your health, your family, it's a glass ball. Don't let that drop. Don't let that drop. That drops, it breaks. That's one ball you cannot let break. You cannot sacrifice that. Don't lay down your life on the altar of service for a company over and against your family. Not worth it. Not worth it. Remember point one? God's sovereign? Maybe that's a test. And you know, employees respect you more when they see that you've got your priorities straight. If you're some slacky, some some wacky that's going to lay down his life for the company, yeah, you know, it's like you almost feel bad asking to do something because you know Uh I had one co-worker one time. He was one of these guys that wanted to fire, uh, and he was not responsibly uh re there was a priority one Problem. Network was down. Customers coming in in two hours for a demo. We need to fix this network yesterday. And he knew about the problem yesterday. And here it is, two hours is still not fixed. And he seems to be lackadaisical about it. He doesn't seem to be where is he at? Can't find him. Customers coming in 45 minutes. He's strolling through the door with a pizza on his hand. No, lunchtime. No, not lunchtime. Time to get to work. Go fix this thing. Um I forgot why I haven't gotten that story. It's terrible. Um you'll come to me in a second. Um Anyway, oh I remember why. So the uh uh as we're trying to resolve this thing, uh we had to reach out to other people to help solve it. And would you believe they called some guy out of a funeral? They paged him. They texted him. They got a hold of this old boy. He's at somebody's funeral. Obviously you don't go to funerals if you don't care about the person. They called him out of a funeral to come back in to help support this thing. I would have been totally okay if that man had not come out of the funeral, had stayed there at the funeral, comfort his loved one, his wife, whatever, and let me use this as an example, do the best I can with his customer, which turned out wouldn't have gone good anyway. And that I would have held that as ample justification to say, and that's why Bubba needs to be fired. Okay? Sometimes it's okay just to let it fall down and go into flames, because Bubba needed to be fired. Well, I leave that parting thought with you. So six lessons from 32 years. And by the way, I title it as an engineering Christian. That's one more thing I want to put out. It would have made for a simpler title to say a Christian engineer. But you know why I phrased it that way? I'll ask you this. Somebody asked me a long time ago. Vince, are you a Christian who happens to be an engineer? Or are you an engineer who happens to be a Christian? Which one are you? I'm a Christian first, and I happen to be an engineer. And so that's why I call it as an engineering Christian. I'm a Christian first and foremost. Don't let your identity be wrapped up in your job. That's not who you are. You're a Christian. That's your identity. You just happen to be employed as a fill-in-the-blank. That'll come and go. That'll come and go. Alright, we'll close it out there. Hope that was helpful. Depending on the response and the feedback I get. I've got other um since this is a uh milestone point in my life uh with uh retirement and uh and paying off a ton of debt and and changing. Some might have some questions uh also I've got other topics like uh financial planning and those sorts of things and how that might how a Christian might tackle that. Uh so if that's of interest I can do one more study on that and that's And that would be it. But let's close in prayer