We just started into it last week and today we're going to keep digging into it some because I find it to be quite a fascinating passage. So um if you have your Bible, open it to Hebrews 2. 3. You also got in your bulletin the uh scripture verses that we will go over today. But I'm just going to read the first three verses. I only have verse three in your bulletin handout. Hebrews, the second chapter, and I'm going to read the first three verses by introduction Therefore, we ought to give. The more earnest heed, that word more earnest means even beyond what you might normally do. To the things which we have heard, lest at any time we should let them slip. Well, what are the things that we've heard? Well, what's he talking about? Verse 2. For if the word spoken by angels was steadfast, those are spiritual ministers, and every transgression and disobedience received a just recompense of reward, how shall we escape? If we neglect so great salvation. I'm going to look at that word neglect, or look at that word great, great salvation, which at the first began to be spoken by the Lord. We're going to touch on that topic. And was confirmed unto us by them that heard him. And in that last part of verse 3, we're going to lay the foundation for next week's study, which Was gonna catch a lot of you by surprise. So I'm just laying the groundwork for next week. So you should find this one to be interesting Alright, so that's the passage, and we're going to really focus on verse 3. I'm going to look at neglecting. I'm going to look at this business of a great salvation because I really don't want to pass over that too quickly. I don't want to just kind of say, oh yeah, you all know salvation's great. Well we've it's kind of nice sometimes to go through the cabinet. We have a very nice uh federal period cabinet here that a former neighbor of mine gave to me as a uh thank you for some things I've done for him. He bought it and refinished it completely, kept all the original era parts in it and we store all of our nice uh glassware and so forth. Every now and then it's nice to kind of open up. Just look at those things. Angela's got a nice jewelry box. Sometimes it's nice for little girls when they go look at their mother's jewelry box to look at all the nice things. Well we have a little treasure box too. It's called So Great Salvation. So I don't want to just wave the hand. Yeah, you know, it's just the jewelry box. No, I kind of want to just spend at least a little time pulling out those jewels. And then we're going to talk about what does it mean at the first spoken by Jesus and then later by us. What's going on there Alright, neglect. I actually have questions for a change. It won't be a monologue. Sometimes I'm so full of matter I don't have time for questions. I've got to get everything off my chest. But that doesn't help you because you just fall asleep because I'll drone on. It says, how should we escape if we neglect? And I really got fascinated with that word neglect. It's a Greek word that means it's ah milo, meaning to not care about ah in the Greek language. That first word a is a negating term To not do something, to not care for it literally means to not care about, or frankly, just to neglect. So it's a good translation. To not care about something. There are similar concepts for that that we find. And I'm going to have a reader, somebody read John 10. 13. It's in the handout, but I just need a reader. And then I'm going to ask a question. John 10. 13. Anybody? It's not a big verb. All right, he careth not for the sheep. So what does that passage say about their depth of concern? Yeah. It's not there. Okay, what else? Yeah, go ahead. Only looking for their own good? He's looking for his own good. Um what is a hireling anyway? He yeah, it's his job. This is just a job, right? I'm clocking in nine to five pal. Five oh one I'm out of here. And uh when I'm gone, I'm gone. What happens when the heat is on? When it gets tough? Tough keep going. The tough yeah, well the tough will get going to start working on the job, but the hireling what does the hireling do when it really gets tough? It gets going too. It always frustrated me when I was at my company and pro came proposal time. And then all the engineers, all all the really good engineers, they knew they were going to get tapped for proposal. No engineer wants to work a proposal. It's a lot of thankless work. It's very difficult. They just kind of disappear. You just can't find oh no, I've got other stuff to do. Um you've seen maybe contractors do that. You know, they start to work on something, they discover a big problem. Let's just put a piece of drywall over it and move on. Let's just skip it. Right? Why is it they do that? It's easy. Okay, it's easy. Is it the right thing to do? No. So why do they do that? They don't care about it. They just don't care about it, right? It's not why is it they don't care about it? impact them. Oh, okay. It doesn't impact them. Alright. Um there's a phrase the world says, uh you gotta have some skin. In the game. In the game, right? You gotta have and the hireling has no skin in this game. Look, I ain't gonna go fight no wolf. They tend to come in packs. Ain't my sheep If all the sheep get eaten up, but if I fight this wolf, he might sink his fangs in me. I might get roughed up a bit. No, I'm not I'm not liking this. Forget it. I'm out of here. Hey, that's that word neglect. Neglect. Okay? Somebody read Acts 18, 17. Sitting right there in your bulletin. Timothy, read Acts 18, 17. I'm just gonna pick on that. before the judgment seat and Gallo Gallio cared for none of those things. Yeah, Gallio was the uh fellow who was presiding over this trial. They uh these Greeks took this chief ruler of the synagogue. And uh he had been uh listening uh to the teachings of Jesus. They didn't like that, and uh they were complaining before this ruler, and then they decided, well, we're just gonna beat this guy We're just gonna beat him right here. We're just gonna pull out some sticks and some canes. We're just gonna start beating on him. And the fellow presiding over the trial is watching these things and it says he cared for none of these things. So Timothy, what does that say about the depth of his concern? He didn't care at all. He didn't seem to care. I was there a pronouncement of innocent or guilt? I don't read any in the text. He didn't seem to care what the law said. We just kind of beat him on the head and it didn't seem to matter You know, there's actually a interesting spiritual connection then back to our passage looking at Hebrews 2. 3. How shall we escape if we neglect for so great salvation? So think of salvation as your flock of sheep. Somebody's going to come and tear up the Word of God, trash the gospel. You're going to get in there and fight for it, or are you I don't care. Not worth it. Be like the hireling. I just want to avoid conflict. I don't know. Can you imagine a soldier coming into battle? He's paid by the US military. They're they're paying his wages. They're giving him the greens. He's gotta go out there and fight. And he gets in there and says, I just don't want to conflict. I just don't want to you're a soldier. You have to care for these things. No one else. There's a spiritual connection there. We see injustice. The word of God speaks to these things. Oh well, I don't care. But here he's not talking about injustice, social injustice, though there certainly is plenty of that around. He's not talking about Losing your flock. He says, if we neglect so great salvation, I want to look at two examples of spiritual neglect, and one of them is in Matthew 22. Four and five. Anton, uh see if you can get Elias to let you read Matthew 22, 4 and 5. Sure. Again, he sent forth other servants saying. Tell them which are bidden, Behold, I have prepared my dinner, my oxen and my fatlings are killed, and all things are ready. Come unto the marriage. But they made a light of it And went their ways. One to his farm, another to his merchandise. So that phrase made light of it. That's our word neglect. So tell me what's going on there. What does that say about their depth of concern? Ah well it looks like uh they had other priorities. Ah well that's a good way to put it. They had other priorities. There is a king that made this great sufferer. And of course you know this parable, right? Because the Lord Jesus speaks about that being the call to salvation And it's a great supper. Everything's prepared. You don't have to prepare anything. You have to bring anything. He says, just come. Because I've made a marriage for my son. Well, who is the son of the king? Well, that would be the Lord Jesus Christ. And what is that marriage? Well, it's his union to his bride, the church. The church of Jesus Christ is his bride. And all are called, and few are chosen. And the call goes out, and those who are not going to come, they have an excuse. They neglect so great salvation. That's exactly what this parable is talking about. Notice the neglect always is comes with a reason, doesn't it? You've got an excuse. What's their excuses? One says he's got a farm, he's got merchandise, he's got another account says he's I've I I've married a new wife as if though she can't come. I've bought five oxen, I go to prove them. Really? Is it really that important? It it's beautiful that the the give in verse one is almost the opposite of the neglect in verse three. Yes. You give the eed. I mean there's uh active activeness there. Yes. And and so the giving heed also implies because the neglect typically comes because there's too big of a price to pay. Uh I've got other priorities. It's too big of a price to pay. I you know, my physical flesh, I don't want no wolves chewing on me. I may look bad in their eyes, I may lose some friends, I may not get as many likes on my channel. That's a big thing for the Gen Z be Gen Zizis Zeers. Hebrews 8, 8, and 9 picks up on this phrase as well. I'd like to read that one for you. It's in it's the fourth verse in your handout. For finding fault with them, he God saith, Behold, the days come, saith the Lord, when I will make a new covenant with the house of Israel and with the house of Judah. Not according to the covenant that I made with the house uh with their fathers in the day when I took them by the hand to lead them out of the land of Egypt. Now it's not going to be like that covenant. It's comparable, but not exactly the same. to lead them out of the land of Egypt. Because they continued not in my covenant, and I regarded them not. Now that's interesting that regarded them not could literally be rendered I neglected them. That's the same word neglect. Now, in this Hebrews 8-9 passage, what reason is given for God to not regard these people? He says, I regarded them not. Why? Why is God not regarding them? The house of Israel, the house of Judah. He says, I'm not going to regard them. Why? I'm going to neglect them. Why? Oh interesting. You use the same word, perfect. They neglected his covenant. They neglected his commandments. Do you see what that means? When they neg this there's a phrase the world says The the the world says this they say maybe you've heard of this what goes around comes around you ever heard that phrase well what what the what do people mean when they say that There's nothing new under the sun. Well, that's true. I think it's in the same I've heard what goes around comes around when uh in in in a little different context. Um you're close. We'll we'll build on that some. All right, what he sows, that shall he reap. Um, you know, isn't it funny that uh criminals When you live a life of crime or or lies and all that, if you're lying to other people, then you have all of a sudden you find a bunch of other people are lying back to you. If you're cheating and stealing and cutting corners, people are gonna cheat and steal and cut corners to you So the world says what goes around comes around. You know, what you end up doing, it tends to come back your way. So that phrase is reasonably accurate, but they're leaving something out. What are they leaving out? This is your challenge question for the day. I could phrase it differently and I think you'll understand what I'm saying. But what are they leaving out? Bingo! Wow, there's our college student right back there who nailed it in a word. Because I could have said, who were they leaving out? you would understand. Yeah, they observe that what goes around comes around, but they kind of don't know why that works. Well I'll tell you why it works, because our God is a God That repays your ways right back to you. Oh, you want to lie? I'll give you a bunch of liars, since you seem to like them Oh, you want to cheat? I'm going to give you a bunch of cheaters since you seem to like them. He repays your ways back upon your head. And so here with Israel, they. Neglected his word, didn't like the prophets, did horrible things to them. So God says, oh! Oh, you want some neglect? Fine, I'll neglect you. Lord, the enemy nations are coming in, huh? What? Do you see how God repays a man's ways back upon his head? That's just from this looking at this word neglect. You see, why we don't want to neglect it? Because God may neglect you at a very time that you need it. He may neglect your concerns at a time when you ought to be concerned about the scriptures. So I thought that was very interesting. So let's look at this great salvation that we're not to neglect. So back in Hebrews 2. 1, we ought to give the more earnest heed to the things which we've heard. The more earnest things to the things which we have heard. And then 2. 3 says, How shall we escape if we neglect so great salvation? Alright, so I'm connecting Hebrews 2. 1 in the context. We ought to give the heed. We ought to pay attention. Shall I use the word, do not neglect the things we've heard. And then he says, how shall we escape if we neglect so great salvation? Do you see the connection between what you hear and so great salvation? Do you see that connection he's making there? So what does that say about the things which we've heard? What are the things which we've heard in this context? It's a simple connection here. I'm trying not to get too profound just yet. Yes, the word of God. It's so great salvation. In other words, the message is the message of salvation, that which we've seen, we've heard. And of course we have seen, you have to see it, you have to experience salvation. You can't bear record of something you have to see. experience. And so let's consider now, and this is the part where I'm going to stop for a moment. We're going to take out the jewel box. We're going to open up the cover. We're just going to kind of look at it once again. Why is God's salvation so great? It's an unusual word for great. I would think it would have been mega. That's a Greek word. It's not mega. It's a totally different word. Why is it so great? Well, 2 Corinthians 1. 10 in your handout speaks, uses that same word. He says, of God that the Lord Jesus who delivered us from so great a death. How great was the death that we were about to face? How great was it? And if you think I'm talking about poof, you're gone. Oh, an eternal death The Bible calls it a second death. It's not poof, I'm gone, I'm in the grave. No, there's a reality on the other side of the grave. And it's a great reality Have you ever contemplated some of the ramifications of hell for the unbeliever? Do you realize that in hell there is no second chance? In hell, you can't say, oops, yeah, I'm sorry. But that doesn't work anymore. You realize that in hell No burgers and tries. You can't take a break. You realize that in hell, I'm just I've had a really miserable day. I just want to go get some sleep. There's no rest In hell. There isn't any. Oh, this pain is killing me. Oh, I just can't bear it anymore. I've got to have some pain relief. No, there's only more. the next day. There's no relief. There's no escape. There's no exit. And when does it end? It doesn't. I don't think that ever has really grabbed it's so horrific. We hear it and we go, oh yeah, that's pretty bad. I don't think we fully contemplate just how deep And painful and awesome that death was. He delivered us from so great a death. You know, sometimes Famous men get put up on very significant charges, multiple felony charges. That carry lengthy jail time and prison sentences that if convicted you lose many of your American constitutional rights. For instance, the right to you know own a firearm. Convicted felons can't um uh right to vote, although some are trying to restore even that. But there are some great losses, loss of privilege, loss of status, uh loss of voice. You're shut up in a shell with a bunch of other people who eh aren't too terribly nice. Not exactly the finest cut of society. And so when you're on multiple felony charges, can you imagine what would you pay to find an attorney, an advocate, who could actually say I can get you off all of these charges. And if he pulled it off, what would he be in your eyes? If the attorney actually got you off every single felony charge, well I'm thinking at a minimum I'm sending him a birthday and a Christmas card every year. At a minimum Maybe a large vessel of whatever it is he likes to drink in a fridger in a freeze deep freezer full of his favorite food and I'm I'm thinking his picture's on the wall with the permanent light shining on it with his name imprinted and And a big fan and advocate of his, I'm, I'm just, wow, that's a story I'm going to tell for a mighty long time. You know, do you realize that you were on Heaven's top ten wanted list? You know the FBI has a top ten wanted list. You were on that list. Heaven had a target set on you because you were vile in heaven's sight and you were a massive problem. Christ Jesus delivered you from so great a death. Just consider what we're escaping. Romans 2, 1 to 3. Victoria, could you read Romans 2, 1 to 3? Therefore thou art inexcusable, O man, whosoever thou art that judgest. For wherein thou judgest another, thou condemnest thyself. For thou that judgest doest the same things. But we are sure that the judgment of God is according to truth against them which commits such And thinkest thou this, O man, that judges them which do such things, and doest the same, that thou shalt That thou shalt escape the judgment of God. God speaks to hypocrites in that passage. That's what we're escaping. We actually escape the very judgment of the righteous, omnipotent, potentate of the universe. Wow. 1 Thessalonians 5. 3 it says, For when they shall say peace and safety, then sudden destruction cometh upon them As travail upon a woman with child, you know when a woman's time has come, she ain't getting out of that. That labor is coming through, and you know it, and says, and they shall not escape There is a an escape that the world will never know because when Christ returns and it's judgment day It says they won't escape. They're crying peace and safety. They're thinking everything's just fine. And it's really not. Hebrews 12 concludes, see that you refuse not him that speaketh. I'm in Hebrews 12, 25, the next verse in the handout Hebrews 12, 25. See that you refuse not him that speaketh. See he reinforces this later in the chapter. For if they escaped not, who refused him that spake on earth, much more shall not we escape if we turn away from him that speaketh from heaven, whose voice then shook the earth, but now hath he promised, saying, Yet once more I shake not the earth only, but also heaven. Do you understand how big of a point he just made? You know, those who died under Moses, oh, they're not going to escape the judgment of God. If they neglected him, he will neglect them. There's no salvation for them, even though they might have been a circumcised Jew, and they go straight to hell with no second chance. Period. End of discussion. In fact, there wasn't a discussion. But here it says, if you neglect what Jesus says, they that observe lying vanities forsake their own mercies This is a tremendous mercy that God is extending. You can't forsake that. That's the only chance of relief. You know, the message of the New Testament discloses the tremendous depth of salvation, and this is a little jewel box. I've color-coded it in your handout, and maybe Gabriel can pull it up on the screen, Romans 5, 6 through 10, 6 through 11. I just remember, even still to this day, the time my eyes first laid upon these passages and slowly walked my way through them and thought about the ramification of each one. Notice the tense of each verb as well. Romans 5, 6, for when we were yet without strength. Did you have any strength? No, you didn't. You're without strength. Did you still have something to come to God with? No. If you're one of his, you're without strength. All that the Father giveth me shall come to me, and him that cometh to me I will in no wise cast out. He shall come. You can't come to the Father except the Father sent me. Draw him. It's God's drawing power. Without strength, that's us. In due time, Christ died for the ungodly. Would you be happy and willing to raise your hand to say yep before Christ came or I came to Christ, however you want to put it? I was ungodly? Ungodly simply means without God, without care, without concern for him. That's who Christ died for. He died for the ungodly. He didn't die for the world. He died for the ungodly. Oh, yes, I know it says he so loved the world. He's talking about all men without distinction, not every man without exception. All Gentiles, out of every tribe, kindred, tongue, and nation. He died for the ungodly. Those who You want to know somebody's ungodly? Just ask them. Are you ungodly? Are you ungodly? Well, I'm not perfect Well, you're not ungodly. Well then Christ didn't die for you. It's that simple. If you own up to it, you can rest assured Christ died for the ungodly. Keep going, verse 8. But God commendeth his love toward us, and that while we were yet sinners Somebody who raises their hand says, you better believe it. I was a sinner. I am a sinner. I'm a sinner saved by grace. What did God do? Christ died for us. So the red is us, the green is what God did, and the bold is the benefits. Much more than being now justified by my diligent works, by my faithful attendance at the Greek Orthodox Church. By my making a homage to Mary. No. Justified by his blood. That's what justifies. It's his blood. You don't find one drop of my sweat, blood, and tears in there anywhere. You're justified by his blood We shall be saved from wrath through him. I'm justified, declared righteous, praised God. There's no reason for God to have any He has no charges against me. The charges have been dismissed before they even showed up in court. All the felony accounts against me, dropped, gone, vaporized. We shall be saved from wrath through him. Well, of course I'm saved from wrath because the charges have been dropped. I'm justified. Verse 10, for if when we were enemies, that's us, by nature, enemy of God, neglector, I don't care about these things, we were reconciled to God, made right. By the death of the Son, much more being reconciled, we shall be saved by his life. We're saved from wrath, we're saved by his life And not only so, we also joy in God. Of course there's great joy. That's one of the benefits. There's no reason for a child of God really to go around moping. We're too worried about small problems. The dirt of this life which besmirches us, but you've been delivered from so great a death. You've been delivered from a massive problem you had no solution to. Through our Lord Jesus Christ, by whom we have now received the atonement. Easy way to remember atonement, the at one meant. I'm at one with God again I have no problems. I have nothing to fear. He's my father. He will look out for me. If he went to that great depth to rescue me, if he went to that great length to do all these, is he gonna lead you to the wilderness to die and starve? I don't think so. I really don't think so. He rescued you from such a great death. Romans 8, 29 and 30, your next passage. Again, the jewel box of the reserve of the treasures of this great salvation, Jeffrey, this great salvation we have. He says in Romans 8. 29, for whom he did foreknow, he also did predestinate. The Bible talks about predestination. Sorry, Bible word. He did predestinate to be conformed to the image of his son. If you're chosen in Christ, God has a plan for you. You're going to be conformed to the image of his son. Well, his son receives some rough treatment on this earth. Guess what? So will you. But it's for a purpose. He knows your frame that you're frail but of dust. He's not going to give you more than you can bear. But you will be conformed to the image of the sun, dragging, kicking, screaming, head first, heel first, elbow first, eyeball first, but he will drag you to be conformed to the image of the sun That he might be the firstborn among many brethren. He is brethren. You're going to be called his brother. Moreover, whom he did predestinate, them he also called. You've been called of God. You have a calling You have a calling. People are searching through life. I went for years, 30 years, 20 years as an engineer, already as an engineer, still thinking, I'm not really sure what I want to do in life. I was an engineer for twenty years. At this point it doesn't matter. You're gonna keep working at your job because you're getting a paycheck. Think like a hireling. You're called a god That's your calling. Whom he called, he justified. He declared them to be correct, to be right, to be in complete conformity to all that he requires. And whom he justified, them he also glorified. Don't look at me right now, because I ain't glorified yet, folks. Don't look at yourself in the mirror right now in despair. Oh, I really could use a facelift. Oh, I really could use some hair, some hair coloring, oh, I really could use some Botox treatment. Oh, I oh no, oh no, don't touch it Don't touch it, because you're going to get a complete makeover. And by complete, I mean bone deep, soul deep, complete makeover. Like unto angels. It says, Angels could come and go, appear through walls, didn't seem to have any issue with strength. They overbehold the glory of the Father They behold it. They can sing. You can't sing now? Don't worry. You'll be able to sing real good then. So folks, here's the point. Salvation is a package deal. With many benefits that frankly are beyond our full comprehension. I've just touched on the jewels But you might pull them out from time to time and just look at them and think. And just kind of watch life's problems melt away. The stock market's collapsing. Who cares? Riches make themselves wings, they fly away as an eagle to heaven. Durable riches. Riches profit not in the day of wrath, but durable riches do. Yes, Christ gives us durable riches. We have Him to provide for us. What further need do I have? Alright, verse 3, back to verse 3. And then it says, which at the first began to be spoken by the Lord. So I think this is very insightful, and this is very helpful because it gives us some insight as to how the New Testament came into existence. First, we have the words of the Lord Jesus. He came and began to introduce the new covenant. But have you ever stopped to think, well, how did it start? What was his first message? How did Jesus start? Anybody have any idea? How did Jesus start to introduce the New Testament? Well, you can go to Mark 1, 14, and 15. It's there in your handout. Because Mark is going to capture the beginning of the gospel After John was put in prison, Jesus came into Galilee preaching the gospel of the kingdom of God and saying, the time is fulfilled. The Old Testament prophets, all the prophecies before, all that has been declared that will happen, it is now fulfilled It has come to pass. All that was to be done to identify and uniquely mark the Messiah, it's fulfilled The kingdom of God is at hand. Why? Because the king is at hand. You can't have a kingdom without a king. And the king is there, so you better believe the kingdom of God is at hand. How does it start? Repent. And believe the gospel. What is the modern evangelical message? Believe the gospel. And look for the kingdom. What do they leave out? Repent. That's how it starts. It starts with repentance. Quit neglecting the Word of God and start paying attention to it Quit ignoring the things and the call and start taking great heed to the things that you hear, even more than what you've heard before. I would submit to you that believing in Christ is the very first act of repentance. Stop being an unbeliever and start believing all that God has spoken Repent is such a key, crucial first step. If you're going to be conformed to the image of God, you're not going to be conformed in situ, in place, as a filthy, vile sinner reflecting your old father the devil, that's not going to work. There's got to be a change. You know, um In the Old Testament, when babies were born, there was a time of purification, and back then, even is now that when a child is born, they're kind of a mess. You know one of the first things a good midwife or nurse will do is clean that baby up. Give it a bath. It just needs a bath You just gotta get scrub that little hair, the hair it's got, and and uh get between the toes and the fingers. I mean, and we're not talking pull out the comet, right, and start with a with a wire brush or anything here, but you gotta clean the child up Even so, as a newborn child, there's got to be some cleaning. We're have a lot of baggage to us. It's a lot of baggage, especially if you don't come from a godly Christian heritage It's a lot of baggage you've got. A lot of confusion that has to be removed. And there's a lot of cleaning that keeps on being done. Yes, and guess what we teach our children? Uh, oh you got cleaned up when you're a baby. You don't need to be cleaned up anymore. That's fine. You went running in the mud pit and playing with snakes and leaves and grass and dirt and running around ant hills and sticking dirt in your ears and nose. Oh, that's okay. You've been cleaned when you're a baby. No, it's an ongoing process, isn't it? Isn't it? Yes it is. And that has to happen. Repent and believe the gospel. Though, uh, excuse me, through the Spirit and the Gospels. Yeah, excuse me, I said that totally wrong. So this is how Jesus comes and introduces the new covenant. He says in Hebrews 2. 3, First spoken by the Lord, and confirmed unto us by them that heard him. So there were others that heard what the Lord Jesus said, and they somewhat rounded it out. They continued to propagate it. Alright? Now, through the spirit that was working in the lives of the apostles, we in fact gain more insight. into the New Testament doctrines. For instance, uh the Apostle Paul said this, which I think is very interesting. This is a good illustration of what it means that There's more unveiling and rounding out of the New Testament message as it came forward. 1 Corinthians 7. 12, the apostle says this, but to the rest speak I not the Lord. If any brother hath a wife, and he's going to go on and address that, then in verse 25, Now concerning virgins, I have no commandment of the Lord, yet I give my judgment as one that hath obtained mercy of the Lord to be faithful. Well, that's interesting. Why do you suppose Paul would say something like that? Why would he be so bold as to say, well now I don't have any commandment of the Lord, but I'm going to tell you what I think. I'm paraphrasing there. It doesn't say that. But why would Paul be so bold to make that sort of a statement? I think he's just making a distinction. If the Lord hasn't commanded this specific thing yet, or at least it hasn't been made clear as other times when he references this as the Lord, not I. That's true. That's like a pointing back to the right. But then he but then he says, now I'm gonna tell you what is supposed to happen. Why would he be so bold to say then say that? Well I I would believe he he knows that this is the inspired word of God that he's jotting down right here right now. Alright, so he understands that he's Like a prophet, but now an apostle. Okay. Yep. And why can't somebody else come along and some woman who claims to be so very spiritual and she heard a message or a vision And she says, Now here's what the Lord told me is good for you. You need to do this. Why why don't we listen to that today? That would be a big problem. Is that like looking at modern day apostles versus you know what is a true apostle? Yeah. Yeah. Why could Paul be so bold and say this? Yes, God moved him to say these things, absolutely. And we get to the end of the Bible in Revelation twenty-two. If any man add to the words of the prophecy of this book, I'll add to him the plagues written therein. If any man take away from the words of the prophecy of this book, I'll take away his name out of the book of life, and the Lamb's book of life. So yeah, it's sealed off, the canon's closed. The reason Paul could be so bold To say, the Lord didn't cover this topic, but I now am, is to how he was inspired, how he was moved. He talks about it And he's very vocal about it. And he's unique among the apostles in this regard. So let's listen to what he says, because he tells us that he learned the gospel and the New Testament. by direct revelation from God himself. He didn't get it from other people. He got it directly from the Lord himself. He says it in Ephesians 2 Ephesians chapter, excuse me, Ephesians chapter 3 and verse 2. If ye have heard of the dispensation of the grace of God which is given me to you, word, in other words, for your benefit. How that by revelation, not inspiration, uh uh not uh not illumination, but inspiration, by revelation he revealed it. He made known unto me the mystery As I wrote a form a few words whereby when you read, you may understand my knowledge in the mystery of Christ. God revealed to him the mystery of Christ Christ going to the Gentile. God personally revealed that to him. He says in Galatians 1, quite a few times. Paul As he was dealing with false messengers. Even back then there were some men claiming to be messengers of God. And Galatians 1. 1, Paul and Apostle, not of men, neither by man, but by Jesus Christ and God the Father who raised him from the dead God met him on the road, knocked him off his horse. God directly spoke to him. Verse 11, I certify you, brethren, I declare with a certificate that the gospel which was preached of me is not after man. For I neither received it of man. You didn't hear Peter, James, and John talk about this. Okay? Neither was I taught it. I didn't sit down at the school of the other apostles in Jerusalem. But by revelation of Jesus Christ, God Almighty directly revealed to Paul what he wrote. Verse 15: when it pleased God who separated me from my mother's womb and called me by his grace to reveal the Son in me that I might preach him among the heathen. Immediately I conferred not with flesh and blood, neither went I up to Jerusalem to them which were apostles before me, but I went into Arabia and returned again into Damascus. Arabia is a reference to the to the law of gods, Mount Sinai. He went and studied the book. God revealed it to him. Again and again he says this. 2 Corinthians 12, he makes this comment. In fact, he says, lest I should be exalted above measure through the abundance of the revelations, there was given to me a thorn in the flesh, lest I should be exalted above measure. He was receiving so much direct insight from God Almighty that it was mind-blowing to him. God was direct. What's it like to have 400 plus volts flowing through your brain at all times with the powerful word of God coming? It was intense. So that's how we got it. So the apostle was the last apostle who saw Jesus briefly. It wasn't over a three-plus-year period of walking with Christ, learning him directly at his mouth in the flesh. God taught him through the Spirit. He said Jesus Christ directly revealed these things. He learned these directly from God. No other apostle taught him. Taught him the gospel, taught him the New Testament. No other apostle did. In fact, he reproved other apostles. In Galatians, he's going to come. He says, I charge Peter to his face. He was wrong. It's an error of God working through. So Paul was a unique individual that came. And he rounded out the New Testament. Now, I'm going to end with this last bit of application, because you will find the Bible haters. Those who don't like Jesus or Paul, they will try to pit Jesus and Paul against one another. For instance, I had a homosexual come up to me when I was uh distributing tracts at Baldoa Park in San Diego in the late nineties, homosexual came up and said, well, uh, what do you think about I mean homosexual whatever said, well Apostle Paul says, and I quoted to him what Paul says, he says, oh, jettison Paul, forget Paul. Jesus never talked about it. Jesus never spoke about it. against it. You see, he's pitting what Paul says against what Jesus says. Now I'd never heard that argument. It threw me and I said, well Jesus says repent and believe the gospel. What do you think he meant to repent from? So that was as much as I could come up with at the time But there's this pitting. And the apostle says, oh no, no, no, no, no, no. There are some things the Lord spoke that later I'm going to round out and fill out. Well, I'm actually laying some groundwork for next week, and I particularly want you to remember this last point about the Apostle Paul, that he did not get the gospel. He got it directly from God. He makes it very clear. That's his testimony. We have to take it as what he wrote. It was revealed to me, and certainly we see plenty of evidence of that in scripture So Anton, could you close this in prayer, please? Thank you. Father in heaven, Lord, we thank you for this. uh time we have to gather to consider your word, consider the writings even in this uh book of Hebrews that you preserved and inspired, O Lord, and pray and that we would not uh neglect so great a salvation, O Lord. Help us to take heed, help us to incline our ears, O Lord. This is indeed the most uh weightiest thing that we can attend to. Uh not our finances or health or any of those things. Those are all uh nothing in comparison Help us indeed to take heed to get it right and to uh proclaim it uh right, O Lord. Praise you and we ask your help even in this uh uh to the upcoming service and time of worship. We ask all this in Christ's name. Amen.