Open in your Bibles with me, please, this morning to the book of 1 Corinthians and the ninth chapter. 1 Corinthians chapter 9. And we're going to Look at verse twenty-four through verse twenty-seven of First Corinthians chapter nine. It's good to hear the pages turning. I'll give you just a moment to find the passage. 1 Corinthians chapter 9 and verse 24. Know ye not that they which run a race run all, but one receiveth the prize. So run that ye may obtain. And every man that striveth for the masteries is temperate in all things. Now they do it to obtain a corruptible crown, but we an incorruptible. Therefore, so run, uh I therefore so run, not as uncertainty. So fight I not as one that beateth the air, but I keep my body under, and bring it into subjection, lest by any means when I have preached to others I myself should be a castaway. Let us bow for prayer as we begin. Gracious Father, now we pray that you would open to your word, open your word to our hearts and open our hearts to receive your truth. Father, we thank you that all scripture is given by inspiration of God and is profitable. Father, today we pray that you would make this portion profitable to our hearts. And we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Forgive me if my throat bothers me. I'm having some allergy issues right now. Know ye not that they which run a race run all But one receiveth the prize, so run that ye may obtain. The Corinthians, to whom Paul was addressing this letter initially. had a good understanding of athletic competitions. We know of the Olympics, which are very familiar with to us today because they have been brought back in the modern age But in Paul's day there was actually four different competitions, one of which took place in Olympia. But another took place on the isthmus between where Corinth sat and where modern-day Greece is today. And it was called the Isthmus Games, also called the Corinthian Games. And so it was basically like one of the Olympics took place right on the outskirts of the city of Corinth. And when it was time for the competition, everything quit. Doesn't that sound familiar? All attention was on the Olympic Games, or on the Corinthian Games, the Isthmus Games, which took place right there in Corinth. And so Paul's audience understood athletics. And many of the people that he spoke to had family members, probably they were athletes, and it was very much ingrained into the society. And so Paul is giving to them an illustration with which they were very familiar Now he says, they which run a race one run my tongue's getting tangled, sorry about that. They which run a race run all, but one receiveth the prize. Paul is not suggesting to us here that only one believer receives the prize. At the same time, the Olympic Games didn't have participation trophies. We hear a lot about participation trophies today. Well, everybody gets a trophy. Well, but in the Christian race, there are rewards for all that are faithful. And we find that clearly in Scripture. Paul said to young Timothy in 2 Timothy 4, And verse 8, henceforth is laid up for me a crown of righteousness, which the Lord, the righteous judge, shall give unto me at that day, and not to me only. But also unto all them that love him at his appearings. So in some ways we could say in the Christian life, there are participation trophies for all that participate. For those that run with patience, the race has set before us. There are rewards for this race. And so every believer Every child of God has a race to run. There are responsibilities put before us. And so we're instructed to run with patience the race that is set before us Paul will spend the next few verses, the rest of this chapter, expounding on this concept of so run that you may obtain. And if you look with me at verse 25, And every man that striveth for the mastery is temperate in all things. Now they do it to obtain a corruptible crown, but we an incorruptible. Let's first go to that word strive with. It's a fascinating word. It's not an easy race. You don't strive downhill. You don't strive for something that is easy and common. Striving itself indicates something that is difficult and hard. This word we find for striving, striving is the Greek word agonedzomai. Agonidzemai is the Greek word. It's found seven times in our New Testament. Do you hear anything at the beginning of that word? Agonidsomai. Yes, agony, yes, it is indeed. The origin of our English word agony comes from the Greek agonidzomai. Well, we understand what agony is. I think some of us understand pretty well this morning what agony is because we've got some agony going on. But every man that agonizes for the mastery Every man that striveth for the mastery. And so Paul, right from the beginning, is laying the foundation. This isn't something easy we're talking about. This isn't a coasting downhill. Uh, you know, as they say, any dead fish can float down the river. It takes the live fish to swim against the current. We're swimming against the current, folks. The Christian life is not easy. It's it's striving. It's agonizamai. This same word that's translated strive Here is translated, strive in Luke 13 in verse 24, strive to enter in at the straight gate. For many I stand to you will seek to enter and shall not be able. We understand what Christ was saying there. Strive to enter in Discipline your soul, discipline yourselves to enter in at the straight gate. It's not a broad gate, it's a narrow way. And then again, this word is translated fight. Remember when Christ was in the garden? Or actually when Christ was before Pilate, and he said, If my kingdom were of this world, my disciples would fight Well, it's that word strive. And Paul used it when he said fight the good fight of faith. But then at the end of Paul's life, he says, I have fought. a good fight and he uses that word agoniz agonizomai. I've agonized, I've strived, I I've done something that's very difficult to do. Now here, Paul says to these Corinthian believers who are familiar with athletic competition, every man that striveth That Agonizamai for the masteries is temperate in all things. And so you see the picture he's setting up for these believers who were living in Corinth What word comes from Corinth? Well, carnal, worldly, wicked. Corinth was a very wicked city. And we live in a very wicked city. And I'm not just talking about Baltimore and Montgomery County. I'm talking about this world. And for the child of God to run with patience the race that is set before him For the child of God to run so as to obtain, there's going to be some agony. There's going to be some striving. It's not going to be an easy road. But then another word in verse 25 that we need to examine is the word temperate. Every man that striveth for the masteries is temperate. in all things. And this word is only used twice in our New Testament, both times by Paul, and both times in this book of 1 Corinthians. And this is a word which also means to contain. When Paul was talking about celiby ver celibacy versus marriage. In 1 Corinthians 7 and verse 9, he says, But if they cannot contain, let them marry, for it is better to marry than to burn. They cannot contain. In other words, they can't control themselves. Every man that striveth for the masteries is temperate in all things. There is a control there. There is a containing there. There is a state of discipline. That exist within the athlete. And there must also be a state of discipline A state of control, of temperance that dwelleth within the life of the believer. We're not to be a part of the wickedness around us. We're not to engage in that which the world calls good. We're in the world, but we're not to be of the world. And so the illustration that Paul gives here is that of an athlete. The athletes that competed in the Corinthian Games were required to sign a pledge that they had disciplined themselves for ten months before the Games. As today we have drug testing. You hear a lot about it on the news sometimes. I hope you don't listen to sport news sports news too much. But you know, you oh such and such an athlete, he failed a drug test. You know, he was using some antibiotic steroid or whatever, you know, performance-enhancing drugs of some sort. Well, it's sort of the same thing, but it was an honor system Before the athletes in Paul's day could compete in the competition, they had to sign an honor pledge that for ten months they had disciplined themselves before the competition. That takes a lot of dedication, doesn't it? Do we as Christians discipline ourselves for ten months? Do we as Christians discipline ourselves for ten days? We discipline ourselves for ten minutes sometimes. And so Paul is laying out a very beautiful illustration here of the athlete. So what is it the athlete must do? Well first of all the athlete had to exercise. The athlete had to be engaged in exercise. He didn't just get up the day of the competition and think, okay, I'm gonna go out and I'm gonna run a marathon today. No, it was a it was a daily Daily, training of the body, study to show yourselves approved unto God, a workman that needeth not to be ashamed rightly. Dividing the word of truth. Now, Paul did say to young Timothy, bodily exercise profiteth little, but godliness is profitable unto all things Having the promise of life now and of that which is to come. Bodily exercise profits little. I like to exercise, and it's good for you to exercise. But it profits little when compared with the profits of spiritual exercise. If we are concerned to keep our body in shape, Should we not be a hundred times more concerned with our soul? Should not the state of our spiritual life be far more important to us than the state of the physical life What shall it profit a man if he gained the whole world, if he win all the physical athletic prizes, and lose his own soul? Bodily exercise profeth little, but godliness is profitable unto eternal life. Study to show yourselves, approved to God. You know what? It didn't matter if it was cold in the morning. Have you ever gotten run in the cold? Didn't matter if it was hot. Did you ever run when it's very hot? Didn't matter if it was raining, didn't matter if it was snowing, didn't matter if they were tired, didn't matter if they were sore or had blisters on their feet. They still had to go out and exercise. And those of you that exercise know well that a week without exercise, you lose. You you begin to lose that muscle tone so quickly. And yet we tend to think as believers that we can just get laxed with our prayer. And with our scripture reading and even with church attendance. And boy, we'll b we'll still be strong. But when the test comes And so the first thing about these athletes is they had to exercise, and their exercise was a daily activity. But then further they had to have self-control. They had to be under control. Look at verse 27 of our text. Paul says, but I keep my body under and bring it into subjection, lest by any means when I have preached to others I myself should be a castaway. And I love the origin of these terms. That term, keep my body under, literally means to give it a black eye. Uh the the the the use of that phrase in the Greek outside of scripture and in other Greek literature mean means to beat black and blue. To to to block and I keep my body under. In other words, Paul says I I punch my flesh in the f in the eye. I give myself a black eye. You see, our old sinful nature is strong. The flesh lusteth against the spirit, the spirit against the flesh, the two are contrary one to another. And so Paul says, I have to beat up my old flesh. I have to beat up that sin nature. I have to beat up that desire to sin. I have to give it a black eye. Because I know that those things will bring me into subjection. And so he says, I keep my body under and bring it into subjection. Thus by any means when I preach to others, I myself should be a castaway. And so that term keep my body under literally means to to leave black and blue marks. And the phrase bring it into subjection means to push it down. To push down. And it was it was a reference like wrestling. Okay, with when they're wrestling, well you had to push your opponent down, you had to pin him. And that's what Paul was saying. I I keep my body in subjection. I push it down. Because I know that it will work against my spirit. The athlete had to be disciplined in everything. One of the Greek writers uh said this about these Olympic Games. This is the this is actually a quote. He said, um and I I had the guy's name written down and I couldn't pronounce it, so I left it out of my notes. But uh it's one of those crazy names. But this is what he said. Do you wish to gain the prize at the Olympic Games? Consider the requisite preparations and the consequence. You must observe a strict regimen. You must live on food which is unpleasant. Must abstain from all delicacies, must exercise yourself at the prescribed times in heat and in cold, must drink nothing cool Okay? They believe the Stoics believed that drinking cold water was bad for the body. Have you ever been out in the sun working in the middle of the day and you go to your water junk and it's lukewarm water? Nothing is more disgusting when you're very thirsty. But these athletes wouldn't drink cold water. They didn't have ice in their Gatorade, folks. They drank lukewarm water, must drink nothing cool, must take no wine as unusual, must put yourself under the pugilus The pugilist is a is a trainer or a a sparring partner. Must put yourself under the pugilist as you would under a physician and afterwards enter the list. In other words, afterwards put your name on the list. for the competitors. So look look what they're saying. They they have to live on unpleasant food, abstain from delicacies. No doubt. No chocolate eclairs. Now, think about the things that are listed there. You know, they g you know, th they have to go to the trainer. They they can't they have to watch for the A lot of the things that they are forbidden to do in order to compete in these games are not in themselves horribly bad. It's not a terrible thing to have an occasional donut. I can test it But there were things that if they were going to compete, they had to give up You know, people say the oh the Christian life is just a list of do's and don'ts. No, it's not. The Christian life is a higher price. It's not a list of do's and don'ts. It's not a list of rules. It's a higher price. We have a greater goal. Has nothing to do with earning our salvation. We don't earn our salvation. We don't get to heaven because we disciplined ourselves. We're saved by grace. But the true child of God has a chief aim. And the chief aim of man is to glorify God and to enjoy him forever. These athletes, they wanted to win the prize. Therefore, they only drank lukewarm water. And you see, Paul is laying out for us here as Christian spiritual athletes, our prize is the glory of God. What is too dear to us to give up for the prize? What is too important to me that I cannot discipline myself, cannot give my flesh the black eye, cannot pin my old flesh, cannot put it down for the glory of God. And so the athlete had to exercise self-control, and they did it all for a corruptible prize If you look at over to the next chapter, chapter ten, it's probably just across the page there in your Bible without turning, or you may have to turn one leaf. But in 1 Corinthians 10 and verse 23 Paul says, all things are lawful for me, but all things are not expedient. All things are lawful, but all things do not edify. You see, the Christian life is not, well, I don't commit adultery and I don't steal and I I do all the The Christian life is a life of discipline that goes far beyond all those things It is a life of discipline that everything is tuned for the glory of God. Back three chapters from where we are in 1 Corinthians chapter 6. In verse 12, Paul uses that same phrase there that we find in chapter 10, all things are lawful unto me, but all things are not expedient. All things are lawful for me, but I will not be brought under the power of any. Boy, isn't that a marvelous advice for the Christian life? I'm not going to be brought under the power of it. There are things that are not of themselves sin outwardly or outright And yet it is possible for the believer to become so under the power of that thing that it controls our thoughts and controls our minds. The Puritans would not read fiction Because their minds got so tied up in it. And I love to read. But if if I'm reading Secular literature that is so filling my heart and filling my mind that that's all I'm thinking about, that becomes to me Right. Oh wait. That becomes to me a whole. We teach our children literature in school because it helps to devo develop their minds and helps to teach them how to write and to write well. And that's a good thing. But if that literature becomes the doughnut to me, that I crave more than anything else, that becomes to me. A matter of pitfall. And so we find that these athletes, they had to discipline themselves even to drink lukewarm water rather than drink cold water. Paul continues there in chapter six and verse nineteen. What shall we say then, is not your body the temple of the Holy Ghost, which is in you, which ye have of God and ye are not your own? For ye are bought with a price, therefore glorify God in your body and in your spirit, which are the Lord's. And so, Paul, our Peter's plea, dearly beloved, I beseech you, as strangers and pilgrims, abstain from fleshly lusts which war against your soul. And so the athlete had to exercise, and the athlete had to have self-control. He had to keep his body under. But then we find that the athlete had to be cautious of dangers. The athlete had to be cautious of dangers. In chapter 10 and verse 12 of this book of 1 Corinthians, Paul said, Wherefore let him think let him that thinketh that he standeth, take heed lest he fall. There are pitfalls and there are dangers all around us if we're going to engage in this athletic, spiritually athletic competition for God, and we're going to run so as to obtain, we've got to protect ourselves from dangers. And I will never forget, I will never forget that the week before soccer tryouts in high school I was running around barefoot and stepped on a piece of glass and sliced the bottom of my foot wide open. And I hobbled into my coach, who I had great respect for, he was a tremendous man, had a very good godly he was a Christian Christian school coach, had a godly influence on me and a lot of other young fellows I hobbled into his office with my foot cut and he said, you don't really want to play soccer. And I thought, oh you didn't know that. I do want to play soccer But his point was this. I had put myself in a hazard that now was hindering the athletic competition. How easy it is for the child of God to put ourselves in a spiritual hazard. Abstain from fleshly lusts which war against the soul. Avoid the appearance, abstain from every appearance of evil. Don't trust your flesh. Don't put yourself in a situation where you're liable to receive spiritual harm. Don't go there. Don't be with those people. Don't put yourself in a place of temptation. Don't run around barefoot spiritually the week of spot soccer trials. Because there's dangers all around us. And um many years ago I read the book High Calling, and I it's been so long ago, I just don't know if I recommend it to you, but it was written by the widow of Richard Hubble, a Richard husband. who was the pilot of the space shuttle Columbia, the space shuttle that exploded. He was a believer and had had a testimony for Christ. But he was offered an opportunity to climb Mount Everest. Wow, yeah, I'd love to climb out of that verse. Couldn't do it today, maybe years ago I could have. But he turned it down because he was in the space program And he was not willing to risk climbing Mount Everest and getting injured in some way that would prevent him from flying a space shuttle. And he he died of a space shuttle. What an example that is to us. How we as Christians will put ourselves in spiritually dangerous situations and so hinder our race for the Lord The athlete had to keep his eye on the prize. Paul said in verse 26, Therefore, so run, not as uncertainly. So fight I not as one that beateth the air. Not as one that's just flying everywhere. Going over here for a while, then going over there for a while. We we find some people that are uh uh you know their their their belief is one day they're believing another day they're not and they'll get tied up in this little nuance of doctrine and then they're over this one and they're always struggling with something and they're never really doing anything to the Lord. Their spiritual life is basically one chaos after another. But then you'll find other believers that boy they're in their word. And they're growing. And they're studying. And they're praying. And they're living a very steady and consistent Christian life and you can can watch them. It's it's a great pleasure as a as a pastor to watch a young person from ten or twelve years old and see them growing and maturing and and Learning scripture and memorizing and day by day and month by month and year by year they're growing in grace and growing in the knowledge of the Lord. They're going straight on the path The athlete can't run a hundred-yard dash back and forth. It goes one way. He can't run side to side. He's got to run straight on. The athlete has to keep his eye on the prize. I've already mentioned before our prize, the glory of God. Whether therefore ye eat or drink or whatsoever ye do, do all to the glory of God The Christian race is a straight race. And so the athlete has to keep his eye on the prize. Paul said, there again in verse 26, so run I, not as uncertainty. Not running in confusion. Not running side to side but running straight on, not as one that beateth the air. And Paul said in Philippians three, Brethren, I count not myself to have apprehended But this one thing I do for getting those things which are behind and reaching forth to those things which are before, I press toward the mark for the high prize of the calling. One of the saddest verses in all scripture, I believe, is 2 Timothy 4, verse 10, where Paul says, Demas hath forsaken me. Loved this present world. Demas turn back in the battle. Let us lay aside every weight. But then, fifthly, the athlete has to play by the rules. He has to play by the rules. Look at verse 27. He says, I keep my body under, and bring it into subjection, lest by any means when I preach to others I myself should be a castaway. We've all heard of competitions where someone in some way cheated and was disqualified. They stepped out of their lane, or they in some other way did not fight the battle correctly. And they were disqualified. And that word castaway is a fascinating word, and we don't have time to get into all the nuances of it, but basically it means to become unuseful or to become reprobate. Not good for further use. I like to work with tools. And um I I never I never my wife will tell you I never throw a tool away, broken or not So I've got I've got some tools that are castaway. They're really yeah, that screwdriver is so stripped out, can't do anything with it. I've taken screwdrivers actually and ground the new end end onto them rather than throw 'em away. I've got drill bits that won't drill a thing. They're castaway. It's very sad that a Christian can become a castaway. I'm not talking about losing salvation here. But a Christian can spend so much time not running the straight race. A Christian can spend so much time eating the world's doughnuts And playing around with sin that it becomes unuseful That he's sidelined. Oh, he'll get to heaven. But he's sitting the bench in the Christian race. You see, for the athlete to achieve the prize, he has to run lawfully, lest he be And then 2 Timothy 5 and verse 4, Paul said, And if a man also strive for the masteries, yet is he not crowned, except he strive lawfully. And this word castaway is also used in Second Corinthians thirteen, verses five and six. Examine yourselves whether you be in the faith, and prove yourselves. Know ye not your own selves how that Christ is in you, except ye be reprobates. But I trust that ye shall know that we are not reprobates. And so the athlete is disciplined in all things in order to win the prize. But look with me again at verse 25. And every man that striveth for the masteries is temperate in all things. Now they do it to obtain a corruptible crown, but we an incorruptible. The prize that was offered to the winner of the competition at the Olympics and at the Isthmus Games, the Corinthian Games, was a laurel. And we've seen pictures of Caesar with his little leaves around his head. That's what it was. Sometimes it was made out of parsley. Other times it was made out of wild olive branch. You could go home and feed your pro trophy to your rabbit. And you think about a leafy laurel made out of parsley It's corrupting before it's put on the athlete's head. What shall it profit a man if he gained the whole world and lose his own soul? What is profitable in the things of this life? What is there to be gained? For the Christian to indulge himself in all the filth of this world and never do anything for the Lord. But these athletes who would only drink lukewarm water and who disciplined themselves so greatly, all they got at the end was a leafy crown. But remember Paul said that there was a crown in heaven as well. Which the righteous judge shall give unto me, and not to me only, but also to all those that live godly in Christ Jesus. These athletes that so disciplined themselves in Paul's day were doing it for a leafy crown. We are doing it for a little crown in heaven that will be cast at the feet of the Messiah. At the feet of Christ. And so they do it for a corruptible crown. But we and incorruptible. Their prize was pretty worthless. Our prize is worth everything. And so in 1 Peter chapter 5 and verse 4 And when the chief shepherd shall appear, ye shall receive a crown of glory that fadeth not away. And in 1 Peter 1, verses 3 and 4, Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. According to his abundant mercy, have they gotten us again into a lively hope by the resurrection of the dead To an inheritance incorruptible, undefiled, and that fadeth not away, reserved for you in heaven And again in James 1 and verse 12, Blessed is the man that endureth temptation, for when he is tried, he shall receive a crown of life The Lord hath promised unto them that love him. And 2 Timothy 4, verses 5 through 8. But watch thou in all things, endure affliction, do the work of an evangelist, make full proof of the ministry For I am now ready to be offered, and the time of my departure is at hand. I have fought a good fight. I have finished my course. I have kept the faith. Henceforth there is laid up for me a crown of righteousness righteousness. And so we as Christians are spiritual athletes. We as Christians have to exercise our spiritual souls. Study the show thyself a previous Than God. We as Christian athletes have to be disciplined. We as Christian athletes have to keep the body under. We as Christian athletes have to run a lawful race for we're striving for the masters. But brethren, when we speak of crowns, our goal is not a golden crown on our head Our goal is the glory of Christ. And we cannot speak about winning the prize and winning a crown in glory without considering another crown. For in Matthew 27 and verse 27 and follow we read this. Then the soldiers of the governor took Jesus into the common hall. And gathered unto him the whole band of soldiers, and they stripped him, and put on him a scarlet robe, and they plaited a crown of Thorns. Why are we concerned about living for Jesus Christ? Because Jesus Christ wore a crown of thorns. Because Jesus Christ died for us. Because he gave his life a ransom for many. And really what the athlete's doing is he's giving up his life of self for the purpose of winning a prize. Christ has won the prize for our soul. He has saved us by his grace. But we as Christians are called upon to discipline our spiritual bodies. that we might run with patience the race that's set before us. So run that you may obtain. Let us stand for prayer, and then we're going to sing our hymn and go into our community. Gracious Father, we thank you for your word. We thank you for the truth that is contained therein We thank you that Christ wore a crown of thorns. We thank you that he was crucified for our sins. Father, help us to run to obtain Help us, Lord, to discipline our souls just as the athlete disciplines the body, that we might be found well pleasing and acceptable in thy sight. I pray this now in Jesus' name. Amen.