In our second study concerning economic theory. You never thought you'd have economic theory in a Bible study. But we're covering socialism. And if you remember from last week the uh definitions Alright, you're done with your poker game? Good, okay. Yeah, we're we're done. Okay, thank you for permission to begin. Permission to begin. I have permission. Thank you. Anybody remember what the definition of socialism was from last week? What are we even talking about? Yeah, it really is that idea. Well that's correct. So The theory sounds good. Everybody owns everything. We all have a piece of the pie. Of course, we all have an equal piece of the pie is the suggestion, but in practice that sort of doesn't work. If you've ever tried to organize a committee of five people, you know of two people or more, you've quickly come to the understanding that somebody has to make the Final decision. That's not easy to do. And it gets worse the more people you get. In fact, you can get into a quagmire where nobody decides anything. So in practice, socialism ends up being controlled by ta-da-da, the government And uh Victoria pointed out to me in her one of her market economy classes that she learned about uh socialism and that practically speaking, it was actually from a Montgomery Connie Montgomery College. Montgomery College. So this is Montgomery County School, where they taught a decent view of it, saying, yeah, in practice it doesn't work because you can't divvy up the goods evenly. Nobody can ever figure out a fair way to distribute it. So socialism suffers from one of the ills it seeks to correct, and that is how do you find a fair distribution. And then capitalism is somewhat the polar opposite. It's an economic system where the Goods are owned by private individuals who dispense with them as they see fit. And the capitalists, those who own business, are those that employ workers, labor. uh on the behalf of the company and all they get paid are wages. They don't have a part, they don't land ownership in the means of the production of the uh of the um uh of the of the business. Um it doesn't have central planning whereas uh communism and capitalism do. Socialism is uh a Let me rephrase that. Capitalism does not have central planning like socialism and communism do. I'm not sure I got that squirt way earlier. Socialism is also known as a stepping block because socialism can exist, allegedly, in either a democracy or communistic place, but it is more often than not a stepping block away from capitalism and into communism. It's just a migratory step. In fact the communists uh encouraged that. Well, last week was a little shy on Bible and long on history and definition, but this is a Bible study But I did want to give some of that background because I found it to be quite interesting. I hope you did as well. Turn in your Bible to Exodus 20, because to this week we're going to be looking at all the relevant Bible doctrines that touch on socialism and how to come at it. There's nothing new under the sun, but it gets a new label every time. The label of the evil thing is changed constantly so as to keep you off guard. So it's like speaks of that woman in Proverbs, her ways are movable that you can't not know them. Constantly shifting, changing. You really can't get to the depth of where they're really coming from because as soon as their evil deeds are exposed, aha, I've seen that snake before kill it, it's bad. Well, in the eighth commandment in Exodus 20 and verse 15, we read these four simple words. Thou shalt not steal. Four simple words, and from that you automatically got the very foundational root of socialism. Because no theft strongly implies private property. And that's your first fill-in-the-blank. No theft implies private property. So the Bible supports private property. Otherwise, the concept of thou shalt not steal makes no sense. What's there to steal if we all own everything? Deuteronomy 5. 19 repeats this, neither shalt thou steal. No surprise. Moses isn't going to make up a new set of commandments along the way, as he takes the people to the promised land. Oh, but that's Old Testament. We've advanced. We've progressed. And they call themselves the Progressiveness Movement. It's not a progression. It's a digression. It's a diversion. And but Romans 13. 9 reiterates this principle. Romans 13. 9 says, For this thou shalt not commit adultery, thou shalt not kill. Here's our eighth. Thou shalt not steal Thou shalt not bear false witness, thou shalt not covet, if there be any other commandment, is briefly comprehended in this saying, namely, thou shalt love thy neighbour as thyself Part of loving your neighbor is yourself, which is pretty much anchored in the New Testament, has to do with not stealing from your neighbor. Well, let me ask you a question. Is stealing a crime in socialism or capitalism? Excuse me, is sis is stealing a crime in socialism or communism? Why or why not? Yeah Technically, according to their doctrine, since we all own everything, there is no ownership, therefore taking it can't technically be considered a crime. Well everything belongs to the government, so You're stealing from the government and they don't like that. That would be the crime, right? So if you take it the government would complain you're taking from us because in practice they therefore own everything. They're allowed to take from you, but you're not allowed to take from anybody else. Right, so that introduces a very unfair uh system and it really sounds uh like another evil, like a it sounds like slavery, doesn't it? Where you're not free to participate in something, but somebody else can grab all of it and take it. Yeah. Um what oddball theft situations might one encounter in a purely socialist commune if they're really If they they decided to have a group of people in California, they're all going to ditch their clothes and ditch private ownership and all that sort of nonsense that you find. Just put yourself, if you can twist your head this morning. I probably shouldn't ask this kind of a question. But twist your head and go to a California commune. What kind of weird, oddball sit uh theft situations might you encounter in that community. Say there's a hundred people living there, they say, oh, we all own everything. Can you think of some strange situations? I know it's hard to use get your head around Victoria. Someone makes food for their family and then another person just comes in and takes it and says, Oh yeah, perfect. This is what we need. Yeah, that's that's a good example. Somebody is making dinner for their family and somebody comes over and says, Oh well, we're really hungry. That's now ours In a purely socialist environment, who's to say no? But you deeply would sense the injustice in that. It also choices the family. Because if I have nothing, this is no longer my wife. This is She's communicative. Right. That fits in with that thinking as well, and how horrific that is, you're prostituting your family. And we're seeing that with children today in America. That was Plato's original idea, was that really you don't have ownership of anything to include spouse or even your very own children. The community owns them And so that's the roots of this idea. Purely there is zero ownership and they're trying to change an innate heart behavior of greed by enforcing No ownership. But the Bible speaks clearly against that. Not steal. Thou shalt not steal. And the strong implication is that you own something, therefore for someone else to take it is wrong. You know, parents, let me tell you, this is a tip I heard years ago when children are playing together. You buy some toys, you better make it clear who gets what toy. Because guess what? Little Johnny grabs little Susie's toy and little Susie's going to pitch a fit because Johnny took my toy. Well, you might say trying to dodge an argument. Why don't you just play nicely together? Well, no, Johnny just stole something from Susie. She was rightfully playing it. She therefore has ownership of it if you've collectively given it to them then you need to make it clear, if that one's playing with it, then it's theirs to play with. You can't take it away from them. That's theft. So you're you have an opportunity at an early age to prevent them from falling into socialistic thinking. Hey, this is private property. It's my stuff. So the idea of mine may ring into your ears as bad news, but maybe it's justified. Maybe it really is theirs and the other one is stealing it. So that can start at an early age. Uh obviously parents, there are times when you have a little thief on your hands and he screams mine, so yeah, that would be wrong. But I'm just suggesting that you might think about not getting not obliterating this idea of private ownership of property in an early age, because that is part of a biblical principle. There are benefits of private property. That's your next point to make here in the handout. The Bible tells us that private property and family have its benefits. They're considered a blessing not a curse, not an ill, which socialism is attempting to do away with. For instance, in Psalm 128 and verses 2 and 3, we read this Thou shalt eat the labor of thine hands. That's considered a blessing. Happy shalt thou be, and it shall be well with thee. Thy wife shall be as the fruitful vine by the sides of thine house, not just some random house, not some uh shack that is communal, thy children like olive plants roundabout thy table. So that's held out as a blessing, not a cursing. It's a good thing. Deuteronomy 28, as they're about to enter into the promised land, as they're being reminded of the blessings of covenantal obedience. Moses, under inspiration, says this, blessed shall be the fruit of thy body, and the fruit of thy ground. Notice whose it is, thy ground, and the fruit of thy cattle. Increase of thy kind and the flocks of thy sheep. Blessed shall be thy basket and thy store. All of that implies ownership. It's their stuff. They worked it, they farmed it, they did all the work and trust me in an agrarian society there's sweat involved. It's not an easy job. You gotta get out there when it's cold, you gotta work with dirt that doesn't want to be worked with. You gotta wrestle with plants. I mean there's Weeds, there's all kinds of stuff you have to do. But if you keep at it, there's a benefit at the end of it. There can be a rich benefit, and it's called a blessing of the Lord. Ecclesiastes, the most depressing book of the scriptures, and frankly a very encouraging one if you're held up by all the things of this world. You're just very discouraged from a hard day at work, I encourage you to crack open the book of Ecclesiastes, because that is a wonderful book to refresh your thinking. Solomon, the wisest man on earth, because God said he was, just second behind the Lord Jesus, wrote this in Ecclesiastes 5. 18. He wrote this: Behold that which I have seen. It is good and comely for one to eat and to drink, and, here it is, to enjoy the good of all his labor that he taketh under the sun all the days of his life. He says that's a good thing. that you can participate in the blessings of all your labor, which God giveth him, for it is his portion Every man also to whom God hath given riches and wealth, and hath given him power to eat thereof, and to take his portion, and to rejoice in his labor, this is the gift of God. Truly it is. I'm in a position where I can pause for a moment in my stage of life and reflect back on a career and the benefits that it's brought and uh the good decisions I've made and woeing and ruin the bad decisions that have come with it, but for the most part on balance being about more good than bad. And there are some times when you can walk her, when I can walk around and go, oh, praise God, this is great. This is wonderful. That's a blessing of the Lord. Let me ask a question. From what we've just read, what does this say about riches and wealth? Remember, that's one of the evils that socialism is trying to attack. Yeah, it doesn't it's not listed here as a sin uh to be wealthy. In fact, it says it's his portion in another place it says It's a gift. These things are a gift of God, and it's a blessing of the Lord that comes. What about those who don't believe anybody should be rich? What are they really saying in light of what Scripture says here? Nobody should be rich. It's not fair. Pay your full share. Yeah, we need to tell them they need to pay their full share. You gotta pay your dues, pal. Paid mine. What they're not saying is, I wish I was. Correct. That's what they're really saying. Yeah, that they're saying I wish I was. And they're not willing to work to get there. Yes, they're not willing to work to get there You know, for those who don't like the wealthy, I think frankly they're murmuring against God. To be sure the love of money is the root of all evil, and to be sure greed is and will remain a human problem as long as you have people and capital, whatever that might be, on earth But in and of itself, riches themselves are not the thing that is the curse. It's the misuse of riches that is. For instance, Abram was called one of the greatest men of the East. Job was noted as having tremendous resources, and in fact, after his trial, God doubly blessed him as a result of it. These things ought to be identified and seen for what they are. A blessing of the Lord. It's a gift of God, and so to murmur against this is to murmur against God. And I would caution and warn those who are people of means, because I've seen this is a personal commentary, take it for what it's worth. This is just my studied opinion. I don't I believe that God does not give all saints the gift of wealth because of their uh great potential for the misuse of it. It would readily go to their head it would too quickly divert divul uh be diverted into uh things that would not be for their spiritual betterment but for their spiritual works. And so for but for those brethren that do receive them, they need to be reminded, as Timothy says, to be ready to share, to be very generous. Uh they need to be on top of their tithes. They need to be not cutting out the Lord's share and portion. Uh God often fuels and funds a great many excellent gospel ventures through the wealthy. And through brethren of means, but they've got to be real careful with it. You know, they they've they've got to treat it just as a thing. They can't get wrapped up in it. That cannot be their identity. So uh that would be something to keep in mind. On the flip side, the deprivation of private property, and that's your next fill-in-the-blank The deprivation, the removal of private property, is considered a curse, not a blessing. It's considered a curse. Continuing on in Deuteronomy 28, notice all of this, and there's a long section of Horrible curses in Deuteronomy 28, beginning in verse 30, it says, Thou shalt betrot the wife, and another man shall lie with her. I can't imagine, that's horrific. Thou shalt build a house, and thou shalt not dwell therein. Boy, I can't imagine that. I've built at least two structures in my life. It's a ton of labor and all of a sudden for me to be kicked off the site and said, no, you're not here. This is now mine Man, them spitan words. Would be mighty, mighty difficult. Thou shalt plant a vineyard and shall not gather the grapes thereof. I know a little bit about vineyards, not a lot, but it's a lot of work. There's a lot of pruning Grape vines don't bear fruit and for three years. It takes time. It's slow. You have to train up those vines and get them the soil and the drainage right and keep ants away. It's not easy. Thine ox shall be slain before thine eyes, and thou shalt not eat thereof. Thine ass shall be violently taken away from before thy face, and shall not be restored to thee. Thy sheep shall be given unto thine enemies, and thou shalt have none to rescue them. Thy sons and thy daughters shall be given unto another people And thine eyes shall look and fail with longing for them all the day long, and there shall be no might in thine hand. Boy, that's got to be a horrific thing. The fruit of thy land and all thy labors shall a nation which thou knowest not eat up, and thou shalt be only oppressed and crushed always. A nation which you know not Makes me wonder, is that always an external nation? Sometimes we look at our own land and say, is this the America I used to once know? And you go, nope. Well, maybe that's what's happening here. Nation you know not shall take these things away. It could happen. That's because they're they're they're ignoring something. They're ignoring uh Um what God has to say. This business in thirty-two, verse thirty-two, thy sons and thy daughters shall be given to another people, thine eyes shall look and fail with longing for them all the day long. Socialism very much takes the youth away from the the the state. I was um I recently read a book, Forty Autumns, by Nina Wilder, who lived in East Germany, and she describes her nieces that grew up under that system and as they were being brought up into the school system at an early age they had to pledge allegiance to the state There were benefits for demonstrating your allegiance to the state, and there were strong ramifications if you did not Part of the requirements to remain in allegiance to the state was to tell the state about others, even in your own family, if they were not state-minded, if they were not doing what the state told them to do And so Big Brother of the State was there to take care of you and promote you. And if you excelled in one of them in Nina's book, did. She was a cyclist. She had extraordinary uh athletic abilities and went on to compete in the Olympics But she found it odd as she went into the Olympics that she was no longer using the cheap East German bicycles. She was using Japanese bicycles and Japanese racing gear and they got to drink Coca-Cola and they could take home a trinket from the West. But you better not tell any of your other East German people. So she began to see that there were great blessings outside of the East German Wall that she was ignorant of, but couldn't tell anybody that she was enjoying these things. And so they literally took the children away from the parents. Sadly, this is happening in a lot of Central American countries today. If you have nothing to do on or around the 4th of July, there is a movie coming out into the theaters. Two words starts with an S. uh uh season of promise or I forget the name but freedom or something. No it doesn't start with freedom it starts with S. But it is about child trafficking. Human trafficking. Sound of freedom. Sound of freedom. Sound of freedom. Thank you. It will be quite gripping to read. It's an excellent recounting. Right now, human trafficking, which means stealing little children starting age five On up, is more profitable than the drug trade. There's $150 billion tied into it, and the number one destination for human trafficking, God help us, isn't They said you can sell a vial of crack once, but you can sell, oh my god, this is horrible, you can sell a five-year-old five, ten times a day for ten years. That's horrific. There's two million children stuck in that wicked system. Thou shalt have thy sons and thy daughters shall be given to another people, thine eye shall look and fail with longing for them, all that they long. Where is my child? There's one horrific story. I don't want to spend much time on it, but it's just really arrested me and it ties right in with this because this is the heart and this is the aim and this is the goal of socialism. Right there. Your children. They won't take them away. LGBTQ movement. Right there. Children. They're trying to take them away. They can't have any on their own. They want yours. A poor family in central country, Latin America, I don't recall which. had a young daughter who was musically talented and all she could do to beat her little drum was a shoe. She couldn't even afford drumstick. Using her shoe and some tin can to be on. And some nice looking people came by and said, wow, she seems to be quite musically talented. We think she could participate in a role we've got for musicians. Come bring her for the audition. Well the parents said we have to go. Oh yes, absolutely. We want the parents to come. Please, absolutely. They have to come. They go into the big city. into this audition hall. And it seems professional. There seems to be nice people there. They seem to have, you know, the lights and the cameras and the interviewers and all the tables there all set up. It looks very open up. And the father said, I'll go with, no, no, no, we want the the child to be separate from the parent while we complete the audition without the interference and uh And uh you can come back. And he looked and see saw that everything seemed to be only up and up and left and came back in the evening to to pick up the child. The place was empty No tables, no chairs, no lights, no cameras, no nothing. Empty, empty, all swept away. All of it, children included, shoved into a van and hauled off. into shipping containers or whatever, never to be seen again. Parents have no idea where their child is. And so the movie tracks some Department of Homeland Security. The movie's based on true story by the way. So this is not fiction, folks. This stuff is actually happening in your backyard and you may not know it. What a curse. How can socialism ever be held out to be? That's just one element of socialism This theft. It doesn't stop at stuff. It's aimed at kids. That's evil. Well, back to our topic of economic theory and the economic property. Because all of this is rooted in Plato's thinkings, the New Testament clearly expects that an individual has to work to fulfill certain obligations. They have to work to fulfill certain obligations. 2 Thessalonians 3, 10 through 12 says this. The apostle writes, even when we were with you. This we commanded you that if any would not work, neither should he eat. That's an old saying from Scriptures, you don't work, you don't eat. It's kind of simple Men, you were made for work, but I'm telling you, everything out there is discouraging you from working. It is encouraging you to do things that do not involve work, but you were made, built, and are designed to work. The Apostle continues in verse 11. For we hear that there are some which walk among you disorderly. Oh my, Paul What is this disorderly walking which they're doing? What is this horrible thing? Working not at all, but our busybodies. Somebody who's not working is considered a busybody. They're busy, but they're busybody in other men's matters. They're fiddling around with stupid stuff that's not profitable. They're not being productive. That's considered an evil. Verse 12. Now them that are such, we command and exhort by our Lord Jesus Christ, so he's pulling out the authority card here That with quietness they work, shut up, quit complaining about how hot it is, how demeaning it is, how hard it is, how whatever the excuse is, and there's lots of them That with quietness they work and eat their own bread, not somebody else's. Get off the payroll There's uh these humorous commercials that are out there because and it's aimed at um uh the generation one half to one third of my age because they find that They've changed insurance laws now so that you can claim a child up to the age of it's unbelievable in my thinking, but you can claim a child up to the age of 26 to still be on mom and dad's coattails. 26 years old and there's these comical commercials showing a 40-year-old that's still living in the basement, you know, hey, we're going out for hamburgers. You know, I'm vegan, Dad, and you know, he's just really disrespectful. It's crazy. But these people exist. They're still hanging around. And God says they're disorderly. They're not walking right at all. We have commanded them that they ought to work. And that's what men are commanded to do. So we find the point here that an individual is to provide for himself. It is not the government's job to provide for you. It's not the church's job to provide for you The Lord is my shepherd I shall not want. It doesn't say the government is my shepherd I shall not want. It doesn't say Mom and Dad are forever my shepherd I shall not want. It doesn't say the church are my shepherd I shall not want. It's the Lord, and the Lord has commanded, work. That's what he's commanded. Furthermore, in Ephesians 4. 28, it helps illustrate a very, I think, it's a fascinating point. There are some that say, well, that's Old Testament. That's Old Testament laws. We're not under the law, we're under grace. We can do very differently. See, we can do socialistic things because we're under grace, we're not under the law. But how does that work in practice? What does that look like? Well, Ephesians 4. 28 does a very nice job of showing how the new covenant does not totally gut the old, but rather it extends it beyond and past. On the illustrate, Ephesians 4. 28 says this, let him that stole steal no more. If you used to be a thief, quit stealing. But rather let him labor, working with his hands, the thing which is good. He needs to have a good and reputable job. Being a drug dealer is not one of those that he may have to give to him that needeth. And that last phrase is very important. So in the Old Testament economy, if I wasn't stealing from my neighbor's tent, I could say, I have not stolen. I've kept that commandment. In the New Testament, you cannot say, I have not stolen from my neighbor's tent. I've kept the commandment. The Apostle Paul says, no. You have it. You quit stealing. You begin to work with your hand that which is good, sufficient amount such that you not only have sufficient income to pay the government and your church, those are your social overseers. and your social and your spiritual overseers. But you have some what to give. You have some extra to hand out. You have some means to be able to provide for the shortcomings and the shortfalls of others. Yes, there are those who have quote unquote fallen down on hard luck. That does happen from time to time. They've catastrophically lost their jobs. They didn't pay attention close enough to something. Uh one time I mistakenly assumed I had a third paycheck in a month and I didn't. I only had two coming in that month I get paid er I got paid every other week. There's that would be twenty-six paychecks and there's twenty-four um in a uh twenty-four half months in a year and you can't you get two months where you have the double anyway, you know the man The accountants will straighten me out on that later. But I mistook what month that was and I overspent that month. Whoops, that was a mistake. Sometimes you do dumb things or just fall into things. And so he says you need to have to give to him that needeth. There ought to be this ability for Christians to be generous. So the point is this, to do good to my neighbor, I have to work. And if I have to work, I must therefore retain the rights to my property. in order to willingly dispense a portion as I see fit to the needs of my house, to those who are needy, and so forth. I can't do that if I don't own it That's assuming somebody else is going to take care of that. I can't outsource that job. This is what God requires of me. And frankly, this does discourage greediness. It actually does because the commandment is to say, no, you need to find it a privilege. It is more blessed to give than to receive And you know what that's like. I think we have that culture here in America, and it certainly is, I think, in uh uh Arabic countries as well that to to give is just expected. You know, a lot of the accounts in the Bible make sense when you look at their Semitic and Oriental origins The friend that came because uh and he's banging on his friend. Someone has come to me and I don't have any bread to feed him. You've got to give me something because I have a friend coming. And you're as with Western eyes were looking at that thinking, well that seems odd But no, in Oriental cultures, meaning the East, that's a big deal. You always have to give. That's just expect you know this, Carol, right? I mean this is that b background. You someone's coming in, you you have to open the uh the the the house up. I this my mother-in-law from Lebanon has told me that, you know, we go to other people's houses. They'd immediately set out the coffee. They'd have a thing of nuts and bread are ready to set out. There was just always something there to give. just always hospitality was just built into the culture. And that is to be the environment. And what a blessed environment that is. It really is great to be able to walk around to people Even if they're not, quote unquote, in the faith, and there's still that great gracious hospitality, that's a nice element to a society to have. Well, let's look at some examples in the Bible of property theft. And let's see how this ties in to socialism. Well, we read in 1 Kings 21 about a certain king. It came to pass after these things that Naboth the Jezreelite, this is not the king, At a vineyard, which was in Jezreel, hard by the palace of Ahab, king of Samaria. Hard by means it was right up against his property. You can imagine old Ahab strolling around in the morning after breakfast, looking out in the clear morning. Look at that vineyard. Wow, does he ever have some nice grape clusters there? What I could do with those grape clusters. And he's just looking, and he's seeing and he's thinking. Verse 2. And Ahab spoke unto Naboth saying, Give me thy vineyard that I might have it for a garden of herbs, because it is near unto my house and I will give thee for it a better vineyard than it, or if it seem good to thee, I will give thee the worth of it in money. And Naboth said to Ahab, The Lord forbiddeth me that I should give the inheritance of my fathers unto thee. I'm just reading the first part of the account. I trust you're familiar with the rest of the account because Nabob said no Ahab didn't like that, and he went home like the big, bold, brave king that he was. He went to his basement and started pouting. And he's pouting and pouting and getting all upset. And his wife comes and The one who has the pants in the family and she says, well let me tell you what you need to do. Well you need to dredge up some false witnesses, accuse Nadab, send the FBI in to raid his place And we will drudge up false charges, put it before an appointed judge, and we'll condemn him to death, and then you can take what you want. That's theft by the government. It's governmental theft. No different. You see it right here in the scriptures. Folks, there's nothing new under the sun. This this these things have been prayed out many a time over in history. God doesn't need to keep rewriting it. You see it again and again. And so you observe that socialism starts with the theft of another man's property. Now Ahab was not trying to make it socialistic. His initial proposition was reasonable. I'll just exchange it. But Nadab was not willing to. Why? Because it was his property. He owned it. And according to the covenant of the land and of the God's covenant there, it was his it was his descendants, it was part of their inheritance. He wasn't willing to part with it, but it starts with greed The fact of the matter is, when you stop and really consider socialism, it is nothing more than organized and systematic theft, with the government declaring it to be okay. And it's an alternate form of slavery because it enslaves the people to give all of their goods over to the government for them to dispense as they wish. Guess what? More often than not, they dispense it in their own back pocket They're not altruistic. They're not actually handing it out too well. They're living quite well, and you're not. And so this is how it typically So let me ask some final questions here as we wrap it up. Next week we will look at uh socialism in light of the favorite passages that are considered, which is uh Acts 2 and Acts 4. I saved those for last And uh we're going to uh uh close up with a couple of questions here. Um given everything we've said so far, or I've said so far, what role do you think God plays in the economy of a nation? What role does God play in the economy of a nation? He's the lawgiver. The source of all order comes from his Alright. So he gives the law, and so order should come from that. Okay. Or maybe I should say structure instead of order. Okay, all right. Uh no well production. Well, we read that God blesses those who do his command which is to work or what they eat and what they Okay. That role is um he blesses those who work Right, so Glory is going back to the passages we looked at in Ecclesiastes and in the Psalms and Deuteronomy. that if an individual works and they're laboring and so forth, that God is going to be faithful on his part to bless that. And so I would say that to the extent that an individual, saved or not, carries out the very commandment of God, does the very things that God has them to do, as Romans 1 talks about, if the Gentiles not having the law by nature do the things contained in the law, they can do these things unknowingly, ignorantly But to the extent that they do that, God's going to, as it were, keep up his end of the deal and bless them with the fruit of their the rewards of their labor, the fruit of their labor. They can in fact accumulate. They can in fact be wealthy So he does bless obedience. He does curse disobedience, whether a sinner or a saved saint, it doesn't matter. He blesses and curses accordingly. So yeah, God actually plays a big role in that. Um let me ask, do you think socialism takes any of this into account? God's role in the economy. Does the socialism take that into account? They don't. They ignore God. In fact, they go out of their way to say there is no God. They're trying to remove Him. They're afraid of God. They're very afraid of God. Yeah, they they should be more they're afraid to to bring him into the equation. They they don't like that. Yeah. That's the reason why they're encouraging a source, for example. They're stealing and the government's doing nothing. And uh uh the people in the store, the uh officials they are not able to stop them because That's a very good point. You see that happening in California and in uh Washington State quite a lot where uh in California I can't believe they passed this I just don't understand this thinking, but it just shows you how twisted uh uh the high priests of academia are twisting the heads of our kids. It's not a crime in California. They can't even report it. They won't even bother. investigating it. If you steal under $950 worth of stuff in the store, they're not going to investigate it. I can see 95 cents worth of stuff a kid steals a some bubblegum, I'm not going to waste police resources on that. And even then I would delegate a swatti stick to the store to say if you catch a little uh early thief stealing candy from the store that the store owner can take him to the back and s and lash him with three s swats of the 16 inch eighth inch uh uh three sixteenths inch by four foot long dowel rod behind the store. I would absolutely condone that and you can put it on camera all day long and I'd say you better do it because you nip it in the butt early they won't do it again. They'll start to fear and have respect of authority. $950 worth of stuff, folks, that's more than a shopping cart full. And as a result, a lot of stores are pulling out of California. In fact I just read, uh, I just heard in the news. Uh uh well, I'm not going to report that because I don't have all the facts on it, so it's not clear in my mind. But there are company after company that are pulling out of California Because they're like, yep, we can't operate here. It's called uh what's the t economic term for uh uh theft in in the uh in in in accounting it's called shrinkage. They call it shrinkage. Our our inventory just shrank. They don't even call it that. I saw a thing where some small shop owner counted that by adding $995 and one cent to the price of every item in a store. But he had coupons at the register that deducted $995 and one cent from anything you buy. Sword. Yeah. So if you buy a if you steal a piece of bubblegum, he can charge you But if you come to the red street, it's got a coupon that takes it all. Spark this disorder. Yes. There's something called the U Haul index, which shows um Which p um states have the most number of U-Halls leaving or entering as a well known index for showing, you know Which say to that and California is leading the U Hall index by leaps and by the bottom of the list, meaning that nobody's moving in and people are moving out. And related to that, the price you pay for a U-Haul is regulated by the by demand. In other words, if you're getting a U-Haul going into California, it's very cheap. If you're getting you all to leave someplace else. Very expensive. And the reason they claim to wrap up my point and to close out here, the reason they claim that they're not going to penalize somebody who wants to steal is because of socialist. theory. They need it. They want it. There shouldn't be private ownership. That stuff in your store is really not your stuff. They have needed it You greedy capitalist, you're stacking up all this stuff and just displaying and you're selling it to these people who need these things? Folks, they need a 70-inch TV that they can't even stick in a shopping cart as they're trying to haul out the store? They need a I just it just boggles the mind, but it's sadly setting on fire uh the course of some of these states. uh and accept more understanding of scriptural principles that help inform our capitalistic form of government of private ownership, private work, doing what you're uh uh working to to support yourself and your family and uh and also having need for charitable giving which America is a very charitable country above and beyond. Other nations are not so uh when uh certain uh Anytime there's a large earthquake in some place in the world, things are devastated, America rushes in with the finances. You don't get a dime from the Saudi countries. You don't find that from some of these places But um yeah, we we certainly have biblically informed uh ethics and principles and I'm not gonna be quick to advocate their overthrow. Yes, Candace. Yeah, the requirement to work. I see a lot of advertisements online lately. Um people think, Hey, let me teach you how to earn passive income and I think that really ties in with this as well. There's a certain draw to quote unquote passive income. Yeah. Right. You can only work five hours a week and earn so many thousands of dollars per month. Yeah. Yeah. And then they discover that you actually end up having to work a whole lot more than that if you're gonna make even a fraction of that amount of money. All right, well let's close in prayer. Anton, would you mind wrapping us up? Let's pray. Father in heaven, the Lord um your law is good in converting the soul. has much implication and much instruction even for how man ought to walk and structure society and all these things and indeed Lord help us not to uh be deceived by all the philosophies of men that will teach this form of socialism and other things that that do at its core uh result in uh a teaching and encouragement for theft and for laziness and all these things would help us to uh walk uprightly even if our government goes astray, oh Lord help us And even to keep our mind and affections on the things above and store our treasures there. Uh neither rust nor moth can corrupt them. Pray you would bless the service to come, Lord, and we ask all these things in Christ's name. Amen.