I trust that the one on homosexuality was of interest, and I did send out a copy of all the teachers' notes. And for the next three studies, Lord Willing, two, maybe three, we're going to look at the topic of socialism. Let's open up by turning to, you don't have to turn because it's four words. It's literally four words from the Bible. It's Exodus 20, verse 15, the eighth commandment. Thou shalt not steal. That really answers the mail concerning the question from a Christian perspective as to how God views socialism. Thou shalt not steal. There's nothing wrong with giving tribute to the government. We are to owe that. We owe that to the government. And it specifies that in the book of Romans in the 13th chapter. But to institutionalize a system where all are enslaved, where all give their labors to the state, allegedly for the communal wealth of others, is simply an unbiblical view. So that's it in the thumbnail. If those watching the internet don't have time for more than two minutes of a video, you're free to move on. But if you'd like to dig into this a little further I trust you'll stick around because it was an interesting study for me. I had some material in the old files and some new things I looked at But I thought to organize it, let's get some definitions of terms first. So in your handout, I've given you some blank places to fill in the blanks or help scribble some notes if you're curious to capture some of this I will cite my sources. They're coming from Investopedia, Merriam-Webster, those are the common ones. Britannica also gives, Encyclopedia Britannica gives some useful information as well. What is socialism? If we were to define that, what would that be? Well, the two definitions I came across that appear to succinctly boil it down is that socialism is an economic theory. It's an economic theory. And it requires that the means of production, distribution, and exchange be owned and regulated by the community as a whole. This is a subtle point. It's owned and regulated by the community as a whole. In practice, however, that means it's owned and regulated by the government. It's not you individually are controlling it. In practice, it turns out that the government is doing this. Miriam-Webster defines it as this, the use of various egalitarian, which means human equality with respect to social, political, economic affairs, the various egalitarian economic and political theories or movements that advocate collective or governmental ownership and administration of the means of production and goods. uh production and distribution of goods. So not only are they in charge of producing it, more importantly they're also in charge of distributing it. So If you're at the long end of the road, if you're that 58th mile away in the 59 mile trek, uh you're at the end of the stage, and there just may not be anything there for you They go on to say that it's a stage of society in Marxist theory that is transitional between capitalism and communism. and is distinguished by an unequal distribution of goods and pay according to the work done. I thought that was an interesting point to make, is that it was an unequal distribution of goods and pay according to the work done. He who works much gets little. He who works little gets much. That's the concept. Where did this whole idea come from? Does anybody know the roots of where these ideas even came from? It's an interesting study in history, but it goes back some time Any thoughts? Where do you think it might have originally come from? Just seeing if you might know. Did the Jews have anything to do with it? Because I know that now they have the the uh uh socialism in some of their kaputs or whatever. Yeah, right. Did they have anything to do with it in the beginning? Uh they uh not that I'm aware of, uh certainly not from their ancient Hebrew traditions. It's true that in the 40s after World War II was over that uh Israel did practice a form of socialism for a while. They still do. They lived some yeah. That's why Merriam Webster says it's various egalitarian economic. It it rain there there's a range in terms of how it works. But that was not the roots. That's still a later fruit Joey. The early church seems to have experimented with at least some form of socialism where they all gathered everything into one communal pot. Okay. So the um when we say early church I'm going to take it not out of Acts 2 because we're going to cover that later. That appears to be a voluntary effort and we'll discuss that at length. But you're on the right track The Catholics and their communes, and their not their communes, their monasteries, had a form of socialism that Marx looked at and said, hmm, we could do something with that So it was the early monasteries that went there. Even before that, there was an earlier fellow named Plato. Plato wrote a book called The Republic. The the Sons of the Prophets sort of were a model for the Catholics as well, where they had you know, and they'd remember the the passage there's death in the pot, where they had to gather their leeks and put it all in the pot. Okay. And you find in communally building a larger place for themselves. Yeah. There are smaller things. This is I'm talking socialism in terms of the the the the for an entire nation. is the concept. You see little seeds of it, uh that it could have come from there and so uh that that's uh the idea. Uh that that that's that's certainly valid. Uh yes. Joey reminded me when they we first came to this country. we were uh socialism. We're gonna talk about that in a minute, so hold hold that hold that hold that thought. You're absolutely right. But even before that, all of this goes back to a fellow named Plato who wrote a book called The Republic He had some ideals of communism. Now listen to what he was proposing. He was trying to create this ideal state because he was trying to overcome the ills that were happening between Sparta and Greece. If you recall a little bit of ancient Greek history, there were city-states. The cities held the power. However, Greece being spread abroad across many islands and little disparate areas, there's no constant highway that could connect them. They were seafaring for the most part. But they had difficulty defending themselves collectively at their culture, their way of life. because they could not unify their city-states. So Plato was thinking deep thoughts. How do we fix this? And so he looked at the ills of the city-states and said, well, this is what we need to do. We need to abolish private property He was talking about houses. He was talking about lands. He was talking about money to include capital. You personally can't own any money either That was a privilege he thought to remove. He also abolished family. And this is another interesting point, because it had an element of thine and mine. So what would be ideal is you would destroy anything that had cooperation that should only go to the state. You only want cooperation going to the state, to the people to enable distractions from work and being tempted to your own self-interests. Children, he said, were a property of the state You bore the kids, off they went to a school, they should be separated from their parents, all should be a part of raising that family. Maybe you've heard that in some political campaigns that it takes a village to raise a child. That's right rooted in Plato's concept. Maybe you've heard recently in the news. Your kids are ours as soon as they're dropped off at the public school Same concept, that they belong to the state. This is Plato, that people should love all children as their own. We should all love them as our own. The new social order would embrace communal life practiced by a ruling and a guardian class. So they had different class structures Now, he exempted the artisans. The artisans were exempted from this. These are the engineers, the artists of their day, because, however, they were under strict supervision so they wouldn't become too rich or too poor. There's one downside to Plato is that he never made a plan for it to work. We never saw it in practice. He wrote a book, said this is the dream, and off it went. That's the roots of socialism and communism, was Plato. And keep that man's name in mind because it will show up in one of our historical examples we'll cover later today The other definition is democratic socialism. There's a popular candidate for office who is pushing that. He says I'm for democratic socialism. It's not socialism. There's a difference Well, democratic socialism is frankly what most socialists understand by the concept of socialism. And it is the first step towards socialism. It's just a baby step, but it's a mighty big baby step. It's a political movement that advocates a gradual and peaceful transition from capitalism to socialism by democratic means. Well, what does that look like in practice? Well, the Democrat socialists reject communism as a legitimate form of socialism. Because they argue that command economies effectively belong to a small bureaucracy that treats the means of production as its own private property So democratic socialism means that there is small parts of the government, those who are in power, the ruling class, who in fact would own the means of production. They own the money, they own the labor. Which means they own the businesses, they nationalize or privatize the businesses. Wonderful. Let's have the government run business. That'll fix it. Boy, that's gonna really improve things. We're gonna see brilliant innovation come out of that And that gets me off on a rant about NASA, but anyway. That's one organization I think needs to be shut down, has lost its purpose and its direction in life What is capitalism on the other hand? What is capitalism? Capitalism is an economic system where private individuals or businesses own capital goods. At the same time, the business owners, meaning the capitalists, employ workers, that's the laborer, who only receive wages. Labor doesn't own the means of production, but they use them on behalf of the owners of capital. So a man sets up a restaurant, he buys all the equipment, he purchases all the stoves, all the safety equipment, the roof, the building, the parking lot. gets the leases. All he needs is people to turn the handles and flip the burgers. That's the difference between the capitalist who sunk all that business, his money into it, hoping that it succeeds over time, and then he has a laborer who gets paid to come in and work it. So the production of goods and services under capitalism is based on supply and demand in a general market, known as a market economy. Rather than through central planning, and that's a big distinction. You don't have any one central organization that plans it. It is based on market uh research. If people want hamburgers, they're going to go to McDonald's. If they want burritos, they're going to go to Taco Bell. If they want clothing or whatever, they're going to go to different places. And they will succeed or fail based on their appeal to the marketplace. The purest form of capitalism is the free market, also known as laissez-faire planning. Let the buyer beware, just as it as it were, go caveat emptures, let the buyer be aware. Laissez-faire, however you Uh it's a free, totally free uh arra uh in this arrangement the private individuals are unrestrained. There's no restraints. That can obviously get out of control, as it did in the early part of the American uh existence. We had uh monopoly uh from uh uh the uh the oil comp uh Standard Oil was in charge and they monopolized the oil market in America and they were exceptionally powerful. This was uh trying to bring Rockefeller. and uh and others of that yoke. They can determine where to invest, what to produce, sell, what prices to exchange goods or services And it's all about private or corporate ownership of capital goods. They make their own decisions privately and they distribute them mainly determined by competition in a free market. So those are the two two views. Now I have some questions Having given those definitions and those overviews, what do you see are the strengths and the weaknesses of each theory? Well where there is more uh individual, you have strength, but you also have a weakness. I think everything that you do is You've restated my question. What are those strengths and what are those weaknesses for capitalism or for socialism? What do you think is a strength of it, or what's a weakness of it? I think there's a second. You think socialism and capitalism the same? Dot yet each one has its problems. Mm-hmm They're very different, but what are the help me understand uh they're not identical. All right. They're very opposite, right? They're they're similar in that that theory, like others, have strengths and weaknesses. So what are some of those, Victoria? With capitalism you have private ownership and that can create incentives, which is a positive of the strong strength people are working to build up things for themselves, for their families, whereas from my understanding with socialism it's the government takes everything, they own everything and then they distribute it as they see fit and there's no incentive to work hard because what you get what one person gets is the same amount as someone else even if someone barely worked for it and you're working really hard There's no big weakness the lack of an incentive in a socialist environment. Uh if uh my work uh gets rewarded the same as somebody who sits on their rear end. I'll sit on my rear end too. Now it's next nine to impossible for me to do that, but uh that's uh one of the big drawbacks Capitalism encourages incentive incentivizes earning and yet the love of money is the root of all evil. So the more a person gets, the more they want. On the other hand, whereas socialism discourages incentives, but law and laziness is also a sin. And so both of them, because of the human nature, lead towards distribution. Failure. Okay. So one because of greed is a problem, the other because of slothfulness is a problem. Okay? Yeah. Other thoughts on strengths or weaknesses? Why would somebody advocate socialism? That's really easy to say. But if you're lazy, why are you advocating? It takes work to advocate and push a position. It takes a lot of work to do that. So why would someone advocate it? For future power. Okay, future power. Alright, so that would imply that the ones who stand to gain the most are those who are in a position of power already and they want more power Right? So it would be a ruler who would advocate that. Okay. And uh the uh The main underlying problem that each one appears to be trying to address, I think Joe put out very clearly for us, that uh capitalism can get to ex uh excessive greed where one person controls everything and You have no means of to redress grievances. They're they're just exceptionally greedy. They they sacrifice safety. I think the construction of the Hoover Dam uh had hundreds of people dying because as they were digging and building and dynamite blasting and letting them dangle off the sides of cliffs. uh in ropes suspended, uh that there would it was not unusual that there'd be a death on the job. Oh well, pour more concrete, keep going That's capitalism. It doesn't uh have a uh a a a restraint to it, pure capitalism. Uh and of course there's evils in socialism. But wouldn't that be true of socialism economy as well? The Hoover Dam is built in like socialist economy. The same ills could be found in the socialist econom economy as well. They don't care about they don't have to care about safety standards if they're in charge. It's whatever benefits the ruling class. So neither one of them are utopia, neither one of them are heaven on earth And that's why both of them, there's degrees of movement towards each other in this whole economic theory. All right. But I'm just going to center it not on the goalpost, the very bookends. Let's kind of talk about and let's review the middle ground by way of some examples. Well, let me ask one more question. So what would your idea of the perfect economic policy be? If capitalism has its evils and socialism has its evils, what's the best? What's the best form? Garden of Eden. The Garden of Eden. Yeah, before the fall, right. Everybody had everything they needed. Everybody was involved in tending the garden keeping it. Could we implement that now? This mere human penny? Because we're a simple nature. Um the Bible says if you don't work, you don't So a society that encourages individual work and motivates that work by give us giving us incentive and pay and then letting us use that pay towards our own desires, whether that be paying bills or pleasure or whatever. As far as an economic system to me that um ideally what should work and match the scriptural value. Your very first sentence was uh what was very insightful and that is because of the sinfulness of man's heart I had given myself much time early in my conversion for whatever reason into reflecting what is the ideal form of government. And uh Brother Bernie, my mentor, was helpful in that. He said, a benevolent dictatorship. And that's effectively what you had at the Garden of Eden. Uh Sweden loves their king. They've had a king for a very long time. Now he's probably been He may be the second or third longest ruling monarch, if I'm not mistaken. I I don't keep up with Swedish history. Some of my information is a bit dated. Uh but um they have a little bit more of a socialistic form, but they're not entirely socialistic. But again, it's a king. And if you have a good king, remember, they didn't shut down for COVID. Because he's a king, he can say, no, if we're not shutting down, that's dumber than dirt. And no one can say no to him. All the other governments are in fear of their people, and oh we've got to shut down for safety purposes, meaning their own safety, not yours. They did fine They fared no better nor no worse than the average. They were right in the middle of everybody else, and they didn't tank their economy as a result. And so, yes, but the struggle with that is where do you find a benevolent dictator Absolute power tends to corrupt absolutely. We've seen that again and again and again. So these are the kind of things we're talking about, and we're trying to figure out how to deal with the sinful hearts of the sons of men. And that's the struggle because it doesn't matter how you balance it out. If you have a sinner in there who is bent on disobeying the laws, it doesn't matter what law you put him under, he'll break it But let's look at some examples of socialism because I don't want to make it sound like, yep, we could go either way, because socialism is in fact the greater evil. I want to look at two examples of where socialism has taken root and the historical results of it. And the first Mrs. Ross mentioned, and that was the pilgrims in the early New England colony. Did you know in our land, the very first form of government we exercised was in fact a form of socialism? The pilgrims in the 1600s, under King James I, the fellow that gave us the King James Bible, in the Church of England was persecuting anyone who did not recognize their absolute civic and spiritual authority. So the Separatists fled to Colland ten years later, or 11 years later in August of 1620, they set sail on the Mayflower for the New World. There were 102 passengers on that boat. 40 of them were Puritans. They were led by William Bradford, and he set up the Mayflower Compact on that ship with the all-102 members to establish just and equal laws for everybody in that colony. They landed and they encountered a harsh New England winter. Half of the pilgrims died that first winter, including Bradford's wife. The spring brought them Indians who taught them how to plant corn, how to fish for cod, how to skin beavers Got Gabriel's attention over there. They were not prosperous just yet, however, because the original London contract with their merchant sponsors called for all production to go into a common store and each member of the community was entitled to one common share It was an equal distribution. So all the land that Ivon cleared and all the land that Job cleared and all the houses they built all belonged to the community. Kind of like a 1960s California commune. Bradford wrote the following after that initial result. He said, The young men that were able and fit for labor and service did repine, meaning they uh rested, lest they should spend their time and strength to work for other men's wives and children without recompense. The strong had no more division of food, clothing, etc. , than he that was weak and not able to do a quarter that the other one could This was thought injustice, and you can see why. The aged and graver men to be ranked and equalized in labor, food, and clothes, etc. , while the meaner, meaning the average and younger sort thought it some indignant in disrespect unto them. And for men's wives to be commanded to do service for other men as dressing their meat, washing their clothes, etc. , they deemed it a kind of slavery. Neither could their husbands brook it. So you can certainly see in practice how that sounds good on paper, but once you get it in going, there's a strong sense of injustice felt. Two years of that kind of socialistic society produced little to no extra for their collective harvest. The following winters became so bad they got it down to only five grains of corn per day per family You're surviving on five grains of corn. That's all they had left. They couldn't eat their seed corn to plant the next year. Only a fraction of the original colony remained. Folks, there are only 102 to start with, so this this isn't a lot of people. Bradford and the colony elders changed to private property and the right of individual owners to keep the fruits of their own labors Again, Governor Bradford records the results. And you can read it. You should read it. It should be on your short list of things to read, is Bradford's report of the early colonies. And so, assigned to every family a parcel of land according to the proportion of their number for that end, this had a very good success. for it made all hands very industrious. So much more corn was planted than otherwise would have been by any means the governor or any other could use, and saved him a great deal of trouble and gave far better content. The women now willingly went into the field and took their little ones with them to plant the corn, which before would allege weakness and inability. Oh, I can't get out to the field today. Oh, I can't All the excuses disappeared. Man, no, we're ready to go. And uh whom to have compelled would have been thought tyranny under uh great tyranny and oppression under the old order. You could just see it. You can just absolutely see it. The colony experienced a great bounty of food because private ownership linked work with reward. Industry took off and surpluses came. They set up trading posts. They exchanged goods with the Indians. This allowed new things to come into the camp. The prophets allowed them to pay off their debts to the merchants in London. The success and prosperity of the Plymouth settlement and attracted more Europeans and began what came to be known as the Great Puritan migration. So we tried it for two years, folks. It failed miserably. It fell on its face so bad it nearly wiped us off the map. Bradford concluded that the experience that was had in this common course and condition tried sundry years and that amongst the godly and sober men, which is an interesting point he makes. may well convince of the vanity and conceit of Plato's and other ancients. He knew Plato. He knew it. That the taking away of property and bringing into a commonwealth would make them happy and flourishing. That's the vain conceit. As if they were wiser than God. For this community, so far as it was, was found to breed confusion and discontent and retard much employment that would have been to their benefit and comfort. I found that to be an interesting snapshot from history. So, what insights about America's early experiment with socialism did you find interesting? Yeah, it was all boring. I'm sorry. I think that it shows that Christianity, true Christianity, would be the only thing that would fix it But they didn't really have that because if they didn't get some of the rewards they weren't gonna do it. Mm-hmm. But true Christianity does not uh Say don't do it if it's not gonna help you. rephrase it if I may. Bradford noted that even among true Christians, godly men, it didn't succeed. No, that's right. Right. And but true Christians did fix it and they said, This ain't working, we're gonna do something else. And the something else did work and it and it paid off. We're just so accustomed to capitalism that the thought of even trying anything else is just strange. Back then it was very much flipped. Like that's how they operated. Everybody had everything in common. Like e I think socialism goes way back, maybe not it was it was called that, but it was understanding, you know, you worked for someone else and you got whatever share they allotted you. And so that's what they were they were they were operating on the programs came, they were operating on the format that they knew or accustomed with. So to change and do something very different was undoubtedly challenging and I would say probably God inspired because that was something very different. Yes, that's a good point. It probably also ties into ancient feudalism Where you had the lords and a lot of the serfs and vassals who did the work and that was kind of the you know the norm for a great many years. In our modern day, the closest to perfection is the Amish Where a family that will not work, they are just looked down on and shamed into work And yet when there's a barn to be built, the entire community comes and helps another farmer build his barn for no pay. It's going to help him get his barn up. But the but those that don't work are are ashamed of their of their slaw. That's an interesting point because we'll look at that uh uh in your handout. One of the things you'll see here is on the fourth line the benefit of having social or cultural capital. And that is a form of social capital. I have helped with multiple barns. You're respected in the community and what value that can bring forward. Socialism, not much. uh uh capitalism that can. So they they have a little blended mix of it there. Now another question. Do you believe that the problems that these pilgrims encountered would have been solved if only they had more people? In socialism. Would more people have fixed it? Nope. Wouldn't have fixed it, would it? Um What uh truly could have fixed their socialistic society if changing another form of government wasn't possible? What could have truly fixed it? If you could actually make that change. This is kind of snarky, but enslaving the enemies, the Indians. Okay, enslaving the Indians. do. It's we're gonna force labor on someone else. Yeah, okay. All right. That's that that's uh that's an interesting thought. It's kind of ironic 'cause my answer's a little different, but that's okay. But I mean it's it's different ideas. That's a well it's you're not entirely wrong. I don't know if it could without that change of heart. The thing that stood out to me was the women and he said that under their socialistic tendency See the women were treated like and felt like slaves. But during the new society the women were working just as hard. They were not harder, we're dragging the kids along. But then he described it as a greater sense of satisfaction. about their work. So they were working either way, but the attitude was different. Yeah, right. But yeah, you hit the nail on the head, Penny, is that the only way you'd really get that to work is you had to have a complete change of everyone's heart to a fully altruistic perspective. That's what's required. And that kind of gets to maybe your point. That is the right. They would have had to have been true Christians with a big change of heart with an altruistic out outlook and outworking. Alright. That's the only thing that would have fixed it. But here he says, even among godly men, not the case. So and it truly is a change part. I think the the problem of a lot of socialistic governments run into is they think they can force that change of heart by placing, you know, uh punishments if you don't do this We're trying to reward it. They're trying to force that change apart, but that's that doesn't that doesn't work. It has to be self motiv motivated. Yes, that's right. It doesn't work when forced upon ex Very good. Alright, good thoughts. All right, let's go to another example of history. Sorry that we're a little light on the Bible today, but I thought to give you the historical backgrounds. And then we're going to get into some biblical foundation a little stronger, but uh I can do this in Sunday school. We can take the liberty to kind of look at some different things. There's another country in our in some of your recent memories, perhaps, if it's still around today. It's Argentina. From 1900 to the present. Prior to World War One, Argentina was exceptionally prosperous There were common phrases. Rich like an Argentine was the popular phrase. La Rey de la Plata, the queen of the plate. Their economy grew 5% a year. That's pretty impressive. Yeah. They had the highest per capita income in the world up until 1950 The only ones who surpassed them is the Arabs with all their oil. But they had the highest. Per capita means per person. The country is the eighth largest territory in the world. They have all climate zones They had a rich supply of raw materials and natural resources, water, gas, oil. They had abundant agriculture. They had vast swaths. They still do have vast swaths of rich farmland, many navigable rivers. a very accessible port system. They exported meat, grain, and leather to Europe. The Argentinian peso was considered a most stable currency, right alongside the US dollar and the British pound. In fact They competed with the U. S. for the number two slot in terms of most prosperous economy. They had more cars per person than in France They had more telephone lines than Japan. And in Buenos Aires, they had a subway that ran under the streets. This is. . this is This is before nine this is before 1916, folks. This is pretty pretty advanced. The Argentinians vacationed regularly in France. They'd go to Europe to check out the latest and newest fashions and styles. They'd go to Germany to get the more exotic tools and things and the like. In 1916, they elected a president, Hippelito Idigoyan, who formed a party called, hold your hat, the radicals All right. Well when you hear that radical whatever, boy, you ought to just grab your wallet. And they appealed to the middle class. He uh uh advocated a mandatory pension insurance a mandatory health insurance, support for low-income housing construction to stimulate the economy. By this, the state assumed a vast swath of economic control of the country's operations. They funded them by new payroll taxes. The entitlement payouts increased to the point where the outlays surpassed the contributions, meaning the entitlements were, no surprise, underfunded. By 1946, they elected a former general, Juan Perron, P-E-R-O-N. He's the big guy with the X on his forehead. He had a charismatic wife named Eva. Perrone had a fascist upbringing and promised a third path between capitalism and socialism. Sounds like democratic socialism. Third path. His rhetoric was aimed at the nation's rich, painting them as an enemy to be defeated and humiliated to benefit the middle class. Never heard of that idea? Under his leadership, the government bureaucracies exploded, massive social spending exploded as well, all encouraged by the large labor unions. By 1949, Perone had tripled the state expenditures. By 1955, he had doubled the number of state employees. The Argentina First Policy Nothing new under the sun. Put tariff barriers in place to protect its weak industrial base. The state bought gas and electric companies, and other inefficient state companies were started. The charitable social acts were underfunded, in fact they were not even funded due to the squandered revenues. The corruption permeated society He bought Great Britain's ailing subway system for $487 billion in US fiscal year $20, and it was a literal train wreck of the system. After he left office, high taxes plus mismanagement took its toll. In 1967, the foreign debt hit $8 million, but a massive borrowing drive driven by a military dictatorship and its role in the 1982 Falkland Wars, began a period characterized by industrial protectionism, redistribution of income based on increased wages, growing state intervention in the economy. They gained the habit of printing money to pay off debts. Hyperinflation exploded in 1989 to 3,000%. That means it's better to buy something in the morning because at the end of the day you won't be able to afford it Food riots were common, stores were looted, the country descended into chaos. From 92 to 99, the state expenditures rose 50 percent, reaching 160 billion in debt by 1994, public pensions Similar to the US Social Security system, imploded, tanked, gone. Even after payroll taxes increased from 5% to 26%. They declared bankruptcy in 2001. By 2002, their crisis was as severe as America's Great Depression. Their current debt as of 2020 is $323 billion. Sounded like a really grand idea, huh? What similarities do you find between what happened to Argentina and what's happening in America today? What isn't similar? Calling the rich as being these bad, evil people that we need to take their wealth and redistribute it, just that idea is kind of Like it it's like I think the rich are are heavy very heavily taxed, even more than others. Yeah, calling the rich evil, painting them as bad. Anytime a government starts to paint one one brand or one category or one class of people as evil That is a bad, bad, bad sa uh bad s bad sign, bad flag, big red flag. Um What is different between what happened in Argentina versus what you see happening in America? What is different? Our constitution. Yes. Yeah, we have a constitution that separates the the uh uh the the powers of government and that hopefully we'll make a significant difference. It's my turn for a snarky comment. We have enough rednecks to fight against it. We in our constitution we have uh yes, we have a lot of rednecks to fight against it. Absolutely we have a Yep. It's interesting. Uh uh the only place where I see Obama's picture on the wall and I like it, is when I go into a gun store because he's named Gun Salesman of the Year because he threatened to take away all the gun rights and gun sales shot up through the roof. We're like, we like Obama. He's driving our sales through the roof. Yep. Yeah. In fact uh China has been noted, I think it was a former uh emperor who said, We would never invade America because there would be a gun behind every blade of grass. They know we're heavily armed. Yep. I like Mrs. Ross's bumper sticker. I carry a gun because the cop is too heavy. How would you define success, and this is probably the most important question, and we're going to close today with some thoughts on this. How would you define success for any economic theory? Whether socialist, capitalistic, what is success? What does success look like? Self-sustainable and not drowning itself. Okay, that's pretty good. Self-sustaining. Uh it doesn't drown itself. Yep, that's that's that's pretty good. That's kind of a means testing. I like that. You came to that pretty quick. I like it. I'll do it Yeah, I like that too. Self sustaining, doesn't drown itself. No, no, no. Meritocracy is incredibly important for a society. Meritocracy is important for society. Alright, Professor, just dump me. What's meritocracy? Well it's it's merit based. So um it's the idea that if you work really hard then you will be able to move forward based on merit. So some form of merit rewards the reward system based on merit as recognized by some objective means or something. Okay. All right. So those are going to be helpful thoughts because we're going to look at now uh as I close out here a list of where a nations where socialism has failed. So here's the list of nations where socialism has failed. Are you ready? We got some time here. Soviet Union, Yugoslavia, Albania, Poland, Vietnam. Bulgaria, Romania, Czechoslovakia, North Korea, Hungary, China, East Germany, boy, what an account that is. You ought to read what's the name of that book, Victoria? Yeah, Nina Wilder wrote a book or Wilder Wilder wrote a book. Yeah. Wrote a book called Forty Autumns, Worth Your Time to Read, Most Gripping. She is the granddaughter of A family that was trapped behind the Iron Curtain as it was falling, and she knows those details in intimate fashion and reports the story of growing up in the West versus growing up in the east. It's very, very insightful to see how the government began to lock its arms around the people. Cuba, Tanzania Laos, South Yemen, Somalia, the Congo, Ethiopia, Cambodia, Mozambique, boy, that's a real Angola, Nicaragua, and Venezuela, among others, not counting the very short-lived ones Israel, India, and the United Kingdom all adopted socialism as an economic model following World War II, but they later abandoned it. Socialism is guilty of a fatal conceit. It believes that system can make better decisions for the people than they can for themselves. And you'll appreciate this, Joey. British Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher said Uh observed the problem with socialism is that eventually you run out of other people's money. Now, if you go to the internet in our internet filtered controlled environment today because big tech controls the thinking and the way you view things, if you look for nations where socialism has succeeded They will report Russia, Cuba, and China. I'm not quite sure how they think Cuba is succeeding. If you look at Cuba uh they are stuck still driving 1950 Hudson's around on the island. I mean they're just it's just really backwards. And all this depends on how you define success. From objective standards, I don't think anyone would consider that success successful. It consistently fails. It just consistently fails. So I trust you uh appreciate that brief history And look an overview of it next week. We will look at some more uh scriptural detail basis. And this is just for your own consideration, this little chart to try to fill out. You can find answers on the internet quite readily Uh but uh compare it's homework, yes, go get smart. Uh the the comparisons between uh the ownership of means income inequality, which one has it, which one doesn't consumer prices, who provides health care, what the quality of health care might look like, efficiency and innovation, which one gives better. These are some objective means that you can use to compare and contrast what you get with what you might think you're buying. Real quick. In 1962, Jamaica became an independent country. The Jamaican dollar was two Jamaican to one US. The first Prime Minister with Alexander Bustamante, a capitalist through and through. After the first eight years, actually first seven years, he was defeated in the election by his cousin, Michael Manley. Michael Manley was a Democratic Socialist. And the country went downhill from there by 1975, 76, the economy was tanking. By the time we got there, the Jamaican dollar was five Jamaican dollars, or one US dollar was five Jamaican dollars. By the time we left, one US dollar was 80 Jamaican dollars. Today, one US dollar is 150 Jamaican dollars. Yep. So that's another one to add to the list where it fails. Um would you close this in prayer, please? Uh dear Heavenly Father, um we thank you, Lord, that we live in a nation where uh we have not had to see the uh terrible effects of socialism and uh though there be many deceased people and politicians that would uh entertain the idea of bringing such a system into this nation, Lord. Uh we pray uh that that it wouldn't be so Lord. Um and uh we know that uh whenever uh such systems come upon uh any nation it it is indeed uh active sign of judgment and lord this this nation is uh Very ready for that, Lord, and uh we just pray Lord that you would uh protect your people and um help us Lord to maintain a faithful testimony uh amongst the changing tides and winds lord of of all of these political and economic systems. And uh We just uh pray uh your grace, Lord, in all of our lives in Jesus' name. Amen.