I was very struck by uh Reverend Mook's um study today, his sermon in First Kings six, talking about the the temple and the tabernacle. And before we go visit that again, uh turn to Hebrews chapter nine. Hebrews chapter nine. I'm not going to replace anything that he said today, but rather I'm going to build on it as he was speaking, as is common when men and women and children attend unto the preaching of the Word of God. The Lord is pleased to bless that activity. Many a time I've been blessed, even as I sit and hear myself talk through something, or deal with a passage, say in a family devotion at the end of the day, God is very pleased to enlighten us through quote the foolishness of preaching, unquote. He actually does that. It really does work. The reason I was struck by today's passage, and there's much in 1 Kings 6 which talked about how Solomon I was building the tabernacle of the Lord, in particular the Holy of Holies, that innermost core part. And I was reminded of this passage in Hebrews chapter 9, beginning in verse 8 Hebrews chapter 9 and beginning in verse 8, we read this. The Holy Ghost, this signifying that the way into the holiest of all, what that Thirty cubit by thirty cubit by thirty cubit cube of the innermost tabernacle. That was called the holiest of all. The way into the holiest of all, notice that phrase the way, was not yet made manifest. Manifest wasn't revealed while as the first tabernacle was yet standing, which was a figure for the time then Present. And I'm going to stop right there. The inspiration of the Holy Spirit tells us through this book of Hebrews that The way into the holiest of all, that ordinance of divine service with a worldly sanctuary, as described in verse one, was called a figure. And if you look in the Greek, it's very interesting. That word figure ties in exactly with what we had been studying on Friday nights. It's the word parable. Those things were a living historical Parable. They pointed to things. God set up a whole nation to perpetuate, to propagate, to build upon, to continue, to carry out this earthly service, this worldly sanctuary that would ultimately point to spiritual realities. If you move ahead to chapter 10 Actually, let's stay in chapter nine. Let's just look at chapter nine and verse twenty-three, where it says, It was therefore necessary that the patterns Here he calls it a pattern of things in heaven, calls it things in the heavens, should be purified with these, meaning the blood of bulls and goats, but the heavenly things themselves, with better sacrifices than these. He called them a pattern. Chapter 10, verse 1, for the law having a shadow of good things to come, and not the very image of those things. And and that's all I want to point out to you in in Hebrews nine. I I don't want to uh get further into that because I uh I would go off on a different study. But that's just there to anchor the approach I'm about to take as we look back again Again at first Kings 6, and the disclosure of all that Solomon is doing in the building of this worldly sanctuary, this Holy of Holies. I was just so struck with so So many things it was so rich of a passage that again I'm not trying to replace what Reverend Luke said. Because he's laid a good groundwork for it. This is a spiritual picture. And so I want you for the moment, based on what we've read under inspiration of the Spirit As recorded and read to us in the book of Hebrews, we can actually look for and find spiritual truths as we go through this passage. And I hope to share with you some of the things that I was richly blessed with that was exploding through my mind as I was looking at these things. And there were a couple that really stood out. This cubic structure is very unique as he pointed out. It was silently built. It was assembled on site and it was very illustrious. It had lots of gold. Did you notice how much gold that had been mentioned all throughout the text? Uh and there was lots of carving in it. And who was the one building it? Katie, do you remember who it was that built this little Worldly tabernacle that we read about that Solomon made? The pastor talked about this morning. Who was the builder? Okay, God he worked through somebody though, and there was a man on earth he worked through. Anyone else remember? That's right, King Solomon. He was the guy that actually built that thing. And as he was building it, a lot of what he's building frankly looks very much uh heavenly He talked about the gold that was all throughout it, and the floor of it even was made of gold, and certainly he talked about the streets of gold that we have. Does anybody remember what was carved on the walls? It was cherubims, and what is a cherubim? What's a common word we might use to refer to a cherubim? An angel. Yes, there were pictures of angels that were there. So look at Revelation chapter five, keeping your hand there in the book of the Kings. We're gonna jump around because I want to unpack some special. Spiritual truths here. Revelation chapter five and verse eleven. The assertion I'm making is that all of these carved cherubims as you walk into this big room full of gold on the floor with all of these pictures of angels carved on the wall, it would be like walking into a little snapshot of heaven. A little earthly picture, an earthly depiction of something that we find in heaven. And do we see this? Well indeed we do. Revelation 5. 11, and I beheld and I heard the voice of many angels. Round about the throne and the beasts and the elders, and the number of them was ten thousand times ten thousand, and thousands of thousands. And I'm not going to go further than that because the point I want to make is that heaven is full of angels. That's where you see them, in an abundance. You know, here on earth we don't see angels. There are rare times when in the history of God's dealing with his people, An angel would appear. Um Elijah prayed that perhaps the Lord would open the eyes of his servant, that he could see on the mountain, that there were more with him than those who were against him, and he saw uh angels and chariots of fire all around, that he knew Knew that God's protective army was in fact there. In heaven, that which is veiled here is in plain view there. It's fully disclosed, and it was interesting that the carving of the cherubims was on the inside. The inside of the Holy of Holies, not on the outside. You wouldn't see it. It's invisible to the world. But when you're in the midst of heaven, that's where all the angelic counsel and the angelic host is at So it was a very much a picture of heaven. Hebrews 12, uh I will read that to you. It speaks about uh the believers who have come to Christ, uh it says that you also come, it says, to the Mount Zion, the city of the living God, the heavenly Jerusalem, and to an innumerable company. Of angels. So many angels you can't count them. You children ever been out or a field on a summer night? Oh, right around June, July time frame. When you look out, you see all these little points of light That are just just popping up all over the place. What are those little light things that pop up? No, they're on the ground. You can actually run up and catch one. They're little little lights that that light up. They're called fire fireflies. Do you ever see little fireflies? All the little fireflies just lighting up and you look out across the field or something and there's just all these little light bugs that are just lighting up. There's so many of them you can't number them. Imagine a new heaven and a new earth which has so many or the heaven itself, I should say rather, that has so many angels you can't number them. That was a small picture of what God was trying to point out there. That was a picture of heaven There was also something more going on in there too, and that it was a picture of God's atonement, God's secret plan of how he was going to pay for the sins of his people. In the middle of that cube there was a box. It was about the size of this table, maybe a little shorter. Shorter and a little taller. And it too was covered with gold. Anybody know what that box was called? It's called an Ark. And much like this, it had something inside of it. What was inside that Ark of the Covenant? It had three things. Had a copy of Moses' two tables of stone, the Ten Commandments. What else was inside that golden covered box? The what? The pot of manna that Moses laid up for the children of Israel when they went through the wilderness, he lay he took one pot of that and stuck it inside of that holy box. What else was in there? Aaron's rod that butted. Here he had an almond branch, he cut And uh to prove that uh God was speaking through him and was with him, his rod budded, blossomed, and bare an almond. You know, when's the last time you cut off a branch and the thing actually produced fruit All of those are rich in symbology. The law of God is there. That's clearly the law of God, the centerpiece of heaven. It's in the center of that thing. And what else does that law of God have next to it? It has the pot of bread. Jesus Christ saying that He is the bread of life, that He feeds us, that with the Word of God is also the food of God, that which uh is to be fed to God's people. And Aaron's rob that butt. When you take a branch and you cut it off, your as it were Killing it. You're killing that branch. And yet this branch lives. And furthermore, bears fruit. That's a grand picture of the resurrection. When Martha said to Jesus, I know my brother will rise in the resurrection, he's looked her square in the eye and said, Martha, I I am the resurrection and the life. Resurrection is a person. The law of God Jesus says within my heart, that's what's in that holy box. He is the bread of life from heaven. Moses gave you not that bread from heaven, Jesus says, but I am the bread of life. I give my breath. So all of those three testimonies out of the mouth of two or three witnesses, every matter is established. That is a picture of some of the key aspects of God. He is our lawgiver. He's our judge. He's our king. He will defend us. All of that is there What was on top of that holy box? There was a seat, kinda like you're sitting on a piano seat. Stand up for a minute. Just a minute. See we can open it. Is this when it opens? Oh yeah, it opens and it closes. What was that thing on top called A mercy seat. Yeah. So here this only box is there and it's got something called a mercy seat on top of it. And the high priest went alone once into that tabernacle with the blood of a of a lamb or a goat, and he would sprinkle it where? On top of the mercy seat. You're thinking about the Passover when they put it on the door. But once a year the high priest went and he would sprinkle blood on top of that seat that she's sitting on. Now If there's blood on top of that seat, as it were, the law of God looks up. The law of God looks up and it sees blood on that seat. That there's blood that's been shed because the law says the soul that sins must surely die. So it looks up and says, Ah, blood has been shed. I am satisfied I am content. I have no further need of anything. That's why it was called a mercy seat. That's where the law of God met with a blood atonement. And satisfaction was found. Now what was at the end of the mercy seat? If you need a hint, you can go back and read 1 Kings 6 and you can read uh verses um 23 through 27. What was on the ends of the mercy seat? Two golden carved cherubims. Were they small? They were big. How big was one of the wings? One wing. Ten cubits high. Ten cubits high, which is about a cubit is about a foot and a half, so that would make it how high? Ten plus fifty percent is fifteen fifteen feet in length. That's a pretty big Cherub and Wing had two of them. They were so big they touched the walls. But they came together Alright, so imagine an eagle spreading his wings when he's trying to land, he's trying to slow down his momentum. Alright? So that's at one end of that holy box. And what's at the other end? The same thing. So there's these two big carved angels and their wings are covering, and we know elsewhere in the scriptures that The cherubims are looking down at the mercy seat, right? This is just rich in symbols Why don't we turn now and go see what that was, and I will assert that it's a picture of Christ's, it's referencing Christ's atonement, his death and burial and resurrection, the book of John Turn to the book of John in chapter twenty. Here are these two carved angels, very, very large angels. Some might have surmised that it was Gabriel and Michael. The actual names of the angels is unimportant. God said there's two angels And they're very big. And one's at one end of the table and the other one's at the other end of the table. And what would happen is the priest would come in and he wouldn't sprinkle it on the wings of the He's not supposed to spray it on them. He just puts it right in the middle. And that's where the cherubims are looking. Now it's interesting we have this account in John chapter 20, and beginning in verse uh twelve I believe is where I'm trying to go. Yes, verse twelve. This is uh verse eleven. Uh when the news is that The Lord is not in the sepulchre. And they come and they look inside the tomb. It says in verse 11 Mary stood without at the sepulchre. She's standing outside at the sepulchre weeping. And as she wept, she stooped down and looked into the sepulchre. So in those old times they didn't bury people six feet under, they would have a cave carved out and they would have a stone in front of it and you would walk into that cave, you'd lay your dead down there where the body would decompose and eventually over time you just have a pile of bones there and then they might later gather the bones together, put it in an ossuary or a bone box which would be much smaller, and then you could save that someplace else. So it really was just a resting place for the body to decompose. Compose. And if Joseph of Arimathea bought it, it was brand new, nobody had ever been there. It was a brand spankin' new, and they would put it there literally would be a ledge there And what does she see? Verse 12. And she seeth two angels in white sitting, the one at the head. And the other at the feet, where the body of Jesus had lain. Lo and behold, at Jesus' resurrection, here are these two angels that appear Just coincidentally, at the head and the feet of where Christ is at, already prophesied by way of this symbol that had been built by Solomon many, many years ago. Because we know from Hebrew that was a parable. It was a figure. And so here we see, again, God highlighting and pointing out his grand and glorious atonement. Angels on the wall, picture of heaven, the Ark of the Covenant, the mercy seat, the angels covering it, picture of the atonement. Go back to the book of Exodus. We are told that as this thing was built, there was basically no on-site labor. Exodus chapter 20 In verse twenty-five. As this uh temple was being built No item was to be hammered. Any noise was to be made on site. All of the work was done off-site. Exodus twenty and verse twenty-five, and if thou wilt make me an altar of stone, thou shalt not build of it a hewn stone. For if thy lift up thy tool upon it, thou hast polluted it. And then you skip ahead to the book of Deuteronomy. We turn now to Deuteronomy chapter 27 And verse 5. God's now going to command them. He's going to command them to build an altar to God. He says, There shalt thou build an altar unto the Lord thy God, Deuteronomy 27, 5, an altar of stones, thou shalt not lift up any iron tool upon the altar. Isn't that interesting? Don't lift up any iron tool. Well, lo and behold, did Solomon think that was a grand idea? Well sure he did, and we look at first Kings six where we were just at. You'll want to keep your hand in 1 Kings 6. That's kind of our anchor passage. We'll come back and forth to it. 1 Kings 6, 7. And the house when it was in building was built of stone, made ready before it was brought thither. So that there was neither hammer nor axe nor any tool of iron heard in the house while it was in the building. You know, construction sites can be some very, very noisy sites. One time my family went on a little vacation down to Virginia Beach and we went at a time when somebody who happened to have a beach house that apparently had sustained a lot of damage decided that was a great time to do a lot of work. They had their generators going and their multiple air compressors and nail guns and nail hammers and man there was a ton of noise as they were hammered away on this house and just bam this and blam that and all kinds of pounding and I mean it was ridiculous. And of course I'm filming the whole thing just, you know, as a picture of the family vacation. And all you can hear and the sound of it is all this construction noise going on in the back. It was nuts I worked at a government facility one time and uh we had certain instructions to not arrive before or do any noise or work before nine in the morning and we had to cut it off by four thirty or five because there were some wealthy neighbors nearby that made a tremendous fuss about the fact that you guys are making too much noise over there and we want you to keep it quiet. And she was known throughout the government, I forget her name, Mrs. Smith, and she enforced strict sound violations uh of of her uh belong And so she was a uh forced she had a whole government agency in fear of her because they didn't want to mess with her. And so here in God's side it's interesting. Where do you think God would say he doesn't want any tool? He doesn't want any tool to be working on that stone there. Well, let's put all this together because I think God is multiplying his symbols. He's multiplying his figures. The location of that holy of holies is where? It's really picturing where. It's picturing heaven. And yet it was also something that would have been known to the people of God as let us go up to the to the mount, to the What do you call it? The house of the Lord. It was also referred to as the house of the Lord. Well, in the New Testament, what is the house of the Lord? Is it a building? Surely is. What is the house of the Lord? It's people, isn't it? Well, somehow that's also a picture of you and I We're called the house of the Lord. And if that's happening in heaven, I find that very interesting. Here's what I got out of this. I think, as it were, what God is saying is that we are cut. We're that material. We're cut down here. We're shaped and fashioned down here. And when God brings us home, we're a fit piece. And He puts us together, and we're assembled in heaven. What an interesting thought. We're cut and shaped down here. All the noise and all the tumult is down here. But when we're done, when God's done with us, you are a custom fit piece. There's a specific location that you're going to go and fit in heaven. And you're just assembled, pre-assembled in place. You're going to fit perfectly. Exactly what God wants you. Let's see if that bears up. Let's look at Colossians chapter 2. Colossians chapter 2. So we're going to start with verse 2. And the word I'm keying in is the word Ned. I should say keying on. Colossians two two. That their hearts might be comforted, being knit together in love. The saints of God are knit together in love at the heart level. It is a heart level connection. That's why Christian fellowship is um vital and unique. It is a fellowship that is in integrity. It is one where they have the same Savior. It transcends anything external because it's at a heart level and it's very unique. Uh skip down to um uh verse uh nineteen. Uh Colossians two nineteen says um It's in the middle of a sentence, my apologies, but I do want to focus on this verse. And not holding the head from which all of the body by joints and bands having nourishment ministered and knit Together increaseth with the increase of God. We are knit together. God stitches us together He refers to us in Colossians, excuse me, in Corinthians as a work, a work of the Lord that are built on a foundation. We are built on the foundation of Christ. That implies that we are a stone or a piece of lumber, a gold-covered lumber You might say, well Vince, it sounds like a bit of a stretch. I mean because it wasn't yeah, there were some stones there, but for the most part it was wood that was covered up with gold. What do we do with that? Well that's when I really got to thinking about that a little bit more. What kind of wood was that used inside that structure? Cedar wood. What do you know about Cedar Wood? It's well that's it's uh it's a pretty sturdy wood. It's not the toughest wood, but uh it it uh certainly is It looks good and it smells good. Alright, let's run with the smell thing for a minute there. I'm gonna run with the smell thing here. Uh why does it smell good Yeah, there's that there's a certain oil in the wood, right? You can actually buy uh cedar wood oil. Now uh I'm sure some of you men who have tried to build something outside, if you're just gonna put a raw piece of cut lumber outside. Say you're making a little um playset for the kids where you're gonna put some wood in the ground and maybe build a little sandbox area. What kind of lumber are you gonna use for a sandbox or something? You gonna use just straight cut lumber, you can use pressure treated lumber. Probably gonna go with pressure treated lumber. You know what that is? Well what they do is they take a plain old cheap piece of wood And they put it under a lot of high pressure. They put a lot of nasty chemicals inside of there like arsenic or copper and zinc, all kinds of, and they just force it in there Telephone poles are made the same way. They they force fit a bunch of creosote and oils inside of it. Why do you suppose they do that? What else will happen besides rot? Animals. Yes, animals, bugs. Bugs love it. Termites love it. But you don't have to do that with two types of wood. Redwood trees and cedar trees. You don't have to pressure treat them. Why? They have a natural aroma in them that drives away and it repels the insects. They don't like that smell They don't like it. Dare I say that cedar wood is a choice piece of wood? Sounds like it. Might I even call it a select piece of lumber? It sounds like it's a very particular, it's a choice. Shall I say the elected God? In whom God the Holy Spirit exists, driving out all kinds of sin, driving out all kinds of issues in the life. Why? From the oil that's within it? The Spirit of God is often likened to oil. But it's still a piece of lumber. You say, Vince, what justification do you have to call uh a person a piece of lumber? Well, uh why don't you go take a look at uh the book of Mark? Mark chapter eight and verse twenty-four. The Lord Jesus Healed a man partially. He took this blind man and he spit in his eyes and he put his hands upon him and asked him if he saw anything. And you know what the man reported? It's interesting. With these partially healed eyes, you could say he was seeing through a glass darkly. The man said in Mark 8:24, he looked up and he said, I see men as trees Yes, you'll find several places in the Bible where men are likened unto trees. For instance, in Psalm 1. When it talks about a certain man, uh, that it says verse one, Blessed is the man that walketh not in the counsel of the ungodly, nor standeth in the way of sinners, nor sitteth in the seat of the scornful, but is The light is in the law of the Lord, and in his law doth he meditate day and night, and he shall be like a tree. You see. Isn't that interesting? We're like a tree I would submit we're going to be like a cedar tree is one of the types. Now think about this life of a tree from a tree's perspective. Think about the trees that were used to build this very house we're sitting in. They might have all come from the same forest? Probably not. It might have been the same batch of lumber from Home Depot. Probably not. It was probably built in phases. The roofing trusses might have been made by another company And who knows where they got their lumber from, and they shipped it here and they hoisted it up on top. Uh the other wood to form the cabinetry would have come from a mill shop, and who knows where they had that from. From the tree's perspective, here's this lovely plant growing in the ground in the forest, enjoying life, and it gets nice and big and tall and finally seems to be successful and then some tragedy happens. It's cut down. And it's shaved. And this is cut off. And that's cut away. And this thing is scattered. It seems like chaos. I sub suspect that the Christian life is one of a confusing story. He has no idea why God allowed things to go along in his life for a certain period of time a certain way and then Bang, he meets God. As it were, he's like the lumberjack who shows up in the world's forest of life and this one I want and cuts him down and says, I'm hauling him off for my house. And he's going to begin to work on him because that's Tell you what, when you're called as a Christian, life may not start to get better. It may in fact start to get a little more difficult. That's because God is what working on us. If I'm going down the right path and if I'm correct in this, we are being fashioned and shaped to be a board, to be a structure, to be a pillar somehow in God's house. And he's going to overlay it with pure gold. In spite of all the weaknesses, in spite of all the difficulties, in spite of all the struggles in my life and the failures and the shortcomings, I'm completely covered. With gold. Any idea who or what the gold might represent? Hmm. If I had to pick something, I would have to put that at the righteousness of Jesus Christ. He completely covers me. Every ounce is covered. That's exciting to me. I'm being worked on down here. I can't, that means everything around me right now is scaffolding as far as God's building program is concerned. It's just scaffolding. It's just a workshop. He's just there chopping and busy, working away, and I'm going to be complete when he takes me home. And there's no sound of a tool in heaven. Why? No work. See the tool and the work is down here. God's working in you to will and to do of his good pleasure. He's working you over down here. He's not done with you yet. Some I suppose he saves early in life because he's got a lot of work to do, and some he saves later in life, like the thief on the cross. Yep, a few little tweaks here. Perfect. I imagine the thief on the cross will have his head mounted over the fireplace, trophy of grace. That's kind of what I envisioned there. That's a graphic illustration but not gonna literally have his head now. Just a fantastic thought if I'm on the right track Also, there was to be no sweat. There's no sweat as it's assembled. In other words, it's entirely by grace, not by works of righteousness. One of the things you discover, Caleb, when you get older, or Gabriel Or can, as you get old enough and you get jobs to do and you enter into certain things as you wake up one morning as you're lying in bed like I did one day, I was about thirteen or fourteen. I I woke up and I th Mom this bed stinks. We gotta change the sheets, this is horrible. Like what is that terrible smell? And then I angled my nose there a little further. Oh, it's my armpit. The sweat nodules have kicked in. This tor horrible thing called sweat has d has now showed up in my life. This is terrible. Yes, you find out that uh work involves sweat and sweat is stanchion and to that's the toil of man This is representing man's toil. This is the curse of work in this earth. It's cursed. It's not going to avail ourselves. As Reverend Monk rightly pointed out this morning, your works are just not good enough. But Christ's work is. Oh boy. That cube, as he pointed out, was a symbol of perfection. It's a symbol of perfection. What God does is perfect You know, heaven's not boring, but to illustrate to us a certain kind of perfection, he made a cube. It was in perfect dimensions all uh throughout. And look at the size of the cube that God is making in the book of Revelation. Um We're gonna go to Revelation chapter uh twenty-one. Revelation twenty-one and verse two As the Apostle John witnesses the consummation of all things, we'll start in verse 1, it says, I saw a new heaven and a new earth. For the first heaven and the first earth were passed away, and there was no more sea. And I John saw the holy city, knew Jerusalem Coming down from God out of heaven, prepared as a bride adorned for her husband. Now what are the dimensions of this city? What is the size of this city? What does it look like? Well, as he describes it, he goes and measures it And he says in verse sixteen of Revelation twenty one, and the city lieth four square, meaning it's a square, four sides, and the length of it is as large as the breadth So he measures how long it is. He measured the city with a reed, 12,000 furlongs. That word furlong is the word stadia from where we get where the Romans would have their stadiums And the Roman stadium was about twice the size of our, quote, NFL football stadiums. So this thing is 200 yards. times twelve thousand. This thing is ginormous. It's far more than thirty or forty cubits. It's absolutely ginormous. With And length of the same, Revelation twenty one, sixteen. The length and breadth are equal. Verse seventeen, and he measured the wall thereof 144 cubits according to the measure of a man. So here he has this huge, huge, huge structure. Again, equal in dimension. pointing out the perfection of God. What God works on is perfect. He works on that which is perfect. And that's what will be in heaven. We'll be perfected in in heaven. You know, it was a picture of heaven. Picture of the atonement. Picture of God's grace in Christ. There's no on-site labor. All the work is down here. You know, also what was interesting is Where did all that material come from back in that day in the Book of the Kings? Well, it was bought by King David. What was King David known as? He was a Man of war. And he wanted to build a house of the Lord, but God told him, You can't build it because you're a man of blood. In other words, your blood bought the material. It was through his war, as it were Christ conquering sin, death, and hell for us, that battle, his victory in that, Jesus says, I have to go. I have to go to the Father, that I may send the Comforter. And so it would be David's son, the second one to come, who would actually do the building. And Solomon is known as a As what? David's son as what? But what kind of a king is he known as? He's known as a wise king. Solomon by wisdom. Builded the house of God. Interesting. What is the wisdom of God? Look at 1 Corinthians 1 Solomon is that builder. He is known as a wise king. 1 Corinthians 1, 20. First Corinthians 120, where is the wise? Where is the scribe? Where is the disputer of this world? Hath not God made foolish the wisdom of this world? For after that, in the wisdom of God, the world by wisdom knew not God, it pleased God by the foolishness of preaching to save them that believed. The Greeks, excuse me, for the Jews require a sign, and the Greeks seek after wisdom, but we preach Christ crucified. That's the sign, unto the Jews a stumbling block. And unto the Greeks, foolishness. Ah, but Christ is the wisdom of God. 24. But unto them which are called Jews and Greeks, Christ is the power of God, that's the sign, and the wisdom of God You see, it please God, God's wisdom is called the foolishness of preaching. That's how he's building his church Really? Solomon? Was Solomon ever referred to as a preacher? Well, Ecclesiastes. Go to Ecclesiastes chapter one. Ecclesiastes chapter 1 and verse 1. We know this is Solomon who wrote this, and it says, the words of the preacher. Son of David, King in Jerusalem. He's known as the preacher. He's a wise king, he's a preacher, and he builds the house of God. Hmm. Just an accident, I'm sure. No. This is how God the Holy Spirit is building his house. house through the wisdom of God, through the preaching of the gospel, which to the world is foolishness. God is multiplying his imagery all throughout this thing. Not an accident that he asked Solomon to build it. He says, no, no, no. David's going to gather the secure the material. You see, Christ secured and purchased your salvation. You're a bought possession of the Lord. And yet God, the Holy Spirit, through the preaching of the Word, is carving, is fashioning, is shaping, is molding the men and women into this. Let's pray.