Well we are looking at the last two verses of Hebrews eleven and uh or last yes, and that's one sentence and it reads as follows, Hebrews eleven thirty-nine. It says this, and these all Having obtained a good report through faith, received not the promise. God having provided some better thing for us, that they without us should not be made perfect. And we'll break that down kind of into a few pieces, but I've got an opening discussion question, which I'm trying to twist them up a little bit, put a little spin to them to get you thinking generally in a particular direction. And this one has to do with waiting to get into something new. So it might be that when you were Young and uh freshly married and uh you and your spouse were gonna move into a new house, but towards the end something held it up. Or uh Yeah, you're you're going to move into a new apartment, but the apartment complex was still working on something. It held you up or or some other thing that you were doing that you were anxious to get into, but something at the end held you up. Uh just to kind of get the thought process rolling and I'll ask each of you for your little special thing that held you up. We had one from uh an online uh viewer who said that was a time when um getting into a new pickup truck. They were gonna buy it, and there were all kinds of delays in processing it. They had uh Uh they had already selected the vehicle, they were ready to take possession of it, and then lo and behold they uh uh they get to uh that point. There's still some delays and and it caused a complete rework of their schedule. They had to push schedule items out, all their plans and events, all because of a silly vehicle. And of course we all know what frustration it is to have to totally change and move events How about any of you? Um you've had something where uh you faced a delay or something that frustrated you? Yeah. a sliding glass door. It was beautiful. He did an excellent job. They fixed a wood rot on the outside. Kinda found out the guy came up to me and he handed me a wood chuck to put in the door The lock was broken. The screen was not broken the world. It didn't function at all. It's been like three months and they're probably gonna come and complete the job next Friday. So that was frustrating not to be able to use a screen You know, you pay for it and when they come you don't know that it's not gonna be completed. That is frustrating. You have everything there you need and you would think that it would all be working. And the and the screen is it's not like you need a new screen, you need the whole door. That part's done. But it's just this little insignificant but it's significant to us, but insignificant piece that just wasn't there yet. Yeah, that's a good one. Yeah. Yeah. I I've I've got some stories on that too. Want to hear from you. So what are some other things that you've had where you've been you're trying to get to something, either something you bought, maybe something you were making, but you got hung up at the end. Something just it just took forever to to resolve at the very end. Mrs. Ross, you've had many years. Surely you have something. You would think so, wouldn't you? Yeah. God has made my life very calm Yeah, okay. Well that's amazing. Yes it is. Yeah. Always on time, always on schedule. Never you've never had a delay ever of anything in life. I had one delay and I decided this is pretty stupid The life is gonna go on whether I'm there or not. And so that was the end of that. Okay. Well describe that delay, I'm curious. Oh I was just on my way somewhere and I was running late. And I was huh And I thought, Well, that's pretty dumb. And I don't really care about being dumb, so that was the end of that. Joe, if you had any delays in life? Yeah. I um took the steering ram the portion valve off the under carriage of a car okay before my knee surgery, thinking okay while I'm recuperating I can sit down at the bench and rebuild these parts. I had to rebuild kits and it'll take about Two, three months of recovery before I can get back under the car and put it together. That was two and a half years ago. And Friday afternoon I finally got around to putting it back together because my knees been to the point I I couldn't get under there. So the car is set up on blocks for two and a half years. Hmm. All this time sitting there and uh the thing that held it up was uh the knees. You know, I had it in my mind to bring an object lesson for you of a delay that I had. It was building my mother's addition on the side. The foundation was laid, the walls were up, drywall hung, insulation in, electric was running, kitchen was in, appliances were in The very last thing that needed to be done was the plumber does his final step because you do the kitchen cabinets and then you put the flooring in and then The toilets sit on top of the flooring. The very last thing. And so the toilets were sitting there. Literally, the last connection was to go from the wall to the toilet. Just a simple 18 inch, you just screw it on, done deal. He did. He turned it on, and no water flowed through it. We checked the pressure, pressure's fine, coming out everywhere else. It wasn't coming out. We had to rip out the drywall. He had to find which portion of pipe he put too much glue in. And we had to redo that section of piping all the way to the bottom, which meant that mom was not moving in that weekend, which meant that the contractor had to come back and to repair the drywall and to repaint it and That was extreme I kept that piece of pipe. I kept it. To show you what happens when you over-glue a pipe and you don't test all the pipe work. Very, very frustrating. You get to the very very end of something and you think, I'm so close I can see it, but not yet. Do you have an experience like that? huge computer-based project in school and you neglected hit the save button along the way and then suddenly something was crazy in tech world and you lose the entire thing. Yeah, we've all had one of those maddening moments when you just somehow don't hit the save button and everything you've been working on, you get to recreate. Maddening, maddening, absolutely. Well That is just going to stimulate some of the brain cells as we look into this portion of Hebrews. This is somewhat the capstone statement as we've actually finally made our way through the hall of faith. We've looked at some twelve to eighteen different characters. We've looked at their lives. We've seen how faith has got them through some increasing incredible circumstances and he's concluding this huge platform, this big base, where we're then going to launch into the 12th chapter. And he concludes by saying, these all, he's referring to all the people that he's been talking about, from the elders who obtained a good report, kind of a bookend here to what we're reading now, to Enoch to Abel through Jonah and Moses and Abraham, Isaac, Jacob, the patriarchs, through Samuel, Samson, David, the prophets. He said, these all Having obtained a good report through faith, received not the promise. They obtained a good report. That's step one. We will talk about that a little bit. You know, the goal, I think, in our life is to get a good report before you receive the promise. I think that's a necessity. It reminds us of a parable that the Lord said in Matthew 25. His Lord said unto him, Well done, thou good and faithful servant. Thou hast been faithful over a few things. I will make thee ruler over many things. Enter thou into the joy of thy Lord. He had obtained a good report, a good report before a fellow man, before God. He had been a good steward of what had been given him. A good report And it says they did not receive the promise. Now, at first blush you might say, well, that's interesting. Earlier about uh some people getting the promises. In fact, if you were to have read this uh epistle in one sitting, you might have hearkened back to the sixth the sixth chapter of Hebrews and the fifteenth verse where it said, and so he And so after he, Abraham, it patiently endured, he obtained the promise. You say, well, wait a minute, it says Abraham obtained a promise. What is it here that says these did not receive the promise In fact, Hebrews 11. 39 is speaking of a single promise. They did not receive the promise. So my question to you is this. Knowing what you know from the Bible, knowing what you know of what we've read so far in Hebrews, if you had to boil it down to one thing, what is it that these all Did not receive. What promise would that be? Um, as far as in this life they didn't ever see the ultimate salvation and everlasting life. But after they died, it was there. I have not seen it Yeah, I would have gone down that path first as well. That ultimate eternal promise of salvation. Um let me ask the follow-on question. The Old Testament saints, are they are they in limbo Are they in purgatory or are they in heaven? I would say absolutely in heaven. Have they lost their life sometime between now and then? Sure. Well, that's Physically they died. Right. But did they have eternal life or not? Yeah, obviously. Yeah, they have eternal life, yeah So they they were, we could say, saved, but I think he used a key adjective that ultimate promise. Now what do you how would you distinguish between what the Old Testament saints in heaven have versus what we're waiting for when you say ultimate? I guess I was thinking they have not had not received the promise in their lifetime But now they have. Mm-hmm. Okay. Yeah. Um so yeah, in their lifetime. Okay, so that's that's a that's uh that's a I don't disagree with that. I don't disagree with that. Yeah If you look for a moment you had your hand up, uh Joe? Oh, it's going to the same passage. Same passage. Uh it's interesting. Look at Hebrews 9. 15 Look at Hebrews 9. 15, because I I puzzled over this quite a lot because I try to put a fine point on it. I'm not disagreeing. uh uh per se with what what Penny's saying. I just want to try to put a fine point on it from the biblical language. It talks there about a promise or the promise of eternal inheritance. Now that's an interesting phrase. If we look at the promise that they had not received, well If God gave them eternal life in the Old Testament, they never lost it. There's no punctuated existence. They continue to enjoy life What they don't have is their new resurrected bodies, correct? Their body is still in the grave. There hasn't been a general resurrection. There's not that resurrection into life that has occurred yet. So they they were saved. I did a message some time ago on Job and his children. We his comfort, his hope was that his children were saved, were in heaven, they were still alive. But there's something that we would say these Old Testament saints and all who have died before us, Christians, true believers, those whom God had saved. haven't yet received. And I think I like this term eternal inheritance. Because it packs a lot in that phrase. Number one, it's eternal. It's a It's something that will never end. And it's an inheritance. We are inheriting a kingdom. We're inheriting new bodies. We're inheriting a lot. We're getting a new heaven and a new earth. There's many things we're getting as part of that. Promise. And that gets back to the point that they're trying to make here is that these worthies in God's sacred record received an interest in this eternal promise, but not its fulfillment. They got an interest in it. They have a foothold. But it hasn't been totally fulfilled, neither in their life or yet even now in ours. But one day There can't be any saint that will say, I'm missing something. Something has yet to have been fulfilled. It's that ultimate fulfillment of all that God has promised. Well, we all want to get to that point. Yea, Lord Jesus, come quickly. But how do we get that good report? You know, I dare say that a number of us here enter today with heavy hearts concerning the news of the past week. Uh and it's a dreadful thing when you hear a report of uh Christians, a good Christian, a young, bold, zealous good Christian who is murdered. I have had that horrible feeling touch me when the best man at my wedding was murdered in his own home because he had uh given a uh a man a second and a third and a fourth chance by giving him a place to live and his reward was that he got shot in his garage Um he uh fed him, he helped him. The man was just simply not of his right mind. I I've seen these sorts of things and and they're grievous when they happen. And it just drags you down for a season. But I can say for my dear friend Craig that he had a good report He left behind a great report. How do we get a good report? We have to be martyrs to get a good report? Well, indeed, some of these individuals in the Old Testament, as we read, they were sawn asunder, they were persecuted unto death. Yeah, they did get that good report through that final terminating event. But thankfully not all of God's saints are assigned that lot. There appears to be a set number of them according to the book of Revelation. But it doesn't include every believer. So the short answer is you walk by faith. That's the whole point of Hebrews 11. It's a walk of faith. Look at what these individuals did because they believed God. There is a walk of faith. Faith is believing. Faith is trusting in God's promises. It's bringing all of my circumstances, all of my challenges, I would say even my joys and my delights, back to the touchstone of Scripture to ensure that there's alignment And I have a question now for you. I have a question. And you know, you don't have to answer. It's okay if you don't answer. It's kind of a challenge question, I guess. If you consider all the lives of the patriots that we've read in Hebrews 11, now we would all agree, I think, that they're kind of a mixed bag of faith and failures. You think of Samson, we think of Jephthah, we think of some of the you know David, even though he's a mighty man of scriptures and yet There was a blot in his life. We'd all agree that they are a mixture of faith and failures. Yet the testimony was they're in the hall of faith. God looks at them as different people. It's wonderful. And so I ask a question of you, if you die today, would there be enough evidence in your life? If they were to perform a forensic examination on your phone, on your bank account, on your personal dealings, all of your messages, social media posts, all of your dealings, your friends, testimony of people around you, what you did, what you invested your time in, what the results were. Do you think there'd be enough evidence to convict you as being a Christian? Would there be enough evidence? You know, in North Korea, it doesn't take much at all for them to say, oh no, this person's a Christian, kill them. If they have a piece of paper the size of a sheet of toilet paper in their possession that has a verse of scripture on it, kill them. That's sufficient evidence. In our society today, we cower and cringe to hand the checkout clerk a track. Why is that? Is there enough evidence? Hebrews 6, 7, and 9 says this, for the earth, it's a picture of the heart. The earth, right, the parable of the sower. That's the first parable of all the parables. If you don't understand this, how should you understand any parable? Jesus even explained it to us. For the earth which drinketh in the rain that cometh off to pawn it, that's the word of God. You're being rained on right now. Brings forth herbs, meat for them by whom it is dressed, receives blessing from God. If the Word of God produces fruit, joy, hope, encouragement in you, that's a fruit. And that's a good thing. And there's a blessing. It's a blessing from God. But that which bears thorns and briars is rejected. Some people give the smallest amount of a Christian testimony in a public sphere and they'll raise a rifle and kill you. That's a thorn. That's a briar. No murderer has eternal life. That's very clear. This is evidence. The Word of God produces a very sharp, distinct reaction. It just does That individual is nigh into cursing whose end is to be burned. You know, I have another challenge question, and I'm going to speak to us ministers. The scriptures teach that to whom much is given, much is required. For us, we ask not, is there evidence of faith? I think that's a low hurdle because a ministry of a mouthpiece is evident, right? Either the fellow knows how to handle the word of God or he doesn't Either he knows and he's familiar with the things of God or he doesn't. It's a very visible position. I think the question is, and I I put this on myself as well, and it's a it's an ongoing challenge Is are we making full proof of our ministry? I like what our pastor says in Time to Time. You have to make full proof of the ministry. Make proof, right? What are we doing to ensure that I and the sheep endure to the end? And I'm I I want to present two verses to you. Let's turn to Matthew 24, 44 And then we're going to go to Colossians 1. These are two passages that in particular strike me. As one who has been privileged of the Lord to handle the Word of Life and to be able to share it with others And also a reason I never get discouraged when I only have one or two people in a Bible study. And I've had Bible studies where uh my family has outnumbered the People who walk in the door turned out to be some of the better times because you get to know that individual one-on-one a little better. And they're free to open up and ask a lot of questions that they might not otherwise do because there's other dominant voices in the room and they don't want to speak up. But in Matthew 24, this is one that I've been encouraged by greatly Jesus in the context here is speaking about that day when he comes. He says, Therefore be ye also ready, for in such an hour as you think not, the Son of Man comes. You got some prophet out there telling you I know when Jesus is coming, I'm betting that's the day he's not coming because God says in an hour you think not. That's when he comes. Ain't gonna be when somebody stands up and says, I predicted it. No one's gonna be guessing that's when he comes And then he says this, who then is a faithful and wise servant? Whom is Lord hath made ruler over his household to give them meat in due season. That's the phrase. To give them meat in due season. Matthew 24, 45. You know, that passage has struck with has stuck with me and struck me for a long time. Because I believe as we approach the end of time, and I don't know if we're near it now or not, there will come a season when there are just one or two more berries left on the vine. There's just a few dear saints left. And they're going to be concerned. And they're going to be trembling. And they're worried. But God is going to keep a minister or two or three or ten, I don't know how many, it could be a thousand, each ministering to a few berries left on the vine. To strengthen them, to establish them, to encourage them, to cross that finish line. If you're a minister looking for hundreds or thousands, you're going to be really disappointed at the end of time. You're gonna fall out. It's just not gonna be a vast multitude. I just don't see that in scriptures. I really don't. You know, I got blueberry bushes in my backyard. I've talked about them at length. They run from June 1st. They pretty much every year pick my first big, luscious, wonderful blueberry on June 1st. Call it Pentecost, if you will. And then all the way through about August 1st when I get the last berries. Well the last week of July, I don't throw in the towel, oh there's not, I'm not going to get a whole bucket of berries, I'm just going to get maybe a quart or a pint or something No, I I'm out there. I'm picking them. I'm interested in the berries. Every last one of them I'm really interested in. That's why I've got it planted Yeah, Jeffrey, I can't take that blueberry bush and make a plank out of it and fix a hole in the side of my shed. It's useless for any other purpose. It's there for one thing. I want fruit. I'm going to take care of that plant And the plant is still green, it's still growing, and I'm done with it, if you will, for the year because I am looking for fruit. And so giving them meat in due season. Boy, that has gripped me that says, don't get hung up on numbers. This may be the last bit of berries on God's bushes. And that gets me to the next verse in Colossians 1. Colossians one twenty seven through twenty nine. The apostle writes this to whom God would make known what is the riches of the glory of this mystery among the Gentiles, which is Christ in you the hope of glory. whom we preach, warning every man and teaching every man in all wisdom, that we may present Every man perfect in Christ Jesus, and it's that last phrase presenting every man perfect in Christ Jesus The one that's strong in the scriptures. The one that's not so strong in the scriptures. They just can't even read it because their eyesight is shot or their or they they can't memorize it because their brain is unable to. We present every man, the young, the weak, the strong, the confused, presenting every man. We've got to pour into every one of God's sheep. presenting every man perfect in Christ Jesus. And we're going to touch on what perfect means in a moment, whereunto I also labor. So on this side of eternity, folks, the point is this. The objective is to have a good report. Chief or minister, either way, is to get a good report, and I hope I've given you a foothold, a toe hold on what that looks like Well, our next verse this is says this back in Hebrews 11. 40, the very last verse of Hebrews 11, God having provided some better thing for us. Some better thing. Boy, that word better ought to get you excited. That's one of the biggest words throughout the book of Hebrews. Better. Better. Something better. You imagine you're at a dealership. You're looking for a car. I had this experience recently. I was looking for a particular trim level of a vehicle. And I sat in and I rode it and I liked it nice and uh the uh Salesman said uh yeah well we don't have this one. We have this other model, it's an upper scale model. Once you're driving that of course and uh driving this, oh this is nice, this has some other features here, this is really good. Can you get one in in this color He got it in that color and uh and he says, well, here's one of this color, but it's it's the next trim level of it. Well this is really nice. I like this one. I like this one better still. Better. It just kept getting better. It was kind of hard to say no to better, you know, it just really is. The better thing here is the substance of redemption in Jesus, not the shadows of the old covenant. He's writing to the Hebrews. In Hebrews 8. 6, we read, But now he that is Jesus obtained a more excellent ministry, by how much also he is the mediator of a better covenant, which is established upon better promises. The old says do, the new says done, in Christ on your behalf. It's imputed to you. Hebrews 9. 23 was therefore necessary that the patterns of things in the heavens should be purified with these, but the heavenly things themselves with better sacrifices than these. I just want to have a little review for you of all that Jesus offers that is better. He's better than the angels. You know, if he's better than the angels, why do some people seek an angel from heaven or get excited about some vision of Mary or whatever? Some angel? He's better than angels. Why would you look for that He's better than the Levitical priesthood in Hebrews 7. He's better than so why would you look for a restoration of the Levitical priesthood over in Jerusalem? Why would you look for that? He's better than that He's better than all whole burnt offerings of sacrifice on the altar. Is your sacrifice, whatever it may be, better than the death of Jesus once and for all? I've heard in some religions that When they want to uh incur the favor of God, they'll make a pilgrimage to some holy site and crawl on their knees up certain steps to go pay homage to a shrine. What vanity is that? First of all, why would you ruin your knees if God gave you feet to walk on? And second, where in Scripture does it say walk on your knees on the steps as if though that's going to do something for you? Who came up with that idea? I I'm I'm just lost. That is God's not impressed with that. There's god that's vanity. Sacrifice a chicken and a groundhog to God. See if he's accepted with it if that's acceptable to him. I mean you if you're gonna pull out a stupid idea from your head, this is nuts. How can there be any better sacrifice than Jesus Christ himself on the cross? Why seek another? Jesus gives a better hope. He's a better hope. So why do we expect God's heaven down here on the devil's earth? He gives a better hope. Jesus gives better promises. Why would we buy into vain political campaign promises? Jesus gives a better promise Oh yes, it'd be nice to have somebody rescue my land and my country from the vanity and insanity, but that's all evidence of spiritual warfare. Jesus gives his faithful followers, folks, a better country. Just contemplate this for a moment. It's a unique city whose builder and maker is God. Jeffrey is rent-free. There's no taxes. It's all utilities paid. There's no door locks, there's no police officers, there's no firemen, there's no first responders, it has no cloudy days, there's no irksome neighbors. My neighbor across the street sold his property. He was very quiet. He was a metal worker, a machinist. He did his work in his garage. I never heard any noise. I have some neighbors now that love to collect roosters And they don't crow just in the morning. They crow around the clock. Those stupid birds are always crowing. It's the most ridiculous thing I've ever heard. No irksome neighbors. No barking dogs. No snow to clear. I love the sound of a rooster. Well you should move over here, brother. I'll send them I'll catch him. I'll have Gable trap him and send him your direction. They crowed at street lights. They crowed at street lights. All night long. All night long. Yeah, beautiful. You know there's no grocery stores over there? In that new heaven and new earth, that new celestial city? There's no tissue boxes for tears. There's no opioids for pain relief. There's no cure for uh needed for uh other afflictions like back pain or what? There's no eye disease. You'll see perfectly beyond what you could ever see. There's no doctors. There's no lawyers. Sorry Anton, you lose your job up there. He's not a lawyer. He just works for him There's only rightful adoptees, former strangers, now citizens with full free access and privilege to the heavenly city, to that river that flows from the throne, with trees on either side bearing all manner of fruit in their season, free for the taking That's how the earth was originally designed. It wasn't full of thistles and thorns. It didn't have a broken environment. And the best thing about that new heaven, new earth, that celestial city, is there's one thing in particular that's not there. It's the tree of the knowledge of good and evil. There's no testing program in heaven. There's no chance. There's no possibility that you could do something and fail. It's an everlasting kingdom. That's a better promise. That's a better destination. That's a better hope. Consider that. If this doctrine of a better thing enters your soul If it grips you, if it motivates you, if it excites you, I'm telling you what, you will walk by faith You'll walk by faith in these promises. You can handle the tumultuous sea tossed to and fro by the wicked. You'll understand what's going on. Yes, it's a spiritual warfare, just like Jesus said. Yes, he told us how to fight it. It's called the whole armor of God. Yes, we don't need to run out in an emergency and go buy counseling. Counseling begins in the pulpit. I love that phrase, by the way. You know, we can get discouraged though. We can get dejected. We can get disappointed when our hope rests on something else that God says is weak. When your hope rests on something else that God said is weak. And I would like to just add an aside here Could that be perhaps some of the sources of discouragement and disappointments that you've seen and faced in your life? You know, the disciples were very discouraged when they stood outside the tomb. I'm thinking of the women, of Jesus after he'd been crucified. They were very discouraged, very downcast, very downtrodden. Why? Their hope was that he would They would live, and he would live, and they would see great things from him, physical things. They had a good portion of it correct, but they were still earth-focused. I think that happens to us as well. Why do certain things like this happen to Christians? Why do horrible people why do why do horrible evil people kill good and righteous men? What's the purpose in this? Could God have a purpose in these things? You know, I've been struck by this phrase in Matthew 23, where Jesus said, Wherefore, behold, I send unto you prophets and wise men. You know the wise men I'm speaking about of late. Wise men and scribes. Some of them ye shall kill and crucify, some of them ye shall scourge in your synagogues. and persecute from city to city. Jesus says, I'm going to send you these individuals. God sends us wise people. You ever encountered a person like that? They're like a one in a million individual. They're just exceptionally wise. God sends these individuals. And God also says, some of them you will kill. You will in fact do that. Why? What's the purpose? What good could come from that? Jesus says this, that upon you may come all the righteous blood shed upon the earth. God's using that as a witness to further damn you He's using that as a witness to further condemn all of those who in heart rejoice and jump with it. He says, your doom is assured. If you think that was a great thing that happened, that a righteous man is murdered, and you think that's wonderful, oh yes You're a confederate with them, all that righteous blood will come right back upon your head. You know our God judges the counsels of the heart The best our court system can do ca is look at tangible evidence and good luck getting it through Voidir because Wadir process does everything it can to push it out, to keep the truth from showing up in court. It's amazing how much is is thrown out to try to get your story into court, good luck getting at least half of it through. It's ridiculous. But not so with the the court of God. He has a record, he has books, plenty of volumes of every single thought, word, deed that's ever occurred. And I assure you, nobody's getting away with nothing on this world. We conclude. This last phrase, that they without us should not be made perfect. We tend to think of perfect as an absolute perfection. The example I had you go through earlier had to do with reaching perfection. I'm sure that screen door Lisa was looking to get. Hopefully we'll get soon. Once it's functional, there may be a little hole or something in it somewhere, but it's it does its job. It's perfect, it's complete, the job is done. I'm sure the I don't even know what part it is you're trying to put underneath your car, but once your car is reassembled, you can drive it. It's functional. It's it's perfect. It's in that sense. It has to do with the idea of completion or maturity But notice it says for us that they without us should not be made perfect. He's provided some better thing for us that they. So there's a they and there's an us The they is the Old Testament saints. All that were spoken at through here stopped at the prophets Didn't get into the death of Jesus, other than he's that better thing. There's a they and there's an us. The old covenant, the old testament community of God. And the us, the New Testament saints, that's the distinction. How do we get to perfection? Perfection has to do with completion, has to do with maturity We're going to have a reading today in Psalm 139, and it's going to talk about that God had seen my substance yet being unperfect. Every little baby that comes out, you just look at them, oh they just they got everything. They're perfect. They got five cute little fingers and toes. You just look at their lips, how beautifully their lips are formed, the cute little button nose and eyes, and you just go, everything just that's just it's just perfect Perfect for the baby. Everything's perfect. It's young, it's got a long way to go. But it but it's it's it's perfect outside of the womb. It's it's it's complete, ready for delivering How do we achieve perfection? This is not the idea that I'm going to achieve a completely sinless life before I die. That's just not the case. It doesn't mean that I'm going to be so wholly um in heart, mind, and soul, uh, and body, that uh then God will accept me because now I can check all the boxes. I I walk just like Jesus. I would expect that there is a trending in that direction. I'm also not saying that somebody who ends their life as a murderer or as a reprobate or Somebody who throws in the towel and gives up on faith is also going to make it. No, I don't give that either. The Judases of Life will not make it And the Bible speaks about the reprobates, those like the dog that returned to his vomit, the sow to her wallowing in the mire. How do we get to perfection? Well, it's not through the law of the Old Testament. And that is a groundwork point that's going to be built on even further in the next chapter Because he said in Hebrews 7. 19, the law made nothing perfect, but the bringing in of a better hope did. The Old Testament prepared us, it couldn't perfect us. It was preparatory. Set up the framework. Hebrews 9 said this in verses 8 through 9, that there was a first tabernacle, which was a figure for the time then present, but it could not make him perfect. Couldn't make them perfect. Hebrews 10 1, the law having a shadow of good things to come, can never with those sacrifices which they offer year by year continually make the comers thereunto perfect. You can't do that. The old covenant couldn't do it. That's what these entire previous chapters were about. But rather, Jesus' death and resurrection is what perfects us. That's the thing that perfects us For by one offering, Hebrews 10. 14, by one offering he has perfected forever them that are sanctified. God I give a simple illustration to children what a sanctification means. Imagine a beautiful tray of chocolate kit chip cookies. And they're all excited and I wet my finger and I touch one of them. That one's mine. I just sanctified that cookie. No one else will touch it. That one's mine. So them that are sanctified, them that God touched and said, this one's mine This one's mine. This one's mine. That's whom he's perfected. Romans 6, if we've been planted together in the likeness of his death, we shall also be in the likeness of his resurrection This word perfection is closely tied to resurrection, and I'll leave you with a last verse to consider. It's in Luke 13, 32. Jesus said, go tell that fox Herod. Today and tomorrow I do cures, and the third day I shall be perfected. Well, what happened on Jesus' third day? Well, he was resurrected from the dead So he's equating perfection with the resurrection. And that's what we have. We're going to be in the likeness of his death. I close with a commentary. Note this sentence I thought was good. The full blessedness of body and soul shall not be until the full number of God's elect shall be accomplished, and together no one preceding the other shall enter into full glory. and bliss. We're a body. We're a connected set of people. And that's what God's building. That city is you. That body is you. It's people. And God's fitting all these little individual parts together. And we're sort of at that last part. There's a lot that's been put on. But it's those last little pieces that seem to take forever But just wait. It's coming. It will get there. Well, we close with that. Shall we pray? Father, we thank you for it. This reminder, Lord, help us to be patient. Help us to fulfill and make full proof of the ministry. And help us to walk that walk of faith. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. Hard Jamaica bad