John chapter three, and I'll read the first three verses. Behold, what manner of love the Father hath bestowed upon us That we should be called the sons of God. Therefore the world knoweth us not, because it knew him not. Beloved, now are we the sons of God. And it doth not yet appear what we shall be, but we know that when he shall appear, we shall be like him. For we shall see him as he is. Every man that hath this hope in himself, in him, purifieth himself even as he is pure. Let us bow for prayer. Gracious Father, our great God in heaven, The God who is pure, in whom there is no darkness at all. Lord, we come before you desiring that we might be made like Christ. And longing for that day when we shall see him as he is, but yet rejoicing that at this very moment on this day we are presently now the sons of God. What privilege. What blessing. Strengthen and bless our hearts this day, we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. We began looking at these three verses two weeks ago and only covered verse one. And so today we're coming back to verse 2, but let me very briefly, without preaching the message from two weeks ago, very briefly review what we learned from verse 1. Verse 1 begins with that word, behold. Behold, what manner of love. And we considered: does our salvation still thrill us? That we still get chills down our spine and goosebumps when we think about the glorious salvation of Jesus Christ. We were children of wrath. We were fodder for hell. We deserved all the judgment and all the condemnation that God could pour out upon sin. And yet, in the great love of Christ, that wrath, that judgment was poured out upon him, and there is therefore now no condemnation to them that are in Christ Jesus. We considered also the manner of the love of the Father. Behold what manner of love the Father bestowed upon us. It is a love beyond all others. For greater love hath no man than this, that a man lay down his life for his friend. The love of God is an incomparable love. It is a love beyond any other love. And we consider the source of that love. For it is love that the Father hath bestowed upon us. And we considered that things in translation may lose their meaning. And that all things are diluted as they are added to and as time goes on, but this love comes from the source. God is love. We love Him because He first loved us. And we must remember that we would not know what love is if we had not experienced love But we have experienced the greatest love, the love of the Father. And then we consider the application of that love: that it is love that is bestowed. It is freely given to us And because the God has loved us, and because the world knew not God, the world doesn't know us either. The world does not understand us. The world does not know who we are or what we are. The world doesn't understand the message of Christ. The preaching of the cross is foolishness to them that perish. The world does not understand the lifestyle of the believer, why the believer is different from the world. And then we concluded two weeks ago by saying that the world does not understand our joy. The world does not understand how the Christian can face any trial, though it brings great sorrow, and yet have the peace of God that passeth understanding When Job lost everything that he had, we read in Job 1, verse 20 through 22. Then Job arose and rent his mantle and shaved his head and fell upon the ground and worshipped. And said, Naked came I out of my mother's womb, and naked shall I return thither. The Lord gave, and the Lord had taken away. Blessed be the name of the Lord. And all this Job sinned not with his mouth, nor charged God foolishly. Now, it's quite an accomplishment to preach that message in five minutes. But that's what we looked at a few weeks ago. But now we come to this glorious second verse This amazing second verse of this chapter, beloved, now are we the sons of God. Not tomorrow. Not some future date, but present reality. Now are we the sons of God? And considering Job again, it was Job that said, I know that my Redeemer liveth, and upon the earth shall stand at the latter day. And though after this body worms destroy my flesh Yet shall I see God, whom I shall see for myself and not another, that my reins be consumed within me. And that's what we find here in this verse. It doth not yet appear what we shall be, but we know that when he shall appear, we shall be like him. For we shall see him. We shall behold him as he is. Now this verse begins with that word beloved. And if you remember back to several weeks ago, we saw that there are actually five times in this book when John uses this address. It's a very personal address It's a very tender address. It's the kind of address that we would give to our wife or our children, my dear one, whom I love. Now are we the sons of God? What does it mean to be the sons of God? We use that term a lot in Scripture. But have we ever really paused to examine it? To take it apart the way you would take apart a carburetor and see all of its parts and how everything works within each other? What does the scripture mean? By now, are we the sons of God? Well, one of the rules of biblical interpretation is what we call the law of first mention. If there's ever a concept in Scripture that we don't understand, one of the key ways of determining what that scripture means or what that concept means is to go back to the first time it's used in Scripture. And so let's go back to the first time we find the sons of God in Scripture. Turn with me, if you will, please, to Genesis chapter 6. Genesis chapter 6. And I'm going to read verses 1 through 4. This is the first time we find the sons of God mentioned in Scripture. Genesis 6 and verse 1. And it came to pass when men began to multiply upon the face of the earth. And daughters were born unto them that the sons of God saw the daughters of men, that they were fair, and they took them wives of all which they chose. And the Lord said, My spirit shall not always strive with man, in that he also is flesh, yet his days shall be a hundred and twenty years. There were giants in the earth in those days, also after that when the sons of God came under the daughters of men. And they bear children unto them. The same became mighty men, which were men of old. Now, Penny. Said, are you really going to tackle that verse? Are you really going to get into this one? Absolutely. It's the Word of God, and the Word of God is clear. There are many false views about this passage. There are those who take the view that these sons of God were fallen angels Or even unfallen angels, and that somehow angels came down from heaven and cohabitated with man, and the result was These mighty men of old, men of valor. It's not true. It's not true. This view has led to all kinds of speculation. It has led to witchcraft. It has led to superstition, fantasy, heresy, spiritism, new age philosophy And there are some that even say, well, it was aliens. Aliens came down. And it's important to study these scriptures. Because they're key to so many other things in the Bible that are under attack in our day. Evolution is foolishness. Evolution cannot prove an origin. Where did that first molecule come from? How did dust become alive? And so one of the excuses used today is that, well, maybe aliens did it. And if you watch the History Channel, they've got a whole big thing now on ancient aliens. And because the evolutionists cannot answer where did the first spark come from Because they cannot answer the question of origins, well maybe it was aliens. It wasn't aliens, it was God. But even if it had been aliens, where'd the aliens come from? What was their origin? And so this concept that angels came down, that must be the meaning of the sons of God. And some even in liberal theology will try to say, well, think about Job when the sons of God came before God and Lucifer, Satan came up with them also. But scripture always defines Scripture. The word of God is not A puzzle. It will answer itself, and God gives us the truth of everything He wants us to know. Christ told us who the sons of God are, and it's not angels. Turn over with me to Matthew chapter 22. And we can very quickly do away with this idea that these sons of God in Genesis were angels. In Matthew 22, the Sadducees were trying to entrap Christ. The Sadducees did not believe that there was a resurrection. And so the Sadducees put together this little story for Christ, and I'll read it to you in Matthew 22, verse 23 through 30. The same day came to him the Sadducees, which say that there is no resurrection, and asked him, saying, Master, Moses said, If a man die having no children his brother shall marry his wife, and raise up seed unto his brother. Now there were with us seven brothers, And the first, when he had married a wife, deceased, and having no issue, left his wife unto his brother. Likewise the second also, in the third unto the seventh And last of all, the woman died. Therefore, in the resurrection, whose wife shall she be of the seven? For they all had her. Jesus answered and said to them, Ye do err not knowing the scriptures, nor the power of God. For in the resurrection they neither marry nor are given in marriage, but they are as the angels in heaven. Now, what is the whole purpose that Christ, or that the Sadducees and that the Bible lays out for marriage? Be fruitful and multiply and replenish the earth. The purpose was the production of children And for that reason, when a husband died and left no children, his wife would go and become a wife of a brother in order to raise up seed. But what does Christ say about the angels? They don't marry, nor are they given in marriage. The angels are sexless. The angels do not produce offspring. And so, in Genesis, when the sons of God come unto the daughters of men and produce children, which is impossible for angels, as Christ has told us very clearly in this word Then the sons of God in Genesis cannot be angels. But here we find in Scripture, right now, today, we are the sons of God. What does that mean? Well, let's go back to the Word of God. Adam and Eve were promised a seed after the fall. And they were promised that seed would bruise the head of the serpent and it would bruise his heel. When Cain was born, what was it that Eve said? I have received a man of the Lord. Eve believed that Cain was that promised seed, that Cain was the redeemer. But what happened? Abel killed Cain. And Abel is driven out. And so now it is not Cain, but there's a promise it must be coming. And God gave them another son, and his name was Seth. And that promise that a Redeemer was coming was passed from Adam and Eve to Seth. It was passed nine more generations from Seth to Noah. Noah is ten generations from Adam. It was passed from Adam to his son Shem. It was passed from Shem to Abraham. It was passed from Abraham to David. What is it that we're talking about here? It is the covenant relationship with God. It was that promise of redemption That promise of salvation. And so the patriarchs from Seth all the way to David, they were all sons of God. They were children of the promise. They were children of the covenant. Now, why is this important? Beloved, now are we the sons of God. Now are we brought into that covenant fellowship with God? Now are we brought into that relationship with God? But wait a minute, Pastor. You've bypassed Job 1. No, I haven't. I'm coming back to it. In Job 1, where the sons of God come and present themselves before the Lord, and Satan comes up also with him. In that case, it is referring to angels, but they are called sons of God because they are the angels who remain in fidelity to Jehovah, as opposed to Satan who did not. In other words, those angels there in Job 1 that are referred to, they were true. They were believers. They were constant in their worship of Jehovah. Brethren, now we who once were aliens from the Commonwealth of Israel and strangers from the Covenant of Promise. Dearly beloved, now are we the sons of God? Now we are brought into that relationship with God. He is my Father. And I am his son. And in John 1, in verse 11 and 12, we read that he came into his own, and his own received him not. But as many as received him, to them gave he power to what? To become the sons of God. To be brought into that covenant relationship, that promise all the way from Adam and Eve of a Redeemer. Of Christ who would come to save his people from their sins. Behold, what manner of love the Father has bestowed upon us, that we should be called the sons of God. Beloved. Now are we the sons of God? Jesus Christ came unto his own nation, Israel, and his own nation received him not. But as many as received him, to them gave he power to become the sons of God. But God always had in mind far more than just the blood of Abraham. God always has had his covenant people. And there are not two churches today, Israel and the church. There is one church, there is one body. And that is the body of Christ. Turn with me to Romans chapter 9, and we explore further this covenant relationship. And Jew and Gentile alike being brought in. Romans 9, and I'll read there from verse 6 through 16. I'm reading a lot of scriptures today. I'm asking you to turn with me so we can consider this matter together. Because the truth we find here. It's important. It's not something to be ignored. Romans 9, verses 6 through 16. Not as though the word of God had taken none effect. For they are not all Israel, which are of Israel. In other words, they're not all of this covenant just because they had the blood of Israel, of Jacob, in their body. Neither because they were the seed of Abraham Are they all children? But in Isaac shall I see be called? That is, they which are the children of the flesh, these are not the children of God. Remember, we're talking about being sons of God But the children of promise are counted for seed. For this is the word of promise. At that time I will come, and Sarah shall have a son. And not only this, but when Rebekah also had conceived by one, even our father Isaac, for the children being not yet born, Neither having done good or evil, that the promise of God according to election might stand, not of works, but of him that calleth. It was said unto her, The elder shall serve the younger As it is written, Jacob have I loved, but Esau have I hated. What shall we say then? Is there unrighteousness with God? God forbid For he saith to Moses, I will have mercy on whom I will have mercy, and I will have compassion on whom I will have compassion, so then it is not of him that willeth, nor of him that runneth, but of God that showeth mercy. Last week we wondered at the bat matter of our salvation. But what greater wonder! Not only are we saved from our sin, but we're made the sons of God. We are brought into a inheriting relationship with God. You may have a friend. Who greatly offends you, does something horribly grievous to you, and you might forgive them. But there's always that thought in your mind, and the relationship is never what it was. But contrast that with the prodigal son, who comes back and says, Father, I am no longer worthy to be what? To be your son. Make me a servant instead. But the Father not only makes him a son, he exalts him as son. Bring a robe, bring a ring, kill the fatted calf. That is the lot of the child of God. We who were rebels are made to be sons of God. And because we are sons, it doth not yet appear what we shall be. We do not know the glories that await us. Paul said for me to live is Christ and to die is gain. We live under the curse of sin. We live in bodies that are dying every day. We know constant sorrow and pain. We are limited in everything that we do. Can't walk through walls. Christ could. We're limited. And yet we are the sons of God, and it doth not yet appear what we shall be. But when he shall appear We shall be like him. Think about that. Have you gotten so used to hearing that that it doesn't really give you goosebumps? Have we gotten so familiar with these truths that the idea of being conformed to the perfect image and likeness of Christ is just something we know? But we shall be like him, for we shall see him as he is. We know that when he shall appear, we have that certain knowledge that Christ will appear. And a certain knowledge that we shall be like him, but the reason that Scripture gives us that we shall be like him is that we shall see him And I want to spend a little bit of time on this concept of seeing him like he is and compare scripture with scripture. For we find that Jacob On the plain that he would lay their name, the plain of Penial, wrestled with a man all night. This is in Genesis 32. He wrestled with a man all night. And as he wrestled with this man, there was not a glitter. Jacob could not prevail against the man, and the man was not prevailing against Jacob. And as the sun began to rise, Jacob said, Tell me your name, who are you? They said, why do you ask after my name? And I believe the reason he said, why do you ask after my name is because Jacob knew who he was wrestling with And he touched Jacob's thigh and put his hip out of joint, and he walked with a limp the rest of his life. And he said, Woe is me, for I have seen the face of God. And he named that plane, the plane of Paniel, which means facing God. On that plane, Jacob gazed into a face. It was the face of Jesus Christ pre-incarnate. But it was not Christ in his glory, it was Christ in a form that he understood, and he lived. And then we come to Moses. In Exodus 3, we find Moses keeping Jethro's sheep on the backside of the desert. Moses sees a bush that is burning and is not consumed. We have that on our beautiful stained window, which has historically been one of the symbols of Presbyterianism. Burning but not consumed. And yet, Moses doesn't see a face. Take off your shoes, Moses, the place we're on his holy ground. But he doesn't see a face And then again, Moses is on the mountain years later to receive the law. And he receives the law. He wants to see God's face. And God says, No, hide in the cleft of the rock, and I'll put my hand and I'll pass by, and you can see my back parts And even then, when Moses came down from the mountain, they had to put a veil on his face because his face showed. But he didn't behold the full glory. And then we go to Joshua. Joshua is by the wall of Jericho, and he sees a soldier standing there that he doesn't recognize, and he calls the soldier, and he says to this soldier, are you with us or with our enemies? The soldier says, Nay. I'm your captain As the captain of the Lord's hosts am I come. And again, it was Jesus Christ before Bethlehem. Appearing on behalf of his people. And there, Joshua sees a form, in a form that he can understand, a human form, but he doesn't see the full glory of God. And then we come to Gideon And Gideon sees an angel, a messenger of Jehovah. He sees just a glimpse, but he doesn't see the full glory of God. The disciples walked with Jesus Christ on earth. They saw a bodily form. And Peter, James, and John were on the Mount of Transfiguration, and yet when the glory came, they became as dumb men, and they couldn't see it all. Now, why have I gone through that long litany? For this reason, it still does not appear what we shall be. But when we see him, we shall be like him for we shall see him as he is. Does that throw your soul? Does that get a hold of you? I'm going to see him. I'm going to see all the glory of God. And seeing that glory, it will transcend Transform me into something that I cannot even imagine, that I cannot even understand. I'm a human And it's so far beyond my mind and my ability to comprehend. But think about this. My mother and my father walked with God in the garden. They talked with him in the cool of the evening. They saw what we shall see. What happened? Sin Sin came before God and man. Because of that sin they were cast out of the garden. That fellowship was broken. But God made a promise. I will send my son. I will send a messiah. And beloved. Now are we the sons of God. Even now we are brought into that relationship, and yet there is so much more to come, for when he shall appear, we shall be like him. For we shall see him as he is. Every man that hath this hope in himself Purifieth himself even as he is pure. Oh, brother, next week, Lord willing, I want to go into that third verse. And consider what is incumbent upon us as the sons of God as we look for the appearing of our great Savior. Let us stand rejoicing in prayer today. Oh gracious Father We rejoice before you that we can call you Father and not just Father, but all the Father. Hallelujah, what a Savior! You have delivered us from sin, you have delivered us from death. You have delivered us from the curse, and you have made us the sons of God. You have brought us into that glorious covenant relationship with you. Father, we deserve nothing but wrath and judgment. But our elder brother has borne our judgment upon him. Surely he hath borne our griefs and carried our sorrows. He was stricken, smitten of God, and afflicted. Father, we rejoice. That you have saved us. Oh God, we plead for our children, for those born of our own bodies. Lord, may they too know this saving grace. Lord, we plead for the unborn. Lord, bless them with thy truth. Father, we plead that you would make us a testimony in a light. May we not hide this truth under a bushel, but may we proclaim it to the world. Him that believeth in him shall not be condemned. Lord, bless your truth to us. Mold us to the image of Christ today. And Lord, we look forward to that day when we shall be fully in his image, for we shall see him as he is. Lord, we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.