Mark chapter four, verses twenty one through thirty two. We have a number of parables here. They may not appear to be linked together, but I I think you'll see the link in them as we read them and and uh expound upon this morning. Mark chapter four, beginning at verse twenty-one. And he said unto them, Is a candle brought to be put under a bushel? Or under a bed, and not to be set on a candlestick, for there is nothing hid which should not be manifested, neither was anything kept secret, but that it should come abroad They men have ears to hear, let him hear. And he said unto them, Take heed what ye hear With what measure you meet, or with what measure you judge a thing, it shall be measured to you or judged upon you in the same manner. And unto you that here shall more be given. For he hath to him shall be given And he that hath not, from him shall be taken even that which he hath. And he said, So is the kingdom of God, as if a man should cast seed into the ground And should sleep and rise night and day, and the seed should spring and grow up. And he knoweth not how. That is, the sower knoweth not how it grows. Verse 28. For the earth bringeth forth fruit of herself, first the blade, a little blade of grass, and then the ear, and after that the full corn in the ear But when the fruit is brought forth, immediately he put it in the sickle, because the harvest is come. And he said, Whereunto shall we liken the kingdom of God? Or with what comparison shall we compare it? It's like a grade of mustard seed, which when it is sown in the earth, is less than all the seeds that be in the earth But when it is sowing, it groweth up, and becometh greater than all the herbs, and shoot out great branches, so that the fowls of the air may lodge under the shadow of it. So we have these parables here, and I think the connection with all of them is that they're all talking about sowing. They're all talking about sowing In verse twenty one he said of them, Is a candle brought to be put under a bushel? And I meant to bring that you know that basket that sits inside the door as you come in, that you can throw your empty coke cans and uh down to do the laundry in 'em. A bushel basket is a basket uh that they would carry grain in, uh barley or wheats or oats, but it was a big basket four times the size of the basket out there in the doorway. But he said, Well you light a candle, do you put it under a bushel, you flip the bushel upside down and cover the candle? Well you wouldn't be able to see any light It it just wouldn't make any sense to do something like that. And uh the way the old homes were built in the days that the scripture was written, uh you had a door, you didn't have glass windows, it was pretty dark in those homes And so they would they would light candles in the home and they put 'em on a candle stand, something like a menorah, but uh sometimes in the walls around the house there would be a board and that board would swing out and they'd set a candle on it. And maybe all the four corners of the house had these boards and those are called candle stands that would sit out And you put the candle out. Sometimes in a smaller room there'd be uh a post in the very middle of the room. We got two posts down in our fellowship hall, two steel posts with the uh cushions around them in case the children run into them. But there there'll be a main post in a small room and on that post would be a candlestan it would flip down and they put the candle out so the candle would light pretty much it'd be in the center of the room and it would light up the whole room. But nobody would light up a candle and put a bushel over it, a bushel basket over it, because then you wouldn't get any light at all And some of these uh these candlest hands were four foot high uh up off the floor. You wouldn't want a candle down the floor, it wouldn't light much. You put the candles up on a candle stand to light the room up uh much, much better And uh this the light would of course prevent you from stumbling around in the room if the room is too dark, tripping over the cat or the dog or the baby or whatever. Uh the the light was there so it was beneficial in the dark to keep you from tripping Stumbling and falling and getting hurt. Very important that you would have a light to shine. And of course, if God has enlightened you, it's your job to let your light shine. to prevent others from tripping and stumbling and falling. It's very, very important that we enlighten others or uh let your light so shine before men we read in Matthew 5 and 16. Why do we let our light so shine? If God has enlightened us, we want our light to shine that others will no longer trip and fall and stumble into a deep crevice or into the bottomless pit. We don't want men to fall. Uh so why would one who loves the Lord, who's been enlightened, ever conceal their light under a bushel? You have to ask yourself that sometimes. And someone says or say that they've been enlightened, that the light of the world, the Lord Jesus Christ, has enlightened them, and you say, well, why don't you uh spread the word? Why don't you show uh the truth to others, what has happened to you Why are you hiding it under a bushel? It doesn't make sense. Maybe you really aren't enlightened at all. I I I think of what would you think if there was a a sign out there along the road somewhere and it said bridge out ahead And someone put a bushel basket over the side. And you're driving down a road you haven't been on before, maybe it's a late at night, and you see this bushel basket there by the side of the road, turned upside down, and you don't know that under the basket is Bridge out ahead. Why would you do that? Why would anybody do that? Or perhaps you uh You're out there and you're taking a nice walk through a an area you're not familiar with, hot day, perspiring, you're just miserable, and you think, oh man, look at that pond of water over there. Oh, that would be Just take a quick dip in the pond of water. You see a bushel basket alongside the pond, you ignore that. Someone has taken a bushel basket and they put over the top of the sign that says, alligators and pond, no swimming or fishing. Why would somebody do that? Why would you do something like that? Or you go into a hospital and you're about to enter a room to visit someone You've heard is there, you're not sure what's wrong, but you want to visit them. And someone has covered up the sign that says mask required tuberculosis patient inside. You wouldn't want to do that, would you? You why would you cover a sign that says well contaminated and you have it thirsty and it's a hot and miserable day? Or why would you cover up a sign that says minefield? Do not advance. Why would people do that? People do that sometimes. People do things like that. But why would a Christian who is enlightened put his light under a bushel. Why would a Christian not want to share that God is enlightened and that God is saved that he has seen the light? Why would a Christian do that I don't think a Christian would. We as Christians are supposed to be out there sowing the fact that we have been enlightened, that we've seen the light of the world, that we're truly enlightened, we're to spread the word. Thy word is a lamp onto my feet. Psalm one hundred and nineteen and verse one hundred and five. If a if your word is a light unto our feet, we're to spread the word. We're to sow, aren't we? And we're to sow the truth. Christ said, I am the way, the truth, and the life. No man cometh on the Father but by me. John fourteen and six. If no one cometh on the Father but by Christ, We don't want to put a bushel basket over that verse, do we? I mean there are people that tell that you can get to the Father by Buddha, you can get to buy uh the Father by uh other gods and other religions, but Christ said they cannot. Don't put a bushel basket over the truth. We have that happening, don't we, today? The schools. If you've got a Bible on your desk in your teaching school, you better put a bushel basket over it, because they'll make you remove it, won't they? Verse 22, we read, There is nothing hid. Now they would like to hide the gospel, the world would like to hide the gospel, but there's nothing hid which shall not be made manifested, neither is there anything kept secret that shall not come abroad. The demonic world, the unsaved people out there, uh our own sin nature sometimes will want to suppress or cover or bury or hide the gospel of Christ, but they will not succeed. That verse 22 says it shall be Cast abroad. It shall come out. The gospel will be known and be made known throughout all the world by God's sowers. And if you're enlightened, if you've seen the light, if you are saved, you are to be one of God's sowers. Now you may think that while you sowed a little bit, nothing's come out of it. My grandmother sowed seed in my heart for Sixteen years. And she died, and she never saw that her labors prospered at all. Sixteen years. He preached at me, took me to Sunday school, made me go to summer Bible camps. I mean I hated it And fifteen years later my taekwondo struck or instructor, he he was uh he was a Christian. He let his light shine and And you know, where my grandmother had had had uh planted my taekwondo instructor, he was watering, and I didn't appreciate that either It wasn't until years later that it all started to take root, it started to grow. You know, when you plant seeds, and some of you know this, you give her a planted flowers and some, they don't all come up We had some flowers come up this year that they we planted them two or three years ago and they finally came up. The seed doesn't always come up right away. It can be very discouraging But we're to be sowers. We're to let our light so shine. We're to sow. And it says that it should, it will come abroad. The gospel of Christ has sowed, it will be raised up. It will take root. It will grow. It will be made known throughout all the world. Because God's sowers are out there doing it faithfully and it's going to spread. It's going to grow. Well what's the chance of what we saw? Something coming out of it. The chance of what you saw being raised up and going your body is as sure as the resurrection of Christ. It's going to grow. You sow enough seed, you're gonna see plants coming up. So my question to you is, are you a sower? If you are enlightened, if you are saved, you should be dropping a track somewhere, handing someone a track, leaving a track somewhere Uh slipping in a Bible verse. Hymning uh humming a a song, uh Jesus loves me. That's a that's what everybody knows. You know, if you're walking to the grocery store and going Yes, that's a witness. That's a witness. Can't we do that? The people who will recognize that Well, their hearts will be tickled by it. And the people don't recognize it, eh? They don't know what you're doing. But somebody needs to hear it again. Jesus loves me, this I know. Because their grandmother told them many, many years ago, and it might strike them today. Or the taekwondo instructor told them, and it might strike them today. We need to be sowers. Are you a sower? Verse 23. If any man have ears to hear, let him hear. In verse 24, a, and take heed what you hear Boy, there's a lot of stuff out there you can hear, and it's it's not favorable to the Lord Jesus Christ. It's not good at all. Things that you can hear, take heed what you hear. Barabbas! Release to us Barabbas. Give us Barabbas, we read in Matthew 27. That wasn't a good message to listen to, was it But people did. How about in Genesis 3, 1? Satan, the serpent, comes in the garden, he says, Well half God said. Let's let's question what God has said. Isn't that what he really meant? Did he really say that? Half God said. Be careful. It says here, take heed what you hear. Ah, what do I hear? I hear the voice of Jacob, but the hands are that of E. Oh Isaac should have paid more attention to what he heard. It was the voice of Jacob. There are out there those who sow Barabbas. There are others out there who sow, health God said, they're out there who sow discord among the brethren. Proverbs 6 and 19. There are out there those who sow tares among the wheat. Matthew 13 and 25. There are those out there who are sowing filthy jokes. Be careful what you hear, take heed what you hear. Filthy jokes, foolish talking, jesting, Ephesians 5 and verse 4, tailbearers, Proverbs 26 and 22. And all this is done ultimately to undermine the doctrine of God. of the scriptures, to distract you from them or to undermine them. They undermine the doctrines of creation We get evolution. The undermined damnation. They don't want any judgment. The underlying creation, damnation, redemption, resurrection, and the inspiration of the scriptures. Be careful. Take heed what you hear. They want, the enemy wants our hope and our faith in Christ to fade away, to be diminished. to be undermined. It says that if possible they would seduce you if possible. Even the elect could be seduced if it were possible, and the implications it's not, but that's what they want to do, Mark 13 and 22. So again I say you take heed to what you you hear. Turn that radio show off if it's a bunch of junk. Or that television or that DVD you're watching. Take heed what you hear, because some of it will Grow in your mind and your heart and choke out what truths you already have. In verse 24b, unto you that hear shall more be given. That is, he that heareth what the Spirit saith Revelation 2 7. People that hear with their hearts and they hear what the Spirit hath to say, unto them that hear, more shall be given. Christ will impute you more things if you listen to his word Well, what will Christ impute to me? Well, John 1. 16, he'll impute grace for grace. Isaiah 58, 7, he will abundantly pardon me. How about the adoption into the household of faith? Christ will impart the adoption. You'll be called the sons of God. You'll be called his brothers in Christ. The redemption of your body. I want that. In fact I could use that one right now. It's not doing too good. Romans eight and twenty-three, we're gonna get new bodies, incorruptible bodies. How about the love, joy, and peace of Galatians five twenty-two? It says that Christ God will bless us with glory and promises, Romans 9 and 4, for all eternity. On you the hear, more shall be given. But in verse 25, he that hath not, that is, hath not the spirit of Christ, and we read about people who have not the spirit of Christ. Not everybody has the spirit of Christ. We know lots of people like that, don't we? They don't hear. I mean God's been good to them, He's reigned on the just and the unjust. They got a lot of stuff going on. They don't appreciate it. They don't thank God for it. But they got stuff. But he said that he that hath not the Spirit of Christ And we read about that in Romans 8 9 and Philippians 1 19 and 1 Peter 1 11. If ye have not the Spirit of Christ, from him shall be taken even that which ye hath. There are people here that they're not saved, but they got a lot of stuff I mean they're just piling it up and piling it up. Greg and I were talking last night, the people got all the stuff. And when they die, they leave it. They're philanthropy. Maybe they leave it to the church. Well, he wasn't going to be able to take it with him anyway, so how nice was it? He's given you something that's worth nothing to him. It's worth nothing to him. So people have a lot of stuff. And if they haven't the Spirit of Christ, it's going to be taken from them They're not gonna have uh what Christ will give us, uh the redemption of our bodies. They're not gonna have the love, joy, and peace for all eternity. They're they're gonna lose all that. It'll be taken from them. And all that they will have, according to Judah. one and thirteen is a blackness and darkness forever. That's nothing. won't have any sight, they won't have any vision. This idea, well when I die I'm gonna go to hell, but behold my friends will be all the way down there parting, you're not gonna see your friends. Hell's a big place. Just as heaven is a place that's a large place. Hell is too. You're not going to run anybody. You're not going to bump anybody you know. It's not going to be a fellowship time. It's a blackness of darkness forever. Oh, you're running some demons down there, and you're running some lost people down there. It's going to be a miserable, anguishing time for those that hath not from him shall be taken. He said, so the kingdom of God in verse 26. It says if a man should cast seed into the ground. And here we're back to sowing again. In the first part, let your lights will shine. We're supposed to be sowing. And then it says, if you have ears here, let you hear. We're supposed to be absorbing what has been And in verse 26, he said, So is the kingdom of God, as if a man should cast seed on the ground, and should sleep and rise night and day, and the seed should spring and grow up. He knoweth not how. And you're done with it. You might go out and do a little weeding. You probably won't irrigate it. You're just waiting for the rains to come. The rains come down from above You're waiting for some good sunny days, but the sun comes down from above. Everything that we have, every every good gift that we have comes down from above, comes down from God. And so you you throw out the seed And it says night and day, he sleeps, he wakes up, and he's just praying that God will bless the seed. And make what he has sown grow. And we need to do that when we witness, when we give out a tract, or before we give out a tract, ask that this tract not be ripped up, thrust in a wastebasket Ask that somebody reads it. Pray that God will see to it that touched her heart, and maybe they'll pass it on to somebody else. All man can do is sow. That's all man can do. We can just sow the seed. We we can't make it grow The issue of growth, the issue of the germination of a seed, the issue of fruit coming out of it. There are people out there they got these beautiful apple trees and they have apples every year, and then one year they don't get any apples They say, what happened? Are there no bees to pollinate? Was there no wind to blow the pollination? Why sometimes the tree not give any fruit? It's all of God. Why some years you have a good uh good number of apples on the tree, and some years you you don't. Why is it? Because the growth and the fruit, the germination, it's the soul operation of God. All we can do is plant the seed. All we can do is sow. That shouldn't be so hard to do. do. The sowers out there in the field tossing the seed, no one's taught him, no one's around and bought him. And you can drop tracks somewhere or Bible verses or three by five cards. I find that we had one track in 40 years thrown back in our face. I mean you always fear that's going to happen. I'm glad it didn't happen the very first time. But we were in a restaurant and we left a nice tip. If you're gonna leave a track, leave a nice tip. And she came out and yelled at us and I mean we ran out right where the parking lot was and threw the track in our face And uh stamped and I want to say, uh what about the money? But so, so, so and you may never see any result My grandmother did not. But we want you to sow the germination, the growth of fruit, that's of the Lord who created The seed, by the way, the mustard seed, who prayed the seed that a sower uh throws out there and dispenses, and he's the one that sends the sun and the rain. And God is the one that initiates uh and activates the seed that we sow as sowers, the word of God. And it says here that we know it not how it works. You know, scientists don't know how the seed works yet. get in that a second haven. They can't comprehend how that little seed works. How many of you have ever taken an acorn and cut it open, looked inside the acorn? Whatever big couple you have, right? It just looks like I don't know, just some mushroom. I mean you always try to eat it too, they don't taste too I mean it doesn't the whole acorn you cut on this side it it all looks the same. You cut it in five or ten different pieces, it all looks the same. And and you you figure how does this acorn know to bust open and to send up the blade of grass and then to send up the the blade of grass becomes a a stem and then that stem comes into a little little mm tree and then that tree grows up and a big oak tree and it's full of more acorns. That little acorn produce a tree that Three of us couldn't put our arms around. How does this acorn know how to do all of that stuff? You know, scientists they cut it over and I don't know. No man knoweth. Paul planted the power of watereth, 1 Corinthians 3. 6, but God gave the increase. You see, but if it it depended upon us, there wouldn't be anybody getting saved Do you think the urgency and the perseverance of Paul is why people got saved? No. Paul says God gave the increase. Do you think that the eloquent and articulate Apollos that that's why people got saved? No. Paul and Apollos said, look I plant Apollo's waters, but God gave the increase. So don't feel like when you're out there sowing, I'm not a very good sower. No, no, no, no. God's going to give the increase. Just be a sower. Much time often passes before the sower sees the fruit of his labor. My grandmother never saw the fruit in my life. Now she maybe saw the fruit in other people's lives, but not in my life. The word, if you sow it, dear friend, it will not be lost. The word of God Assures us, the Word of God assures, and it is ensured by the omnipotent God. God is omnipotent. And we are assured that it will not return void. It will accomplish what it is sent out to do. There will be a harvest if you sow. There will be a harvest A reaping, because there is life in the seed. When you plant a seed in your garden, you know you you see the package and it says petunians or or it says violets, you know. You you are uh you are totally convinced when you plant all the seeds that it's gonna come up. You y y sometimes you even say in the package, we assure if you're not happy send the package back, uh we'll refund your money. We are we we never sow seed in our garden not thinking it's gonna produce fruit. We always think it's going to. Why would you think that the Word of God wouldn't? Why would you think I've been laying tracks, I've been witnessing, I've been passing, sharing Bibles. It never seemed to do anything. Oh, it does. You just didn't hang around long enough. And maybe you will never hang around long enough to see what some of the things that will do. But it does. It will produce a harvest. There will be a reaping. There is life in the seed in your gardens, and there is life in the word that we sow. The word of God here is called a seed, and there is life in that seed. Don't fret about some on responsive witness that you've spoken to. God's hand is in it. You see, I witnessed guy once, twice, I feel like I'm throwing pearls before the swine I I my witnessing doesn't do any good. Friend, it's in God's hand when you witness. It's in God's hand when you sow. And you couldn't be in a better place if it's in God's hand, could it? I mean, sow some seeds, sow the word of God, and leave it in God's hand. Just leave it there. There will be a harvest. Seed. You've seen seed that you dropped accidentally when you're out there maybe spreading grass seed out on your lawn and the seed comes up in the crack in the sidewalk. The seed comes up through the asphalt where your car is parked because it got washed out of your lawn into the asphalt. The sea comes up out of a brick wall sometimes. I mean this is just seed. And if seed can come up out of asphalt and out of concrete walls and brick walls. What makes you think that the word of God can't penetrate a cold stony dead heart? produce fruit. I'm not witnessing that guy. That guy is so dead. That guy is so lost. That guy's he's an atheist. He's an agnostic. He is so opposed to the word of God. What a waste of do you know what there are atheists out there and out six out there and nobody ever witnesses to them because they think it's a lost cause. Wow The Word of God? A lost cause? The Word of God we are assured that it is ensured by the omnipotent hand of God. It can produce the Word of God is quick and powerful Piercing soul, spirit, thoughts, and intents of the heart. Hebrews 4 12. It can penetrate an atheist's heart, an agnostic's heart, a Presbyterian's heart. No, they're not all saved Baptist heart, Catholic heart, Jehovah Witness heart, the Muslim's heart. Powerful, powerful, the omnipotent God, the seed, the word of God, what it can do What can the words of Socrates do? Look at the words of Aristotle and Plato. What people quote them all the time, right? Aristotle, Plato, Socrates. But you know that those words of those men have never converted one barbarian. No one's ever read Plato and Socrates and been converted, had a changed life, a renewed heart. No barbarian tribe, no nation has ever turned to a Become a holy and heavenly bound people by reading Plato or Socrates or everything. You know why? Because those words aren't living words. They're just words of black and white. But what we hold in your hand here, the Word of God is the living word. It is as alive as any seed that you see stick in your garden. It is alive. And we we if God's word is alive and it can it not only is it alive, it can transmit life Just like that acorn can transmit life and create more acorns, the Word of God can transmit life. You want examples of that? John 11 and 43. Here's how the Word of God can transmit life into something that's dead Lazarus, come forth. And he does. How can those words, Lazarus, come forth, make something that's dead for four days and rotting and stinketh? How can it make it come alive? Because the word of God is a living thing. It it's a it's a seed that we sow. It is alive and it can transmit life to others. The words I speak, they are life. John 6 and 63. Christ says the words I speak, they're alive. And they can transmit life to others, impute life to others. It is alive. And how can we not Have see the Word of God and think, well, I don't know what the chances are of this doing again, but I'll toss the track here and I'll put a vibe in my conversation over there. It is alive. The earth bringeth forth fruit, verse twenty-eight, of herself, first the blade, then the ear, and and then the full corn in the ear. I don't Don't be so concerned and don't shy away from the scorn and the sneers and the snarls of the world. They want to diminish your passion for Christ. They want to diminish your I'm not going to give this one a track. I'm not going to leave a track over there on the table I mean, you know, here here's how in the beginning, this is how it goes. If you've never left the track anywhere, you just kind of have it up your sleeve and you're walking by and just drop it on a Kmart ledge and keep on walking. All right Is that so hard? These would be really great. Sigam and phone booths? I'm sorry. Do I have to explain to the young people what a phone booth is? They were great, but go down to laundromat. Anybody ever go to a laundromat? That means you're back there with about 80, 90, 100 machines back there and about six people in the laundromat, right? You go back in a row where there isn't anybody around and you drop one on the chair Where someone's gonna sit while they're waiting for a cloth. I mean, is it that is that hard to do? Or sometimes you carry one in your pocket and and some of you say, Well what's that in your pocket? Oh, well, I forgot about here, he can have one Easy. People come here to the church after working in the church or something going on. Rob takes care of all that But they give me a bill. And I say, wow. And sign here. I said, okay. Hey, let me give you something. You don't have to sign for it. They always take it. Someone comes in, mailman comes in uh to your door and he's got a pack here, I got a package for you to sign, UPS. Say hey, well thank you, here, here's something for you too. They always take it And so we we read here that yeah there'll be out the people snarling and sneering at you and they want to diminish the passion you have for Christ. But I want you to know that that passion you have for Christ, the fruit, the harvest is coming. It is coming. Verse 29. The harvest is coming. There will be reaping and a time of rejoicing. Yea, let God be true in every man a liar. Romans 3. 4. The harvest is coming. In verse 30, he said, uh where unto shall we liken the kingdom of God? How would I explain the kingdom of God? How can I express it to you best? And he says, uh, or with what comparison shall I compare it? Christ says, I've got to find a way to compare the kingdom of God. And and finally he comes up with this. It's like a grain of mustard seed, but that's a small seed Which when it is sown in the earth is less than all the seeds that it's all the herb seeds. There are seeds smaller, but the herb seed is supposed to be the smallest that is in the earth And and that seed, it takes up little room. You know how many mustard seeds you can throw in your pocket? I bet you adopt handful of muscle seeds in your pocket, they'd be in there for the next three washings. I mean just you never get them all out. I mean that they don't take up a lot of room. And he he says and Christ says It's insignificant is that mustard seed. And insignificant are the sowers. We're insignificant. We're fishermen. We're carpenters. We're shepherds. We're insignificant in the world. And that's the way the kingdom of God begins. It begins with insignificant sowers. Just insignificant. We don't take up a lot of room. But we have the living seed that we sow. I mentioned a little earlier about the acorn, you cut it in half, and what's it look like? Boy, what a project. So many young people. Go on the internet and look up the seed. You'd be surprised at what you find. I cut that acorn in half, or I've cut a a a barley seed in half or a wheat seed in half. I don't see anything. And it's kinda like Darwin. He said you cut the cell a human cell in half or a cell of an animal in half. It's as simplistic as a ping pong ball. That's what Darwin wrote. That's before electronic microscopes and so forth. Well you cut open a seed and what do you see? That's a little hard mush in there. That's all that's all you see. You know what's inside that seed? That seed, just before it drops on the ground from a plant or a flower, it's attached to its placenta. Seed's got a placenta. And once you when you buy seed in the store, when the scientists open up that seed and look at it, they see that inside that seed is an embryo. Wow. I wonder if the cre the one that created the seed created humans. Because don't we have placentas and don't we have embryo? I mean, it's it's amazing. Maybe a creator made everything, you know Well, in fact, the Bible says the herb-yielding seed, Genesis 1-1, God made the seed, yeah. But you look at the complexity of the seed. It just fell off, it just broke away from its placenta. How's it going to survive? Well, there's an embryo inside the seed. Well, how's it going to survive? Well, it's surrounded by all these nutrients And that the majority of the seed uh outside the embryo, it's it's made up of enzymes and fats and fiber and protein and magnesium and calcium. I mean it's it's really quite complex as well as the embryo And so you say to the scientists, I know you want to create life someday in the laboratory, or you know, create life in a test tube. They haven't done it yet. They're trying to create a uh, you know uh an animal or even a or even a one-celled uh you know bacteria. They they can't create life. They they want to try and they just can't create something that will swim across the water on a on a slide. They can't create something that will but they'll they can't create life. They got all these scientists and all these labs all across the world trying to create life. They can't do it. But you know what? I bet they can create a seed, because a seed is just It just sits there. It doesn't shrivel. It doesn't swim. It doesn't move. It doesn't breathe. It's just sitting there. But you know what the scientists have discovered? The seed. is alive. And so the scientists they get together and they get the magnesium, they get the new calcium, they get these nutrients, enzymes, fats, and fibers, they put it all together like a snowball, you know, and they It's not alive. How do they you know CPR? I mean how they can't even produce an acorn Because Nick one's alive And so the simplicity of it is that we sow a living seed and it imputes life to others and produces more seed. And we produce more sowers, don't we? If other people get saved. The lowly, insignificant beginning of the gospel is sowers like you folks sitting here. Insignificant. That's the beginnings of the gospel of Christ. That's the beginnings of the kingdom of heaven. How do I compare the kingdom of God? It begins with insignificant sowers. Sowing a living seed, the Word of God. Obscure, insignificant, despised and rejected men of little means. Like the mustard seed. Obscure, insignificant. But it builds the kingdom of God. Who hath despised the day of small things? Zechariah 4. 10. They want to despise the acorn, those scientists, we'll make one first. They can't. Make a seed first. They can't. They despise the day of small things. How about uh Elijah when he was out there and he's praying for God? They hadn't had rain in about three years And the the king of Israel is all upset with Elijah because they think that his praying has has prevented uh the this rain from coming. And he says, Behold, there's a cloud. And it says, the little cloud Like a man's hand, that's not gonna produce anything. He said, Well you better get get going and head back to your your palace because the rains are coming. There's gonna be a harvest, you're gonna see a rain. From that little cloud, how about the two fishes that fed 5,000, John 6 and 9. How about the little baby Bethlehem Manger? What could come of that? What can come of little things like dropping a track somewhere, sowing a seed? It's alive. The word of God is a living word. Something will come of it. Do that little mustard seed uh over there in Israel in the Middle East, it grows up to a tree, sometimes ten, twelve, sometimes even fifteen feet high high. Now you ladies that have peppermint plants and and uh little herbs you put you grow, they don't go fifteen feet high, do they? At least the ones we grow, they don't get more than about foot and a half high when you're planting herbs and and so forth. But the mustard seed the smallest, you get a tree. Ten, twelve foot high, at least. Some say they've gotten as high as fifteen feet. And when it is sown, it groweth up And it becometh greater than all the herbs, bigger, and soeth out great branches, so that the fowls of the air may lodge under the shadow. The birds come in, and it gets so big that the birds can land on the branches of the mustard seed that's become a small tree. That sower, he's out there sowing the seed and he's expecting to get some some herbs, uh mustard seed. in your cooking and and uh you can use that for for taste and so forth. He's out there he's sowing the seed and he's just thinking at the harvest time Well I'm I'm I'm gonna get some seed and I can sell the seed and I can use the seed and cooking and so forth. He's not thinking about sowing the seed. Oh I'm gonna Build a tree that the birds can fly and land on the on their on the branches and and they can feed off the trees somewhat and and they can find rest here and maybe build a nest here and and they'll have shade here and they'll have food here and they'll sing In my mustard. He's not thinking about that. He's primarily thinking about the mustard seed he's going to get from this one little seed that he'll be able to sell or to use and to eat And yet that mustard seed produces birds filling the air with their songs, rejoicing over the mustard seed. And what it has brought them. Little mustard seed gave those birds shade, gave those birds food, gave those And I just wonder, pilgrim, do you provide others with food, shelter, shade, a place to rest from the storms of life? Life. Life is tough. Maybe if you're young you think life is great, but as we get older, life is tough. Tough. There are storms in our lives that hit us. Some we get hit with storms very young, but uh some they're much later on. But there are the storms of life and And and we as sowers out there, we're to be providing a place of shelter for others, a place where they can come and talk with us, and a place where they can rest uh from the storms of life. In other words, a sower And this is a thought to leave with you. Pilgrim, are you useful to others? Because the sower was useful to the birds. He was useful to others who needed the seed. Are you useful for others? Because if you sow seed, it will there will be a harvest, and there will be people singing your name in God heaven someday. Rejoicing that you were a sower that dropped a seed on them. Revelation 15, 3, singing in eternity, our sowing will produce Singers are sowing, will fill the the air the heavens with rejoicing. Our sowing will produce. There will be a harvest. So sow, sow more. You are sowing because the harvest is coming. Encourage you today. Many of you are here because somebody sowed in you Your presence or left something that you would find. And we need to do the same. Let's pray. Father, we thank you today for the parables that Christ shared here. Insignificant they may seem. Redundant they appear. We've all heard them before, but have we taken them to heart? Are we sowing ourselves? Sowing in the hearts of our children, our nephews, our nieces, the neighborhood kids, the co-workers, oh Lord, may we have a Heart to sow a seed that is alive, a seed that will impute life into others for all eternity. Oh God, give us a heart to sow. Your seed. That's in Christ's name, the living word, the light of the world that we pray. Amen.