The first scripture we're going to look at is in Psalm 103 in verse 20. Psalm 103 in verse 20. Psalm 103 in verse 20 Says this, Bless the Lord ye his angels that excel in strength, that do his commandments, hearkening unto the voice of his word. So the scriptures are clear that there are angels. The other passage that's very plain about this is in the book of Hebrews. And if you'll turn to Hebrews chapter 1 and verse 14, this is one of our anchor verses, one of the key passages that speaks about angels, is Hebrews chapter 1 and verse 14. It speaks of angels and says, are they not all ministering spirits sent forth to minister for them who shall be heirs of salvation? Jude also talks about angels, but in a negative way. We've read about these angels positively, that they're ministering spirits. They minister to the people of God. They're there for your help and benefit. In Jude uses a negative reference to angels. It says, the angels which kept not their first estate, but left their own habitation He has reserved in everlasting chains under darkness unto the judgment of the great day. So you see there's a positive reference to angels and a negative one, which tells us there's good angels and bad angels. So tonight we're going to look at this whole topic of the spiritual world. I'm going to talk about the proof for the existence of angels. Why do we know that there are angels? We're going to look at the nature of angels. What are they like? And I've got some questions for you to ask about that. We're going to look at the classes of angels, and then we'll cover some angels that are mentioned by name. There are some that are specifically named in the scriptures. So the first is the proof for the existence of angels. Modern liberal theology just about discards the belief in spiritual beings that says there is no such thing as angels. It just throws that away. And it's sad because it's an integral part of the Bible. They should really ask the following characters in the Bible if they believe that there's angels. For instance, in Genesis 15, excuse me, Genesis 19. In Genesis 1915, when Lot is being drugged out of Sodom and Gomorrah before the destruction of it by the angels, it says, when the morning rose, the angels hastened Lot. saying, Arise, take thy wife and thy thou two daughters, and flee, lest ye be consumed. So I think Lot and his daughters believe in angels. They were spared of the destruction of the city when the angels drug them out And who can forget Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego in the book of Daniel? Nebuchadnezzar spake and said, Blessed be the God of Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego. who had sent his angel and delivered his servants that trusted in him. If you remember, these three were cast into a fiery furnace. And his report after their rescue was that God sent an angel to deliver them. That was an intense fire. The fire was so hot it killed those who came near to put them into the flames, and yet they were delivered and spared by the angel. Later, when Daniel himself, at a very old age in life, is cast into a certain pit full of, does your children remember what was in this pit? What was in the pit that Daniel was cast into? Yeah, it was full of lions. And they hadn't been fed in a while. And they were hungry, and yet when Daniel uh spoke to his king the very next morning, he says, My God has sent his angel. And has shut the lion's mouths, and they have not hurt me. So God can send an angel to shut a whole bunch of hungry lions' mouths and make sure that they're not going to touch Daniel. Think about in the New Testament, there was a a man who was in a temple, he was busy doing his job, and all of a sudden he had an appearance of someone who told him that his wife whom he had been married to all these years and never had a child, was going to now have one. This man's name was Zecharias. The angel answered and said unto Zecharias, I'm Gabriel that stand in the presence of God And am sent to speak unto thee and to show thee glad tidings. Zacharias knows there's an angel, as much as Daniel and Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego And of course who can forget the shepherds who were in their field, keeping watch over their flocks by night, what appeared in the heavens? But a bunch of angels, the heavenly host appeared, saying, Glory to God in the highest And on peace on earth, goodwill towards men. There's a great presence of angels. So the multitude of the heavenly host We read in Matthew 4 when the Lord Jesus was tempted in the wilderness after the devil left him. It says, then angels came and ministered unto him. There was also an account where Peter was kept in prison. And how did he get out? It says, the angel of the Lord by night opened the prison doors and brought them, the apostles, forth. So the angels cracked open the prison doors. I think they believe in angels. There was another angel This is when Herod decided to take all the glory for himself, and he gave not God the glory, and an angel smote him, because he gave not God the glory, and it says he was eaten of worms and gave up the ghost. That's an interesting account in Acts twelve. It's one that we have extra biblical correlation with. The Jewish historian Josephus notes that there was tradition and some eye observation that as uh Herod was proceeding down this street and receiving all of this praise from men, declaring him to be a god, that somewhere he just doubled over, his bowels were hurt, and then within a few days he died So there was an actual uh eyewitness account of this event. The scripture tells us who caused that to happen. These individuals believe that angels exist. Well, why is that such a hard thing? So let me ask you the first question. So when you think about angels, what essential qualities come to mind? What are they like? Fearsome. What? Fearsome. Fearsome? Okay, certainly. Fearsome, very powerful. What other qualities about angels come to your mind? They seem to be male. Yeah, that's true. More often than not, I I can't think of a reference to a female angel. That's a good point. That's interesting because that's going to come up later. Ministering spirits. Ministering spirits, okay. What does that mean? Okay, what did you say, Ms. Lava? They serve? Okay. They serve who? The people? They serve the people of God, yes? Not just everybody. Okay. So let's look at some of these things. The first was uh Hebrews 1. 14, as Victoria mentioned, they're ministering spirits, so they do minister, they serve, they serve God's people, they serve the uh the children of God Look at Ephesians chapter 6 and verse 12. Let's turn there now. Ephesians chapter 6 and verse 12. Ephesians 6. 12, we read this. For we wrestle not against flesh and blood, but against principalities, against powers, against the rulers of the darkness of this world. against spiritual wickedness in high places. Now you might say, well, Vince, this doesn't say anything about angels. It says spiritual wickedness in high places. It's interesting when you look at the Greek words behind some of these terms. The word principalities, it's a word that we use still today, but not often. It really means ruled by princes But it's a word that is used to refer to the first estate, angels who left their first estate in Jude 6. It means beginning in order of time or rank Powers uh speaks about a privileged force, mastery, like a superhuman potentate, uh some kind of authority. And rulers is an interesting term in Ephesians 6. 12. That word rulers is cosmocrator, a world ruler. It's kind of an epithet for Satan himself. So when you put all this together, all of this implies a hierarchy, some kind of an organization in the angelic realm. There's leadership, there's a structure to it And look at the text again with that in mind. It says, we wrestle not against flesh and blood. So the contrast is made between people. flesh and blood, you know, physical individuals you can hug, you can shake hands with. That's not who our warfare is with. It's with rulers of darkness. It's spiritual wickedness in high places. There's Um as it were beings that wake up in the morning if they sleep, I don't know that they do, that say, what can I do to make the Christian's life miserable today? This seems to be their role in life. Turn if you will, turn if you will now to Colossians 1. 16. It's just a few pages over. Colossians 1. 16. Colossians tells us this: for by him, who is the Him Trinity? For by him were all things created. Who is that? Him. Colossians 1:16. Yeah. Trinity's got a male voice, that's pretty impressive. For by him were all things created that are in heaven and that are in earth, visible and invisible, whether they be thrones or dominions or principalities. There's our same phrase again. or powers, all things were created by him and for him. So we find that there is an angelic host that's out there, but there is someone who created them, and it's nothing less than the Lord Jesus Christ himself. He's created all things that you can see, everything that you can behold with your eyes. And there are many things in this world we cannot see. What are some things that we cannot see, and yet we believe they exist? Yeah, wind is a good one. You can see the effect of wind, like this umbrella that may fall down on us. Uh or um We may not see bacteria, but it exists. Yeah, we may not see bacteria. If we had a high powered microscope, we might be able to see it. What about um electricity? You some of you have little children and you try to keep them away from that little socket. They may see the socket, but there's something and they may see the parts of the socket, but they don't see the power that comes out of that, and they'll certainly detect it soon enough. There's many things we Can't see. Those in the airline industry have to trust instruments on their dash panel in terms of their altitude and the magnetic direction. You can't see a magnetic force And if you ignore that, you do so at your peril. You're going to go off course. Well, yes, that's obviously our topic. You certainly can't see angels, but we're going to look at that. In some cases you can. Zecharias was standing there and he happened to see an angel. So that's interesting. Most of the time you can't. They're immaterial beings. The Lord said in Luke 24, he says, Handle me, for a spirit does not have flesh and bones as you see me have. So angels don't have flesh and bones. They're immaterial. We don't need to get into the silly question of how many angels can fit on the on the pin of an on the head of a needle. That's not relevant. But we do know that they uh exist and that they have some kind of form. We just don't fully understand that. Turn to Matthew chapter twenty-two. Matthew twenty-two. I find it interesting that the Lord Jesus reproved a group of people. who were wrong in their theology with the doctrine of angels. Matthew chapter 22 and verse 30 The question begins with the Sadducees. Perhaps you're familiar with this account. It begins in verse 23 Because the Sadducees came to Jesus and of course they believe there's no resurrection. In verse 24 they said, Master, Moses said Every heretic has his verse. Moses said, if a man die having no children, his brother shall marry his wife and raise up seed unto his brother. Now there were with us seven brethren, and the first, when he had married a wife deceased, and having no issue, left his wife unto his brother, likewise the second also, and the third unto the seventh Last of all the woman died also. Therefore, in the resurrection, which of course they didn't believe, in the resurrection, whose wife shall she be of the seven? For they all had her They think they've got him. They have a very interesting question from the law of Moses concerning this marrying up a uh uh a woman and if the man uh dies that His brother is to marry her. Now this was to propagate the children of Israel's seed because there was a promise on the books. If you were a Jew in the Old Testament, you were waiting for the promised seed, the Messiah, to come And so it was important that your tribal family name, either the tribe of Judah, the tribe of Benjamin, and so forth, be carried forward. God wanted those tribes to continue on until the time of the Messiah. That was the reason that law is on the books. But they're going to pick that to try to prove that the resurrection doesn't exist. Oh by the way, they um had many other things that was incorrect as well. So Jesus answers in verse twenty-nine, he says unto them, You do err, not knowing the scriptures nor the power of God He tells these people who are religious leaders, you don't know the scriptures. Just because somebody quotes a verse of scripture to you, doesn't mean they know the scriptures He says in verse thirty, In the resurrection, they neither marry nor are given in marriage, but are as the angels of God in heaven. Now that's a very interesting statement the Lord Jesus makes. There are some cults that try to point out, well, you see, it's talking about the process of marriage. They could have been married before, but now later they'll become married. Think about what Jesus just said He says, they are as the angels, because in the erection they're like angels. Let me ask a question. How long have angels been around? Since the beginning. Who made them? The Lord Jesus. Alright? Ever since they were created, Jesus says they never marry. So at what point in time do two angels get married? Because Jesus says they never marry. So if the act of marriage never occurs. There never had been a marriage to begin with. They couldn't fall back and say, well there were some angels married at some point. No, they never married. That's the point. That's like saying if they don't procreate, there's no there's no children. You can't argue for the case of children. So it's a nonsense position. But I find it interesting because this tells us that angels in heaven, number one, uh are with God, number two, they don't marry, and marriage is something that's for the here and now. It's Intended to represent a picture of Christ and His church. It's intended to propagate godly seed, children that will come forth to learn about God, to learn about the things of God so that they could tell the generation to come the praises of the Lord You're not here for yourself. You're not on your own. You didn't just show up in this world so you can have a good old time for yourself on the beach in South Florida. That's not your purpose in life. It's to tell the next generation about who God is And what the gospel is, of his free sovereign grace in Christ Jesus, that there's a complete and full satisfaction for sins, an atonement for sins. Your most desperate need in life is somebody to pay for your sins, and if that somebody isn't Jesus Christ, you're lost. You're lost before God, you're lost without hope, and you're destined to a disastrous end. I'm going to read to you from the book of Luke, where there's another encounter of angels. Jesus came upon a man And his name was Legion. And he asked him, says, What is your name? He said, Legion, because many devils were entered into him. Now a legion in that time is a reference to a Roman legion In a Roman legion, that was a military unit. It was a rather large military unit. And depending on whose estimates you believe or the size of the particular unit, it could be anywhere from 3,000 to 6,000 men. This man was infested with three to six thousand angels. I cannot imagine what kind of a torturous existence he had. He was absolutely insane and out of his mind. So we find that angels have no space limitation. We know that at least 6,000 can fit in one individual. That's 6,000 too many in my book. I wouldn't want to get anywhere near that. And in the book of Revelation it says, I beheld and heard the voice of many angels round about the throne, and the number of them was 10,000 times 10,000. So the point about all this is that angels are servants. They're spiritual beings. They're not infants little little infants with airy bodies, right? You get these little pictures around The month of February with these ridiculous depictions of angels, that's not what they look like. Michelangelo popularized some of that. For the most part, they're bodiless, I say most part, because they uh can make an appearance, and we'll look at that in a moment They're normally invisible, they're unmarried. The number is in the millions, at least from Revelation. Some of that's figurative language, it could mean that there's a tremendous number beyond 10,000 times 10,000 They have access to heaven because they praise God in heaven, and they have access to earth. They can freely go back and forth between the two. Very, very, very interesting creatures. We also find that some angels are good, holy, and elect. In the book of Timothy it says, I charge thee before God and the Lord Jesus Christ and the elect angels. Some angels are elect, chosen of God. They've been ordained not to fall. He'll restrain them. They will not suffer disaster. Others, however, did fall, and there was no atonement for them. Don't you feel special as a human being? There's payment for sins for humans, not for angels. You didn't die to atone angels. In your Matthew, turn over to the book of Mark, Mark chapter 8 One of the things we find about angels is that they're holy and they are willing servants. They agree with everything the Lord does. They think what He does is right. They think it's fantastic. In Mark 8. 38, we read this: Whosoever therefore shall be ashamed of me and of my words in this adulterous and sinful generation Of him also shall the Son of Man be ashamed, when he comes in the glory of his Father with the holy angels. Notice the contrast. Here's a person standing there in front of a great man many unbelievers. Almost like Peter standing in front of a little servant girl outside the court where the Lord Jesus was being tried. And the girl simply asked him, Are you one of them? And he was ashamed. He was afraid to claim Christ and association with Jesus. And Jesus says, there are those who will be ashamed of me And they'll be ashamed of my words. I can remember as a young person, oh, I must have been maybe uh between Matt and Jacob's age. And I was with my friend, I was out at the mall And we were walking in just wandering around, wasting time, what unsaved youth do, and there was this store that sold all kinds of black light posters that was I'm dating myself, but that was an interesting thing in my day. They sold these posters, you bought a black light, you turn it on, and it had some other, you know, picture that comes up with it And but they had a lot of other evil and wicked stuff in there too. They had things in there that just looked like devil worship to me. And I said, you know, I don't want to mess with that. That kind of looks, you know, ungodly And I told my friend, no, I don't think I want to go in there. I think that's ungodly. He says, Oh, you don't believe that Bible stuff, do you? Well, here I am when faced with a tough choice. I mean he's my friend. I'm here at the mall. And so I Didn't say anything. I just walked in with him. I was ashamed. That's what unbelievers do. They're ashamed to make a simple testimony. Jesus says, if you're ashamed of that, what are you going to do when he returns with a multitude of angels? And only one angel can destroy 185,000 Assyrians. It was two angels that destroyed the entire city of of Sodom and Gomorrah and all the plains in the city that were wicked. He says, If you're ashamed of me then, well the Son of Man will be ashamed of you in that time and that's going to be on the losing side, isn't it? They're called holy angels. They're just and they're right in what they do. Some angels are fallen from their first estate. They're therefore evil. Turn to 2 Corinthians 11. 2 Corinthians chapter 11. Let's start in verse 13. It says, Such are false apostles, deceitful workers, transforming themselves into the apostles of Christ. And no marvel, for Satan himself is transformed into an angel of light. Therefore it's no great thing if his ministers also be transformed as the ministers of righteousness whose end shall be according to their works. But the apostle is warning us here Is that the devil doesn't walk around with a red pointy tail and two little red horns out and a red cape that's very obvious to everybody He's not running around in the dens of iniquity. He's already got them in his back pocket. He doesn't need to pull them any further into his tent. He's already got those people. The devil operates. Very much like when he did when the Lord Jesus was here on this earth. Do you remember when the Lord Jesus instituted the Last Supper? How many people were there? Who was at the Last Supper? There were thirteen people, the Lord Jesus and the twelve apostles. You know who else was there? The devil showed up and entered into Judas. The devil transforms himself into an angel of light, into a minister of righteousness. He wants to look very holy. He wants to look very right. He wants to look very good. Because he knows what's at stake. He knows more about theology than most people who have graduated from seminary. In fact He's probably got his seat, and he's probably hanging out around the most conservative seminary that we possibly might find in America. That's probably where you're going to find the devil He appears as an angel of righteousness. He's not some wacko case out there that's trying to do healing with snakes. They think they can handle snakes. Every year there's some nut in Texas that goes and grabs a rattlesnake and says that I can handle snakes and he gets bit and he dies You know, th th that's not that's stupid. Um But he comes as an angel of light. So don't be surprised if you find among ministers Those who just really don't have their theological act together and are really out to do damage because it says here, it's no great thing, verse 15, if his ministers His fellow servants, those that are underneath his rank, principalities, powers, dominions, all of that structure The devil at the top of that pecking order, don't be surprised if they're also transformed as a minister of righteousness That's a fearful thing. That ties us then to Ephesians 6. It says that's not what we write. We don't wrestle against flesh and blood. This is the target. It's false religion. That is a huge disaster for the people of God. 2 Peter, check. Turn to 2 Peter, just before the book of Revelation. A little bit before it, it's not exactly before it's second Peter two and verse four. We read this If God spared not the angels that sinned, but cast them down to hell and delivered them into chains of darkness, to be reserved unto judgment? Wow, look at that language Here it speaks about there are some sinful angels. God didn't allow them to continue in their state To wait for the Messiah to come. He simply chained them up and says, You're reserved to darkness, but in the meantime, you're cast down to hell. That's your holding tank. Because they're reserved for the judgment of the great day. Their end is sure You see there that God is over them. He's powerful. There are the good, holy, and elect angels, and some are fallen, like the devil and those we read about here. So this is the nature of angels we see here, that they're pure spiritual beings, they they are bodiless, they're invisible, they're unmarried, there's many of them, some good, some bad. Now we're going to talk about the classes of angels. This is my second or third point. Follow me so far? Hang along? Alright, everybody's tracking here. That's good. I think this is frankly one of the most interesting parts of this study when I went through it. There's two classes of angels that I can find in the scriptures. The first class is called the cherubim. You ever heard of that? Maybe you sing some songs. Cherubim and Seraphim falling down before him. There's a song that mentions those two classes of angelic names. Turn to Genesis 3. 24 Genesis 3. 24, we find the first mention of these creatures. In Genesis 3. 24, we have at the end of this chapter the sad conclusion of the fall of Adam. He took fruit from the tree that his wife handed him. He ate it as our federal head. He blew it for all. We incurred the guilt. And the shame and the penalty of the judgment, and we've been paying that consequence ever since. And so when God drove the man out from the garden It says in verse 24, he drove out the man and placed at the east of the Garden of Eden cherubims, plural, and a flaming sword which turned every way to keep To guard, to keep you away from the way of the tree of life. God had a purpose for keeping a fallen man away from the tree of life. The Tree of Life is a picture of Jesus Christ. It's a figure of salvation. And God would not have it that a fallen creature, that a fallen man, would be able to put forth his corrupt hand and save himself by taking the tree of life. Nope, there's going to be a Savior that comes and makes provision. He will not become like the God man in that way. He's going to have to have an imputed righteousness To prevent his access, he plants an angel at that garden. Now some people say, well, was the Garden of Eden in the Middle East? Was it was it over there uh in Iraq between the Tigris and Euphrates rivers? No, no, no, we're timeout. The world that Ben was was destroyed by a flood. You're not going to find this angel hidden someplace over there in a distant, remote jungle. Not gonna happen. The flood came and destroyed all that business, the Garden of Eden too, and when Noah and his family disembarked from the Ark and rebuilt the land, they would have renamed rivers With names that were familiar to them before. There's no association. You can't find that here on this earth at this time. But they would have seen these angels And they would have known what they looked like. Later, God told Moses to make an image of these and turn now to Exodus 25, where we read about this image of these cherubims that are made because they served an interesting purpose. These people would have seen these angels And so there is some justification as to why people to this day, throughout the ages, have drawn an angel that looks somewhat like a man but with wings. There's kind of a consistent theme Why is that? I think it's because they saw them. They saw these cherubim. Moses is being instructed while he's on the mountain to make a mercy seat of pure gold. We begin to read about this in verse 17. And then in verse 18 it says this, You shall make two cherubims of gold, that beaten work shalt thou make them in the two ends of the Mercy seat. What's the Mercy seat? Well it's a box. It's a lid on a box. It's a golden box. It's about, oh, not not too unlike that deck box, maybe a little shorter. covered with gold, a little taller. And on one end, he would make an image of an angel with his wings stretched out. And on the other end, the other angel would have his wings stretched out and they're reaching towards each other. And their faces are down, their faces are down, they're looking at this golden box lid called the Mercy seat. Like that. You could sit on it if you were allowed to. You couldn't do that in the temple. That wasn't for you to sit on. What happened there was that the high priest came in once a year And took the blood of the Passover lamb and sprinkled it on the mercy seat. So, get the picture? Mercy seat, there's this holy golden box. You got the wings of the angel, and they're looking at This dropped blood. By the way, inside the box is the Ten Commandments. That's known as the Ark of the Covenant. So the Ten Commandments, if it had eyes, would be looking up and it sees blood, and here's the wings of the angel on top of that. Okay? God said that was a figure. All throughout the book of Hebrews, he talks about all of these Old Testament elements and says they're figures, their signs, their shadows, their types. of the heavenly reality. Do you know that this symbol was fulfilled in the New Testament? Do you know that this actually came to pass in the New Testament? You know where it's at? Well go to the book of John. Turn to John chapter 20 and verse 12. We're still talking about cherubims. I'm going to keep concluding with some points. But in John chapter twenty and verse twelve, we read this. The Apostle John is recounting The resurrection morning. And as he goes into the open tomb, which by the way the stone was rolled back not because it needed to release Jesus. He could have walked right through it. The stone was rolled back so you and I would see that it's empty. And he goes in and he sees something. He sees this. Verse 12 started eleven. Mary stood without at the sepulchre weeping, and as she wept, she stooped down and looked into the sepulchre. and seeeth two angels in white sitting, the one at the head and the other at the feet where the body of Jesus had lain. Ah, interesting. Get your mercy seat. Where Jesus Christ had lain. The slain Lord risen from the dead. That's where you find the mercy of God. It's in a person, not a lamb. It's in the God man, not a beast. It's in a risen Lord, not after the power of an end of a life that ends like Levi and the ironic tribe. So that's the mercy of God. That's the mercy seat. Signified by these angels. Isn't that interesting? The cherubims that were there at the head and the foot In Ezekiel it also speaks about these cherubs. It says, the glory of the Lord went up from the cherub and stood over the threshold of the house. The house was filled with the cloud, and the court was full of the brightness of the Lord's glory. The sound of the cherubim's wings was heard even to the outer court as the voice of the Almighty God when he speaks. And there appeared in the cherubims the form of a man's hand under their wings. This is the cherubims, and they're mentioned quite frequently in the Old Testament. So it seems that what their role is, is to reveal God's power, to show his majesty and his glory, to guard his holiness. They guard the way to the tree of life. They protect the sanctity of salvation. And there's another type of angel God has that seems to be distinctly different. These are called Seraphim. Now what I find interesting about Seraphim is their name. Turn to Isaiah chapter 6. While you're turning to Isaiah chapter 6, and I'm going to begin reading at verse 2, let me tell you something about the name, this word, Seraphim. This is the year King Isaiah died. Isaiah saw the Lord sitting on his throne, high and lifted up, and his train filled the temple. It says, above it stood the Seraphims. Then word seraphim is the word sabbath, which uh means burning, means poisonous. It's used in reference to the fiery serpent that bit the people in the wilderness. It's the same root word. It actually implies a burnt copper color. There's there's something about that. And let me try to draw something for you from that. It seems to be that these therapim, this this burning, this this poisonous type, this uh this fiery thing that can bite you This seems to be God's bailiff. This seems to be God's police officers. They seem to have the ability to handle really hot stuff. They can take coals in their hand, and it doesn't burn them. They don't seem to mind it at all. I personally think it was Sarah that visited Abraham When they were on their way to visit Sodom and Gomorrah when it says the Lord rained down fire and brimstone from heaven, I think it was angels up there Pulling out the fire and brimstone and chucking it down because they could handle it. That's something that they are able to handle. What it says in the book of Matthew, that the angels come and they reap and gather and cast them into the furnace. That's the seraphim. That's their job. They're God's trashmen. Why do I believe that? Well let's look at this picture that we have here, the seraphim. They're very different. Isaiah 6. 2. Above it stood the seraphims, and each one had six wings. These are noted as having six wings. We don't see six with a cherubim, they had two. They had two that stretched out. Not six. These have six wings. With twain he covered his face, with twain he covered his feet, with twain he did fly. One cried unto another and said, Holy, holy, holy is the Lord of hosts, the whole earth is full of his glory. Later on we read in verse 6, that then flew one of the seraphims unto me, having a live coal in his hand. He's got this thing. It's a hot coal right off the altar. By the way, anything off the altar was holy. Which he had taken with the tongs from off the altar, and he laid it upon my mouth and said, Lo, this has touched my lips Thy iniquity is taken away, my sin purged. So there's something to these cherubim that's very distinctly different, I think. We also read about them in Revelation 14, and this is one of the most intense passages I can find in all of Scripture, when it comes to the ministry. of these holy angels. Remember, they stand around the throne of God and they cry nonstop, holy, holy, holy The Lord God Almighty. They don't stand around and say love, love, love, though God is love. But that's not their message. Their message is God's holiness. And how, what's one of the big ways that God demonstrates his holiness? One way he demonstrates it is in his justice, in his wrath. That what he says goes. There's no budging with God. There's no cutting corners with him. That's why you need a substitute. That's why you need a savior. You need somebody also who never budged Who carried out the will of the Father perfectly and granted you his righteousness on his behalf for your sake. But in Revelation 14, 10, we read about these angels Speaking of those who, in the latter times, are under the deception of the devil, it says, the same shall drink of the wine of the wrath of God, which is poured out without mixture into the cup of his indignation. He shall be tormented with fire and brimstone in the presence of the holy seraphim, angels in the presence of the Lamb, and the smoke of their torment ascendeth up forever and ever. They have no rest, day nor night We worship the beast in his image, and whosoever receives the mark of his name. These are seraphim. It says they stand in the presence of the Lamb You see, the Lamb is the one executing this wrath and judgment. And yet who's right there with him? Seraphim, his angels. Very powerful. You know if you're on the Lord's side, he has a whole lot of tools at his disposal. He has a lot of resources at his command. David says, I'm on the Lord's side. Shall I fear man? What can man do unto me? If a saint of God is in trouble, is it a light thing for God, even in the pit of a lion's den, to send one angel to shut up the mouth of a few hungry lions? It's a very light thing for God to do that It's a light thing for God to rescue his people. He has very powerful resources at his disposal. All right We've looked at the proof of existence for angels, the nature of angels, their classes. Now we're going to talk about angels that are mentioned by name. The first one Is Gabriel means valiant man of God. I'm going to read Daniel chapter 8. Daniel 8 says, I heard a man's voice between the banks of Uli, which called and said, Gabriel, make this man to understand the vision. Daniel 9, 21, the man Gabriel, whom I had seen in the vision of the beginning, being caused to fly swiftly, touched me about the time of the evening oblation. So back in Daniel's day there was this angel named Gabriel. He could talk. Daniel could understand him. He had a form and a vision like a man, so I would ascribe that he's somehow a class of a cherubim. And he's there to give Daniel understanding. Well, lo and behold, we find this very same angel mentioned in the New Testament. Anyone know where he shows up at? Yeah, Luke at the Annunciation. In the sixth month the angel Gabriel was sent from God into a city of Galilee named Nazareth. That very same angel Gabriel came to give another beloved servant of his, Mary. Some indication that she was going to conceive and that holy thing in her would be the Son of God. So angels don't die. They live a very long time. They appear to have more immortality There was a time when they were created. They continue on. And so Gabriel is the first angel we have by name. It literally means valiant man of God. Maybe I've already covered that with you. The next angel is one called Michael. Michael, we see about him in the uh in in Daniel. He shows up in Daniel ten. He's called Michael, one of the chief princes. Meaning there's other princes, there's other chief angels. He's just one of several. And you see him in the book of Jude. Turn to the book of Jude. We'll be in Revelation 12, so you might want to keep your finger there. And then we're going to go to Jude, which is just before Revelation, and these will be our last two verses. Judah's one chapter and it's in verse 9. It says, yet Michael the Archangel When contending with the devil he disputed about the body of Moses, Durst not bring against him a railing accusation that said, The Lord rebuke thee. Now I'm not going to get into all the theology about what's going on here, the body of Moses and so forth. But notice he's called Michael the Archangel, meaning the chief angel. He apparently is one who has a very prominent position. He has a very significant role. We find that his role is described further in Revelation 12. And this will be our last verse, Revelation 12, 7 In Revelation 12. 7 it says, there was war in heaven. Michael and his angels fought against the dragon. The dragon fought and his angels and prevailed not. Neither was their place found anymore in heaven. God has a great army and a great host, and he sends them out to do his bidding So though we wrestle not against flesh and blood, but against spiritual powers and principalities and so forth, we also have other elements on our side helping us to fight too. There are those who are on our side. Well, the closing points I want to make is this, that angels are somewhat just like X-rays. They're invisible, but their presence is very well known, has very uh distinct powers and abilities. There is a battle, and we in fact are the target. Yet our God has many resources to protect us. The primary weapon and shield for the child of God is this, the Word of God. You don't run around waving the Bible in the air, you know, uh rebuking the devil. That's not what I'm talking about. The word's not a club. You don't put it at the end of a baseball bat and swing it around randomly Might be an interesting toy for certain kids, but that's not how God intends you to use it. It's the word that you've hidden in your heart. You see, your devil, your adversary the devil, goes about as a roaring lion seeking whom he may devour. You don't want to be found out of the way. You don't want to be found in a place where the devil is likely to haunt. You don't want to be in a false gospel church if you're not preaching the true gospel. Are you ashamed of Christ and his words? Are you ashamed of the truth of the gospel? Maybe it's time to get out of that false gospel place. Go to some place where they teach the truth. Put your money and your time and efforts and support that. And lastly talk all of all this talk about angels. I I don't want you to think that uh they are the be all, end all, do all. The Lord Jesus Christ, it says in Hebrews 1. 4, He's made so much better than the angels, as he has by inheritance obtained a more excellent name than they. Even the elect angels who never fell, the Lord Jesus Christ's name is far better. If you have him on your side, you have the captain of the host of the spiritual realm at your side. And that's a far better position to be in. We'll close out there