Open in your Bibles with me as we begin this morning to the book of 1 Peter and the second chapter. We looked at this chapter extensively two weeks ago, and this morning I want to just take one verse from the chapter as our starting point. And I hope you have your thumbs ready to turn because we're going to turn to several different passages this morning. But the key verse I'd like us to begin with is that 11th verse. Of the second chapter of 1 Peter. Dearly beloved, I beseech you as strangers and pilgrims, Abstain from fleshly lust which war against the soul. Which war against the soul. We're in a battle, folks. There is a spiritual warfare taking place. Flip over with me now to Galatians chapter 5. Galatians chapter 5. I'll give you a moment or so to turn. If you get behind me, just listen. I cheat. I have the verses all printed out, so I don't have to flip with you. Galatians 5, verses 16 and 17. This I say then, walk in the Spirit, and ye shall not fulfill the lust of the flesh For the flesh lusteth against the spirit, and the spirit against the flesh, and these are contrary one to the other, so that ye cannot do the things ye would. Drop down to verse twenty-four. And they that are Christ have crucified the flesh with the affections and lust. Now turn over to 1 Timothy. First Timothy in the first chapter. First Timothy chapter one, verse eighteen and nineteen. This charge I commit unto thee, son Timothy, according to the prophecies which went before on thee, that thou mightest war a good warfare. Holding faith and a good conscience, which some having put away concerning the faith, have made shipwreck. Now go to chapter 6 of 1 Timothy. First Timothy chapter six and verse twelve. Fight the good fight of faith. Lay hold on eternal life, whereunto thou art also called and hast professed a good profession before many witnesses. 2 Timothy 2, verse 3. Thou therefore endure hardness as a good soldier of Jesus Christ. 2 Timothy 4, verse 7. I have fought a good fight. I have finished my course. I have kept the faith. Do you see the commonality between this montage of verses we've considered? They're all talking about warfare. They're all talking about a spiritual battle. And I mentioned in relationship to our covenantal reading this morning, our confessional reading, that the warfare has been going on from the days of the apostles. And it goes all the way back to the Garden of Eden because there was a warfare going on there as well. And so this morning I want to consider spiritual warfare or the Christian warfare. It's not often that we approach the scriptures topically I prefer to take a passage and preach to it expositorily. But this morning we're going to consider the topic of Christian warfare. And the first thing we need to know about Christian warfare is we have to know our enemy. Let me back up a second. I'm not talking about knowing him, nor am I talking about studying him or becoming familiar with him But when I say we have to know our enemy, we have to know who he is. We have to understand who our enemy is in the Christian warfare. And let me say right off that our enemy is not the state. Our enemy is not politics. Our enemy is not communism. Our enemy is not any of those things, the economy or things of the world. The enemy of the believer is Satan. And we're very clearly told in Ephesians 6, verse 12, that we wrestle not against flesh and blood. But against principalities, against powers, against the rulers of the darkness of this world, against spiritual wickedness in high places. And if we spend all of our time trying to fight against liberalism or modernism, we're wasting our time. Because those things, those evils in our society are only the manifestation of the work of our enemy. But as a Christian, it is a responsibility to resist the evil, not to resist the government. To resist the evil, not to resist the politicians. And so we have to understand that the government's not our enemy. Oh, there's a sense in which they are. Yeah, they're fighting against our truth. They're trying to take away our liberties and our freedoms. But you've got to know who the enemy is. Who is it that we are to fight against? Or to fight against the devil. Remember the introduction of the book of Job in Job chapter 1, verse 7? And the Lord said unto Satan, Whence comest thou? Then Satan answered the Lord and said, From going to and fro in the earth, and from walking up and down in it. Why? Excuse me, why do we have all the evil around us? Well, because Satan's walking up and down of the earth. Because the devil is very active in our own nation. Why is it that that good is called right and right is called evil? Why is it that abortion became the law of the land and thankfully now it's been removed in the national level but it's coming back in state and st after state. Why is that? Well because our adversary the devil Just walking to and fro, seeking who may devour. And so we are very politically active. Yes, we vote. We try to influence legislation. We let our light so shine before men that they may see our good works and glorify our Father which is in heaven, but these things of earth are not our enemies. For we are not wrestling against flesh and blood, but against principalities. Christ warned Peter, Simon, Simon, behold, Satan hath desired to have you that he may sift you as wheat. Well consider that. Who crucified Peter upside down? Well, it was the political structure. Who beheaded Paul? It was the political structure. Who had John the Baptist in prison and beheaded him? Well, it was it was Herod. It was the political structure. But the political structure was not the enemy. The enemy was Satan. And so Christ didn't say to Peter, the Romans have desired to have thee You know, the the politicians have desired to have no no, Satan has desired to have the. And so it was Peter, after his denial and repentance, that warned us, be sober. Be vigilant, because your adversary the devil is a roaring lion. And when my dad used to quote that verse, he would always roar a roaring lion. walketh about seeking whom he may devour. Now remember in Job's day, how was it that Jo that Satan was described? Well he described himself as walking to and fro in the earth. And in Peter's day, how was it Peter described him? He walks to and fro seeking who he may devour. And are we to think it's any different today? No. Our adversary, the devil, walks to and fro, seeking whom he may devour. We're warned in Scripture not to make light of the devil. Not to make jokes of the devil. The devil is not some red guy with horns and a pitchfork and a a pointy tail. We're coming up into the horrible season of Halloween When children will be taught to mimic devils and ghosts and so on. Folks, these are things not to be trifled with but the child of God. And so we have to know who our enemy is. He is the God of this world, 2 Corinthians 4, verse 4. He's the prince of the power of the air, Ephesians 2, verse 2. And 2 Corinthians 2. 11, we are not ignorant of his devices. And so indeed we must put on the whole armor of God that we may be able to stand against the wiles of the devil. And yet though we know who he is, So we know our enemy is not man, and that our enemy is not to be fooled around with. We do not need to fear this enemy. The child of God does not need to fear Satan. Doesn't mean we take him casually. Doesn't mean we are flippant about it. But we do not fear him. Because he is a defeated foe. The cat's claws are gone. The teeth are broken. He cannot touch the child of God. He was prevented. from going any further in the life of Job than God permitted him to go. And he is prevented from tempting any believer beyond that which God allows. For there is no temptation taken you, God will make a way of escape. And so, though we f face a mighty enemy Yet we sing with the reformers, for still our ancient foe doth seek to work us woe. His craft and power are great, and armed with cruel hate, on earth there is no equal Did we in our own strength confide? Our striving would be losing. We're not the right man on our side, the man of God's own choosing. Ask who that may be. Christ Jesus, it is he. Lord Sabyoth his name, from age to aim to age to same, and he must win the battle. I've already quoted the verse there from 1 Peter 5. Be sober, be vigilant. But now I'd like you to turn there and see that verse in its context. Because even as we try to be biblically sound Christians, we sometimes take verses out of context. Look with me at 1 Peter 5. Verse 8 is the verse we're familiar with. Be sober, be vigilant. But look at verse 7. 1 Peter 5, verse 7. And then we'll continue down to verse 11. 1 Peter 5, verse 7, casting all your care upon him, for he careth for you. Casting your care on who? The Lord. For who cares for you? The Lord. The only one who has ever successfully resisted the devil. The only one who has ever had victory over Satan! Make these stones and the bread. Cast yourself down from the pinnacle of the temple. Bow down and worship me. You see, we have the assurance of victory in Christ, and so we cast all of our care upon him. That verse is so often dissected From verse eight, be sober, be vigilant, because your adversary the devil. Why, what cares are we to cast upon him? The cares of the adversary, the fear of the devil. We have to be sober, we have to be vigilant, because he is walking around seeking who he may devour. But he cannot devour the child of God, and that's what we find. Verse nine Whom resists steadfast in the faith, knowing that the same afflictions are accomplished in your brethren which are in the world But the God of all grace, who has called us unto his eternal glory by Christ Jesus, can Satan remove us from that to which God has called us? No. No. After you've suffered a while, Job. After you've suffered a while Joseph. After you've suffered a while, Daniel. Slide your own name in there, folks. After you've suffered a while. Make you perfect, established, strengthened, settle you To him be glory and dominion forever and ever. Amen. So folks, we have to understand that, yeah, there's a whole lot in this world that turns our stomachs. And there are things in this world that want to keep us awake at night. There are things in this world that bother us and we are grieved at the iniquity and the things around us, but those aren't really the enemy. Oh, those things fight against us for sure. But Satan is the enemy. And Christ is the victor. The first thing I want us to understand in our spiritual warfare is we have to know who the enemy really is. And know that our God is greater. But the second thing I would point out to us that we should know in the spiritual warfare is we have to know our own weakness. The old saying is so true: a chain is only as strong as its weakest length. And we have to know our own weak lengths. We have to know where Satan is going to attack us, and I believe we do. We know our besetting sins. We know the things that are going to come and plague us. I've told you before about a gentleman who was uh in the church I grew up in. Who God had miraculously saved from alcoholism. He had not been truly 100% sober in over 15 years. He was always just a little bit drunk if he wasn't flat out lying in the gutter drunk. God miraculously saved that man. Transformed him. But he told my father, he said, I cannot walk past the saloon. He said, I can smell alcohol at 75 and 100 yards. He said, I can smell it. And he said, it still has such a tempting draw on me. I know I cannot get anywhere near it because it is my besetting sin. Folks, we have to know our weakness. We're not ignorant of his devices And a good captain will arrange his soldiers in a way for the best defense He will plug up the holes and fill the gaps. And folks, we have to know our weakness. 1 Corinthians 10, verse 12 and 13. Wherefore, let him that thinketh that he standeth take heed lest he fall. There is no temptation taken you, but such as is common to man. But God is faithful, who will not suffer you to be tempted above that year, Abel. But will with the temptation also make a way of escape that ye may be able to bear it. God will always make a way of escape. But that doesn't mean that we dance around the weakness. Doesn't mean that we put ourselves in the place of temptation. And folks, we live in a day in a wicked world where the temptations are all around us. And just as Lot vexed his righteous soul in seeing and hearing It is very easy for us living in this sodom of a nation that has been so blessed by God And once was a nation that was truly called a Christian nation, whether it was truly a Christian nation ever or not is not the point But don't vex your righteous soul with the things of this world. Turn over to Proverbs 4. I told you I was going to have you busy with your fingers today. Proverbs 4 verse 14 and 15 are verses that you need to put on a three by five card and stick it up on in your mirror on your mirror or stick it up in your office. Proverbs 14. Proverbs I said 4, 14. Proverbs 4, verse 14. If my tongue got ahead of me there, I apologize. Proverbs chapter 4. Verse 14 and verse 15. Enter not into the path of the wicked, and go not in the way of evil men. Avoid it. Pass not by it. Turn from it and pass away. Doesn't that sound like what the gentleman I was speaking of earlier did? Don't go in the path. Enter not into the path of the wicked. Folks, the internet is is a path of the wicked. And the entertainment industry is a path of the wicked. And the Talk over lunch at your workplace is a path of the wicked. And people you meet in the store are a path of the wicked. It's all around us. But the child of God is not to enter into that path, not to go in the way of evil men. Avoid it. Don't even pass by it. Turn from it and pass far, far away from it For indeed, blessed is the man that walketh not in the counsel of the ungodly, nor standeth in the way of sinners, nor sitteth in the seat of the scornful, but his delight is in the law of the Lord. And in his law doth he meditate day and night. And so we have to know who our enemy truly is. And we have to know what our own weaknesses are, what is my besetting sin. But thirdly, we must know our weapons. We must know our weapons. Our dear uh Marine veteran with us this morning would tell you. That they disassembled and reassembled their weapons constantly, constantly, constantly. It wasn't because they were dirty, it's because they had to know them. They had to be able to assemble them and disassemble them in the dark. They had to be able to assemble them and disassemble them in the pouring rain of the jungle. Have to know our weapons. And indeed, we read in 2 Corinthians 10, verses 3 and 4, though we walk in the flesh. We do not war after the flesh, for the weapons of our warfare are not carnal, but mighty through God to the pulling down of strongholds. And this in a way goes back to the government's not our enemy. We're not out to to uh Rage war against the enemy. The weapons of our warfare are not carnal, but they are mighty to the pulling down of strongholds. And so, we put on the whole armor of God in Ephesians chapter six, verse eleven and following. And why do we put on the whole armor of God? Well, Ephesians six eleven, put on the whole realm of God, that ye may be able to stand against the wiles of the devil. There's a solution to your besetting sin We put on the whole armor of God that we might be able to stand against the wiles of the devil. Wherefore, taking you the whole armor of God, that you may be able to to stand in the evil day and having done all to stand. Are we in an evil day? Yes. Were the apostles of an evil day? Yes. Whereas 1618 when the canons of Dork were written, an evil day, yes but we stand in the with the armor of God. And so our loins are grown about with truth. Thy word is truth. Our feet are shou shod with the preparation of the gospel of peace. We walk around speaking the truth We take the shield of faith and the helmet of salvation and the sword of the Spirit, which is the Word of God. Folks, I am the owner of quite a few handguns And rifles and shotguns and so on. I don't see any of those listed here. In Jamaica I had a machete under the bed. And we had bars, bur well we call we call them burglar bars on the windows. But when we went to bed at night every night we'd pray, I would both lay me down in peace and sleep, for thou Lord only maketh me to dwell in safety. I'm a proud gun owner, but my defense is the Lord. Mm-hmm. And the weapons of the warfare we're involved in are not carnal, but they are mighty. And the weapons of this flesh cannot pull down the strongholds. Overthrowing a government does not pull down a stronghold. But oh my friends, my heart was a stronghold of sin, and it was overthrown by the grace of God. Yeah. The Apostle Paul's heart was certainly a stronghold of sin. And folks, there is a stronghold of iniquity and sin in this nation, and the only hope for this nation is to turn from that sin. The only hope for this nation is true revival. It doesn't matter who's elected president. But that's not going to happen until God's people are clothed in the whole armor of God and truly become familiar with the sword of the Spirit. Truly understand the helmet of salvation which is upon God's people. Truly yield the shield of faith Which will quench the fiery darts of the wicked. And so, in this spiritual warfare, we have to know who the enemy is. We have to know what our own weaknesses are, and we have to be very, very familiar with our weapons. Ready always to give an answer to the hope that lieth within us. Stand up, stand up for Jesus. Stand in his strength alone. The arm of flesh will fail you. Ye dare not trust your own. Put on the gospel armor, each piece put on with prayer. where duty calls or danger be never wanting there. First Peter chapter one, verses twenty four and twenty five, Peter said, For all flesh is as grass, and the glory of man is the flower of grass grass, the grass Withereth, and the flower thereof fadeth. But the word of the Lord endureth forever, and that is the word which by the gospel we preach. Number four. You have to know the ground. I'm a amateur historian, a student of the Civil War in particular. And there were many battles where one side or the other was greatly outnumbered, and yet this smaller force had the good ground. They were positioned in such a way that they could fend off armies much larger than their own because they were positioned on good ground. They were on ground that needed to be defended. And if we as Christians are going to understand the meaning of knowing the ground on which we fight, we have to understand there are things that we must defend. There are times when you have to defend the last. There are times when it may cost very, very dearly, but we have to stand and having done all to stand. The book of Jude tells us, brethren, when I gave all diligence to write unto you of the common salvation, this is verses 3 and 4, it was needful for me to write unto you and exhort that ye earnestly contend for the faith. Earnestly contend for the faith which was once delivered unto the saints. Folks, that's the grab we're fighting over. We're fighting over the faith. That encompasses the morality. That encompasses all the other things. But folks, whether an election was stolen or not, is not really the ground that we need to be defending. Whether they're going to bring in some electric currency that's going to wipe out our savings or not is not really the ground that we're called to defend. You see, if the enemy can distract us to defend the wrong ground, the enemy will defeat us. But we have to understand that it is the faith. That we are to defend. And that is why we have the confessional readings. That is why we stand on the Textus Receptus, on the pure scriptures. That is why we defend them. Because it is the faith that we're battling over. Doesn't matter what national label we put on it. Because remember in our key verse, we're besought as strangers and pilgrims. To abstain from fleshly lust. And so there's ground that must be defended. In 2 Timothy 1, verse 13, Paul said to Timothy, holding fast the form of sound words. Which thou hast heard of me in faith and in love which is in Christ Jesus. And 1 Timothy 1, verses 18 and 19, I charge thee, uh I I commit unto thee son Timothy, according to the prophecies which went before thee, that thou mightest war a good warfare, holding faith in a good conscience, which some having put away concerning the faith have made shipwreck. And so we have to understand that there's territory we must defend and there's territory in which we had no business fighting because it's not good ground. It's not the ground that we are to event to uh defend, and in so doing we're to abstain from the very appearance of evil. But folks, if we're going to understand the ground on which we fight, we have to understand that the most dangerous ground the Krishna faces is his own heart. The most dangerous ground we defend. The ground that we're most likely to lose is our own heart, because the heart is deceitful above all things and desperately wicked. Who can know it? So in the one hundred and forty-first Psalm and verse four, Psalm one forty-four, verse four. Incline not thine heart to any evil thing, to practice wicked works with men that work iniquity. And let me not eat their dainies. Proverbs 4, verse 23, keep thy heart with all diligence, for out of it are the issues of life And so we know our enemy, know who our enemy truly is. We know our weaknesses. We have to be very familiar with our weapons. We have to know the ground that's worth defending. But also we need to know our comrades. We need to know our comrades. This world is full of people that we have no business being friends with. In fact the word tells us Friendship with the world is enmity with God. In other words, if we're friends of the world, we're enemies of God. And if we're truly friends of God and friends of God's people, then the world is apart from us. Iron sharpeneth iron, so a man sharpeneth the countenance of his friends. Do you ever think about what it was that Lot did? We read he pitched his head towards Sodom. He he made friendship with the world, but he separated himself From the most blessed man of his age. Here was Lot, who was the nephew of Abraham. He wasn't Abraham's son. He was Abraham's nephew. Lot's father has died and his uncle takes him in. And his uncle is the man to whom God has made great and marvelous promises. And because their herdsmen couldn't get along. Lot goes to Sodom. How much better if Lot had said to Abraham, you know what? I just give all my sheep to you. I know you'll take care of me. I know I'll be fine. But I want to stay here. I want to stay with you. I want to be with godly comrades. Uh-uh. In Ecclesiastes 4, verses 9 and 10, we refine these words. Two are better than one. Because they have a good reward for their labors. For if they fall, the one will lift up his fellow. But woe to him that is alone when he falleth, for he hath not another to help him up. My friends, have you ever fallen spiritually? Don't lie about it. Don't raise your hand. Don't raise your hand either. Oh, but how wonderful it is when we stumble and fall, we have a brother that can say Restore such a one in a spirit of might make this let ye also be tempted. Indeed, iron sharpens iron. When we're under the assault of Satan, we don't need friends with the world. We need friends with God's people. And so we have to know who our comrades are. Jonathan sustained and encouraged David. Turn with me to 1 Samuel 23. 1 Samuel 23 and verses 15 and 16. 1 Samuel 23, verse 15. And David saw that Saul was come out to seek his life. And David was in the wilderness of Ziff in a wood. And Jonathan, Saul's son, arose and went to David in the wood and strengthened his hand in God. What's it say that David that Jonathan did for David? He brought him a sword and a spear? Doesn't say that, does it? He brought him some food. No, he strengthened his hand in God. Now I'm sure Jonathan probably did bring some weapons to David. It would be likely. And he probably brought some food. He brought some of the physical necessities. But what Jonathan did was he strengthened David's hand in God. Folks, in this wicked world, we need to know who our comrades are. We need to know who our true friends are. And we need to stick to them. And we need to be having an eye out for our brothers. For their weakness, as they do for our own. The army out, and David was still there in Jerusalem, and he sinned with Bathsheba when he wasn't with his comrades in battle. Jesus said the disciples, two by two. In Isaiah thirty-five, verses three and four, strengthen ye the weak hands, and confirm the people's knees, say unto them that are of a fearful heart, Be strong, fear not, behold, your God will come with vengeance. Even God will recompense. He will come and save you. A friend loveth at all times, and a brother is made for adversity. And there is indeed a friend that's sticking closer than a brother. Okay, m cl moving on close quickly to our most important point. We know our enemies, we know our weakness, we know our weapons, we know the ground, we know our comrades. But brethren, if you're going to fight the Christian warfare, you've got to know your captain. The most important part is to know who the commander is. We've got to know the captain. Remember Joshua by the wall of Jericho? And he is walking around the wall. I would imagine Joshua was looking at the height of the walls and the strength of the walls and how we're going to get in there. How we're going to defeat this place. I know we're supposed to walk around seven times. I know we're supposed to blow the trumpets. But there's a mighty foe in there. What are we going to do? And he sees a man standing by the wall with a sword drawn. And he says to that one, Are you for us or are you for our enemies? Art thou for us or for our adversaries? Joshua five, verse fourteen. And he said, Nay But as the captain of the host of the Lord am I now come. I'm not for the enemy. I'm your captain. I'm not your servant. I am your captain. I'm not in your army, Joshua. I'm the captain of your army. We have to know who our captain is. We have to know where to take our orders from. But we see Jesus, Hebrews 2. 9, but we see Jesus, who was made a little lower than the angels for the suffering of death, crowned with glory and honor, that he, by the grace of God, should taste death for every man. For became him for whom are all things, and by whom are all things, in bringing many sons unto glory to make the captain of their salvation perfect through suffering. We read for our call to work for our responsive reading this morning from Exodus 15. We typically read from the Psalms, but I like to vary that from time to time. But I had us read Exodus 15, because what a great chapter of victory. One verse in that chapter, verse 3, the Lord is a man of war. The Lord is his name. Israel faced an impossible situation. Mountains on two sides, the Red Sea in front of them, and Pharaoh behind them But the Lord was a man of war. The seals, the seas congealed, and Israel walked through, not in mud, but on dry ground. Pharaoh tried to do the same thing and the Lord He blew and the waters came back. The next chapter, chapter 16, is the glorious song by the side of the Red Sea, the horse and the rider he hath thrown into the sea. Folks, our greatest encouragement is knowing who our captain is. To know Jesus Christ. The hottest battle will someday end. The greatest trial is but for a moment. But oh, may we say with the Apostle Paul, I have fought a good fight. I have finished my course. I have kept the faith. There's a battle going on. The Christian must be prepared for battle at all times. Let us stand as we pray. Our gracious Father, we thank you that we are fighting in a war that has already been won. We are still fighting the battles, and it is given to us As another hymn says, to serve this present age, my purpose to fulfill. Lord God, may we be faithful in this dark day Lord, may we always keep our eyes on Christ. May we understand that our battle is not against the men of this world. Our battle is against the Prince of the Power of the Air, against Satan himself. Father, make us strong. Give us grace to stand. Lord, we pray not for trials. We do not desire to be persecuted. We believe it's coming. And Father, give us grace that whatever you may ordain for your people, that we may be faithful, that we may indeed fight the good fight, finish our course, and keep the faith. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.