Opening your Bibles with me this morning to the little two-chapter book of Haggai and chapter one. As we observed last week, if you have trouble finding the little book of Haggai, the easiest way to find it is to turn to Matthew and then start going backwards. Because it's right at the end of your Old Testament among the minor prophets. Nothing minor about them other than their size. We refer to them as minor prophets versus major prophets because they are short in their length, but they're certainly not short in their message. Amen. They're short in it certainly not lacking in the jewels and the diamonds found therein. If you have your place in Haggai chapter one, I'm going to read the fifteen verses of the chapter as we begin. In the second year of Darius the king, in the sixth month In the first day of the month came the word of the Lord by Hagi the prophet unto Zerubul, the son of Sheetel, governor of Judah, and to Joshua the son of Josedek, the high priest, saying, Thus. Thus speaketh the Lord of hosts, saying, This people say, The time is not come, the time that the Lord's house should be built. Then came the word of the Lord by Hagi the prophet, saying Is it time for you, O ye to dwell in your sealed houses And this house lie waste. Now therefore, thus saith the Lord of hosts, consider your ways. Ye have so much and bring in little. Eat, but ye have not enough. You drink But ye are not filled with drink. Ye clothe ye, but none is but there is none warm, and he that earneth wages to put them into a bag with holes Thus saith the Lord of hosts, consider your ways. Go up into the mountain and bring wood, and build the house, and I will take pleasure in it, and I will be glorified, saith the Lord. the Lord. He looked for much, and lo, it came to little. And when ye brought it home, I did blow upon it. Why, saith the Lord of hosts? Because my house that is waste, and ye run every man to his own house. Therefore, the heaven over you is stayed from dew, and the earth is stayed from a fruit. And I called for a drought upon the land, and upon the mountains, and upon the corn. And upon the new wine, and upon the oil, and upon that which the ground bringeth forth, and upon men, and upon cattle, and upon the labor of your hands. Then Zerubbabel, the son of Sheetah. And Joshua, the son of Josedek, the high priest, with all the remnant of the people, obeyed the voice of the Lord their God. And the word of Hagi the prophet, as the Lord their God had sent him, and the people. Then Hegai the mess the Lord's messenger sorry, then spake Hagi the Lord's messenger in the Lord's message unto the people, saying I am with you, saith the Lord. And the Lord stirred up the spirit of Zerubabel, the son of Shetiel, governor of Judah, and the spirit of Joshua, the son of Josedek, the high priest. And the spirit of all the remnant of the people, and they came and did work in the house of the Lord of hosts, their God. In the 4 and 20th day of the sixth month, in the second year of Darius the King. Spalpable prayer. Heavenly Father, oh God, I thank you for this word that is before us today. I rejoice and glory in it. Father, we read these powerful, piercing words. And Lord, there is nothing that we can add to your word. Yea, we're warned against attempting to do so. Lord, your word is sufficient of itself, and this very message is the sermon itself. And yet, you have Told us to be the students of the Word, to study to show ourselves approved unto God, workmen that needeth not to be ashamed. You have told us in your word to search diligently to see if these things are so, and to take the message. of the human preacher and compare that message to the inspired word of God and to prove it, to test it. And so follow this morning, we will try uh humbly before you to expound upon the Word of God. And pray that your spirit would be the preacher today. May the Spirit of God be the exegete to speak truth to our hearts. In Jesus' name. Amen. As you know, last week I had intended to preach from Zechariah chapter 3, verses 1 through 3. And when I concluded the message last week, I fully expected that this morning I'd be preaching from Zechariah chapter 3, verses 1 through 3. We can't get there yet, folks. Lord willing. At some future date, I will be preaching very joyously from Zechariah 3, verses 1 through 3. Last week I used the illustration of a puzzle. And I mentioned that we have a pile of pieces and it makes no sense and we begin to assemble the pieces and the picture becomes begins to come into view. But if you look at the box You can see the picture that will eventually be assembled by all the pieces. The picture throughout the Word of God is Jesus Christ. And then as we come to the Word of God, there are all these little pieces, and until we begin to take it line by line and verse by verse, and get them all to fit into their pieces, proper places, we We don't immediately see him, but as we are diligently studying the Word of God, the pieces begin to fall in place, and we find Christ so gloriously before us. That is the illustration we used last week. This week as I was preparing, it it occurred to me there's another way to look at this if we need to. And my family doesn't like me talking about them from the pulpit, but I do it anyway. When I go through a museum, I like to stop and read all the little tags. When I'm going through a museum, I'm seeing something, but I want to know what it is. to know why it's in the museum. I want to know what historical significance it has significance it has and why is it important and why was this chosen to be in the museum because I can run through the museum and see everything and walk out and not know anything. And it's the same in the study of the Word of God. We can zip through passages and we can say, I read it all. But we didn't get anything. Until we stop and start reading all the little explanations. And following all the nuances of history and understand why this piece of whatever has ended up in the museum and its significance. But folks, it's a terrible illustration because this book is not a museum. A museum is full of old sales stuff that nobody uses anymore. This is for today. Amen. This is alive and fresh and quick. Last week we spent most Most of our time there in the eighth verse of this chapter, go up into the mountain and bring the wood. We're not going to re-preach last week's message. This morning we're going to look at verses 12 through the end of the chapter. Get there, we've got to very, very, very quickly lay the foundation. So if you forgive me, we're gonna run through the first part of the museum and I'm gonna point out the things you need to see on the way by. Okay. So with that. Last week we uh considered first of all that that there are two main characters involved here in this story. You have Zerubbabel, who is the son of Sheetael. He is the grandson of J Jehoiakim, who had been king. They've returned from the cafe. Now the king's grandson is the governor. The name Zerubbabel means stone in Babylon. He was born in Babylon. He was not born in Canaan. He was not a son of Jerusalem. Jerusalem, he was a son of Babylon. And yet he has come out of Babylon, and Babylon throughout scripture is a picture for us of the world. And he has come back from the captivity. Of Babylon, now to Jerusalem. He was thrown in Babylon. And then we have Joshua the high priest. And of course that Joshua is the same name Josh Yoshia. It is the name Jesus that we have. In the New Testament. And this Joshua, the high priest, we find him in the book of Zechariah, we find him in Heggai, we find him in Ezra. He's found several times in the Old Testament. He was a literal living man. And he was a contemporary of Zephaniah Haggai. They knew him personally. This is not an appearance of Christ in the Old Testament. And yet in this Joshua, the high priest, we find glorious pictures of the of Christ himself and foreshadowing of the coming Messiah. And we find a glorious picture of our priesthood. For we find in chapter 3 of Zechariah this Joshua high priest standing before Jesus Christ. Clothed in filthy garments, and we find Satan standing there to oppose him. And Christ takes off his filthy garments and gives him a spotless robe. Isn't that our picture? In Christ. And so that's the background of these two men that are predominant in the story. You notice I didn't list Haggai in there. Haggai is the author of this book, but he's not listed in there because the book's not. about Hagai. The book is recorded by Hagi uh about this one. Hagi's name, by the way, means um born in Ba he was born in Babylon. His name means my holiday or my holy day, Hagai. And he was instructed by God to uh for the rebuilding of the temple, for the rebuilding of the place of worship. Our name our day term holiday, it comes from holy day is the origin of our English word. Um so that's the background of these two men. Now we read the chapter Because we find that they were working as hard as they could work, but they were putting their money in bags with holes. They put on clothes, but they weren't warm. They drank, but they were still thirsty. They ate, but they were still hungry. And the reason was they were so concerned about their own business and their own things that they built themselves sealed houses. That word sealed basically means like paneled with with cedar paneling, beautiful houses, but the house of God was waste. They were so concerned With the things of this world, they had no care for the things of God. And they said, It's not time for us to build the house of God. And God says, It's a time for you to dwell in your sealed houses, and my house is worth. waste. And so with verse eight, just to finish up our quick run through the museum, verse we eight we looked last week at them going up into the mountain, getting the wood, and coming down to build the house, and God said, I'll be pleased with this house. I'll be glorified here. And the people will fear me. Now, that is our quick run through. Let's slow down now and start to read the museum tags at verse 12. Then Zerubbable. The son of Shetiel and Joshua, the son of Josedek, the high priest, with all the remnant of the people, obeyed the voice of the Lord their God. And the words of Hegi the prophet, as the Lord their God. God had sent him, and the people did fear the Lord. We find that they obeyed the voice. They obeyed what Heggai said. Now, why should they obey Heggai? Is he the governor? No. No. Zero scotter. Is he the high priest? No, no, Joshua is the son of Josedek is the high priest. They obeyed the word of Heggai because they recognized it wasn't Hegia. Hegai's word. They had no human reason to obey Hagi the man But they recognized that the word that Haggai was speaking was not his own, but it was the word of God. Isn't that glorious? Don't listen to what I say, but don't fail to listen to what I what the word of God says. I have no authority of myself to say anything, but I have all the authority of heaven to say, thus saith the Lord. To say this book is yea and amen. It is true, it is without error, it is preserved. God's word is perfect. And so they obeyed the word of the Lord. Remember the condemnation that God gave to their fathers and to the book of Jeremiah. He said, I have even sent unto you all my servants the prophets, daily rising up early and sending them. Yet they hearken not unto me, nor inclined their ear, but hardened their necks, as did their fathers. And so in Jeremiah we find a condemnation against the people of God because God sent the prophets, God sent the preachers, God sent the messages, and they stopped up their ears. They didn't want to hear the message. But here, these people Obey the voice of the Lord. And their obedience is evidence that they believed. Did God have any obligation to send them His word? None whatsoever. What had they done to deserve the Word of God? Nothing. Nothing. Nothing. Remember when young Samuel was serving in the temple there in 1 Samuel chapter 3? And we read, and the word of the Lord was precious in those days. There was no open. Now, when it says the word of God is precious to our English ears, that sounds like a good thing. God's Word is precious. But really, what that word verse is saying is God's Word was rare. It was precious. There was very little of it. There was no over. Open vision. And where there is no vision, the people perish. And we find throughout the Word of God times when God withdrew the prophets and withdrew the message of truth and let the people go on in Their own ways. We find Israel in the wilderness. He gave them their request, but sent leanness to their souls. It was a great blessing that in this day, in spite of the fact that they had come back from Babylon and they ignored God. In spite of the fact that they had built their own beautiful houses and had not cared for the tabernacle of God, in spite of the fact that they had neglected the temple of God, God was gracious to send his word. It was a great mercy and a great grace that God said his word. My friend, what about you? Do you know somebody who cares nothing for the Word of God? I would venture to say that you do. And it was pointed out to me many years ago that somewhere in this world There was a man born on May 11, 1963, the same day I was born. He was born Somewhere in this world where the world name of Christ is not known. Maybe in an Arab land, maybe maybe in a Muslim country, maybe in China, or maybe in Russia. Man will live his life and die and never know the name of Jesus Christ. And it will be just because he's a sinner. And yet I was born in this country. I was born in a pastor's home. I was carried to church before I was a week old I was raised in Sunday school and in the gospel, and most of scripture that I can quote I memorized before I was a teenager. Praise it. I have been blessed amazingly and abundantly in the gospel of Jesus Christ. Why? We read in our confessional statement that there's nothing good in man, no good works in man except That which God creates. It was all of His grace and mercy. God was abundantly gracious to these people who were in rebellion to him. He said, Hey guy, the prophet don't you? and they obeyed the voice of the Lord. It's also interesting to notice in this verse that all the people are mentioned. It mentions the Rebel, who's the governor, it mentions Joshua, And all the remnant of the people obeyed. This is a nationwide revival that takes place here. It reminds us of the account of uh Jonah in Nineveh, when from the palace of the King down to the lowest servant, they all repented. What a glorious thing when God brings that kind of revival. You realize that this nation, in in 1776, when this nation was established, it was following a revival of that type. When God shook the people. When God awoken the people. And we read of the great revival there in England when the saloons and and houses of prostitution were closing. up because they couldn't didn't have enough business because the people had repented of their sin and turned to Christ. Oh, that's what we need. It doesn't matter what president we end up with later this year, it doesn't matter what politicians are ruling, it doesn't matter what laws are passed or what laws are broken The hope of any people is the grace of Jesus Christ. And these people from the from Zerubbabel down to the man on the street, they obeyed. the word of God. They obeyed the voice of the prophet that was sent unto them. They obeyed and believed. Why do they obey and believe? We need to back up a little bit to verse 5. five and verse seven. Verse five and verse seven have a phrase in them that's repeated. Thus saith the Lord of hosts, verse five, nevertheless therefore, thus saith the Lord of hosts, consider your ways. Uh Consider your ways. This phrase that we find here is actually in three different parts. It's in three parts in our English and it's it's in two parts in the original language. The consider your is basically a compound word and then ways. The word ways that we find here in this command to consider your ways basically means your journey. The word ways means pathways. Use that It's translated journey multiple times in the Old Testament. Consider your journey. Consider the pathway you're on. It's a pretty basic word. But the word consider in your is where we need to stop and read the tag in the museum. Because that word consider The primary interpretation of that word is to put or to place. It is to lay something out or to make it visible. Consider your waves. And the word waves is Heart. Oh, sorry, your. Consider your heart. Consider your mind. Consider your appetites. And what God basically is telling these people here is look at all your failures in yourself. Put them in one side of the scale. And then put your heart in the other side of the scale. Consider your ways. You see, as a man thinketh in his heart, so is he. Lay not up for yourself treasures on earth where moth and rust are corrupt, and where thieves do break through and steal, but lay up for yourselves treasures in heaven where neither And why? Because where your treasure is, there will your Heart be also. You see, these people began to consider their ways. To put all their wealth and their bags of holes in in the scale on one side and their heart in the scale on the other side. And by the working of God in their heart they began to see which side was important. Consider your ways. And so we find That they believed and they truly repented. God had promised there in First Chronicles that if if He held back the rain and sent the drought of His people which are called by His name would humble themselves and pray and seek His face, He would hear from heaven and forgive their sins and healed. And that's exactly what we find happening here. Verse 13. In verse 13, I I I stumbled on it in the scripture reading. Uh I I think sometimes I try too hard to read some of these verses. Properly because this verse is glorious. Verse thirteen Then spake Hagi the Lord's messenger in the Lord's message Heggai's not giving a speech here, folks. Heggai is not standing up giving a book report. He's not standing up talking about current events. Hegai, the Lord's messenger, Is speaking in Jehovah's Message. That which he's speaking is from the Lord. This this book of Heggai has 38 vo verses, and yet twenty-five times. In 38 verses. I counted this week. Remember last week I said I hadn't counted it. 25 times in 38 verses. Hagi attributes the message to the Lord. Or the people who are hearing attribute it. Yes, this. This is the Lord's message. This is what he's saying, 38 verses and 25 times. Isn't that glorious? Doesn't that make you stop here in the museum and say, Wow, I understand why this is here? This is God's word. It is his message. And so then spake Hagi the Lord's messenger and the Lord's message unto the people, saying, I am with you, saith the Lord. Hallelujah! What a message! That's the sermon right there. We need no more comments on it. God says, I am with you. And he says, I am with you, saith the Lord. Any doubt is to who it is that's with them. Haggy eye's there. Derovul's there. Joshua the High Priest, the men present make no difference. The men present have no value But Jehovah says, I am with you. I am with you. I am with you. So what is impossible? I am with you. How can you fail? I am with you. with you, what is too hard? I am with you. What can you not endure? I am with you. What will you lack? I am with you. You will never be alone. I am with you. You will never be forsaken. I am with you. No No man can lay anything to your stars I am with you, who can stop you? I am with you who can harm you and you can add any other settings you want to it. God says, I'm with you. So what difference does it make? Right. Anything else? Go ahead. I am with you. And where did that come from? It was the Lord's messenger speaking. In the Lord's message. Hallelujah. Turn over to chapter 2 of Haggai. And notice with me verses 4 and 5 in the next chapter. Haggai chapter 2. Chapter 2 verse 4. Yet now be strong, O Zerubabel, saith the Lord. And be strong, O Joshua, son of Josedek, the high priest, and be strong, O ye people of the Lord, saith the Lord. For uh and work, for I am with you, saith the Lord. Saith the Lord of hosts, according to the word that I covenanted with you when ye came out of Egypt, so my spirit remaineth with among you. Fear not. God says the same spirit that came out of Egypt with you is Still with you. What spirit was that? Remember the ten plagues? Remember those? Do you remember the Red Sea that stood before them? Remember Pharaoh's army? We can't fight Pharaoh's army. Hush! You don't have to. I'll I'll take it. Take care of them. Don't drown them. Don't worry about them. A cloud or a cloud of uh a pillar of fire by night, a cloud by day. What are we going to eat? Mannis, the name of Mattis, what is this. What is it? What is it? Oh, but we need we need me. We need me. Well here come the quail. Flying through the camp. There's no water Moses, go hit the rock. I am with you. Amen. What do you lack? I am with you. What more do you need? I am with you. Fill your holy bag all you want to, and everything you put in it's gonna fall out the bottom because you don't need any of it. Come on. I am with you, saith the Lord of Hosts. God was with him, but Satan was against him. And again, uh one of these Sundays we'll get to Zechariah chapter three, Lord willing, where we find Satan standing beside Josh. Joshua the high priest to resist him. I read our call to worship from Ezra chapter 5, verse 3. Did so deliberately, because they began to build, and uh then um tetan. I the governor on the other side of the river and uh she therbozai and their companions come and say, Who's commanding you to build? What do you think you're doing, guys? What's up here? You don't have a building permit. And they tried to stop the work. Who told you to do it? Go back. Go back to verse 13. Hegai is the Lord's messenger. Is speaking in the Lord's message. Who told them to build? Jehovah told them to build. That's true. Who could stand against them? No one. We read in our responsive reading this morning about God overcoming his enemies there in Psalm 66. And so there will be opposition. There will be those that rise up against us and against the testimony of Jesus Christ and against the work of the Lord. But Jehovah says, I'm with you. I'm with you. I with you. I'm with you. What shall we say to these things, if God be for us, who can be against us? The Lord is on my side, I will not fear what man can do unto me. For he has said, I will never leave thee nor forsake thee. Verse fourteen. And the Lord stirred up the spirit of Zerubabel, the son of Shetel, the governor of Judah, and the spirit of Joshua, the son of Josedek, the high priest, And the spirit of all the remnant of the people, and they came and did work in the house of the Lord God of host the Lord of hosts, their God. And notice again you have the repetition. You have the governor, that's the civil authority. You have the high priest, that's the religious leadership, and then you have the remnant of all the people. You have all the people gathered. And I would point out to you there that it's not talking about the unbelievers. It's not talking about the wicked. It's talking about God's own people. It's it's the Rubbable, the governor, it's the high priest, and it's the remnant of the people, is those who are God's own elect What does it mean to stir up the spirit? Well here I want to stop and read the read the museum tag again. Let's take this and dissect it. Let's let's take this apart. What's that mean? Now this word stir Is also translated lift up, rouse up from sleep, or awake. Remember in the book of Song of Solomon, that beautiful love story, where repeatedly we find awake. my beloved. It's the same word stir up there in isn't it beautiful in in Song of Solomon. In Judges chapter five verse twelve awake awake Deborah awake awake it was a call for Deborah to lead God God's people in triumph against their enemies, and four times we find this word, Sir, Sir, Deborah, Sir, Sir. It's the same word we find here in Hagi chapter one. In Psalm seven And verse six, Arise, O Lord, in thine anger, lift up thyself because of the rays of thine enemies, and awake for me in judgment that thou hast commanded. It's the same word, stir. And then in Psalm thirty five, verse twenty three, stir up thyself and await to thy judgment, even into my cause, my God and my Lord. That stir up is the same word. In Zechariah chapter two and verse three, be silent, O all flesh, because the Lord For he is raised up out of his holy habitation. The Lord is raised up out of his holy ta habitation. It's the same word, stir. Remember I said when you start taking all the pieces and assembling the pictures of Christ? Turn with me to Zechariah 13, verse 7. Probably just two or three pages from where you are there in Heggai. Zechariah 13 and verse 7. I'll give you a moment to see it with your own eyes. Zechariah 13, verse 7 Awake, O sword, against my shepherd, and against the man that is my fellow, saith Jehovah of hosts, Smite the shepherd, and the sheep shall be scattered. And that word awake there is the same word stir up. Now let's go back to Hegai chapter 1, verse 14. What does it mean to stir up? It means to awake up. Awake from slumber. What was the condition of God's people? They were alive and they were asleep. They had built their businesses. They had built their sealed houses. They had established themselves back in the land. Hey, we've come out of Babylon! We're back! But they had done nothing about the temple of the Lord. It's not time yet, someday in the future. And yet God's saying, Time for you to dwell in your house is in my house be waste. Folks, this is true revival. This is the essence of true revival. God came along and woke them up. Consider your ways. What are you doing? You're putting your money in bags with holes. You're bringing in all kinds of corn and it doesn't fill your garners. You're putting on clothes and you're not warm. You're drinking, but you don't have enough. And it doesn't matter what what you do. It fails, and the reason is I have shut up the heavens. I have commanded a drought upon the land. Consider your ways. Wake up. Amen. My lord. Wake out of your slumber. Come on. Stir up. But you know what? You can't wake yourself up, can you? No. No. It was God. The Lord Jehovah stirred up Zerubbabel and stirred up Joshua and stirred up the people. God did the stirring. And it's glorious because of course our Old Testament is written in in Hebrew and Aramaic. But we go over to the New Testament and it's a different Greek word, but it carries the same context and context. Feeling. Let me read a few verses to you. Ephesians five, verse four Wherefore he saith, Awake thou that sleepeth, or rise from the dead, and Christ will give you light. Wake up You sleeping Christians and Christ will give you life. Romans chapter thirteen, verses eleven twelve. And knowing that the time is now high time to awake out of sleep, for now is our salvation nearer than when we believe. You notice to talk to Christians, our salvation near the way of relief. Wake up, Christian. The night is far spent, the day is at hand. Therefore let us cast off the works of darkness and let us put on the armor of light. He's talking to Christians. And he says it's time to wake up because the night's far spent. Throw off the night shirt and be clothed in the armor of light. And then in First Chronicles, First Corinthians chapter 15, verse 34, awake to righteousness and sin not, for some have not the knowledge of Let me read that verse again. Awake to righteousness, 1 Corinthians 15, 34. And sin not, for some have not the knowledge of God. I speak this to your shame. In other words, God says, Shame on you. Shame on you. We're to be lights in the world. We're to be a city set on a hill. And as some have not the knowledge of God, Shame on us because the church is alive and asleep. So God stirred them up. God stirred up these people that didn't deserve to be stirred God sent 'em a message that they didn't deserve to be to hear. God stirred them up. And so that's that word stir. But then to continue there in verse fourteen of Haggai 1, What's meant by spirit? It says it stirred up the spirit of Zerubul the governor, and the spirit of Joshua the son of Jasedek, and the spirit of all the remnant of the people. What's meant by spirit? Ghosts here? In Jamaica we said duppies. We're talking about duppies? Is this got some kind of ghost? Is this a Halloween story? What is the spirit being spoken of here? It's not talking about the actions that they later performed. And again, thank you so much for the confessional reading this morning, which really emphasized that any good work we do is not of us, it is his spirit working in us. God didn't just stir up the hands and the mouth. He stirred the spirit. The spirit here is the inner man. It's the heart. Remember I said that that word, consider your ways, that consider is to lay in the balance and it carries the idea of the heart. It's also translated heart in other areas. Consider your heart. Give me your heart and I'll give you my father's kingdom. Consider your ways. God stirred up the inner man. Oh certainly they went to work, and we'll see that later here in the context. But it began with the heart, as a man thinketh in his heart, so is he. And there's a lot of people. People that have a lot of activity but it's not in the heart. Lord, Lord. That's how He prophesied in thy name. And thy name done many wonderful works. And thy name cast out devils and they'll say, Depart from me, you workers of iniquity. I never And these people were obviously very busy with their hands. They were harvesting? They were bringing in, they were putting in coats, their sealed houses didn't build themselves, folks. They were very busy, but their labor was in vain, because their labor was the labor of the flesh. But God stirred their spirit. God did a new work in them. Then they began to work, but it wasn't the work of their labor of hand. that they were looking towards. Rather, they were working to the glory of God. We'll get to the last part of the verse with the work, but one more thing. What was the manifestation of the stirring in the And this is very important in our day and age. How did this stirring manifest itself? Well, I believe it's easiest to point out what it didn't do. We don't see any miracles. No one's speaking in tongues. No one's being healed. No one's wallowing on the floor. No one is barking like a dog or laughing in fits. I mean you heard the lacquer revival up in trouble. Toronto and and so on. There's no nonsense here, folks. Um nobody's getting popped in the head and falling back. If you pop me in the head I'll probably fall back backwards too. But it has nothing to do with the spirit of God. This is a true revival expounded to us in the Word of God and it shows us what is genuine and what is fake. There's no nonsense here. But rather look what did result from this revival, the last part of the verse And they came and did work in the house of the Lord God of hosts their God. When God worked, got brought revival, there was an effect. They came and worked in the house of God. They lost their love of their commerce. They weren't so concerned about putting their money in the bag because it's got holes in it anyway. Rather, their lies. Or transformed into the service of the most high God. That's the result of true revival. People will get busy about the master's business. Amen. Look over to Ezra chapter 5 and verse 1, and we're about ready to close. Ezra chapter 5 and verse 1. Then rose up the chief of the fathers of Judah and Benjamin, and the priest and the Levites, with all them whose spirit God Had raised to build up the house of the Lord which is in Jerusalem. You know what that word raised is, folks? Somebody guess. It's the same word. Doesn't God's word all together like a puzzle. Here's the same account in Ezra chapter one. God raised him up for the purpose for the purpose of building his house. You know what dear friends? I believe with all my heart that God has raised up Mission Bible Church. For the building of his house. If I didn't believe that, I would be better selling cars. I'd be better selling ho hardware. Or installing appliances. or any of the other jobs picking apples that I've had in my lifetime. Friends, I believe that God is doing the work in our midst. I believe that he has raised us out for a purpose. And yet that dare not make us complacent Because you f see we find in scripture over and over again people who have been revived by the Spirit of God who have very quickly gone back to sleep. We read in the Old Testament that the fire upon the altar was always to be burning. It was never to go out. And yet we read sadly that the fire on the altar went out. Why did it go out Because God's people didn't tend the fire. They didn't tend the fire. We stand at Mission Bible Church right now on the brink of a glorious future. The Lord is doing great things. I believe he has revived us. I believe in his mercies he's given us his word. We dare not fall by sexual back sleep. That's right. But we must be diligent about the master's business. That's right. Let us pray. Great God and our Heavenly Father, we thank you for your glorious word. Father, bless it to our hearts this day. We pray. In Jesus' name. Amen.