Turn in your Bibles with me this morning to the book of Jude. We're going to be looking at two verses in Jude and three verses in 2 Peter. I there will be thirty years this summer since my father's lisping, stammering tongue was laid silent in the grave. But I can still hear him sing that hymn. Uh that uh that hymn was very frequently used at the Lord's table when I was a child, and uh I can can hear his voice when he's saying it. Cool. Jude chapter one. There's only one chapter in Jude. But Jude 1, and we're going to read verses 12 and 13, and then we'll go to 2 Peter and read three verses from 2 Peter. If you have your place in Jude, I'll read verses 12 and 13. Spots, these are spots in your feast of charity, when they feast with you, feeding themselves without fear. Clouds they are without water, carried about of winds, trees whose fruit withereth without fruit, twice dead, plucked up by the roots raging waves of the sea, foaming out their own shame, wandering stars, to whom is reserved the blackness of darkness forever. And then turn back about four or five leaves in your Bible, towards the front of your Bible to 2 Peter in chapter 2, and of course we see before that 2 Peter 2 and the book of Jude parallel one another. In 2 Peter 2, we're going to read pretty much the same words. in verses 1788. I'm sorry, verse 13 of 2 Peter 2 and verses 17 and 18. So if you have your place in 2 Peter 2 now, verse 13 And shall receive the reward of unrighteousness, as they that count it pleasure to riot in the daytime. Spots they are, and blemishes, sporting themselves with their own deceivings while they feast with you. And then go down to verse seventeen These are wells without water, clouds that are carried with the wit with a tempest, to whom the midst of darkness is reserved forever. For when they speak great swelling words of vanity, they allure through the lust of the flesh, through much wantonness, those that are cle were clean escaped From them who live in error. Let us bow for prayer once more as we approach God's Word this morning. Heavenly Father. We thank you for the precious, infallible Word of God. We thank you that all Scripture is given by inspiration and is profitable for doctrine, reproof, for correction. Father, bless your word to us today. May it indeed be profitable to the hearts of your people. And we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. I wanted to read the 2 Peter passage by comparison, but we will be spending our time on these two verses in Jude Chapter 1 or Jude uh the book of Jude verses 12 and 13. Very briefly remember that this book was written because of men that were crept in unaware, who were bringing in evil, who were bringing in false doctrine. And we saw how that the children of Israel, when they escaped from Egypt turned very quickly to error. And we saw that the angels which uh sinned rebelled against God. And we saw Sodom and Gomorrah which also rebelled against God. And we concluded last week by looking at those three Cain, Balaam, and Korah, each of which who rebelled against God. And so that is the foundation that we have laid already in past messages as we come to verses twelve and thirteen. Last week we focused on that eighth verse which says, likewise these filthy dreamers defile the flesh, despise dominion, and speak evil of dignities. Now I imagine I I Uh was able to do five message review worth in two minutes. So now let's jump right in to verse twelve. These are spots on your feasts of charity. These that are crept in unaware. These false sheep These goats among the wolves, these foxes in the hen house that are come in unaware, these are spots on your feast of charity. Now we noticed in this book that it's a pretty heavy book. Jude's letter is a book of judgment and of condemnation on the wicked. And yet, in these two verses, I would like us to see a glorious contrast, because such were some of you. But ye are washed. And as we look at God's condemnation on the wicked, we can rejoice that there is therefore now no condemnation to them that are in Christ Jesus. And so this morning as we look at these two verses, I want us to compare and contrast them This is the lot of the wicked, but hallelujah, we have been delivered from this judgment. This is the blindness of the unbeliever, but God has given us glorious truth and light. And so, in both Jude 12 and in 2 Peter 2 in verse 13, they're referred to as spots. on your feast of charity. And Peter also uses the word blemishes. And we understand what a blemish is. I would venture to say in a group this morning Just about has to be some person that began to get ready this morning and they thought about a particular garment and they thought, well no, that one has a blemish. There's a button missing on that shirt. Or there's a stain on that tie. Or yeah, the the hem of that dress is starting to to unravel. We understand what a defect or a blemish is, and I see some chuckles, so most likely if you encountered a blemish, you didn't wear that shirt or you set that garment aside because there was something that was not quite right. And that is the way here Jew describes these that are crept into the purity of the body of Christ. Crept into the church unaware their blemishes, their defects, which are to be set aside Which we might wear in the garden, but certainly not when we come into the congregation of the church. And so These are blemishes, these are defects on your feasts of charities. That term feast of charities is an interesting word. Some people assign it directly to and only to the Lord's table. And there is certainly a degree of application to the Lord's table, but it was more involved there. It was more of a tradition where in the early church they would get together and they would have what they called love feast. And the Methodist Church continued that tradition. But remember when Paul talked about how when you come together from the Lord's table, one's hungry and one's drunk. And so one was coming to the Lord's table as a glutton, and the other is coming. That was more a reference to That love feast as opposed to the table of Christ. But both are seen here. And we at the end of our services have wonderful fellowship and we sit down with a snack or with food and it is an expression of our love one to another and of our unity. By this shall all men know that you're my disciples, that you have unity one with or love one to another. But could you imagine if we sat down to eat our refreshments or eat our meal and someone brought a casserole with mold all over the top of it. It would cause division among us because you you want us to eat that? Will you will you be offended if we don't? It would cause us to question the commitment of that individual to our fellowship. Do you do you really try to get rid of leftovers? You know, bring us a mo None of us would do that. It would be so obvious to everyone here, and yet these things are insidious. These false doctrines which are brought in, they're not as obvious as mold on a casserole. They're more hidden. They're more unseen. Even like remember when the sons of the prophets were were preparing a meal and someone went out and they gathered some herbs to put in and and They began to eat it and someone's stomach began to hurt and they said there's death in the pot. There was something unseen. How these spots can be less obvious than a missing missing button or less obvious. than a Modi casserole. These unbelievers have joined themselves under the church, and they are blemishes among them. But brethren, how glorious it is that we read in Ephesians chapter 5. Christ also loved the church and gave himself for it. that he might sanctify and cleanse it with the washing of water by the word, that he might present it to himself, a glorious church not having spot or any wrinkle. or any such thing, but that it should be holy and without blemish. These are spots on your feast charities But Christ gave himself for the church, and he loved the church, and his love for the church and his giving of himself for the church was the purpose that we should be without spots. And that we should be without blemish. And Brother Vince mentioned earlier that old old phrase, but for the grace of God, there go I. Hallelujah, for the grace of God that has delivered us from spot and blemish. has delivered us from the air of the wicked. How insidious it is, how quickly it can intrude. But God has made known to us the truth. Now, that is not to claim perfection And if if you uh pay close attention to the prayers that we raise together here, you probably have have heard me pray, Lord, deliver us from spots and wrinkles. Because if we're honest with ourselves, we have to say, you know what, my life is full of spots and wrinkles. I have not reached perfection. I am not that which I ought to be. There's always room for improvement in grace. But Christ loved the church and he gave himself for the church to cleanse away our spots and wrinkles. To iron out the wrinkles of our soul. And so what rejoicing we can take in this pointing out of the spots and wrinkles that On the first level, yes, Christ has delivered us from spots and wrinkles. He gave himself for us, and he loved us to deliver us from spots and wrinkles. But hallelujah, the day will come when all the spots and wrinkles will be gone. Because Christ loved us. But I mention also that this reference to the feast spot spots on your feast of charity can make fitting application to the Lord's table. And as we saw have seen several times in this book of Jude that these six examples, Israel, the angels, Sodom, uh Cain, Balaam, and Korah, we see them coming up over and over again. Did you ever think about the fact that every one of the Israelites that died in the wilderness ate of the first Passover lamb. They ate of that Passover the night they left Egypt. But they still died in the wilderness. Those that died in the wilderness lived on manna. They live on miraculous quail. Those that died in the wilderness, they Engage, or not the ones that died in the wilderness, but those that died before Christ, they engage in the annual feast, and there's a good exposition of the feast in your bulletin today They partook of this feast again and again and again. But then they cried, Crucify Him, crucify him, his blood be upon us and our children. Oh, how insidious air is, and how glorious it is to be delivered from that error. And it says that when they feast with us, all those that left Egypt left in that same company. They partook of that feast of the Passover with the blood on the doorpost all together. And these spots on the feast of charities, they're within the church. They are a part of the church. And just as Those people would go to the feast again and again throughout the year. There are many that are in church this morning wearing a shirt with all of its buttons. But they're not saved. They've never submitted to the will of Christ They remain spots on the feast of charities. They remain blemishes upon the church. And they may disguise themselves very well, just like the Poisonous herbs in the pot. And so I would ask you, do you know Jesus Christ is your Savior? Not have you prayed a prayer. Not have you walked denial? Not are you religious? Not have you read your Bible? But do you personally know the Lord Jesus Christ? Ah, how glorious that Christ gave Himself to cleanse us from spots and wrinkles. And it says they feast with us. And of course, remember the sad words of our Lord on the night of his trial. One of you will betray me. He that dippeth his hand in the sop with me shall betray me. And we find further in our text that they feed themselves without fear. They feed themselves without fear. Turn over with me to 1 Corinthians chapter 11. We've looked at these verses before in the context of the Lord's table. But I would like to highlight them. In relationship to the text we're studying this morning. 1 Corinthians chapter 11, and I'll start with verse 27. 1 Corinthians 11, verse 27, wherefore whosoever shall eat this bread, that's referring to the Lord's table, the Lord's supper, whosoever shall eat this bread and drink this cup of the Lord unworthily shall be guilty of the body and blood of the Lord. Again, okay, again, remember let's pause there. Remember what was the significance of the Passover when they left Egypt Well, they took the lamb and they killed the lamb, and they put the blood over the door and on the sidepost. And the lamb was a spotless lamb, and it was eaten without leaven, which is a picture of sin And so the Lord's table, those that eat unworthily are guilty of that body and that blood. Verse 28. But let a man examine himself And so let him eat of that bread and drink of that cup. For he that eateth and drinketh unworthily, eateth and drinketh damnation to himself, not discerning the Lord's body. Okay, again remember Egypt and Israel's departure. They perished in the wilderness. They partook of that sacrifice. And they came year after year for the sacrifice. They ate the manna in the wilderness. Your fathers gave you not this manna, but my heavenly father gives you the true manna. And oh, how easy it is to partake of a piece of bread in the Lord's table, but never partake of Christ, the living bread. And to partake of the cup in the Lord's table, but never to know the cleansing of the blood of Christ. They discern not the Lord's body, for this cause many are sick weak and sickly among you, and many sleep If we would judge ourselves, we should not be judged. But when we are judged, we are chastened to the Lord that we should not be condemned with the world. Wherefore, my brethren, when you come together to eat, Carry for one another. Pray for one another. And so we've seen in this passage that there are spots and blemishes on the feasts of charity. We see that Christ loved the church and gave himself for it that he might cleanse it from all spots, cleanse it from all blemishes, and so we have a corporate responsibility. That we, as the body of Christ, are to tarry for one another. We are to watch out for one another's souls. We are to be praying for one another. That our brother not fall. That our brother be a brother indeed. We frequently pray for our children. O Lord, may there not be a rebel among them. May not one of our assembly enjoy this fellowship and partake bread with us And go into eternity without Christ. But then returning to our text there in Jude 1 and verse 12. We find also that they are clouds without water. And folks, this is this is an exciting phrase. I um Uh do you get excited about the Word of God? I hope I hope you do. This is an exciting phrase. I I I had I started to say I had fun with this path this this phrase this week, and maybe that's not the best way to express it, but it was a blessing to my heart. Because here these False prophets, these men crept in an aware are described as clouds without water. And in 2 Peter 2 verse 17, these are wells without water, clouds carried by the tempest. And in Proverbs twenty-five verse fourteen we read, But whoso boasts himself of a false gift is like a cloud without rain and We applied these passages earlier to the Pentecostals that claim all kinds of gifts, but whosoever claims a false gift is like a cloud without rain. But consider this The doctrine of God in Scripture is compared to rain. To rain In Deuteronomy 32 and verse 2, if you're taking notes, Deuteronomy 32 and verse 2, my doctrine shall drop as rain. My speech shall distill as the dew, as the small rain upon the tender herb, and as the showers upon the grass. You see, these false prophets and these ones coming unaware, they're clouds without rain. They have no sound doctrine. They bear no truth with them. But ye shall know the truth, and the truth shall set you free. The clouds of God's word for us are rich with doctrine and full with doctrine. What a blessing they are. And what A hypocrisy is a cloud without rain. What a disappointment. I remember many times in Jamaica Where uh it would be towards the end of the dry season and our cistern was almost out of water, and a big dark cloud would come and we've been praying for rain And this cloud would hang over us for hours. And there wouldn't be a drop. Wouldn't be a drop. I've often said that if I ever get around to uh writing a missionary biography of our years in Jamaica. The title will be Praying for Rain. Because we were always praying for Rain But a cloud without water is worse than no clouds at all. If you're desperate for rain and there's a cloud that comes along and then it doesn't rain, it would have been better to have a clear sky But these are clouds without water. But isn't it a blessing to your soul that we have doctrine? Isn't it a blessing to your soul that the Word of God is rich to us? It's not an empty book. It's not a book of fables and fairy tales. It is a book that is packed with doctrine, and all scripture is given by inspiration of God and is profitable for doctrine. It is profitable to direct us in the right way. This word is our rule book of life This book is the handbook of Christianity. It is the owner's manual for heaven. It's the owner manual to eternal life. And it is full of doctrine. And so while we grieve at these Thoughts from our feast of charity, these blemishes among us that are clouds without water, at the same time we rejoice, hallelujah, for the Word of God. Because the natural man receiveth not the things of the Spirit of God, neither can he know them because they're spiritually discerned. And so many in this world can open this book, and it means nothing to them Have you ever been reading in the Begats and suddenly got blessed by something in God's Word? Have you ever read a passage you've read again and again and again and just sudden Oh, there it is. I didn't see that before. It happened to me in Sunday school this morning. Yeah. We're talking about creation, and it suddenly occurred to me on the first day of creation, God created time. He's eternal. There was there was never time before the first day of creation. But on that day he created this concept of time under which we live. I had never seen that before. It's always been there How blessed. That the word of God is never to us a cloud without rain. And by God's grace, the ministers that minister among us are not clouds without rain. They bring to us the truth of God, not their own words. not their own thinking. But as we hear the preaching of Word, faith comes by hearing, and hearing by the Word of God. And God has chosen the foolishness of preaching that saved them to believe. Hallelujah, we shall rejoice with God reigned. Yes. And our God is never to us an empty cloud. And His Word is never to us an empty word. But these these sadly are clouds without water Peter warned, or Paul warned young Timothy, that the day would come when they would not endure sound doctrine, but they would heap to themselves teachers having itching ears. Christ told his disciples Actually, uh Christ told the multitude in Matthew 7, verse 28 and 29. And it came to pass when Jesus ended these things, the people were astonished at his doctrine For he taught them as one having authority, and not as the scribes. And they were astonished at his doctrine, for his word was with power. And he told them his doctrine was not his own. But it came from his father, which is in heaven. That wasn't actually the verse I I meant to emphasize there. My Ah there it is. I I I bypassed it. In John 7 verse 16 Jesus answered and said, My doctrine is not mine, but his that sent me. If any man will do his will, he shall know of the doctrine, whether it be of God or whether I speak. of myself. His doctor was from his father. They're carried about by winds. These spots on our feast of charities there in Jude 1 and verse 12. These blemishes, they're carried about of the winds. Not only are they waterless clouds, but they're turbulent waterless clouds. There are clouds that rush by. I'm sure most of have experienced a time when it was perfect still. You didn't feel any breeze, but you look up and you see the clouds just racing by as the winds are rushing at a higher elevation. Maybe you've been in the lee of two mountains down the valley and seeing clouds rushing over top and you realize you were totally unaffected by the wind. Well these are clouds that are driven about, carried about by the winds. There's no substance there There's no value in them. There's no water for the crops. They're just blown about. But aren't you glad that we're not blown about? We're not carried about by every wind of doctrine. Ephesians four, verse thirteen that we henceforth be no more children, tossed to and fro, and carried about by every wind of doctrine, by the slight of men, and cunning craftiness whereby they lie in wait to deceive Have you ever heard a false prophet change his mind? Have you ever heard some great prediction of something that's going to take place and then It just didn't happen the way they thought it would. And so now we have to have a new revelation. We have to have a new something come along. Did God's word ever change? No, never, never, never. Man has tried to change it. Man has tried to corrupt it. Man has come out with all kinds of new theories on it and even come up with new manuscripts that are are news a good description for them because they are new. But the Word of God remains unchanged. It remains as solid as rock. It doesn't change. And so, thank the Lord that we've been delivered from being carried about by every wind of doctrine. We stand on the solid rock. But then the next phrase of our verse, let me read the entire verse for you again. Jude 1, verse 12. These are spots when your feasts of charity, when they feast with you, feeding themselves without fear Clouds they are without water, carried about of the winds, trees whose fruit withereth Without fruit, twice dead, plucked up by the roots Doesn't let that sink in. What a amazing description we have here of these false prophets. They're trees whose fruit withers. I um have a little orchard in my yard when I was when I was a teenager and uh uh growing up I worked for a man who attended my father's church and He had an orchard, and I spent my summers and hours after school in the orchard, and so I enjoy my little orchard of my house. And last year I was finally gonna get some apples And they withered. They started out a beautiful blossom and then he had little the little apples on there and they were growing and I should have sprayed them and I didn't and They kind of gnarled and turned into these lumpy little things and I don't think the deer even wanted them because they w they w withered. How disappointing So much promise. So much anticipation. There's going to be fruit. It's coming. I see the blossom. I see the I see the bud. I see the blossom. I see the little fruit. And But what do we read of the blessed man in the first psalm? His fruit. Does not wither. Aren't you glad that God has spared you from withering fruit? His fruit remaineth Our reward will not be taken away. We bear fruit. And how is it that we are known By their fruit ye shall know them. Those apples on my tree last year, the insects got to them The fungus got to them. They were assaulted by the elements of nature. But the elements of nature cannot assault God's church Simon, Simon, Satan hath desired to have thee that he might sift thee as wheat. But I have prayed for thee. All that the Father giveth to me shall come to me, and him that cometh to me, I will in no wise cast out. Oh my friend, these poor men crept in unaware. Their fruit withers. Their work is burned. And further, they are without fruit. Remember the parable, the, or not the parable, the story of the barren fig tree? When Christ comes to the tree and oh it's full of leaves and when they get to it there are no figs and Christ cursed the fig tree and it withered away. Twice dead. Isn't that an amazing phrase? Twice dead. What could that mean? Well As an Adam, all died. As an Adam, all died. I was born dead in trespasses and sin. And someday this body will die as well. And we sang in that hymn, There is a fountain filled with blood, the last verse, when this poor lisping, stammer, stammering tongue lies silent in the grave. They're twice dead. They're dead. Spiritually born dead And they will die for all eternity because they will exist in eternal death. They are twice dead. But the believer is once dead. I am crucified with Christ. Therefore I died? No, therefore I live. Yet not I. But Christ liveth in me. I am not twice dead, I am twice alive, because I was born once in the flesh, and I was born again. In the spirit, except the man be born again, he cannot see the kingdom of heaven. Ah, what judgment and condemnation we find in these words, and yet what joy to the heart of the Christian. I am not dead, I'm alive. And though after this body worms destroy my flesh, yet in my flesh, my skin yet in my flesh. Shall I see the Lord, who I shall see for myself and not another, though my reins be consumed within me But these are twice dead and plucked up by the roots But he shall be like a tree planted by the river of water, that bringeth forth his fruit in his season, his leaf also shall not wither, and whatsoever he doeth shall prosper. The ungodly are not so. But are like the chaff which the wind driveth away. Therefore the ungodly shall not stand in the judgment, nor sinners in the congregation of the righteous, for the Lord knoweth the way of the righteous. But the way of the ungodly shall perish. Every plant in me, or every plant which my heavenly Father hath not planted, shall be rooted up. Matthew 15, verse 13 As therefore the tares are gathered and burned in the fire, so shall it be in the end of the world the Son of Man shall send forth his angels, and they shall gather out of his kingdom all things that offend Spots and blemishes. All things that offend and them which do iniquity. Matthew 13, verse 40 and 41. But then look at our second verse for this morning, verse 13. It continues this description, raging waves of the sea, foaming out their own shame. Do you ever see foam on the sea? Where does that come from? Usually it's got a bit of a a scum to it, almost like a pollution. the pollution comes out. Even even the beautiful Caribbean where you can stand in water to your chin and count your toes, even though you know there's ten of them unless a shark came by and took one. But you know, beautiful crystal clear water that you can can see seventy, eighty feet of visibility through that water and yet that same water by the shore will foam up all kinds of corruption. You see, it may look beautiful and pretty, but there's a lot of pollution in there. And so these are described as waves, raging waves of the sea. The wicked, we read in Isaiah 57, are like the troubled sea, when it cannot rest. Whose waters cast up mire and dirt, there is no peace, saith my God to the wicked. And brethren, I believe that many of us can testify to the days before you were saved. The days before you passed from death to life when you thought you had everything and yet your what life was in turmoil. And it was just just a raging wave and troubled sea. There is no peace, saith my God, to the wicked. But I read Isaiah 57 verses 20 and 21. I bypassed verse 19. I saved that for later. Verse 19 of Isaiah 57, the verse before the two I just read, God says, I create the fruit of the lips. Peace Peace to him that is afar off, and to him that is near, saith the Lord, and I will hear him, but the wicked are like the troubled sea, when it cannot rest. These spots on our feast of charity, there is no true peace there. But the child of God has peace like a river Peace I give to you. My peace I leave with you. Peace I leave with you. My peace I give unto you. Not as the world giveth, give I unto you. Let not your heart be troubled Neither be afraid. Great peace have they that love thy law, and nothing shall offend them. But not only are they raging waves in the sea, foaming out their own shame, they're wandering stars. Wandering stars. What are wandering stars? Well they're not really stars, are they? They're they're meteors that will fly across the sky for a time. We call 'em shooting stars. They light up for a few moments and they burn out and they're gone. Therefore, my beloved brethren, be ye steadfast, unmovable, always abounding in the work of the Lord, for as much as ye know that your labor is not in vain in the Lord. It doesn't shine across the sky and burn out. To whom is reserved the blackness of darkness forever Indeed, brethren, that is twice dead. That is dead two times over. When the Son of Man shall come in his glory, and his holy angels with him, then shall he sit upon the throne of his glory, and before him shall be gathered all nations, and he shall separate them one from another. as a shepherd divideth his sheep from the goats. And he shall set the sheep on his right hand, and the goats on his left. Then shall the king say unto them on his right hand, Come ye blessed of my father, inherit the kingdom prepared for you from the foundation of the world. Then shall he say to them on the left hand, Depart from me, ye cursed, into everlasting fire, prepared for the devil and his angels. And so these Spots. These blemishes to them is left the darkness. Of blackness forever. But old friend, this morning, if you know that you're a child of God If you know that your sins are forgiven, if you know that the blood of Jesus Christ, his son, cleanses from all sins, hallelujah, how we can rejoice. For we will shall never be plucked up by the roots. Nor shall we be unfruitful. Nor shall we come into condemnation. There is no condemnation. to them that are in Christ Jesus. And oh, though in the world we shall have tribulation, yet what great peace there is to the child of God. And so I close this morning with the same verses that I read for our call to worship this morning from Colossians chapter 1 Giving thanks unto God and the Father which hath made us meet to be partakers of the inheritance of the saints. In light, not in darkness, in light Who hath delivered us from the power of darkness, delivered us from spots of blemish, delivered us from all these things that we're seeing in this book. And it translated us into the kingdom of his dear son. He's taken us out of that and brought us into the kingdom of his son, in whom we have redemption through his blood. even the forgiveness of sins. Let us stand for prayer as we conclude this morning. Father, we rejoice in you that even though this this book of Jude speaks so much of judgment and of your condemnation on the wicked and upon the false sheep, the false shepherds O Lord, we rejoice that we, your true people, can find great peace and great comfort in these words, and indeed they are profitable to our souls. O Lord help us, Father, for our adversary, the devil, is indeed a roaring lion, and he constantly walks about seeking who may devour O Lord, may you protect us. May we indeed resist the devil that he might flee from us. May we flee youthful lust. Regardless of our age, the youthful lust can be a plague upon us. But, O Lord, may we, your people, indeed be before you a sweet savor of righteousness. May we live our lives as lights and testimonies to the saving grace of Jesus Christ. And Lord, we thank you that you have delivered our souls. We pray this now in Jesus' name. Amen.