Bible's with me this morning to Exodus chapter 14, the fourteenth chapter of Exodus. And I'm going to read the entirety of the chapter. There are 34 verses, and I realize that is a little bit longer scripture reading than we have on some Lord's days. You realize there are no children's stories in the Bible. Have a lot of stories that get referred to as children's stories. They're all children's stories. And they're all adult stories as well. And so this is a story that we probably all who grew up in church heard in Sunday school at some time or another. But folks, there's rich truth here. There are daily applications for the believers, regardless of our age. And so if you have your place now, I'll begin in the first verse of Exodus chapter 14. And the Lord spake unto Moses, saying. Speak unto the children of Israel that they turn and encamp before Pihahiroth between Migdal and the sea over against Baalzephon. Before it shall ye encamp by the sea. For Pharaoh will say, The children of Israel, they are tangled in entangled in the land. The wilderness hath shut them in And I will harden Pharaoh's heart, that he shall follow after them, and I will be honored upon Pharaoh and upon all his hosts. That the Egyptians may know that I am Jehovah, I am the Lord. And they did so And it was told the king of Egypt that the people fled, and the heart of Pharaoh and of his servants was turned against the people, and they said, Why have we done this? That we have let Israel go from serving us. And he made ready his chariots and took his people with him And he took six hundred chosen chariots and all the chariots of Egypt and captains over every one of them. And the Lord hardened the heart of Pharaoh, king of Egypt, and he pursued after the children of Israel. And the children of Israel went out with an high hand. But the Egyptians pursued after them all the horses and chariots of Pharaoh and his horsemen and his army, and overtook them encamping by the sea beside Pihahirath. before Belzephon. And when Pharaoh drew nigh, the children of Israel lifted up their eyes, and behold The Egyptians marched after them, and they were sore afraid. And the children of Israel cried out unto the Lord. And they said unto Moses, because there were no graves in Egypt, hast thou taken us away to die in this wilderness? Wherefore hast thou dealt with us to carry us forth out of Egypt? Is it not the word that we did tell thee in Egypt, saying Let us alone that we may serve the Egyptians. For it had been better for us to serve the Egyptians than that we should die in the wilderness. And Moses said to the people, Fear ye not, stand still and see the salvation of Jehovah. Which he will show you today. For the Egyptians whom you've seen today, ye shall see them again, no more forever. And the Lord shall fight for you, and ye shall hold your peace. And the Lord said unto Moses, Wherefore criest thou unto me? Speak unto the children of Israel that they go forward. But lift thou up the rod, and stretch out thine hand over the sea, and divide it. And the children of Israel shall go on dry ground through the midst of the sea. And I, behold, I will harden the hearts of the Egyptians, and they shall follow them. And I will get me honor upon Pharaoh and upon all his host, upon his chariot, and upon his horsemen. And the Egyptians shall know that I am the Lord, when I have gotten me honor upon Pharaoh, upon his chariots, upon his horsemen. And the angel of God, which went before the camp of Israel, removed and went behind them. And the pillar of cloud went from before their face and stood behind them. And it came between the camp of the Egyptians and the camp of Israel. And it was a cloud and darkness to them, but it gave light by night to these. So that the one came not near the other all the night. We have to pause and say hallelujah. And Moses stretched out his hand over the sea. And the Lord caused the sea to go back by a strong east wind all that night. and made the sea dry land, and the waters were divided. And the children of Israel went into the midst of the sea upon dry ground. And the waters were a wall unto them on their right hand and on their left. And the Egyptians pursued and went in after them to the midst of the sea, even all Pharaoh's horses, his chariots, and his horsemen. And it came to pass that in the morning watch The Lord looked upon the host of the Egyptians through the pillar of fire and of cloud, and troubled the all the host of the Egyptians And took off their chariot wheels, that they drave them heavily, so that the Egyptians said Let us flee from the face of Israel, for the Lord fighteth for them against the Egyptians. And the Lord said unto Moses, Stretch out thy hand over the sea, that the waters may come again upon the Egyptians, upon their chariots, and upon their horsemen. And Moses stretched forth his hand over the sea, and the sea returned to his strength when the morning appeared, and the Egyptians fled against it. And the Lord overthrew the Egyptians in the midst of the sea. And the water returned and covered the chariots. And the horsemen, and all the host of Pharaoh that came into the sea after them, there remained not so much as one of them. But the children of Israel walked upon dry land in the midst of the sea. And the waters were a wall unto them on their right hand and on their left hand Thus, Jehovah saved Israel that day out of the hand of the Egyptians, and Israel saw the Egyptians dead upon the seashore. And Israel saw that great work which the Lord did upon the Egyptians, and the people feared the Lord and believed the Lord and his servant Moses. Folks, that chapter is a sermon. What can man add to it? Nothing. And so we're not going to attempt to try to add to it. But I'd like to take this marvelous chapter of God's Word and try to make application. To our daily lives as Christians, fleeing from Pharaoh and facing the Red Sea. Let us pray. Father, bless us now as we open thy word. May thy spirit give us light and understanding. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. The children of Israel find themselves in a hopeless situation. They find themselves trapped between the Red Sea and Pharaoh. These folks weren't campers. They weren't used to living in tents. They were used to living in houses. They were not foragers. They were not used to going out and seeking their food. These were city folks. That have been thrust into the wilderness. They have left behind their homes. They left behind their source of food. They've left behind the place they were born. You realize that there's only one man in this whole group that's ever been in the wilderness. They weren't free to go out in the wilderness. They were bondmen. They were slaves. There's only one man among them that's even ever been there. Moses is the only one that's ever seen the wilderness they're going to. They'd come from horrible circumstances. They were bondmen. They were slaves in Egypt. And yet in verse 12 they say it had been better to stay there than to come to this. And there are situations so terrible and so frightening That sometimes the terrible now that is known is worse than the terrible future that is unknown. You know, sometimes we stay in a bad situation simply because At least I know here I'll live tomorrow. But did you bring us here because there were no graves for us? In Egypt. In Egypt, our children would have grown to adulthood, but here they're going to be slain along with us And so the children of Israel are in a terrible situation. They're trapped. I believe that we all feel, at some time, like we're standing at the edge of the Red Sea with the armies of Pharaoh about to shoot us in the back. Every believer faces times when it feels like we are deep in trouble and there is no way out. At times when we may even feel that God has led us astray. Just as Israel felt that God had led them into the impossible, path unpassable waters of the Red Sea. It was this miracle that God used to teach Israel to trust in him. In that last verse, we find that they saw the works of the Lord, they believed the Lord, and they believed Moses. And so this morning I would like to see first of all that God sent Israel into this situation. God sent him there. In the first in second verse Speak unto the children that they turn and encamp before Pihelha between Migdal and the sea over against Baalzephan Before it shall you encamp by the sea. God said, go camp there by the sea. Did God know there were mountains on both sides? Did God know the Red Sea was in front of them? Absolutely he did. But God said camp there. And folks, have you ever been in the problem? Don't raise your hand Where he said, God, you led me into this mess. I was following what you wanted me to do, and now it is all falled on my head. The Red Sea's in front of me. There's hills on the other side. Pharaoh's behind me. Oh Lord, why did you put me here? Oh Lord, how did I get in this Yes. God told them to camp. God put them in a geographical trap. But God hadn't lost control of the situation, folks. God knew exactly what he was doing. God declares, I'm going to be glorified on these Egyptians that are chasing him. Did you notice in the scripture reading how many times there's a repetition? All his chariots, all his horsemen, all his men. It's repeated over and over again. And it even says, there's not going to be a one left. These that you see now, ye shall see them nevermore, ever again. Just as surely as God used the waters of the flood to wipe away an evil generation. But he brought his people through that flood in the ark. So God now has ordained to wipe away this entire evil army of Pharaoh, but to deliver his people through the waters. And folks, there's so many similarities here because Noah had left his home. He had left his source of food. He had left everything he knew. He was not a sailor, but he's going to live on a boat. And so the children of Israel were not campers, but they're going to spend 40 years as nomads in the wilderness. God's going to take care of them. And so, just like in Mark 6, where the children, where the disciples find themselves in a storm, And they're fearful because the waves are high and the waves are contrary. And Christ comes walking on the water, and it looks like Christ is going to walk right past them. He's not even going to stop and help them fix the flat tire, so to speak. He's just going to walk on past. Of course we know the story. Jesus comes into the boat. The storm is see the stuff the storm is still and the boat's at land But did you ever contemplate that Jesus sent them into that boat in the first place? Right? Did he know the weather? Did he know there was a storm coming? But he sent the disciples into the storm that he might teach them a valuable lesson. And so God sent them into the wilderness. And then it says that God sent Pharaoh to get them. Look at verse 4. I will harden Pharaoh's heart that he shall follow after them. Not only did God put them in a geographical trap, then he sends their enemies to go by them. He sends Pharaoh after them. I'm going to harden his heart. Consider the words of Job in the first chapter of Job verse 8. Job says, and the Lord said unto Satan, Hast thou considered my servant Job? Do you realize that all Job's problems began when God pointed him out? Yeah, we we talk about the the blessing of meeting as a house church and being somewhat under the radar of the government. But what if God says, hey, you know, look at look at these people over here. Go get them. That's what Job is saying. What happened with Job Satan wasn't interested in Job until the Lord said, Look at my servant Job as you be considered him. And then in chapter 16 of Job, verses 11 and 12. Job says, God hath delivered me to the ungodly and turned me over into the hands of the wicked. I was at ease, but he hath broken me asunder. Job says, I was at ease I had my children around me. I had my farm that was prospering. I had sheep and goats and oxen and servants. I was at ease. And God came and messed up my world. That is the case we find ourselves in as Christians sometimes where it feels like God has come and messed up our world. And so God told him where to camp. God sent Pharaoh to get them. And then God allowed wicked men to speak against them. Can God stop the mouths of the wicked? He certainly can. But God permitted evil men To speak against them. Look at verse 5. And it was told the king of Egypt that the people fled. Somebody got a hold of the king's ear. Somebody went and told Pharaoh Pharaoh's dealing with an awful lot this night. Pharaoh's son has just died. There's dead people all over the kingdom. Pharaoh's got a lot to handle as the administrator of the government. And someone comes along and oh, hey, by the way, Pharaoh, you know the Egyptians there fled. God could have prevented that, couldn't he? But God allowed evil men to speak against him. We find this throughout the New Testament. Where Paul and Silas are just preaching the gospel when Jews from another community come and stir up the Jews there. They're just do the just going about their business. Stephen is is just ministering as a as a deacon and they come against him Paul, how many times people came against Paul. Folks, sometimes God allows evil men to speak against the righteous. To stir up trouble that we just don't need this. We don't need this trouble. Leave us alone. Let us go. But sometimes God allows them to speak against the righteous that God's power might be seen. And so the first main takeaway or application we can find from this story. Is that God sent them into the problems? Sometimes God sends his people into very difficult circumstances. That he might be glorified. But the second thing it happens to see from this account is that God knew what Israel could and could not endure. You know, uh I've always been intrigued by the way products are tested. And the the way most products are tested is they bend them till they break. But there's only one of God's people. You know, God will not test us to the breaking point till we break. God may bend us all the deep, but God will not destroy his people. And so God knew what they could and could not endure. Look back to the previous chapter, chapter 13, and verse 17. In chapter 13 and verse 17, it says, And it came to pass when Pharaoh had let the people go, that God led them not through the way of the land of the Philistines. Although it was near. For God said, Lest peradventure the people repent when they see war and they return to Egypt. But God led the people about through the way of the wilderness of the Red Sea, right where they are. And the children of Israel went up harnessed out of the land of Egypt. Why were they at the Red Sea? Why didn't God send them by the shortcut? Because God knew that that was too much. The Red Sea was difficult. It was bad. They were afraid. But God knew they could take that, but they couldn't take war with the Philistines. You see, those children that they were worried were going to be killed by the Egyptians would have been killed by the Philistines. The Philistines were known for attacking the back of a truth, the women and the children and the elderly. God knew all this. You see, my huge trial that I'm facing today is most likely much smaller than the trial I could have faced if God hadn't prevented it My Red Sea in front of me is a mercy, for by that red sea God has delivered me from the Philistines. God knew what they could and could not endure. And God knows what I can and cannot. endure. He still led them to the Red Sea. He still led them to a great trial. But the great trial was a mercy, for he delivered them from a greater trial Through it. And God has promised that no weapon that is formed against his people will prosper. No weapon that is formed against thee shall prosper. I've got the whole verse written down so I can read it properly. No weapon that is formed against thee shall prosper, and every tongue that shall rise against thee in judgment thou shalt condemn. This is the heritage of the servants of the Lord, and their righteousness is of me, saith the Lord. The tongues that speak against the people of God will be condemned. And no weapon that is formed will prosper. Why is this significant? Because how many times in the passage did it list his chariots? His chosen chariots, all of his horsemen, all of his people. See, God didn't want to want them to escape. God did not want one Egyptian to run back to Egypt and say, hey, come help us. God wanted to kill them all and close the Red Sea behind them so they could not be pursued. And so no weapon that is formed against the Shah Look down to the 14th verse, which I believe is the key verse to the whole passage. And Moses said unto the people, Fear ye not, stand still and see the salvation of the Lord, which he will show you today. For the Egyptians whom you've seen today, ye shall see them again, no more, forever. Fear not. Did the Egyptians have any legitimate fears? You better believe it. They had legitimate fears. The Red Sea was impassable. The army of Pharaoh was violent When it speaks of chosen chariots, his 600 chosen chariots, the biblical historians tell us that that was a chariot that had three men in it One man, all he did was drive. He drove. He would run you over. That was his sole responsibility. Another man, all he did was defend the chariot itself. He protected that chariot. And the third guy was out to get you. You think of the M1 Abrams tank, which has four men in it. It has a tank commander. It has a tank driver. It has a gunnery sergeant, and it has a loader. And so all four men are working together for the sole purpose of killing you. The children of Israel had reason to fear. The things that they saw with their eyes were terrified. And many times for the child of God, our fears are legitimate. Lord, how will we pay these bills? Lord, the enemy seems to be coming in like a flood. Lord, I don't know what new legislation is going to come down on our head tomorrow. There are things that legitimately frightened And yet the voice of God says to all of those, fear not. Fear not. Fear not, I'm with you. Does God know about the bills? Does he own the cattle on a thousand hills? Is the heart of the king in the hand of the Lord? Can any weapon formed against us prosper? Fear not But secondly, stand still. Oh, I want to run! Get me out of here! Where's the exit? How can I run from my problems? If I had the wings of a dove, I would fly away. I've said to my wife many times, I would love to go up and live in a cabin in the mountains as a hermit and not have to deal with any of it anymore. You do your thing, I'll do mine, you leave me alone. Don't cross the stream. Oh how we love to run Did you ever see a stampede or pictures of a stampede? When the stampede comes, the young and the elderly and even the strong get trampled in the middle And the bodies destroyed. Oh, how we want to run. Fear not, stand still. You see, if they had have run, they never would have seen the salvation of the Lord. If they had have stamped out of there, they wouldn't have seen what God was doing. Verse 14, the Lord shall fight for you, and ye shall hold your say with me. Peace. What peace? You're talking about peace, Lord? Don't you see this? See? Don't you hear the horse beats, horse hooves behind me? Don't you know what I'm facing, Lord? Fear not, stand still, and see this, uh hold your peace. See the salvation of the Lord. The Lord shall fight for you. I'll get it right Right, the Lord shall fight for you, and ye shall hold your peace. Great peace have they that love thy law, and nothing shall offend them. But the Lord the fire sits me Pharaoh's army. They're offending me right now, Lord. No weapon is formed. Number three. We see God sent them into the trials. God knew what they could and could not endure. Number three, God had already equipped Moses for the trial. The trial. God had already given to the children of God the means for their deliverance. They didn't see it yet. They didn't understand, but God had already given them the tool to win the battle. Verse 15. And the Lord said unto Moses, Wherefore criest unto me, speak unto the children to go forward. Go forward, what are you talking about? I didn't bring my scuba gear, Lord. Water! I can't walk on this stuff. I may have a good swimmer, but I can't get through that But lift, verse 16. But lift thou up the rod, and stretch out thine hand over the sea, and divide it. Lord, what are you talking about? Divide the sea. Remember when Moses first said, The children of Israel won't believe me? And God said to Moses, Moses, what's in your hand? hand. What's in your hand? That's in Exodus four and verse two. And the Lord said unto him, What is that in thine hand? And he said, A rod. As Brother Bentz mentioned Sunday school, it's the same rod that became a serpent and ate up the serpent rods of Pharaoh's magicians. You see, God had already given them the rod. It was there The means of their deliverance was at hand. They didn't know how to use it. Moses didn't know it could divide the sea. But by God's power it could. And you see, even in the midst of our greatest trial, God is faithful, who will not suffer us to be tempted above or able, but will also make a way of escape. That you shall may be able to bear it. It's all here. The solution is at hand. God will not leave us without a way to get out. Even if he has to part the Red Sea. Doesn't mean we may not die in this flesh. Doesn't mean we may be not be homeless. The children of Israel were homeless. They had left their homes. They'd left their security. They'd become campers. But God was going to protect them. So God had already given them that which was necessary to endure the trial. God had already equipped Moses for the trial. Number four. God was with Israel in their troubles. This is obvious. This goes without saying that God had not forsaken them, but God was with them in their troubles. If you look back to chapter 13 again, the previous chapter, and verse 21. Chapter 13, verse 21. And the Lord went before them by day in a pillar of cloud. to lead them the way and the p and by night in a pillar of fire to give them light to go by day and night. He took not away the pillar of cloud by day, nor the pillar of fire by night from before the people. Okay, the pillar of fire was always there. The pillar of cloud was always there. God did not take it away. And what was that pillar of fire and pillar of cloud? It was the presence of God with the people. Now, if God never took it away, was it there when they came to the Red Sea? Was it present when they heard the wheels of Pharaoh's chariots? Had God forsaken his people? No. No. He was there with them. They just needed to trust him. They just needed to depend upon him. Now go back to chapter 14 and verse 19 Chapter fourteen and verse nineteen and the angel of God Which went before the camp of Israel removed and went behind them. What was behind them? The Egyptians. You see, that sea wasn't going to come up out of its banks and kill them. The real danger was behind them. God moved to the point of danger. God stood between them. It continues Um and the pillar uh starting halfway through nineteen. And the pillar of cloud went from before their face and stood behind them, and it came between the camp of the Egyptians. and the camp of Israel. And it was a cloud and darkness to them, that's the Egyptians, but it gave light by night to these, that's the Israelites. So that the one came not near the other all that night. Folks, who was this pillar of cloud and pillar of fire? Jesus Christ. It's Jesus Christ. In chapter 13, he's called the angel of Jehovah. In chapter 14, he's called the angel of God, the angel of Elohim. To his people he was light, but to the enemies he was darkness. The Philistines the Egyptians had darkness at the same time that the children of Israel had light. It was darkness to them and light to these. Just as in the plague of darkness in Egypt, where the Egyptian Israelites had light in their dwellings. Now, remembering that this cloud of fire and cloud of pillar is Jesus Christ. Then spake Jesus again unto them, saying, I am the light of the world. He that followeth me shall not walk in darkness, but shall have the light of light. God is with us in our problems, folks. The cloud never left them. The fire never left them, but it did move between them and their enemies to give them light and to give their enemies confusion of darkness. I will never leave thee, nor forsake thee. And then finally, God delivered them from their troubles. Unexpected ways, miraculous doings, but that God parted the Red Sea. The new evangelicals, not the new evangelicals, but the liberals, they try to say, oh well, you know, it was it was it was just a certain time of the year when it was marshy and they just walked through the marshes. Well then what were they afraid of in the first place? No. God parted the Red Sea. I don't think that Pharaoh and his armies could have drowned in the marshes. That's not going to happen. God opened the ocean. God opened the Red Sea. God delivered his people. And as I alluded to earlier, it doesn't mean that we're going to survive all of our troubles. But God delivers the people. God delivers his people. Verse twenty four And it came to pass in the morning, watch, that the Lord looked under the host of the Egyptians through the pillar of fire and of cloud, and troubled the host of the Egyptians and took off their chariot wheels. Folks, the the tracks came off the tanks. Their airplanes couldn't fly. Their bombs, their hand grenades blew up in their own hands. Use any illustration you want. Their guns jammed. And now they're afraid because the Egyptians realize this is more God than we can handle. And the Lord said, verse twenty-six to Moses, Stretch out thine hand over the sea. And the waters came again upon the Egyptians, upon their chariots, and upon their horsemen. Chapter fifteen verses one and through three, and we'll close. Then sang, chapter fifteen, verse one. Then sang Moses and the children of Israel this song unto the Lord, and spake saying I will sing unto the Lord, for he hath triumphed gloriously. The horse and his rider hath he thrown into the sea. The Lord is my strength and my song, and has become my salvation. He is my God, and I will prepare him in habitation. My father's God and I will exalt him. The Lord is a man of war. The Lord Jehovah is his name. For which cause we faint not. Though our outward man perish, yet our inward man is renewed day by day. For our light affliction, which is but for a moment worketh for us a far more exceeding and eternal weight of glory, while we look on the things that are seen. For the things which are seen are temporal, but the things which are not seen are eternal. Let us stand for prayer. Father, we thank you for your word and your truth. Lord, you know all about our circumstances. Father, we thank you that you control it all. Father, calm our hearts before us, before you. O Lord, cause us to fear not, to stand still and to see the salvation. Of the Lord. Father, we pray these things in Jesus' name. Amen.