Looking this morning at first Samuel chapter thirty. Just to remind you where we are located here in the scriptures, it was not but a day or two prior to what we are reading. That it was determined that David would take the 600 men and go after their wives and their children that had been captured by the Amalekites And out of his six hundred men, two hundred were so faint and so weak that they were uh left at the brook Bazor and would not cross over and and they did not join David in the battle So this morning the battle is over and David returns to the Brook Bazor. And I think what we need to learn, if nothing else, from this morning's message is how quickly we can prejudge others, how quickly we can look at some, and we'll find they did here. They looked at the 200 that were faint, that were weak, perhaps as wusses uh perhaps is not as inclined to do the Lord's battles, uh that they didn't have as great a love for their families or something like that. They really tend to look down on them. And I think that's a a hazard that we can have too as we look at other Christians We think that they're not as good as we are, or something like that. And so that's what we see here as we look at 1 Samuel and chapter 30, beginning at verse 20 through 21, if you'll follow with me. And David took all the flocks and the herds, this is after the battle, which they draid before those other cattle, and said, This is David's spoil. And David came to the two hundred men, which were so faint that they could not follow David, whom they had made also to abide at the brook Bizarre. And they went forth to meet David, that is the two hundred that didn't go into the fight. And they went to meet David and the people that were with him. And when David came near to the people, he saluted them, or he greeted them in a kindly fashion, actually. And then answered all the wicked men and men of Belial of those that went with David, and said, Because they went not with us We will not give them aught, nothing of the spoil that we've recovered, save to every man he can have his wife and his children, that they may lead them away and depart. Wow. And then said David, You shall not do so, my brethren, with that which the Lord hath given us, who hath preserved us and delivered us, this company that came against us into our hand. For who will hearken unto you in this matter? But as his part is that with goeth down of the battle, so shall his part be that tareth by the stuff. They shall part alike. He's saying that the part I give you men for fighting the battle, the ones that are saved by the stuff are going to get the same part. We're going to part it the same, equally. And verse 25, and it was so from that day forward that he made it a statute and an ordinance for Israel unto this day. And when David came to Ziklach, he sent of the spoil unto the elders of Judah, verse 26, verse 27, he sent them some of the spoil unto Bethel. Verse 28, he sent some of the spoil unto Sipmoth Verse 29, he sent some of the spoil onto Rachel, city of Rachel. Verse 29, he sent some onto the city of Hormah. And in verse 31, he sent some of the spoil onto Hebron. And so all the places where David himself and his men were wont to haunt or to roam. That word haunt might not be a familiar term with you, the King James uses it, but Uh I know when I was growing up we used to hang out in different places and we said that's my haunt. That's where I hang out. You know, that's my haunt. Um and so it's a biblical term. I didn't even know I was using a biblical term Um in fact it was often my haunt was a bar somewhere, you know. I didn't know I was using a biblical term for hanging out. But um so this is what we have, the story here of David. He comes back from the battle with his four hundred men who fought it And they are not inclined to share with any of the spoils that they had captured from the Amalekites. And we pick up there in verse 20. David came to the 200. And made to abide at the brook Bezor. And David saluted them, greeted them, I said, in a kindly fashion, he did not scold them for having been faint. He did not scold them for not being in the fight, very much like the Lord Jesus Christ, when all his disciples forsook Christ and fled in the garden Matthew 26, 56, later on when Christ met with the disciples in the upper room, he didn't scold them for fleeing. He didn't scold them for being scaredy cats. It was a unique way that he and David both treated those that sometimes were of a faint heart. But I wonder if there's anybody here who has ever regretted not being more charitable towards another. You know, prejudging, jumping too quickly, looking down on somebody. And maybe not knowing the whole story of what was going on in their life and in their heart. When we look at these men here, that they tarried by the stuff, it says in verse 24. We titled a message this morning, Staying by the Stuff or Tearing by the Stuff. And there's a lot we need to note about this group of 200 that were faint and stayed behind. And if we knew all of that, we might not have prejudged them as we maybe are doing right now, and as the four hundred or at least some of the wicked men did You see, when this men stayed back at the Brook Bizarre, they enabled the other 400 to march more swiftly. They could set back some of the baggage They didn't have to carry all their supplies with them that they didn't need in battle. It allowed them to move much more swiftly, much more quickly. And not only that, when you look at this go back to verse 10 where it says they were faint and they were weak and they couldn't cross over the brook and and you start to think, my goodness, uh where's their compassion? They're they're going after the Amalekites to recapture their wives and their daughters and their children, don't they? I mean, I don't care how weak you are and how and how you know faint you are, how can you not want to go After your own wife and daughters and and so for this last week until we got here this morning, maybe we've all been thinking a little less of the two hundred that stayed back at the brook David understood these two hundred men that they would have willingly been in the thick of the battle, as they had been in times past. These two hundred men at the brook, they had fought before in many a battle with David, so they weren't really what you call scaredy cats They weren't wusses. They would have been gladly to have been there in the battle with David in times past they had been. They weren't quitters. If you look at verse twenty-seven, or rather verse twenty-one that we read here They were made to abide at the brook. David commanded them to stay at the brook. In other words, We're getting ready to cross the brook. We got six hundred of us. We're going into battle. We got all this stuff. We got all this baggage. Someone's got to stay by it. And David looks around and he looked at those who are really struggling, those who are really who are are really having a time of it keeping up. And he says, gentlemen, you stay here, you watch the baggage. I'm going to take the strongest, the most viral. I'm taking them to the bed. Not that you don't want to go with us, not that you wouldn't proceed over this brook, but I'm commanding you. He made them to abide by the brook. So from verse 10 to verse 21 Some of us maybe just didn't get the memo or the text that they were commanded to stay there by David. Yes, they were faint, but they would have gone on. Yes, they were weak, but it was their wives and daughters who were trying to rescue. But they were commanded to stay there. They were there as the rear guards. David couldn't be surprised from behind some that had slipped around or outflanked them. They were there to provide a sanctuary for retreat if David's men were beaten and were falling back. They were there also to send up reinforcements if need be. In fact, it's a tactic that David had used before, the idea of leaving 200 behind and taking 400 into battle. We go back to 1 Samuel 25 and verse 13, when David was so offended by the fool named Nabal. And you look at that verse 1 Samuel 25 and 13, and it says, He told 200 of them to abide by the stuff. And he took four hundred. Now the two hundred that abided by the stuff when David went after the fool named Nabal. They weren't whussas, they weren't weaklings, they weren't inclined not to want to do battle. They were commanded to stay back as well. This is called dividing uh uh dividing your uh the tactic of dividing one's forces It was done a lot during the Civil War. Robert E. Lee would do that. He would make the enemy or he'd make the uh the Yankees up north think that he had more men than he had because All of a sudden there's twenty-five thousand coming from here and all of a sudden it would appear to be another twenty-five thousand the other area and they were shocked that they must have double the numbers they thought they had But he would divide the forces and there was only twelve thousand here and ten thousand there. It's a tactic, it's a scary tactic, it's a it's a a very risky tactic, but it often is the very thing that wins battles, letting the enemy think you have twice as many as you have. And David had used this tactic, and it's been used ever since by West Point, the Naval Academy. They teach this tactic all time all the time If you can secretly divide your forces and the enemy doesn't know it, you have a great and distinct advantage. And so that's what David had done. He was doing that here at the brook. He had done it before when they went after Nabal But somebody didn't get the memo, somebody didn't get the text, somebody didn't get the word, because in verse 22 it says all the wicked men that went with David, and that does not mean all 400 men were wicked men But there were some wicked men along there in David's group, in in David's army, among his soldiers. There's wicked people in every church. There's wicked people in every organization. They are there. And here we have some that they are called wicked, men that went with David, and they mustn't have got the memo that David had commanded the two hundred to stay at the brook They weren't just weaklings and wusses and just faint. He commanded them to stay by the stuff. Alright? They said, well, because they were not with us, we will not give them aught. Nothing. Nil, Zada, Zip, we'll give them nothing of the spoil. These wicked people do not have a very charitable heart. These wicked people with David are certainly not Christ-like in their response. This attitude of these wicked ones who will not share or give anything to the two hundred. They're probably some of the same group if we go back to the previous chapter Remember the previous chapter when there were some so mad that the daughters and wives have been captured that they wanted to stone David And through David's thoughtfulness and prayers they drop the stones and they go into battle with him. But where did these wicked men go that wanted to stone David? Well now we find that they rear their ugly heads again, and now they don't want to give anything of the spoils. to those who stayed behind and guarded the stuff. No number is given of how many of them were wicked Uh but there were some wicked men there. They were covetous. They insisted on keeping all the spoil for themselves. It was theirs And the 200 who stayed by the stuff, and think about this: the 200 who stayed by the stuff, they were staying by not just their stuff, but they were staying by the stuff of the 400 who went into battle. They stayed behind and guarded the stuff of the 400 that were in battle. And so here we have them. They're guarding their stuff. They're preserving the stuff of those that gone into battle. And still they don't want to give them any part of the spoil Hey, we preserved your stuff. It's still here. We don't care. You're getting none of the spoil that we took. Very uncharitable. Very unchrist-like. Not to want to share. There's always some like that in the Christian environment they don't want to share. They don't have a giving heart. An understanding heart. They didn't get the memo, the text. I know when you talk about texting, here here's why when I'm texting, that means I'm reading the text. Alright? What's the pastor doing? He's busy right now. He's texting. Not on my little phone. My phone doesn't text read. I'm reading the text. They didn't get the text. They didn't get the memo. These wicked individuals. It hadn't sunk into their heart. Maybe they heard David command them to stay at the brook, but it hadn't sunk into their heart That these men would have just as well fought with them, had done so many times before, but now they have this attitude when they see all the spoil. Ooh, let's keep it all for ourselves. I don't want to share that with them or anyone else But in verse 20, we find that the spoil that they want to keep all for themselves, in verse 20 it says It was David's spoil. It wasn't even their spoil. It was David's spoil. It was David's plan to go into attack. It was David's plan. David's leadership. It was Dav A spoil to dispose of as he sees fit And we see how he sees fit to dispose of it. The second point, King David himself makes it in verse 23. You shall not do so, my brethren, with that which the Lord hath given us. He said, This isn't your spoil, it's my spoil. In fact, it's not even my spoil. It is what God has given us after the battle. And what we do with God's stuff is up to God. It's not up to you, gentlemen. It's not even up to me. If God's caused you to prosper this morning, if God has been good to you It's not up to you to keep it all to yourself. It's to disperse it among the works of God. It's not your spoil. It's what God has given you. I would ask you this morning, what have you got this morning that has not come down from above? What have you got that has not come down from above Paul raises that in First Corinthians when he when he says that what have you got? That you have did not receive. First Corinthians four seven. Everything we got, our health, our good looks. Our prosperity, our success, everything we've got, our ideas, everything we've got, God has come has given to us. And how could we just hoard it and not want to share it? With uh missionaries on the field, needy people in the congregation, needy people in your families, how can you just hold it all in for yourself? What God had imparted to us we should share with our brethren. That's what David was saying. What God's imparted, we should share with our brethren. They have knees. They have fought, by the way, gentlemen, these two hundred men at the brook, they have fought they have fought in other battles. Some of these two hundred men have fought in these other battles. If you think back, have probably saved some of your lives at one point or another in some of the other battles. And now because they miss one battle, because they're commanded to stay at the brook and guard your stuff, you don't want to share. Wow. You watch an Oriole game sometimes, and you'll see a man that's injured. He's sitting on the bench, but does he share in the glory of the team winning? Yes, he does. I mean if they win the pennant and one of the guys on the bench he's been injured for the last three games, does he still get that extra pay? That ex you know, they they get theirs a when you win a pennant or something there's a bonus you get and the man sitting on a bench who can't play because he's got his shoulder thrown out or or wrenched knee, he gets the bonus too, even though he couldn't play. He sat in the bag out staying by the stuff Maybe roughing up some of the baseballs to make them right for the pitchers, maybe oiling somebody's glove, but he still partakes. He gets just as much. Equally These men had fought in other battles. They'd prayed us through this one Now you may think that's a stretch for me to say that there's some out there that they're they're out that are at the brook and they're not fighting, but they're praying for the ones that are. Well you don't know if they were praying for the ones that are fighting Where do you get that pastor? It's nowhere in scripture they were praying for the ones that were fighting. How could you say they were praying for the ones that were fighting? All right. Follow me The soldiers, the four hundred, have left the two hundred of the brook, and they are fighting the Malachites to get back what? The wives and daughters of those back at the brook staying back. By the stuff. Do you not think they're praying for them in, oh dear Lord, may they get there in time. May they rescue my wife and my daughter and my child. Of course they were praying for them in the battle Saying by the stuff they had some more time, had more time to pray than the ones that were swinging the swords and throwing the spears and shooting the arrows and Slinging the stones. These men were praying that when they returned, and that's why it says when David returned, that they came out to meet him, because they are looking over the head of David and the men for their wife and their daughters and their children They were praying for their own family's sake that the battle would go well. Verse 23, David said, by God's mercy he preserved and he delivered us. So should we not be kind to our brothers who stayed by us? the stuff, who prayed for us for victory, who prayed for us for la for a minimal amount of injury, who prayed for us that we'd return all, that we'd bring all back Certainly, the Lord Jesus Christ and his disciples, they hazarded their lives, did they not? We read the story after story. Some died, Stephen was stoned, and James was beheaded, and John the Baptist was beheaded. We know that the men that were with Christ uh to preach that same gospel that they hazard their lives uh for the gospel. And yet there were those who also sacrificially cared for the Lord's stuff. They weren't out they weren't one of the disciples preaching on the hills. They weren't one of the ones being run out of towns. They weren't ones being like Paul being stoned and beaten with rods. And yet there were those who who stood by Christ's stuff and and the stuff of the disciples and uh and you've you've got to see something should be uh there should be some honor given to them too. The little boy with the loaves and the fishes That was the Lord's stuff. That's what God had given that little boy. And how about the upper room that was made available for them? And how about the coal for Christ to ride on that was made available? And how about the garden tomb These all have significant spiritual value. People who are just staying by the stuff, caring for the tomb, you know, caring for the for the for the cult, caring for the upper room, making it available. We all have a part In the ministry. And sometimes it just gets kind of blown off, and people think that, well, that he's not a preacher. He's a he's just cleaning the church. Well she's not teaching Sunday school. She's just down in the kitchen washing the dishes. I'm telling you, there are people who stay by the stuff that are will be just as equally or morsel blessed for having done What needs to be done to complete the total the totality of the work of the ministry So there's us who are staying by the stuff, and I would just ask you, how are you using the stuff that God has given you? How are you using that stuff? Remember the poor widow? She was casting in two mites. You remember that story? The Lord Jesus Christ said in verse 21 and 2 through 4, he says, Look at look at that poor widow over there. She's just cast in two mites. And and you see all those rich men coming in, and they're all casting in. tossing in the cash. They're just piling it on in it for the public to see. They're throwing in shekel after shekel after shekel and and they're making quite a display of themselves. You know what Christ said? She said the two mites that she cast in was more than all that the rich man cast in. Not more than that rich man cast in, not more than that rich man cast in, but the two mites, he said she gave her all She just, that's all she had, and she gave it all. And it was more than all that the rich men that day had cast in Boy, the the reality would be that you look at her two mites and a large pile of shekels here, and her two mites against a dozen or two dozen or three dozen rich men, and how does it compare? Christ said, how does it compare? She gave more. So don't look down on the 200 that stayed back by the brook and didn't get into the battle at the time There's so much going on in a Christian's life that we can observe or that we can ever know It might be easy to be on the front lines and be persecuted for Jesus, and the whole world knows it, and you get the headlines and the paper, and God loved the people that do that. But there may be others that are are sickly and poor and and they're struggling and yet they want to be a good testimony for the Lord and they And they share with other people. Yeah, I'm not I'm not living on Fifth Avenue. I don't shop at Sachs, you know, department stores. But God is good And that's quite a witness, too. Paul also had a tremendous ministry, the Apostle Paul, but he gave a great deal of the credit to those Who were dealing with stuff. He gave a great deal of credit to those who had part in the collecting and the protecting and the providing of the stuff for his ministry. He says, Gaius, mine host. This is where Paul could stay. He said, Gaius, my host, and of the whole church, Romans 16, 23. Gaius, he's not a preacher, he's not a teacher. Uh you know, he doesn't he's not even a a v you know a ri necessarily a rich man, but he always opens his house up And I I I'm there. He hosts me. In fact, the whole church, any minister, any missionary coming through, he hosts them. And then there's Aphrodite. He says, he ministered to my wants in Philippians 2 and 25. He wasn't a preacher either But he ministered to my wants. He took care of the stuff that I needed. And then there's Onesiphorus. Onesiporus, he off-refreshed me. And that while I was in chains in Rome, 2 Timothy 1 and 16. So we should not be surprised when David says, like a good disciple of the Lord Jesus Christ, and he walks was. In verse 23 David said, as his part is in the going down of the battle, so his part be that tarreth by the stuff. Whatever part you get for being in the battle, the people that tarry by the brook, they're going to get the same part. The division is going to be equal. And it became an ordinance of Israel ever after during that. That verse 23, David is dealing with the wicked men who want to give them nothing. for guarding their stuff. I mean they came back and none of their stuff was spoiled, none of the stuff was rotted, none of the stuff had disappeared or was lost. It was all there, but they still wanted to give those men nothing. And David looks at these wicked men with their attitude, and he probably recognized some of them as the same ones who wanted to stone him or were leading the whole group to stone David. And what a heart forgiveness he has. What a heart uh of understanding that the the man is but dust and and we we are frail and we fail and sometimes we just don't we just don't carry ourselves uh like a Christian should David didn't always either, did he? His affair with Bathsheba was certainly not carrying himself as a Christian. Should. But David looked upon these men, those who probably were ready to stone him, and those men now that were ready to cheat the other men out of everything. He looked upon them, and he says in verse 23 Brethren. That's a nice term to use. We talk about brothers and sisters in Christ. I mean if someone had been wanting to stone me before or or had a stone in his hand and is getting ready to stone, I wouldn't say, brethren, you know. That's that's David David has what I call the heart of Christ. He calls them brethren. In other words, he's calling them fellow Israelites. That's what he's really saying to him. He's saying, comrades in arms Come on, fellas. He did all this. He approached them in such a manner, in a loving manner, in a kind manner, these wicked men, who wanted to cheat the other two hundred out of all the spoil. He he approached them like that, brethren. To subdue their wickedness. You ever got to deal with a wicked person? You ever got to deal with something that's really, really nasty? Some of you saw that film Friday night we had here, Ray Comfort With a woman with the red punk hair, you know, and all the the the earrings throughout her cheeks and her ear. I mean she was something else. And she's just blasting him. She's yelling and You call me a sinner, you're a sinner, aren't you a sinner? And Ray Cumber says, Yeah, yeah. You ever committed adultery with your eyes? You ever looked at it? Oh yeah, yeah, I have. Have you ever stolen something? Ray, yes, yeah, yeah, I have. Well, have you ever lied or blasphemed God's name? And Ray Comfort says, Well, yeah, I have. You're as bad as I am. May God strike you death with lightning, she says to Ray Comfort. And Ray said, well, but for the grace of God he would. I mean, you ever render wicked, nasty people? I love Ray Comfort. He just he just was gentle a spirit back at the people blasting. Him. Something we I'm sure all need to work on, but I just wonder how often Christ has put up with our sins. our wickedness, as David did here with the ones that wanted to stone him, as David did here with the ones that wanted to cheat the other men out of their share. How often does Christ put up with our sins? Does Christ have reason enough really to demote us or drum us out of his army? I think so. Does Christ have reason enough to just ignore our prayers? Because of our hypocrisy sometimes? I think so. But if you're a believer, he never has ignored you. He never has defended you. He's never drummed you out of his army. And he never, never will, because he says he will never leave us or forsake us. Wow. What a savior. What a Savior who knows your heart and your actions and your thoughts that your mom and dad don't know, your wife and husband don't know, that your kids don't know, your boy God, our Lord and Jesus, our Savior, He knows your every thought, He knows your every glance, He knows your every every everything of your imagination, of your minds, and He still loves you Wow. Do you think there's anybody here you would love if you knew everything about them? Probably not. But Christ loves his own sheep. And he knows everything about us. How we can be wicked, how we can be sinners. Hm. David was much like that, as he called them brethren. Those who abide by the stuff At the brook of Azore. They were a part of the successful mission. They were a part of it. Just as when Paul said, I planted. And Apollos watered. Paul was a part of the successful missionary work. He only planted. Apollos was a part, but he only watered. God gave the increase, 1 Corinthians 3. 6. Paul understood from Christ's words that what he'd accomplished was not on his own Paul knew that his successful ministry depended on men like Onesipus, it depended on men like Apollos, it depended on men like Aphrodite. It's dependent on a lot of others. It's you know it says we're two or three are gathered, Christ says I am there. No man's an island. No man does it all on his own And these men that had won in the battle, they didn't just do it, have a victory because they were really good at the sword and really fleet of foot and stronger than the other 200 left behind Where two or three are gathered together in my name, Matthew 18 and 20. Christ promises us great things. And there were 200 gathered at the Brook Bezor, praying for the 400 that were fighting. And to think that the ones at the brook were not as worthy as the ones in the battle is just not right. Now I can make an application that Dave was down fighting the bees the other night and I was up praying for Dave. And so I I'm just as brave as Dave. I'm not gonna make that one. But we we need not judge what each uh one of us is doing. God knows what we're doing. God has put us in the place where He wants us to be, to do what He wants us to do And God determines who gets what part of the spoil and what rewards will get. Paul writes in 1 Corinthians 12, verse 12 through 31. Paul is talking about the body of Christ. He says the body is not one member. You know, it's not all one big eye, it's not all one big ear. He said the body of Christ, it's not one member, but many. There's a foot. to the body. And there's a hand to the body, an ear to the body, an eye of the body. And these members which seem to be more feeble, maybe an ear seems kind of feeble compared to a strong arm Maybe maybe the the the uh the lips seem kind of feeble and trembling but c compared to the large muscly legs, you know. But he says that there are all these different parts of the body and and the body needs all these parts The members which seem to be feeble are necessary for the whole thing to work. He says that they're not only necessary, but there are some uncomly parts. And they're necessary as well, and that all the members, I love the way Paul finishes up in chapter 12 of 1 Corinthians, all the members of the body have the same care one for another. So the ear he cares for the foot, and the foot cares for the eye, and the eye cares for the uncommonly parts, and on we go. All the parts of the body, it says they care one for another. Is there a Christian that you don't care so much for? Wow. We are supposed to care one for another. And it's supposed to be the same. Well, I like that Christian a lot more than I like that Christian. Now I I gotta tell you when I read that verse that hit me. That must hit all of us that we don't care It says we're to care the same, the same care one for another. Now I'm not saying you wouldn't care for your own children more than somebody else's children, but I want you to get the idea that we shouldn't be setting aside some Christians Because they seem not as spiritual. If they seem weaker. They seem not as intense We're all a part of the body. And those of you who are the eyes of the body today, maybe there was a time when you were just a dusty foot, you know? And those of you that are the mouthpiece of God today, great. But maybe there was a time when you were just the ear full of dirty wax. You know? We're to care the same one for another. The praying hands at the brook and the slaying hands on the battlefield, they shall share alike, said David. The praying hands and the slaying hands They shall share alike, verse 24. It reminds you the story Christ told where they asked for laborers to come out and work in in the vineyard And he gave him a penny for the whole day, and a few hours later Christ gave you out and he said he came out and he said, I need some more workers in the vineyard and I'll give you a penny for the rest of the day And then the latter hour in the eleventh hour of the day, he said, look, we're not going to finish this all. I need more labor, so I'll give you a penny if you just if you start work, even though it's the eleventh hour. And the men came around to get paid. And what happened? He starts giving everybody a penny. They all got the same. A lot of people don't like that story. I served Jesus for 40 years of my life. I served the Lord Jesus Christ for 20 years of my life. This guy gets saved on his deathbed in two or three days he dies. And he gets in the heaven too? That doesn't seem fair. Or the the one you always hear I gave to my I I tithe and I attended church and I did all this stuff for the Lord all my life. And this guy on the cross just says, Lord, forgive me, remember me, when you get to your paradise, and and Jesus says, Sure, fine, you're you are in, dear friend. That doesn't seem fair. Deathbed conversion, he gets the same treatment that I get for all my years of service. Yep That's the way it works. Now for someone sitting here who is fourteen or fifteen, don't wait till you're sixty-five and say, Well, I'll have a deathbed conversion because I've lived long enough to know that a lot of people never reach. 65 or 55 or 45 or 35. But that is the way it works. The man who gave Luther a drink at the Diet of Worms. Luther was there and he was speaking before the emperor and to the cardinals. And it's a very intense moment. He knows that what he is saying will probably cost him his life. A decree will come out from the Pope. You know, he'll be so mad the decree will come out and in fact it did come out and it said that anyone who kills Luther gets a special dispensation. They will they will spend no time in purgatory if you kill Luther. Luther knows he's in a tough position as he's preaching from the Word of God and he's sharing before the Emperor and for before the Cardinals. This this Catholic monk is He's got to feel the pressure of these Catholic cardinals. He's only a monk. And as he's sitting there, his his tongue and his lips start to stick together, his mouth gets dry, and a man runs forward and gives him a cup of cold water. That he might continue to speak. And that man whose name is not recorded, it says, a cup of cold water giving the name of the disciple of Christ, it shall be rewarded. That man didn't preach, that man didn't write any commentaries, that man didn't stand in the pulpit, but he gave a cup of cold water to a disciple of Christ, and his reward would be great. So what are you doing with your time here? There's so much we can be doing. Wife and I have been going to the hospitals a lot lately, wondering what on earth was this all about. But we found out one thing. We haven't been in some of these hospitals in a long time. You know, I we get out there once a month when someone is having surgery. But we've been there a lot lately and now we're dropping tracks everywhere. That's fun. Take advantage of those situations when you can The greatest saints will not always be the men whose words and deeds are filling the pages of church history. And we read of some great men and great church deeds, and they do fill volume after volume of church history books. But the greatest saints may be those who just stayed by the stuff faithfully. And they prayed by the stuff faithfully. And you've never heard of them. The reward is not to the apparent successful ministry, and let me underscore the apparent successful ministries that are out there in missionary works, the reward is not to those apparent successful missionary works, but to the faithful missionary works. Proverbs 25, 11 says, a word fitly spoken, one word, a word fitly spoken is like apples of gold and pictures of frame, and pictures of silver rather. I submit to you that a word, just one amen punctuating someone's prayer, just one amen punctuating a sermon or a sermon point may accomplish a great deal more. Than you might ever imagine. A word fitly spoken. Take this thought home with you today. Are the voices that preach equal to the hearts that pray? Are the voices that preach, or maybe we should have put it the other way around, are the hearts that pray equal to the lips that preach. You can find the answer in Exodus 17. 1 as Joshua is out fighting the battle And Moses and Aaron and her, they say, You go out to fight Joseph, and we'll be standing here by the rock lifting our hands in prayer over the battle. And it says, as Moses' hands were lifted up in prayer. He was winning the battle, and when his hand got tired and started to fall down, and Ur and Er would lift Moses' hands back up. He'd pray again over the battle scene down below, and Joshua would win. And by the way, who do you think Joshua was fighting that day The Amalekites, the same ones that David is chasing after here in 1 Samuel and chapter 30. And so in that day, what carried the day that day? Joshua fighting or Moses praying? Oh, you can't preach, but can you pray? You can't teach, but can you pray? You can't tithe, but can you pray? Pray In verses 26 through 31, David did not only give the spoil to those who stayed at the brook and to those that went into battle with him, but he spread it around. There must have been a lot of it. He sent the spoil out to the elders of Judah, to the city of Bethel, to the city of Siphoth, Rachel, Hormoth, Hebron, all the places where David and his men were wont to haunt or visit or hang out. These cities, though previously spoiled by the Amalekites, the Amalekites had gone in and spoiled those cities. Now David provided them. With a part of the spoil. These cities had protected David, provided David, prayed for David while he was being pursued by King Saul. And he came back to bless them for having been a blessing to him. As gracious And Christ-like as you could be, he was to these cities. And as gracious and Christ-like as David was to these cities. Revelation 11 18 assures us, pilgrim, That Christ is far more gracious in rewarding the saints. It says in Revelation 11 and 18, he is far more gracious in rewarding the saints. Small and great, who stay by the stuff. Can you at least stay by this stuff right here? God's word. Stay by it. Stay by it. No matter what the world says or proclaims. Let's pray. Father, we thank thee this day that God's uh balancing machinery, balancing what we do, what we say, where we go, how we think, that you you look at the works of the believers And you put a different price and premium on some things that are said and done than the church would, than the world would, than other Christians would. We thank you, Lord, that you are more than fair Overly fair, graciously fair, wonderfully fair. And we thank you, Father, that someday in heaven we'll all be surprised at how much you've stored up for us Because we stayed by your stuff down here. And it's in Christ Jesus' name we pray. Amen.