Maybe uh you're a surrogate father, you're you're an uncle, but the father's absent and you you you are the father in many many cases. I think that can be dialed back just a little bit yet So you're if you're a surrogate father, an uncle, you're a substitute, you're a backup, you're an understudy of some sort. And um so we're all we're all fathers, probably all the men here in one way or another And of course the good father, whether you're a stepfather, grandfather, uh spiritual father like Paul, if you know the Heavenly Father And if you know Christ who is our everlasting father, according to Isaiah nine six, that would make you a pretty good father. And you would try to if you are a good father and you know the Lord the Heavenly Father and Christ the Everlasting Father, you'd want to be Christ's life. You'd want to replicate. You want to match the uh the things that are attributed to God the Father. We we talk about the attributes of God, that He is holy. uh that he is sovereign. Uh you know, we we have all these different attributes of God. Our our Westminster Confession lists about twelve of them. And so we're going to talk a little bit about the attributes, the things that are attributed to God, the Father. And if we are Godlike or Christlike Or like our everlasting Father, we ought to have some of the attributes of God as well. And where I went, and if you would go there with me this morning to the Lord's Prayer Uh actually it's not the Lord's Prayer. It's our prayer that the Lord taught. The Lord's Prayer is found in uh John chapter 17. And that that prayer might surprise you if you read that one sometime But let's look at Matthew chapter 6 for a moment. And then we'll look at the attributes disclosed there. Matthew chapter 6, verses 9 through 13. After this manner, therefore, pray ye, our Father which art in heaven, hallowed be thy name. Thy kingdom come, thy will be done in earth as it is in heaven. Give us this day our daily bread, and forgive us our debts as we forgive our debtors. And lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil, for thine is the kingdom, and the power, and the glory forever. Amen. Verse 9 starts out as our Father which art in heaven. The first attribute we notice of our heavenly Father, that a godly father ought to have, is that we ought to be heavenly minded. For our our heavenly father is in heaven, and it starts out, our father which art in heaven. A godly father is heavenly minded. We find that in the case of Noah when he went into the ark, he was looking heavenward as the rains begin to fall And we find the same of Moses in the wilderness as he was gathering manna that came down from heaven. And we find that again in Exodus 16. So both Noah and Moses were heavenly minded And then we also find that the Lord Jesus Christ in John 6 and 31, he tells us that he is the bread which came down from heaven. He is the living bread that came down from heaven. And so we find here in the scriptures that uh people of God are are heavenly minded. That's what the attributes of God. He's in heaven. He is certainly mindful of what's going on in heaven And we ought to be heavenly minded as well. So do you tell your children about heavenly things? If you're a godly father and you have heaven in in mind as you should Do you tell your children about heavenly things? Now I didn't just make that up because in John 3:12 it talks about the heavenly things. And again in Hebrews 8 and 5 it talks about the heavenly things. So a father, a good father Uh he should be talking to his children about the heavenly things. And uh our children as they watch us they ought to see that heavenly things are important to us, more so than TV, more so than our computers, more so than our smartphones Heavenly things are important to a godly father, and his children ought to recognize that. And that's the first attribute that we notice. And I'm I'm going to give you six attributes this morning, but I'm sure if we went through the Lord's Prayer, as it's called, we could probably We find ten or a dozen attributes. Also in verse 9, it says, hallowed be thy name. The word hallowed there, we don't use it too often today, but it means holy be thy name. God's name is holy. And uh it's why one of the Ten Commandments tells us not to use it in vain or in a light-hearted manner, in a casual manner Uh the Jewish people when they when they would write God's name they would leave out the vowels and even when they write in the English you'll you'll see some people write G with an underscore and a D on it. They d they they can't bring themselves to even write that the word is so holy, so holy. And um a godly father ought to be a have the attributes of God as much as he can, be Christlike. A godly man, a godly father ought to be a holy It's one of the attributes of God to be holy. And uh Exodus 22 and 31, exhorted by God to the Israelites, he said, Ye shall be holy men. We're to be holy men Now some people tell us you're holier than thou. Well that's not possible, but we understand when they run to someone who is living a sanctified life or living a Christian life that we often appear to people holier than thou And they they don't like that. But that's actually an attribute of God. That He is holy. And that's we're Christ like and Christ as our everlasting Father We should be holy men. In fact, we also read in 2 Peter 1 and 21 that holy men of God spake as they were moved by the Holy Ghost. Alright? So there were holy men in the times of Peter, and Peter was one of them. And the writers of the Old and New Testament. They were holy men. People looked upon them as holy men. Samuel, the people feared him. He was such a holy man. They were afraid of Samuel. Old man he could hardly walk anymore, up to going up to uh up to the cities, and they feared his coming. He was a holy man. And we read in scripture description of elders and deacons and these are people who are supposed to be set apart and service the church. and they should be above the average in the church. And we read that the criteria for uh those of uh elder and so forth, they're to be of good behavior. Given to hospitality, patient, not a brawler, not given to wine, not double-tongued. 1 Timothy 3, 2 through 8. And in Titus 1, verse 8, it says, And they're to be holy. They're to be holy. So that term shouldn't be we're we're gonna be hallowed people, we're gonna be holy people. And it's it's really important. And and when you have people who are really holy, they don't have to walk around with a big Bible or a big cross hanging around their neck People will pick it up pretty quick by your conversation. Your children will pick it up very quick by your conversation, whether you are a a holy person or not Joshua was a holy man. We read in Scripture that all of Israel feared Joshua. The whole nation of Israel feared their commander Joshua, not because he had a sword and a shield and a spear and he could fight. They feared him, it says, because he was a holy man. In fact, it says he was holy. They feared Joshua as they feared Moses all the days of their lives because they were holy men. Wow. And in the New Testament, we find the same thing of Herod. Herod, he feared, anybody remember who Herod feared? He feared John the Baptist, knowing he was a just man and holy. Mark 6 and verse 20. So the sign of a good father would be a holy father, one who is uh much like the Lord Jesus Christ, the everlasting Father. The world today has little fear of the body of Christ, do they? They don't, do they? They're not afraid of the body of Christ today Uh California's got a law right now they're trying to pass that will uh force all Christian colleges and universities to uh allow the men and the women in the same bathrooms uh to allow the the the gays and the homosexuals to teach, uh to hold uh positions in the Christian universities and colleges and so forth. Uh they're gonna make it they want a level playing field And uh do you think that will pass in California? Oh yeah. Yeah. And then from California to New York and Chicago, and it'll be all across the land very soon. The Christians, holy people, will be uh not allowed or not so frequent anymore. They're not afraid of uh the body of Christ today And the reason I'm not afraid of the body of Christ today is because the cultural hodgepodge has replaced holiness in the ministers, in the ministries, and also in the man who claims to be a Christ, a Christian. It's just a bunch of hodgepodge of stuff that we're letting creep into our lives, folks. And it's not just the internet. Uh it's it's really sad. They out they don't fear us because the body of Christ say for the most part there aren't any holy people. There are some But not near the numbers that there were in the days of the twelve di well, eleven of the twelve disciples and John the Baptist and Stephen and and we can go through and the Ethiopian eunuch and And uh we can find Lydia, she was a holy lady, and we can go through it. There were some holy people. And even the Romans feared the holy people of God. The centurion stood on Calvary and said, Truly this was a holy man, and he trembled. To think that they crucified a holy man, the Lord Jesus Christ. It's hard to find people who tremble before Christians. And it's hard to find a holy person that would cause them to tremble. But that's the second attribute of God, uh that He is holy. And uh Father's idea is to ask you this morning, have you grown more Christ-like since you were saved? A holy man grows more Christ-like, becomes more and more sanctified. You never become perfect. You will still sin from time to time, but you are growing in grace and eyes of the Lord. You are growing towards sanctification. Uh, you are growing towards a time when you were you about the time you everyone thinks he's really gotten to be a holy person, he dies. You know. Uh it's just the way it works. But are you are you more holy today? Are you more sanctified today than you were in the day you were saved? Are you more attached to the things, uh the heavenly things, are you more attached to the things that are sacred than you were five years ago? That'll tell you whether you're a saved person, that'll tell you whether you're growing in grace and knowledge. Are you more attached to the sacred things than you were a year ago, five years ago, ten years ago? There ought to be a growing towards sanctification. That's an attribute of God, holiness. And people ought to see it in us. And they ought to be afraid of us. We don't see much of that today. And verse ten, Thy will be done, the third attribute. God gets done what he wants done, doesn't he? God is sovereign. That's an attribute of God. People say, well, uh if if well let's pray and hopefully God can do that. God can do it. Anything. But God can do anything. Thy will be done. A godly father strives to fulfill God's will That's what we do. We don't always accomplish it. We're not God. We can't accomplish everything we attempt to do. But we ought to be striving towards doing what God would have us to do. If you're a godly father and your children are observing you, they ought to see that you are striving to keep the commandments, striving to keep the statutes. Striving to do the will of God. They ought to see that. They ought to see that. Though it's a struggle and though you fail sometimes, our children ought to see that we are striving to live lives according to the Word of God. My daughter used to sneak downstairs late at night to see what my wife and I were watching on TV. And if we jumped up and hit the off button, she'd have probably pulled the button back on again, you know, or or the newt button. Um children want to see if you are what you appear to be. They want to see what you've got on your computer. They'll come slip up behind. We had the grandchildren this week. I had the computer up there with us and land cap And boy, those those grandchildren make a lot of noise, but they want to. They can come up behind. You don't even know they're there. First thing I noticed it was breathing on my ears. She lowered my shoulder to see what I had on the computer. Didn't even know she was there there. They check us out. They know the hypocrite from the real holy man. You know, sometimes in church on Sunday morning everybody says, Oh, there's a great Christian, oh we've got so many good Christians that are here. But are you the same on Mondays you are on Sunday? Your children know. Your wife knows And maybe you can stretch it to Monday very the same on Sunday as you are on Tuesday and Wednesday and Thursday and Friday. Your children know Heard children say sometimes, yeah, you think my father's so great. Well tell you what, that's not the man we know, I guess Kids know. And as a father, you need to be a godly father, a holy father. A father striving to keep God's word. That's the father a child will obey. That's the father a child will fear. If you're a holy man, you want your children to love you and fear you. We're to love and fear God with all our soul, all our heart, all our might. We want our children to love us and fear us Uh some people have it half right. They want the children to love them, but they don't want them to fear them or respect them. And the children will run all over the topia. And you you You can't have that. But that's the third attribute, that thy will be done. God we should be striving to do God's will. At the marriage feast of Canaan, when they ran out of wine And I don't believe that was grape juice, but I think it was a wine that was very, very mildly alcoholic. Uh it was a especially the wine that Christ made, they said it was the best they say the best for last. That meant it was the freshest. And um they were surprised that it was fresh wine had just been crushed in the grape and it was so fresh and it was so so sweet and so there's little time for much fermentation, but I I believe it was wine, not grape juice But it says here that the mother came to Christ and and she said, We're out of wine. And the boy said, What do you want me to do with that? And and she finally realized that she's being a little uh overriding there and wanting him to do something that maybe he wasn't prepared to do yet. And Christ said, uh he as he looked at his mother, she just turned to the servants and she said, Whatsoever he saith on you, do it And of course he had to bring the firkins, the jars full of water, he he changed them into wine. The scriptures are the words of Christ telling us what we are to do. She said, do what he says. And Christ told him, Bring the firkins for the water. And the scriptures tell us that uh if Christ's will be done. And he says, Bring me the firkins full of water. We're to do as Mary said to the servants at the wedding feast, do what he says. And as as fathers We are as holy fathers, godly fathers, we're to do what the words of Christ say. And the Bible is the Word of Christ. He is the Word incarnate So people say, well, I want the red letter edition. You should red letter it from Genesis chapter 1-1 to Revelation 22. It's all cr Christ is the incarnate word. It's all his word. Alright? It's his word. In the beginning was the word. And God said, let there be light. Who do you think was speaking? Let there be light. That was the word speaking. So the whole Bible is Christ's words. And we're to obey his words. Do what he says. So the scriptures, the words of Christ telling us what to do. Fathers, let me tell you the Bible says just briefly: Bring up your children in the nurture and admonition of the Lord. Ephesians 6. 4. A godly father, thy will be done. God would have you to bring up your children in the nurture and the admonition of the Lord. That's Ephesians 6. 4. Mark 10 and 14, Suffer the little children. Come unto me and forbid them not. That I just I shudder inside when I say to somebody, um You know, talk to somebody and not sure they're they're even going to church. You go to church, you have to go to church sometimes. Do you take the kids to church or Sunday school? Well, you know, I want them to make that decision for themselves. You know, I think when a child's eighteen he can make that decision. Um I I don't want to force that on him. He might hate church if I force that on him. Then you're not doing what Christ said. Sub the little children, come unto me and forbid them not. You're you're in essence telling the children I'm not gonna take you to Sunday school until you want to go. You're you're keeping your children From the Lord Jesus Christ. You're forbidding them to be there in essence. You're not nurturing them and and and raising them up in the admonition of the Lord. Thy will be done. We're supposed to be doing God's will, and His will is to bring our children To hear the word of God. And when we're in the line of saying something like that, we ought to realize that your activities, Father, you ought to be excited about church You ought to be excited about the words you read. You ought to be excited about the things that God has done in your life or God is doing in the world. It ought to be exciting to you And you you ought to be animated about the the gospel. You ought to be animated about the stories in the Bible. You ought to be so animated that you animate your children that they want to see what's in the Bible, they want to read it too And know what the will of the Lord Jesus Christ is for their life. So I'd say, do you animate your children towards the things that are sacred and holy and godly and good? And you might think, well, they're just innocent children, you know, they don't they don't need Jesus yet. You know, maybe when they're teenagers, you'll wish they'd had Jesus before they ever got to be teenagers. I can tell you that right now They need they need the Lord. They come out of the womb speaking lies. They're little sinners the moment they're born. They don't sin because they're Uh and that m makes them a sinner. They sin because they were sinners when they came out of the womb. And I know some people don't think that it it's amazing how people try to do do back word flips and and everything else to try to get away from cartwheels and everything else to get away from some of the things the scripture says. But uh in second Kings two and twenty-four There's forty-two children and they they come out and they start mocking a holy man of God, a man they should have feared, with a prophets of God, and they're they're about to mock him and two she-bears come out and they tear and they kill the children And I've heard people say, oh, well, they were teenagers, you know. It's not what it says in the scriptures. It says that these are little children. The Hebrew word implies they were maybe six or seven years old. They were young children and they already had no fear of God and no fear of a holy man. Where do you think they got that attitude from? Their parents They got it from their parents to ridicule and to mock. Well, they either got it from their parents, they got it from college, but I suspect because it's little children, they got it from their parents. Be careful where you send your kids to college too. Verse 11, give us this day our daily bread. That's the fourth attribute of God. God provides for us. God is approachable that you can you can call on God to give you something. God is approachable. And a godly father is approachable. His children shouldn't fear him so much reverential fear, but you ought to be able to uh are you approachable, I would say, to your fathers and your grandfathers. Do the grandchildren like to come over and hop on your knee and the children like to come over and And tug on your shirt sleeve and and hang on your shoulders and want to play with you. I mean, are your children uh do they feel that their father is approachable? Give us this day. Christ said, Come unto me, all ye that labor, and I will give you rest, Matthew eleven, twenty-eight. Christ was approachable. The everlasting Father was approachable. He says, Come unto me. And we find women coming in and And bringing their babes. They said they're babes. They couldn't even walk yet. They were just babies. And already the mother saw the importance of bringing a babe in her arms into the presence of Christ And you say, well, a baby can't understand those words, so what does it matter if they're in the presence of I'll tell you what, I take my child in the presence of Christ, whether that that child understood the word of God or not. I just want them there. You hope through osmosis or something that uh uh that you know we don't really know what a child understands. When I was growing up, about ten or twelve years old, I was told that babies couldn't see until they were six months old And we're sitting at a picnic one day and there's a little baby, a couple months old, and he's watching an ant go across the blanket, and he's trying to catch it with his finger. He's only a couple months old. But but the doctor told his babies can't even see until they're six months old. I mean isn't that crazy? And then other people say well babies uh they can't hear and distinguish voices, you know, in until after they're born And yet as soon as the baby's born, they hear mom's voice here and dad's voice there and they turn and they look, you know, they recognize that voice that they've been hearing for nine months in the womb And we know that our dogs, who we think are so smart, we've all got how many got smart dogs? Really smart dogs. Yeah, okay, of course. Uh they say a dog understand the dumbest dog understands about fifty words And some understand a whole lot more than that. They can't speak it back, but they understand it, though they can't say it. And babies, long before they start to talk, they understand words. They understand mom and dad and food and they had they understand a lot of stuff. So the women were bringing their carrying their babes in their arms to the Lord Jesus Christ. And uh You know, it it's just it just makes sense for us to be approachable as Christ was approachable and they brought their children to him. How approachable is this? He'll give us our daily bread. He's not only approachable, but he'll give us our daily bread. Christ is the same yesterday, today, and forever, so he'll still give us our daily bread. As he would then. Uh ye have not because you ask not. James four and verse two. So here he is, that he he provides for us. He's approachable for us. And as the father were to provide for our children, we're to be approachable that they can get the things that they need And how how approachable should we be? Well the Lord Jesus Christ was very approachable. Tax collectors approached him. Blind people approached him. Lepers approached him. Sinners, notorious sinners approached Christ. Even some Pharisees came by night to talk with the Lord Jesus. Very approachable. There wasn't a tide, day or night, when Christ wasn't available. And fathers, we ought to be approachable. We ought to be available. We ought to have our ears open to the needs of our children and provide as much as we can. We have a God that can provide for us, and if our children realize that our fathers will provide for us, then they will believe that it's the Heavenly Father. who can provide even more for us. We we tell them stories about our Heavenly Father providing manna daily for forty years in the wilderness. Wow, what a what a heavenly father that is. And we ought to provide for our children. Maybe not for forty years. They grow up and they get their own jobs and lives. We need to provide for them as much as we can. We can certainly provide for them for forty years in input and advice Whether they want it or not. We we can do that. But we're to provide for them. The Lord provided for forty years in the wilderness with Mana. He fed five thousand with with just Five loaves and and two fishes. Now it's five thousand men. There was also the women and the children that aren't even counted into that. If you read that in Matthew 14 19 through 21. He fed five thousand with five loaves and two fishes, and remember there's much left over after that. So are we fathers who are approachable to meet the needs of our children? A good father is approachable. and he can meet the needs of his children. And if you don't think that that was enough for the Lord in providing for the manna, providing for the fishes, he also provided his only son to die a horrible, horrible death on the cross. I've got to ask you. When we're talking about praying to God, will God do this for me? It's a real need. Not a want, but a need. Will God do this? It's a real need I have with God. And we wonder whether God will meet this need or God will meet that need. He has already met your greatest need, salvation. And he's already paid, he's already dug down the deepest he can, and he has sacrificed his only son on a horrible cross for you. Do you really think he wouldn't meet the smaller, littler, insignificant needs? He's already met such a gigantic need that cost him dearly? He'll meet your needs. That aren't near as dear as your salvation, that don't cost near as much as the blood of his only son. That's the kind of a heavenly father we have. He meets our needs We just confuse them sometimes with our wants. But we think we need them right now, and he knows you don't need them for two more weeks. But he meets their needs. The fifth attribute Forgive us our debts as we forgive our debtors. Oh, and let me just go back for a second on that fourth attribute, meeting the needs of your children. Fathers, do you address the daily physical and spiritual needs of your children? We need to be doing that. And then in verse 12, forgive us our debts as we forgive our debtors. The fifth attribute, a godly father is forgiving. Our godly Father is forgiving. Our Heavenly Father is forgiving. We ought to be as forgiving. God forgave Moses for murder. Exodus 2. God forgave David for adultery, 2 Samuel 12. God forgave Peter for perjury. Peter didn't just deny Christ three times. It says there in Matthew 26 and 74 that Peter denied Christ. That's perjury. That's lying. Peter denied Christ with perjury, with cursing and swearing. Wow. And he forgave them. Paul was guilty of imprisoning Christians, punishing Christians, persecuting Christians, having Christians put to death, and Christ forgave him. Acts 26. 10 and 11. In fact, in Hebrews 8. 12, God says that I only forgive them, but their sins are remembered no more. Well, what a heavenly Father. He remembers their sins no more. I'd ask you, fathers, do you ever bring up the past sins of your children and say, I can't believe it, you did it again? What was it, a month ago, two months ago you did this? I thought we went out in the woodshed, we took care of this, and you're doing it again. Fathers, you don't bring up the past. If you forgive them, you don't bring up the past. God says he remembers our sins no more. Hebrews 8 and verse 12. Don't bring up the past sins. It does no good to just forgive and then keep on remembering and reminding them. That's about right, Father. Others. I could apply that to husbands and wives as well, not bringing up the past when something has happened in the past in your life. You don't bring up the the wife shouldn't bring it back up. Well I see you're late again today. You know, he told me you'd never be late again. And well you did that for about a week, but now you're late again. You bring it up to pass. You don't do that I think one of the things I love about our Heavenly Father is he really does forgive and forget. I know it's hard for us to forget. You know, it's not that God has a total blank on what has happened. Really? You did that? I I didn't remember that. God, that's not what it means by God's forgetting. It means it's not brought up anymore It doesn't matter anymore. It's blotted out. Far as the east is from the west. I mean he knows what we've done. He knows everything. He'll always know everything. But it's not brought up and thrown up in our faces. God is so forgiving and He does forget, so forgiving that there are no second-class Christians. Do you know that the adulterous murderer David and God forgave him? Oh, there was some punishment that followed. We know that we're going to be going to that next couple weeks. But God forgave David and let him write the Psalms He continued to write the Holy Spirit-inspired Psalms. Wow. How about Solomon? Did God forgive Solomon? My goodness. I believe that Solomon was saved in the latter days of his life. When he talks about an ecclesiastic vanity, vanity, all is vanity. God forgave Solomon, who well outdid his father, hundreds of wives and concubines. He forgave him and let him write the book, the Song of Solomon, let him write the holy inspired work, the book of Ecclesiastes. Talk about them not being second-class Christians, talk about God forgiving and forgiving. And how about the Apostle Paul Persecuting, punishing, giving his word that they would be put to death. These are Christians that Paul is executing, and God forgives them And God forgets it. And what does Paul do? Well, let's see. Paul writes Corinthians, Galatians, Ephesians, Olympians, 1 and 2 Timothy, Titus. Wow, talk about forgiveness. I mean you take out the books of the Bible of the sinners, you got you don't have any books left. You have Moses murders, and he writes Genesis X of the biggest numbers in Deuteronomy Wow, that's forgiveness, friends. And we need to be Christ-like our like our everlasting Father, the Lord Jesus Christ. Forgive and forget. Give people a clean slate. Start. Over and not bring up the past. Verse thirteen. The sixth attribute. I said there were six attributes. There's a lot more in here, but A godly Father, lead us not in temptation, but deliver us from evil. A godly father follows the Lord's leading. And if you follow the Lord's leading, you won't be led into temptation. You will be delivered from evil. It's when you go off the straight and narrow and you get off the path where you run into Satan, Lucifer, the demons the horrible aspects of this world, it's when you're off the path that you run into so much trouble. A godly father follows the Lord's leading. Moses followed the Lord's leading. Remember in the wilderness, he followed the cloud by day and the pillar of fire by night, didn't he? He's going all around you know, if he said, Well that column can go off that way and that fiery column that's okay too. I I'm I'm I think I see an oasis over there. I'm gonna go over there instead. You know what happened the next morning There wouldn't have been any man on the ground because the man is over where the column of fire was last night and where the cloud by day was. We have to follow the Lord's leading and the Lord has given us a book That tells us where God would have us to go, what God would have us to do, not just as fathers, but as mothers, as Christians, as children. It's all there for us. Lead us not to temptation A godly father follows the Lord's leading as Moses did the cloud in the wilderness, as Gideon followed the Lord after a fleece confirmed the leading in Judges 6 we could talk about that a little bit. God already told Guinea what he wanted to do and Gidney wasn't sure he wanted a fleece and God gave him the fleece and then he still wasn't sure and God gave him another fleece and so after about three uh instructions to getting. He finally got it. He knew what God's leading was. And how about John the Baptist and James and Stephen and countless others that were led to follow Christ all the way to their day Yes. To the death. Are you prepared to follow the Lord to the death? That's a leading of Christ that we would be willing to lay down our lives. Greater love of no man this, he lay down his life for a friend. Is Christ your friend? He's your Savior. He ought to be your friend. And Christians this very day Over there in Saudi Arabia and Somalia and Yemen, Afghanistan. People are are laying down a life for Christ. They're following the leading of Christ Being crucif somewhere being crucified as Christ was. It's horrible what's going on over there. And it's coming to a town near you someday too. is no longer uh going to be f freed up from all that. We're gonna have the same things happening here. We have at 9-11. We've had it with the recent massacre at San Bernard. With the one in Orlando, it's just going to keep happening and happening because they no longer fear holy men of God because there's so few of us. Fathers, where are you today in your walk? Would it lead your children? If your children follow you, will it lead them to Christ? A story was told years ago of a man decided to go out and rob a bank early one morning. It had been snowing, and he's out, he's walking towards the bank And he's feeling very feels like everybody's looking at him or watching him, robbed the bank, and as he approaches the bank he hears footsteps behind him. He turns to look, and there's his seven year old son stepping in the snowy footprints, following his father. to rob the bank. And he didn't rob that bank. He committed his life to Christ because he realized that where he was leading the Son was not to a heavenly father. So, fathers, where are you today in your walk? Have you left the broad way to destruction? Are you travelling the narrow way that leadeth unto life? Matthew seven, thirteen and fourteen. The Bible tells us, Choose ye this day whom you'll serve. This is what Joshua said. Choose this in Joshua 24, 15. Choose ye this day whom you will serve. Bless for me in my house, we will serve the Lord. Joshua said, You choose who you want to serve, but it's for me and my house. House, children, wife, we're going to serve the Lord. Your choice will probably affect your children. Are you going to serve the Lord? Joshua says, for me and my household, we will Serve the Lord. Fathers, it's incumbent upon us that we lead our children along the same path we have chosen. And they will probably follow the same path we have chosen. So your choice will probably lead your children to the Lord or to follow you away from the Lord. And we find all through scripture that idea, telling a family Choose this day whom you will serve as for me in this house. You want to be a part of this household? You follow the Lord. You don't want to be a part of this household? There's the door. If you don't like that door, there's a door over here You stay in this household, you follow the Father who's following the Lord. And we find that so much that in Lydia's household when she got saved, Baptized the whole family, the whole household. Why? Because she said, I'm going to follow the Lord, the whole household is going to follow the Lord in baptism. They did it. And then the Philippians Javer, same thing. He got saved, the whole family got baptized with them. Household baptism They just did it. You're going to follow the Lord. Same thing with the the jailer. Or just did the jailer. The uh Cornelius. When Cornelius got saved, that's it, the whole household. You're going to follow me in the Lord. Or you get out of the house And the same with Stephanus. Paul said, I baptize Stephanus in his household. Those are the days when a father, a holy man of God, he led his household to salvation. He said, You will follow me. This day and serve the Lord. So, fathers, the day is coming when your children will either hate you or thank you. Eternity. In eternity, your children will either love you and thank you and hate you, depending on where you've led them. Where are you leading your children today Dads, grandfathers, surrogate fathers, uncles. Where are you leading the children that you have influence in your life or? Because someday in eternity they will hate you or thank you Let's pray. Lord, we thank you this day that even in the simplest of prayers that we probably all have memorized and we probably all said hundreds of times. that there are enclosed in that prayer the things that we attribute to God, the things that we are to become Christ-like, God like ourselves. We're to be a holy people as our God is. A forgiving people as our God is And one that follows the scriptures that our God has written. Oh Lord, put it upon our hearts today to be better fathers Grandfathers, better parents, put it upon the hearts of the children that are here today that they would be willing to follow the godly parent, and that they someday would be godly fathers and godly mothers