Morning. I said last week it was the last study on socialism, and that's somewhat true, but I've had a number of of you provide feedback on things you'd like to hear. This one kind of loosely relates to socialism, but it's very a loose connection. And the subject today is support to the needy. For instance, what do I mean by support to the needy? Here's the kinds of questions that Angela and I have received over the years Uh how should I financially support a relative? How should I financially support a friend? What if they're able-bodied but don't seem to keep a job? What about family overseas? Especially if they're have their own houses and you don't have one, they've got their own situation laid out, much more comfortable means of of living, but you don't But there's no job over there. What about a poor brother in the church who always seems to be in need? I don't know if you've seen those individuals where they just are constantly in need. More simply, what about the woman begging on the street corner Now what is the Christians' principles for handling these sorts of things? So I've dealt with this over a number of years. I tend to be a uh a very generous individual. God has of course blessed me and I've been fortunate enough to have somewhat to give and I do tend to give to a fault. And over the years I've begun to I didn't feel comfortable about it in some situations for Any one of these reasons I've just described several of them in fact. And uh uh it was some uh uh uh Holy Ghost filled deacons, some real no-kidding deacons who really helped me a lot in this approach to life. And so um I'd like to share some of those with you. But first let's turn to the scriptures and let's look at some biblical principles concerning this because we do find that the Bible presents some guardrails for us to observe So there's three I'd like to posit before you that are helpful in trying to make a determination about support to the needy. The first is the responsibility to work. Every individual has a responsibility to work The second is there is the responsibility to care for the poor. Christians do have that responsibility. They can't negate it. They can't shut their eyes to it. They can't pretend it doesn't exist. But there's a third one, and this is a rail that was news to me, but it's very much in the scriptures, and that is a responsibility to not cause your neighbor to sin. You can't put a stumbling block in their way. You can't enable a sin. You can't help strengthen the sin. You have a responsibility to not do that as well. And that is the most helpful guardrail, I believe, that is not spoken of when it comes to making a decision as to help and aid to the poor So let's uh go to the first one. Turn in your Bibles to 2 Thessalonians chapter 3. 2 Thessalonians chapter 3 and in Beginning in verse 10. I'm going to have you turn to two passages of scriptures. The first is in 2 Thessalonians. The other will other one will be in 1 Timothy a few pages later So 2 Thessalonians 3 in verse 10, we read this. For even when we were with you, this is the apostle speaking of writing to the church at Thessalonica, one that he personally visited. He said, This we commanded you. The command came back in the first chapter, first epistle he wrote to them. In the fourth chapter, he commands them. That if any would not work, neither should he eat. He says in verse 11, For we hear that there are some which walk among you disorderly, working not at all, but are busybodies. Now them that are such, we command and exhort by our Lord Jesus Christ that with quietness they work and eat their own bread. Alright, so that's the passage. We're going to talk about this a little bit. And I trust you know some of these things, and it shouldn't be too theologically deep of a blade to put into the plaid. uh to put into the ground. So let's just talk about this a little bit. First of all, this this commandment here. Does it seem harsh to you? Well, Penny, you're shaking your head now. Yes. For you it seems harsh, okay. All right. Some say it's harsh, some say it's not harsh. Why would you say it's harsh? Oh Well because if he is not able to work Okay. Does it say he's not able to work? No, it doesn't say it's yeah, but if he's not working or but we are doing that anyway, we're helping anyway with even though they are not working. Okay. So yeah there's kind of a um A question here. It says, if any would not work, neither should he eat. So you brought in the point he may not be able to work. And so we would say, well, as Paul's saying for somebody who's unable to work, maybe they're a veteran. And uh just thank you just a second, maybe they're a veteran. Uh they've uh had some severe injuries. I just saw a news article about one fellow in Ukraine lost the use of three out of four of his limbs and was blinded. It's unlikely this individual will be able to work. Uh Joey? It does say cannot, it says would not, which gives the implication that they are physically able to work. They just simply do not want to. So that's a good grammatical analysis. In fact, if you look at verse 11, there's another word that indicates that he is able to do something. He's a what? In verse eleven. He's a busybody. What's a busybody? It gets in everybody else's business. He's certainly able to know has an interest in thinking about other people's business. He goes around and pokes his nose into other people's business He's able to get around. He can use his mind. And so, yeah, this is talking now about an individual who is able to work. We would call him an able-bodied individual. And uh uh and so uh uh they are able to work, but uh that they have the time for this. It's not that they have a lack of time or they have a lack of an ability. They have time to be a busybody And so then we see the apostles' uh admonition here that if they don't work, they don't eat. So now one has said that's harsh. Now, in light of what I just said, do you still think it's harsh if we're talking about an individual who can work? who is able bodied but doesn't want to, does this command now seem harsh? No. But the thing if someone must have a job No, he is he's not able to find a job or he's not been hired. We're looking at each of the guardrails, and so we're going to try to handle the whole orb of all these different kinds of individuals in place. So this is particularly talking about an individual who can work They're a busybody and uh it says if they don't work they shouldn't eat. Do you think this verse is dealing as much with the actual work as with the attitude behind it? The work ethic that a person has. That is, a person who has a good work ethic who sees work as a gift from God and a way to provide for himself and his family. He is going to be doing everything he can to work along the way. And in this other bar we all fall into place if there are situations where it can but that desire and that drive It certainly intimates that that ought to be the case. It's difficult for me to understand and know why an able-bodied individual is not unwilling to work. It does betray an attitude of the heart There's a lot of different various reasons as to why. Yeah, I don't think this passage is talking about the temporarily unemployed. So it's not talking about somebody that for three months is looking for a job, which someone's just habitually you know, don't care. Yeah, he's he's really not taking the effort to go and get that next job. He's really maybe he's turned them down because uh uh for whatever stupid reason. Right? There's just And so it's interesting because he says, uh if they don't work, neither should he eat Um so why why do we find that to be harsh or not so harsh? What does that say about don't let him eat? If you don't have a job then how can you buy your own food? Right? How can you buy your own food? And if you don't eat, what happens? You starve. You work. Yeah, if you don't eat, you start working. Yeah, the Bible's actually pretty clear. Humans were made to work. And I think it's also very evident that God has designed us so that it doesn't frankly take much work for us to feed ourselves It really does not. It is all actually a low-hanging fruit. I've told my children in the past, and I'll say it again, folks, food is cheap. I don't care what the current inflation rate is, but if you look at the overall budget, slice of the budget in your household as to what part goes to food. And you cut out all the ice cream, you cut out all the sweets, you cut out all the nice things, if you go to beans and bread to survive. Any lot of money, folks, and it don't take much money to feed your belly. What does take money is all the nice stuff. The prepackaged foods, the ready-to-eat foods, the um the more expensive exotic items. If you add it up, if you're serious about your budget and you look at it, it don't take much money to feed your belly It really doesn't. So this is a low-hanging fruit, and it gets people to wake up. You know, in other words, hunger is a motivator. It's a really good motivator and you don't have to pester them because the pestering comes from right here. And they'll pay attention to this. And maybe they need to pay attention. Maybe they've never had to pay attention to that before. And maybe they need to start paying attention to it to put two and two together. And so that is the statement. Now why might the church overlook such offenses? His offense is that he doesn't really want to work. Why might the church overlook that? He's a busybody, oh, but he has a need. Why might we overlook that? I don't think I would. You don't think you would? Have you ever had a situation where someone comes to you and you uh evaluate their lives and say, you know what, you're a busybody, I'm not gonna give you any of mine. Well good for you. I'm working on it. I'm working on it. people money all the time. Incessantly. Yeah. So I'm working on it where I pretty much cut that off. Now why is that hard I mean it was uh it's my mindset I think. Sure. It's it's very hard. Yeah, Christians are supposed to have the bowels of compassion. Okay. But there is that that sense of, you know, you want to help people. Sure, there is a sense where you want to help people, but there's an individual here that has an issue going on, and it's just hard to make that confrontation I don't know if this relevant is relevant that uh back when I was about three years old in pressure and we had a lot of people that men especially that would would come because they were just raggedy looking and and uh they'd come knock at the door, we have some food and nobody had a lot of food to be, you know, when we were big fat My grandmother says, uh, well if you cut all this wood out here, you know, I'll I'll fix you something. And he did. He he chopped the wood up Like you know, she told him to and stacked it up real much. And we threw it. And she came out and said, Look, I just asked her a little bit And what we look for I said, why don't you just give it to him? He says he says, we don't want to um um take his dignity away from him. That's a good example from the Depression era. So here's an individual who can't find work but wants to work and that's got the right attitude Flip that. Flip that. Is an individual who doesn't want to work. They don't want to work. You point out to them. And I've seen this before. There's a person standing in the middle of the road, they're begging for food. Literally across the street is a sign that says hiring. We want workers And it's an entry-level job. They would probably put you on the line to serve up burgers or slice up things for Subway sandwiches today. Literally a hundred feet away from them is a sign says hiring, but they will not go across the street. Why is that hard? I was blamed by a pastor one time. if uh someone comes asks for money in the street. I said no. He sa he was it's not it's not our uh our uh responsibility to know So some would say yep well whoever comes to you you're supposed to just open your wallet out and dump it in front of them What do you think will happen if you take that approach? They'll be back with all of their lazy friends until you're broke. So that's not going to work, is it? I think you're hurting them also. You're taking away the uh ability to do for themselves and that hurts their ego Yeah. Well it does hurt them. They are uh you you're you're enabling something that that's hurting them. So yeah, this is all uh uh good good thoughts here, but this is one of the guardrails and one of the principles. If they're not working, and they can They're doing something else. They demonstrate that they can. You have to get you have to pull back on that and say, nope, the Bible says if any would not work, let him not eat. Alright, well that's one guardrail. So let's talk about the other two and let's give some illustrations as to how that weighs in. I think all three of them are going to give you kind of a framework to hang on to as you approach people with this because they don't know this It's hard for Christians to understand this, let alone they themselves. And so it's an education process. Motivation is a powerful hung uh motivation. Hunger is a powerful motivator. The next is the responsibility to care for, and this is your next fill-in-the-blank, for the able-bodied poor. Responsibility to care for the able-bodied poor. Now, how do we do that? How do we care for the able-bodied poor? These are poor people, but they can't get a job, and perhaps it's beyond seasonal. It's just that they are just they're they're really down and out. What what do you do? Well it turns out we have some examples in the Old Testament. We're gonna look at that, alright And I'm going to read to you a couple of passages. They're short passages. One is from Leviticus 19 and verse 9. If you want to turn there, you can. And the other will be from Deuteronomy 24. But let's look at the responsibility and how one cares for the able-bodied poor. In Leviticus 19, 9 we read this. Now remember this is Old Testament era. This is an agrarian culture Remote telework is near the thing of the day, nor is it even possibly imagined how you could make money by not showing up in your field. You have to do something. So you would have a field, you'd reap it, and then it says in verse 9 of Leviticus 19, When you reap the harvest of your land, thou shalt not wholly reap the corners of thy field Neither shalt thou gather the gleanings of thy harvest, and thou shalt not glean thy vineyard, nor shalt thou gather every grape of thy vineyard. You know, pick it clean. Thou shalt leave them for the poor and the stranger. I am the Lord your God. So there may be an able-bodied person, but he doesn't speak the language. You know it's hard to employ somebody if they don't speak your language They're able-bodied, they're capable, they just don't speak the language. Well, here in the Old Testament you had something called gleanings. If you've ever seen uh large tractors. You know, they do a great job pulling on the straight part. When you get to the corners, they kind of have a problem there. Kind of turns that there's a big chunk that's kind of open, kind of mixed up with vines, and when they go to put the seeds out, it goes everywhere to include the corners, to include other parts. And so there will be some fruit in these areas. There will be something left there. Deuteronomy twenty-four verse twenty uh speaks another above of another instance in an agrarian culture. It says in Verse 20, Deuteronomy 24. When thou beatest thine olive tree, thou shalt not go over the boughs again. Now you know why you're beating the tree. You're not angry at it. You're not trying to chop it down. You're trying to shake the olives down Uh and uh when they're ripe they'll fall right off. Give it a good shaking. Uh it shall be for the stranger, for the fatherless, and for the widow. So here's uh a boy. He lost his father. He's ten years old. I mean, what's he gonna do? He's the uh perhaps uh the only son in the family. He's very young. His mother is old, she really can't work, but he's able, but he's awful young. Well, it says here you leave it for him. Boys can climb trees. They can do that. They love to climb trees. Let him do that When thou gatherest the grapes of the vineyard of thy vineyard, thou shalt not glean it afterward. It shall be for the stranger, for the followers, and the widow. Alright, so this is the Old Testament uh prescription for the care of the poor. Again, when you look at your whole budget, what it takes to fill your belly and keep you fed, really ain't much. It really is not much. You need bread and water. Okay? You get some olive. You told me a story where it was either your mother or your grandmother back in Lebanon. Your father bought a massive barrel of olives just before the war hit and you they lived off a barrel of olives for a long time. They have olives to live on. So you can live off olives. Good olive oil. How is this different? How is this system of rules that God gives? How is that different, say, from the United States Social Security Program? How does it differ? At one time the church took care of things like that, and it was good because it brought people to church. and it also fent poor people. Now they've taken that away and so now everybody has to feed everybody Which is uh taking a away the ability of the poor to become Christians. They don't have to. They can become socialists. Well That's a fantastic insight. You're saying in your memory, because this isn't in my memory. My memory. That the church used to do this on a regular basis. Absolutely. It was up to the church. Interesting. These verses still give the implication of some manner of labor if I was just getting the things. They gotta go pick it up, right? So in the thing? I was just thinking Even two widows come to mind in which God miraculously provided for them. Um, the widow at with Elisha and the widow with Elisha. But in both cases There was something that the widows had to do. Unlike the widow with the oil. She had to send her voice out. She did nothing. But to send out and collect all the vessels. And they did. They did what they could do and then God provided I did. That ties into Mother's example where there was an expectation for doing some work. Because frankly, Uh you feel very uh undignified if you're not working to provide for your needs, if you're hanging on somebody else. It's very awkward to do that. And as Joey's pointing out, yeah, they had to do something. The farmer wasn't responsible. Well we've got to go collect the gleanings. We got to go deliver to this guy's house. That's not what they did. They had to come and get it. You left it there, but they had to do the work to come and get it. So that's a very different, again, there's the work element to it, but they didn't invest in the infrastructure. They don't have the land, they didn't plant the seeds There, you know, the heavy lifting, so to speak, wasn't done. They weren't out there weeding it, they weren't carrying it, pruning the boughs and the branches. They didn't do that. Okay, they could have been, maybe, perhaps, but they were truly poor, or they were strange in the land. They came through. It's okay. God's program was they can come and get it. There was a young man at the market in the South who had a club foot and a leg and a withered hand. And he would guard my vehicle while we were in the market. There was a chance that someone might come and do something to my vehicle. Unlikely. But he was doing what he could. And we always, every week, we would give him something. Yeah. Yeah, there is some reward for the work, right. There's got to be that that connection there. There's got to be that connection. So Uh this is, you know, God's example in the Old Testament. Uh go ahead, Victoria. Just one quick thought with a difference that you were asking for. With social security, it's kind of like an allowance funds for funds. But it it's like we would just be assured of getting this amount, but it's not tied, like was pointed out, to the actual labor of some It's just like everyone is going to get a certain amount, but we see it's not sustainable because it's it's running out. Yeah, it's not sustainable to go down that path to uh and it's too often viewed as an entitlement uh because now you have a mixture of people who are legitimately on Social Security because they have worked in their life and they have stored up the credits and it is right to give it back to them. It's kind of a government savings program. But obviously there's been gross abuses of it, so now how do you disentangle the abuse from the right use of it? And this is kind of hard to abuse I mean this is really hard to abuse because if you're poor, the early bird gets the worm, the gleaning is going to disappear. I would separate social security and welfare You know, Social Security, I'm planning on living on it someday, but I'm paid in all over my life. Whereas welfare, the welfare program is just, oh, you don't have anything here, so Yeah, this welfare program is administered through social security. That's why it's entangled with a right a righteous view and an unrighteous one. Unfortunately also they took social security and they're giving it to a lot of people who did not earn it. It was You know, some other comment I'd like to to make just as a uh as a point of reference here in America. I mean, frankly, we are filthy rich in this land uh if you look at any standard of poverty in this land. I was shocked. I was looking at, you know, what constitutes a poverty level. You're considered in poverty if you only have a refrigerator, a microwave, a TV, and one computer. You're in poverty if that's all you've got. If you have at least that. I mean if you don't have more than that, you're just flat out broke. I mean you're you're just you're just in desperate need, right? Now, in our land, we have many grocery stores that freely give away products that are nearing their expiration date As part of the Trinity Gathersburg, we had someone who found out that the uh Trader Joe's uh on a certain set day of the week has a truck and they show up at a place, they say you gotta take everything. And they would take everything and there was a church that did that and they would distribute it to other smaller churches. Bags and bags and bags of groceries. You may get a bunch of pasta some week One week they had some kind of burrito thing that was pretty good. I stuck it in my freeze. But they have this. And it's zero dollars for you to get. And in fact, when you see those signs, we have given so many dollars back to the community. Well, that's what they're talking about If they're giving away their old food, but it's food. It can be eaten that day. If you throw half of it away, you get two or three bags of groceries. I mean There are things that are out there. So uh if um uh this person is having difficulty with his idea of uh if he does not work uh If if he doesn't work, let him not eat. Well you can inform him, you know, why don't you go figure out where Trader Joe's is sending the groceries to and go stand in line someplace. Uh then you'll have something to eat. Again, it may not be what you may not be ice cream But uh it'll keep you alive and so it's not harsh because sometimes you need your stomach as a motivator to get off your duff and do something. All right There is a responsibility to care for the elderly poor, and this is your next fill in the blank. There is a responsibility to care for the elderly poor. An interesting point I want to bring in here, and I debated whether to put this in here or not, but I am because there are some that We'll we'll take this perhaps and and and use it uh in a wrong way. It's in John 19, 25, it's when Jesus is on the cross. And he's up there, and one of his final sayings occurs at this instance. We read in verse 25, Now there stood by the cross of Jesus his mother, and his mother's sister, Mary, the wife of Cleophys. And Mary Magdalene. When Jesus therefore saw his mother and the disciples standing by whom he loved, he saith unto his mother, Woman, behold thy son. He's talking about John. John often referred to himself as the disciple whom the Lord loved. Then saith he to the disciple, Behold thy mother. Well, the Apostle John got it. It says, From that hour the disciple took her into his own home. Jesus is about to die. be buried, will resurrect, be around for a brief period of time, and then ascend back into heaven, effectively leaving his mother without her oldest son. So there are actually several people with Jesus' physical mother. She's not the mother of God, she's the physical mother. And Jesus is directing her to the house of the Apostle John. Now, one benefit of this would of course be that this is the norm in the Oriental culture, the Middle East, where the eldest son takes care of the the widow, which is typically mom And she would become into his home. Jesus is now carrying on that tradition by saying, Well, it won't be me. I'm delegating this to John. He doesn't actually leave it to his other brothers. He's delegating it to John. Now there's an I think an additional reason Why the Lord Jesus would have John take care of her rather than to not say anything and to let her go in with say James or one of the other brothers because Mary had other children, contrary to what the Roman Catholics are adamantly against, she very much had other children. The scriptures are clear on this One benefit would be that the Apostle John would be able to capture the early accounts of Jesus' ministry and be able to record them because it's in John that we read this was the first of miracles. that the other gospel writers did not include. So John being the youngest apostle, you can get to that from seeing uh other uh uh tidbits in the New Testament, a little bit of investigation you can deduce that John was likely the younger uh the youngest of the apostles. He was certainly the last one to go. He's uh the last one to write uh Revelation uh the the final book of the Bible. So he would have known what Mark had written, what Luke had written, what Matthew had written, and he could fill in the gaps. And some of the gaps were some of these early accounts in the book of John. You don't really read any parables Those were already covered. We don't read a lot of uh miracles, except those that were not captured in the other accounts. So by having access to this first-hand witness, the one who would have raised the Lord Jesus, he would have immediate access to a lot of the information. So there would be some a couple of reasons for that. Now, to be clear, to clarify that we turn to our next passage, which is in 1 Timothy 5 and verse 3, because if we were left with that, we might begin to get the sense that the church is responsible to care for anybody in the sense of bringing them into your home And I've seen brothers try to do that. They find some random person that needs help and bring them into their home. It hasn't ended well. And it never ends well, frankly. 1 Timothy 5. 3, the Apostle Paul gives great clarity concerning this. He says in 1 Timothy 5. 3, Honor widows that are widows indeed. So he says, yep, there's widows, but I'm talking about the widows that are worthy of church support. So he's going to be clear about this. He's going to rule out those that are not worthy of church support. But if any have but if any widow have children or nephews, I'll talk about the that in a second. Let them learn first to show piety at home and to requite, Old English word, means to repay their parents, for that is good and acceptable before God. Alright, now that word nephews is an unfortunate translation in the King James. It actually is the only time it appears in the Bible. It literally refers to grandchildren. It's grandchildren. It's referring to a direct lineage. Uh it's not caring for auntie or uh uncle uh broadly. It's it's a direct progenitor within your line. And it makes sense because you are to repay, requite their parents. It's within that lineage. It's a repayment. They wiped your butt, they changed your diapers, they cleaned your snotty nose. And Parents did that, and guess what? Grandparents do that too, because when mom can't work, grandparents come over and wash the kids and change the diapers and clean the snotty nose and lug them around and play toys with them and all that sort of stuff That's what grandparents do as well as mom and dad. Of course mom and dad have to buy a share of the role. Well, when you're grown up And they're falling apart, you have a duty to repay them. And so there is an obligation there, and he keeps it within the line. That's not the church's job. If she has children, if her children have died, but there's grandchildren, it's the grandchildren's responsibility to do that because They cared for mom and dad, and then now you have an upward responsibility there as well. So there is that responsibility back up to the grandparents But typically the children are the ones that are gonna be the front line of offense, uh, defense offense. They probably that too. Verse five. Now she that is a widow indeed. So what is a widow indeed? It says she's a widow indeed and she's desolate. Now when you see the word desolate in the Bible, that means without children. They've all died off. It's sad. I know of some women who's had the horrific experience at the age of 70 to bury their 50-year-old son that died of a heart attack in the shower. I mean, just horrible situations. Maybe in the war, they've lost some children, and it's just horrible. They're desolate. That's what desolate means. Their hope has been cut off. She's a widow indeed, but notice it says she trusts in God, and she continues in supplications and prayers night and day. She's doing what she can. She trusts in God And she's praying. She shut up to prayer. I'm telling you what, that's a mighty good place. And when you have widows in your church, you don't kid yourself. They're prayer warriors They're accustomed to that. They know they've got to turn. They pray a whole lot more than you and I do, I guarantee you. Verse 6. But here's a widow who's not a widow indeed. But she that liveth in pleasure. is dead while she liveth. In other words, she's not desolate. If she's living in pleasure, she's got plenty. She has more than enough. She has excess. She's got I mean, you know, when you get old, life's tends to get a little darker, but she's got so much that it's just grand and glorious and wonderful. She's in pleasure She doesn't really have a need, does she? This doesn't sound like a woman in need. She's taking vacation. She's on a cruise ship. I've read some articles where they've said for certain Americans it's actually better than rather than going to a retirement center, just retire on a cruise ship. I mean they calculated the cost, and it was cheaper per day to be on a cruise ship than it was to be in a retirement center, and you got fed more, you got entertained more, you had more games, and hey, you saw the nice places in the world I'm thinking that's a good idea. You probably get a discount on a long-term booking. Anyway. Um She that lives in pleasure is dead while she lives. And these things give in charge, charge them, that they may be blameless But if any provide not for his own, especially for those of his own house, he has denied the faith and is worse than an infidel. Your first responsibility, folks, is to your house. Your first responsibility is there You're not going to go building a shelter. If I have a choice between building a shelter for dear old mom and dear old bum on the side of the street, I'm telling you who's going to win every time, and it ain't the bum on the street. You have a responsibility. You have a responsibility for your own house Verse 9, let not a widow be taken into the number, this is known as a church widow, under three-score years old, having been the wife of one man. well reported of for good works, if she have brought up children, if she have lodged strangers, if she have washed the saints' feet, if she have relieved the afflicted, if she have diligently followed every good work, but the younger widows refused. All right. Looking back at verses nine through eleven, eleven, let not a widow be taken into the number under three score years, having been, etc. Why do you suppose he wrote Those verses, verses nine to eleven. Dealing with issues. They were dealing with issues, okay. And how does this help those issues? Well apparently there were some women who were living in pleasure, but they were checking certain Okay. And then conversely we find that there were widows, the Greek Grecian widows were not being cared for, and so it was construction of the price. So in Acts 6, the Grecian widows were complaining they weren't being supported. This was given to give the church some guidelines and some helpful rules on when to support the needy. The needy elderly that were there were those just because somebody's old and in need doesn't mean they're need. Uh it means they may have to look somewhere else. They may have to bark up a different tree, so to speak They've got to go look elsewhere. And so the truly needy ones is that the church has to support a particular type of individual. Who is this individual that is described here? What's what is if you were to characterize that criteria? Would you like it pool? Well, it's more than that. In 9 through 11, he gives a lot of things. He says uh Uh she has to be under three score years and old, having been the wife of one man a virtuous widow A virtuous widow, okay. A worldly virtuous widow. Was she successful in financial markets? She was a great seller of of goods. What do you mean virtuous? I like that word. I'm just trying to drill out some more goodness. A godly virtuous widow. Yes, so the church is concerned about a godly virtuous widow. I think it's also a busy lady who's worn herself She's been watching the disciples' feet, she's been lodging strangers, she's been doing all these things and now is unable to continue to do it. Is it just any old kind of business What kind of business was it? Well the business of her family. Okay. Family. Family and the church. It really seems that she has been busy with her church family. She's been concerned about the work of of God. And of course part of that is her own family because the Bible commands that. But did you notice some of this? She's brought up children, so there's her family. She's raised them. She's lodged strangers, as the Bible encourages you, to to help uh people that come through. Yeah, she's opened up and she's been hospitable. Alright? She's washed the saints' feet. It says the saints' feet She's doing that which is a benefit to the church of God. She's relieved the afflicted. She's followed every good work. So this is a lady who is busy, but she's busy with a gospel mindset. What she does, she does for the Lord Jesus. What she does, she does for the benefit of the people of God. What she does, she does to glorify God in all that he is And now her time has come where she can't do that. Is the church to look at such a wonderful virtuous woman like that at such a time and now turn their back and say, Oh, we're sorry, we got a building fund. We're trying to build an edifice. We need to build a structure. I looked at the Roman Catholic Church down the road here, St. I'll call it the Saint Abomination of the Shipwreck. And um and they've got some new edifice they're building on the front. They got a they've got a gorgeous build to begin with. It's uh there's nothing wrong with their structure But they want to build some glorious front entryway. It's steel. It even looks like stainless steel they're building with. This ain't cheap. Why? Well why why do you need it's all for the beholding of the eyes. I don't see that there's any benefit to there. Now maybe they maybe they're gonna house a bunch of widows in there that you know and uh I mean that that that could possibly be what they're gonna do, but I doubt it seriously. They build it for their glory. More room, a bigger bar to store more money. That wouldn't be a surprise. So the observation is this, the church leadership has an obligation to protect the Lord's people from unnecessary burden. Okay, unnecessary burdens. Caring for slothful people. Caring for young widows. It says refuse the young widows. Right? They're young? No, refuse them. But they also have a duty to provide for the qualified elderly widows who have no support. Do you see the equity in all this? Does this just not seem to strike you with a sense of fairness? Does it just not seem just and right? Folks, we don't have an infinite pocketbook. I don't. I'm sure you don't. Collectively, we sure don't So it seems very just and right to do that. And so this is something encouraging. Now let's look at the flip side There's a flip side to this and an example we find when the church goes awry, when the church neglects this When the church is more focused on itself, or the people of God are more focused on themselves, you find this condemnation given in Ezekiel 16. Behold, this was the iniquity of thy sister Sodom. God is comparing Israel and Judah, he's likening them to Sodom and Gomorrah. So he's comparing them to that. And he speaks of one of these kingdoms, I forget which. This was the iniquity, the fullness of pride, fullness of bread. You had plenty to eat. You weren't hungry. Abundance of idleness was in her and her daughters. You could work, but you weren't working. You see where this is going Neither did she strengthen the hand of the poor and needy. So there was no support to those who truly were in need. It was all for themselves and they didn't really want to work. They had enough. that they themselves didn't care to work, nor did they care to help others. So they had a biblical principle flipped totally upside down. And so that's the wrong direction. And it gets back to mindset. So extreme selfishness can lead to a disrespect both for the commandment of God as well as legitimate needs of your fellow man. And so we want to avoid that extreme. All right. Last one, this is an important one, is the responsibility to not cause thy neighbor to sin. A responsibility to not cause thy neighbor to sin. Folks, I have found that sometimes my giving was strengthening a sin weakness in the individual. You're only enabling that sin weakness to continue. And if it's not confronted with a certain gut-level motivator called hunger, they'll never repent. So for instance, in Psalm 37, 25 we read this: I have been young and now I'm old, yet I've not seen the righteous forsaken, nor his seed begging bread. A righteous individual living according to the Word of God, living according to God's very basic precepts. I'm not talking about somebody who needs a seminary degree. I'm talking about somebody who follows the basics of a decent work ethic. They're not going to be begging bread. It's not going to happen. For starters, God's not going to let that happen. He'll provide. And I've seen it firsthand. There will always be ravens for God's people. So I've not seen the righteous forsaken. If they're righteous, they're not forsaken. They're not going to be begging bread. It's not happening. David says I've been young and old. He just has not seen that happen. It just don't happen, folks. So that means someone begging bread has got a sin issue they're dealing with. There's a sin issue and they're not being it's not being addressed Jeremiah 23, the uh 2314 says this. I have seen also in the prophets of Jerusalem, a horrible thing They commit adultery and walk in lies. They strengthen also the hands of evildoers, and none doth return from this wickedness. That's a great phrase. Strengthening the hands of the wicked. One way to strengthen the hand of the evildoers is to not let their own evil ways fall back upon their heads. If you prevent the evil way from falling upon their head, what some might call tough love, if you prevent that, all you're doing is strengthening their hands. They know they can get their way out. So let me give you my story There was a fellow I met at a Bible conference. Uh I I'll I'll just say his name was Bubba. It's not really his name, I'm just making up. If any of you out there are Bubba and it this story resonates with you, my apologies because I don't have you in mind. Well Baba uh uh had some uh health issues and he was moving out of his state And uh he was trying to get to California because his state he had too many allergies in the area, but California was drier where I happened to be at, wanted to know if he could live with me for a while. I said, sure, come on in. And uh I discern and perceived that he had need of a job. And so I said, well, you know, you can look for different things around here. Couldn't find a job. So I'm paying his rent. It's really eating into the budget, paying his rent. He needs money for this, paying for this, paying for that. I said, you know, Bubba, we've got to have a talk here. This can't keep going. I said, tell you what, what do you like to do? I said you pick a profession. It can be truck driving, it can be a plumber, it can be an HVAC repair man, it can be a welder, it can be a whatever. You you pick some trade you know, that lasts you know about within a year. I'll pay for you to go to trade school. And if you can and then you go get a job in that and then when you're done with that if you can pay me back fine. If not, that's fine So he chose to be a truck driver. He went to truck driving school and pretty soon he became an over-the-houl over-the-road long-haul truck driver. And he was making ends meet. He wasn't coming back to me for money after that. It was fine Years later, get a phone call from him. Well, he lost his truck driving license. He wasn't responsible with it. Forgot to put the parking brake, the truck rolled backwards and ended up in a ditch and did something else. And so he made a few whoopses and they pulled his license from he's looking for funds. And I was really stuck at what to do. And I talked to some elders and some deacons, and they said, well, the best way to handle this is to work through the church's deacons So I said, Gary, what church you have in? He says, well, I'm over at this church, such and such place. Have your deacons call me. And so I talked to the deacons, I explained the situation. He said, Well let me talk to him and find out and get back to you. I said, Whatever is missing from your deacon fund, whatever you find out, if y'all can't support, let me know, I'll see what I can do to help. That was the best move I ever made in my life because it was incredibly instructive I'm running out of time, but I've got to close this story out for you. That deacon found out that he had a list of about 45 different people he would go to and make the rounds on for money. And he just was not willing to pay attention and do work. And I was just numbered 30-something on the list. And so that's why he came around, oh, about once every year and a half, because he had a circuit that he would go around. And so I have learned over the years that the church deacons are valuable. Number one, it makes it clear, oh, I have money to help the poor, but it's through the church. It's through the church of God. Please go talk to their deacons. You have a situation like that? Direct them to us. They've got to be here in church. They've got to be here. And we need to have a talk. Because now I'm dispassionate I'm tough when it comes to sending out the church's money, folks. My own money is a different story. Your money I feel a lot of obligation to. I got a bunch of eyeballs looking at me. What are you doing with my money? So I'm real concerned about that And I can be tough. And we have given some some out. And I've made it clear this is temporary, it's to be paid back. If you can't pay it back, well, we're not going to have round two. And so we have to do this sometimes. Practical applications, if you give a man a fish, you feed him for a day. You teach him to fish, you feed him for life. That's very basic. Do offer to teach the poor to help them get started. Again, the idea is to get them to working. Let's say you are supporting somebody And what do I do? Well, you can tell them we're under new management. I got a sign over my door under new management. And you can begin to slowly decrease the amount of support, say by 15-20% a month. They'll get the idea. They'll begin to move along. They'll begin to find something to do. Or they start to go hungry and let it happen Let it happen. I've had some fellow ask for money. I've started to drill into why he needed the money. Well his mother recently died. Okay, sorry to hear that. Why do you need the money? No, no, we buried mama. She had insurance to cover all that. She's buried. Okay, what do you need the money for? Well we got her stuff in storage. You got her stuff in storage. What's the money for? To pay for storage. What kind of storage? Air conditioned storage, it's humidity control. You know, you gotta have really good quality storage. It's you know a couple hundred dollars a month. What's in storage? On my mama's TV I'm paying you to store a stupid TV? No, sell it. What else you got in there that's special? Why don't you get the treasures out of there and sell all that junk? You don't need to be storing that stuff. Yeah, you gotta ask questions. You gotta ask questions. Because peop some people confuse needs for wants. We're not paying for ice cream, folks. Beans and bread is what you gotta be paying for, right? And they gotta go pick it up. So uh remember stand firm Give them Bible principles. Tell them they need to repent. Remember, you're a steward of what the Lord has given you, both of money and knowledge of truth. Both are important. Alright, uh, Yvonne, would you close us in prayer, please? Dear Heavenly Father, we thank thee Lord for the light and guidance of thy word. Pray, Lord, that you would grant each of us uh wisdom and discernment. Um Any scenario, situation of support to the needy, Lord uh help us to uh Think discerningly regarding any particular matter and uh be ready to give to those that truly are in need. Lord to assess their needs both physically and spiritually, Lord, and uh to provide Lord what what indeed is needed. Um and in uh at certain times to withhold for that which uh uh is not necessary uh for uh evildoers to cons continue in in their wicked ways, Lord. So uh we pray, Lord, your guidance in uh all such situations, Lord. And uh we ask all this father