Well good morning everyone. Good morning. It is first Sunday of twenty twenty-five, and I want to continue to look at twenty twenty four in the rear view mirror and move ahead into twenty twenty five and so We will get back to the book of Hebrews. I've been dilly dallying around. I have taken my slow time getting to that ominous 10th chapter and 28th verse on purpose because I'm shoring this up to get ready to go over Niagara Falls. So you've got one last chance up here uh at the heights before we take a little dip down. So uh my question uh to open us for today is very simple. What are the two best things that you have learned about the Christian religion. There's a number of things I wanted to really enjoy what I'd say to start off with tulip learning about total depravity, unconditional election, limited atonement, irresistible or invincible grace, preservation of the saints. Uh that was really exciting. And then I would say going through Genesis and pulling out um pictures of the gospel from those accounts in Genesis That was very exciting. Um, you know, Rom Romans six, fifteen through eighteen, learning why Christians do good works saved unto them, not uh not because of them. Those are some of the highlights. Indeed, those are glorious truths. Yeah. There's no wrong answers here. Uh anybody, what are the two most um The two best things are maybe the most useful or maybe the most interesting things you've learned about the Christian religion. Everybody's got to have an answer in here somehow. Yeah, I think that mine would be the worry is a sin. And so therefore, if you worry, you're sinning and you really shouldn't. Okay, that's an interesting one, yeah. Indeed, that's a very practical application Okay. Anyone else? Two most interesting things or useful things you've learned about the Christian religion so far. I would say two most earth shattering. Things that just slammed me. And I'm not taking a lot of time here, but a context, I grew up in church, so I knew these things from childhood. Uh but when I I was right about 30 years old, um the sovereignty of God in salvation, what Gabriel mentioned just really overwhelmed me that it is all of grace, that I'm not saved by anything I did. I'm not saved because I made the right decision For the right choice, I'm saved simply because Jesus Christ came to seek and to save that which is lost. And he saved me. So that was the first one. And in the second one was the nature of forgiveness. That God forgives in a way that we can't, because we forgive and yet it's still there, it still comes up, it's still You know, it's still what what she did this to me thirty years ago, etc. Um, even though we say, yes, I forgive, yet it still comes up, but with God's forgiveness, it is so complete It is the removal of our sins for as far as the East is for the West. They never meet again. There is therefore now no condemnation. not not a speck of condemnation left because when God forgives, His forgiveness is complete. And not just that, but His forgiveness is past, present, and future. Yeah, those are two very big ones. You who didn't read the email, what are your two most useful things you've learned about the Christian religion? Well who God is and what I am. Who God is and what I am. Yep, that sums it up very nicely. Somebody else, Masaba. Two most useful things you've learned About the Christian religion. Patience. Patience Okay, yeah. Certainly if you've been a Christian any length of time, you will undoubtedly come to the conclusion that you must learn patience. Joey, I'm gonna pick on everybody. Everybody has to I because all of you have been church uh for the most part, church people know something about it. At least you've been in presence of me for over a year. Two most important things. Best things you've learned. Discretion and discernment. Discretion and discernment. Yeah, that's true. Christianity gives you a lot of discretion. How to be discreet. Lisa Well, before I was saved I didn't even think about the praying. The importance of the prayer. The importance of prayer. Indeed, this is a God we can actually speak to, and He actually hears us and He responds in His perfect will and timing. Yeah, all very good things. I'm going to actually pick a little bit extra on Li Ying. What two things have you learned about Christianity that you find to be interesting? Well I don't know what to express it in English, but I have to say For the past three almost three months I watched the process of your election, uh peer rate, how it's developed Uh in our Chinese culture we open coded. If you get uh the support from the people by heart, then you will be the top, you know, leading force. Something like that. I believe people don't talk about that because in most of my friends, including Chinese friends, they are not necessarily the Christians, but they all great, you know. There are some things in people's heart. They don't talk but they feel they uh rigvy in favor of that. So I think the Christians And he share the thing as our religion like the Buddha does. You know, uh if most of people agree by their heart, then Actually, it will never disappear or diminishing or faith will be the leading Yeah, that's an interesting observation kind of coming at it from an external perspective. He who captures the heart uh captures the kingship and the throne. That's very good. I like that insight. That's very nice. If I could rephrase it that way, because he's You probably can think it in Chinese better. Well, we're actually looking at 1 John chapter 5 and verse 20 today. It is a very brief passage. And I will read it to you, but you're welcome to follow along in your Bible. It's in 1 John, it's in the fifth chapter and the 20th verse. It's also in your bulletin insert. And we read as follows. And we know, that's a plural, we, that the Son of God is come. and hath given us an understanding, that we may know him that is true, and we are in him that is true. Even in his Son, Jesus Christ, this is the true God and eternal life. That's a very packed two-sentence verse. It's unusual to find a verse with two sentences in it The versification came much later after scriptures were pinned. And I want to break it up phrase at a time because I think it is so rich it does deserve a little attention. First of all, the Son of God is come. We know He's saying this uh emphatically, somewhat in a manner to to kind of make sure we're we're we're gathered together in the same camp. We know that the Son of God is come. And indeed, history is replete with all kinds of information, both from the eyewitness accounts of the four gospels, Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John who wrote directly of their experiences with the uh with the Lord Jesus as he walked on this planet. You also have uh secular authorities who wrote about him Uh Tacitus wrote, other Roman historians wrote of one Crestus, and they often spoke uh about him. They they wrote about uh Pontius Pilate crucifying him on the cross. So there's uh extracurricular information, there's archaeological information that he has come. There really isn't a debate as to whether or not Jesus Christ actually walked this planet. That's pretty well established. Um, the enemies and the enemies, even the enemies of Jesus uh gave testimony to the fact that he came. They made laws, for instance, forbidding people to take bodies from tombs Now that was not a thing in the Roman day. What grave robbers would do is they would steal the goods in the tomb, the jewelry, the gold teeth. They wouldn't take the body. Who wants a bag of bones? But why is this law stated not to take bodies from the tomb, right? Because it is the source of the Christian religion. It was the proof, a large proof of the resurrection. His existence simply cannot plausibly be denied To deny that would be to deny knowledge of any history that we have whatsoever. You've got more documented information about Jesus and his existence, his coming. And in your bulletin, I give you some reasons why Jesus himself said he came. He says, we know the Son of God is come, but why did he come? Well, he himself gave reasons for it. You know that? Jesus answered the mail. Imagine a visitor showing up on your doorsteps. Hi, how's it going? Why are you here? I didn't didn't expect you What's up? He needs some help. Well, Jesus tells us why he came. He gave some reasons why he didn't come. In Matthew 5. 17 he says, think not that I am come to destroy the law or the prophets I am not come to destroy, but to fulfill. So part of his coming was to fulfill the law, to fulfill the prophets. That's one reason he came. Another reason he gave is in Matthew 10, 34. He said, Think not that I am come to send peace on earth. That's interesting. We don't think of Jesus making a bold declaration, I'm not here to send peace on earth. I'm not here to make all the political establishments function together well. I'm not here to establish a big commune where it's Kumbaya and it's all happy lovey dovey. I'm not come to do that. I came not to send peace but a sword. I am come to set a man at variance against his father And the daughter against her mother, and the daughter-in-law against her mother-in-law. Some of you have family problems. Some of you have children or grand granddaughters that are or Sons and daughters-in-law that kind of don't get along well with you, other family members that just kind of don't see the same as you. If you're a Christian, Jesus Christ came to do that. That was one of his fated purposes. So don't be shocked when you find it happening, because this is one of his fated purposes. Now we know there's a deeper story behind that, because God is sifting the sons of men. He is making a separation between them that are truly his and those that are not. Luke 12, 29, I am come to send fire on the earth. And boy, you can take that a couple of different ways Yeah, you speak about the preacher, he's a real smoking fire brand. He's just fiery in the pulpit. Indeed, Jesus' message is often attracted large crowds. In fact, his messages are still being repeated today. They've gone around the planet. In John 9. 39, Jesus said, For judgment I am common to this world, that they which see might not see. And they which see might be made blind. Those who claim, ah, I know, ah, I understand. He says, nope, you're going to be blinded. You're not going to know who the Messiah is That's of course a veiled reference to the Pharisees. And those who are blind, that would be you and me, might see, might have spiritual understanding. Ah, surely this is the Christ, the Messiah. That's one of his other stated reasons for coming. Positively, he said this in John 10. The thief cometh not but for to steal and to kill and to destroy. That's the thief. I am come that they might have life and that they might have it more abundantly. Hint that's not necessarily here and now. That abundant life is called everlasting life, and indeed it will be abundant. It will never end. It will be fruitful beyond your wildest imagination. And then lastly, John 12, 46, I am come a light into the world that whosoever believeth on me should not abide in darkness. These are just a handful. And I encourage you to go home in your phone if you want, put in quotes, quote, I am come, end quote, and search the Bible for all of those instances, you'll find some very interesting references to what Jesus said about his coming, his first coming. Very instructive. Next we read that he has come and he hath given us an understanding John is pointing out a very valuable point here. And I want to think about this, because unlike liberal college professors, God came to benefit us human the human race, but not all mankind. He came to give us, his people, us, his elect, us, his children, love with an everlasting love. These he came to give an understanding. That was part of his purpose and coming. Back in George Washington's day, when wars were fought, one of the most important individuals on the staff was the courier. As you're making battle plans and reacting to intelligence in the field where various troops are gathered, you might need to send a message to the guy that's got the cannons Because it's going to take him a while to strap them to the horses and slog them through the mud and put them up on a mountaintop where you're going to wage a battle. And so the courier sent to give someone an understanding Not to titillate, not to entertain, but to impart a very important message that is of value to the cause and perhaps educate you as to your role in that cause. The Son of Man left heaven, came here to give us an understanding. It required nothing less than his personal presence. I wondered sometimes, you know, seems to me it's to be a whole lot easier than this business of evangelism. uh this business of letting the message no be known. God could have spelled out in the stars in every language so that as the Earth rotates, you see in Umhotic, in Arabic, Jamaican, Espanol, French, the whole Babylonian tongue set, Jesus saves. He could have spelled it out in the stars. He didn't do it that way. It required a personal presence. That's simply something that we humans greatly appreciate. We have a greater empathy to that. In management, I learned MBWA. Manage by walking around. There's only so much you can get from email, texting, and phone messages. Sometimes you need to just simply show up at the person's door or desk, sit down, talk with them. So how's it going? How's the wife and kids? Get around the the the happy chit-chat and then talk about the job. You just need that FaceTime real presence and God Almighty has done that. What is understanding? I like to break that word in half. Understanding. If you were to give a definition for that word understanding, what would your definition be? Knowledge on a particular subject. Um Some some ground truth on a particular subject. Ground truth on a particular subject. Yeah, I like that. Ground truth. Just break that word apart for a minute. Under. What what is under? Foundational Yeah, under is something you is below you, right? And then standing. Well, I'm standing Li Ying mentioned the U. S. political process and different political parties developed something called a platform. The platform referred to the positions, we might refer to it as planks, these positions on which the candidate stands. They want to know what they stand for. And to have an understanding of the candidate means you understand their platform on that which you stand. You know Many people know about Jesus. They'd have some knowledge of him historically. I talked with the lady who was at my wife's doctor's office. She claims to be in atheistic Jew. She has an understanding. She has a knowledge, I should say, of Jesus Christ. She knew historical facts. She tried the inviting Jesus into her heart. It didn't work, so she didn't seem to have much place for it. That's not unusual. A lot of people don't believe much of what Jesus said or did is of any significance. They have some knowledge, but they don't have understanding. So let me give another illustration. Uh think for a moment if you're caught in a hurricane in the middle of the ocean, where am I the best place to be? Paddleboard, swimming on your own, 17-foot yacht, or an island whose base reach the root of the island reaches all the way to the foundation of the ocean floor. I'm betting the island would be a safer choice. I'm betting high up there somewhere in a cave might be a good idea. Why? Because it's got a good foundation. It's actually anchored on something that I'm convinced is not going to move. And I have visible evidence and testimony is not going anywhere. Many Christians claim to know something about Jesus, but they have so many questions. And they're easily moved by life's circumstances. They don't have understanding. What they're standing on is mobile and shiftable. They are blown about with every wind of doctrine. And every wind of doctrine today is propelled By YouTube, by your little feeds. Every nut job with a little bit of microwave religion and a phone can go out there and preach a message that's half bait. And there's legions of them. If you have understanding, which is what God the Father came to give you, that means you have a good foundation on which to stand. You actually have some ground truth. What is this ground floor knowledge that God would have his people to stand on? What is this rock to which we must find ourselves attached? What are the grounds on which his elect stand? Well, the Apostle John identifies two key points, which kind of gets back to my first question. And by the way, I'm not dinging your answers. They're good answers. They're not wrong. John points out two things that he says, let me culminate these two things that Jesus came to deeply impress upon you. And the first is this, he says, that we may know him that is true. That's one of the first reasons Jesus came to give you the understanding that you may know him that is true. He is fully God. And he is fully man. That is a divine mystery. The church for 300 years wrestled over exactly who Jesus Christ is. finally culminating in some creeds that articulated what that was, the Athanasian Creed in particular, to identify that he's fully God and yet fully man. And there was a bulletin insert, our brother uh impressed upon us last week uh that talked about this. Knowing Christ is a lot more than discovering some historical facts, but that's a good start. Hebrews 11, 6 says, Without faith it's impossible to please him, for he that cometh to God must believe that he is, and that he is a rewarder of them that diligently seek him. So if you know him, it's not just to titillate your mind with some interesting first century A. D. Palestinian-Judean facts. It is that you may know him, that he is God, and he rewards them that come to him. That's part of knowing him. It's to know his character. It's to know and understand his nature. It's to know and understand his inclinations. His abilities. Now you husbands, at least you successful husbands, know how this operates. You want to do something, say rearrange a particular room in the house. I'm going to pick inside because in general the wife is the minister of the interior and the man is the minister of the exterior. It's just kind of how it ends up working. Not always, but in general that's how it goes. Man wants to rearrange a room. I'ma betting, if he's a successful husband, if he's a smart husband, he's going to go through some mental calculus. Which goes like this. I'd really like to move this and that and the other thing because it would give so much more room and I could put a pool table in here. What's she gonna think about that? Alright. So as you begin to go through that, you quickly realize She's not going to be pleased at all with the pool table up there. She's not interested in you waffling around playing games. Who are you going to play it with? It's a two-person sport, and I don't like that. I'm sure and I can't get it And so you go through the mental machinations. By the way, I'm drawing this out because the successful husband comes to that conclusion in about three microseconds. If you really know her, that should be an option dead on arrival, because you know the individual. Now, what may work as an excellent gift for my wife, because I go through the calculus and it comes out great, may not be a good one for your wife. Why? Two different women, two different individuals. That's what it means, husbands, to know your wife, to dwell with them according to knowledge. Well guess what? Your wives are a picture of the church and the husband is a picture of Christ. So it goes the other way. If the lady's going to try to figure out what's going to impress my husband She has to know him. She has to know something about him. And that's how it is in Christianity. He has come to give us an understanding. If he's going to dwell with us, we're going to get to know him. And so the people of God are privileged to uniquely know the Son of God, her husband and maker. That's a joyous privilege. The Apostle Paul expressed a deep desire to know Christ this way. He says in Philippians 3, that I may know him. and the power of his resurrection, and the fellowship of his sufferings, being made conformable unto his death, if by any means I may attain unto the resurrection of the dead. That's what he wanted to know about Jesus Christ. All those things. Because he's persuaded this God man that came down actually died, because you can't have a resurrection on a dead body, and he actually rose up from the dead. And if he did that, he holds out great hope for me. How many of you know people who are maybe terminally ill, but they've outlived some of their doctors. Some of the doctors have died before they have, because that doctor can't grant eternal life. He can maybe inform you of some things you don't know, but he can't give you eternal life. So Jesus is that rock. You stand on him, you're safe. You slip off and you're not. That's part of that understanding. That's the first thing God through the Apostle John in 1 John 5. 20 points out. The second thing that he wants us to deeply understand is that we are in him, that is true, even in his son, Jesus Christ. Twice he uses that phrase, in him, and in his son. You know, I will admit that is an interesting phrase that oftentimes I believe we just shoot past it. And I've used the illustration of the N Hym referring to Noah in the Ark, and it is a good one. What does it mean to be in Him. Remember, he came to give us an understanding. Step one is to know him. The second thing is to know that we are in him. That's a really catchy phrase. Now I use the illustration of Noah's Ark, and it's a good one, because those that were in the Ark were safe. They were had nothing to fear of the flood that was global, universal, and catastrophic and wiped out 99. 9999 X percent of the planet And eight, which is less than ten. Is eight less than ten, Joey, last I checked? Okay, good. Because if there's ten, righteous God would spare it. There were eight souls saved in water. So you could put a God loves you sticker inside the ark, but it would make no sense whatsoever to put a God loves you sticker in the outside of the ark. That would be cruel and mockery, right? So that's a good illustration of what it means to be in him. John 1. 4 says, in him was life. John 6. 56, Jesus says, He that eateth my flesh and drinketh my blood dwelleth in me and I in him. These are all very curious phrases. I think in him has to be considered positional and covenantal, and we're going to get into that some. In fact You know, one place where in him shows up is in the most famous verse that people without understanding, but some cursory knowledge of the Bible can quote. It's in John 3, 15 and 16. Whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have eternal life. God so loved the world that he begave his only begotten Son. Whosoever believeth in him. I want you to do this for a moment. Switch the word order Whosoever in him believeth. There's a little subtle shift That I think helps deepen the understanding. It's not believing on Christ, but it's if you're in Him, believing. There's a subtle difference there that I think is important to make. This is a stretch, and I am taking a little liberty with the text, but I'm trying to illustrate that phrase in him. Think of it this way. This is a good illustration I heard years ago. There's two fellows standing on the rim of Niagara Falls, that great raging set of falls. And there's a tightrope that goes across. Now one man has a wheelbarrow. He's got a slotted wheel And that tightrope goes across and he says, son, do you believe, standing to the fellow next to him, hey man, do you believe I could push this wheelbarrow over Niagara Falls walking on a tightrope? I said, wow, that's sure I believe he could do that. See, he believes him. He believes he could do that. But then the man pushing the wheelbarrow says one more thing. He says, jump in. Is there a change in faith? Now he's in him. He's in that wheelbarrow trusting he's going to get across. And I'm telling you right now Faith in Jesus Christ is no different. You've got to be in him believing. There's a game Vegas has. I've never played it. I've only seen it occasionally on YouTube things or whatever, and I don't even watch it, but occasionally I I have come across it in my some sixty some odd years of existence called uh the roulette table. It's this thing you spin. It's putting all your coins on the one dot on that table that says Jesus. You're banking it all on him. You're putting it entirely in him. We read also in 2 Corinthians 1. 20, it says, All the promises of God in him are yea, and amen. And in him, amen unto the glory of God by us. Well, one of the benefits of being in Him is that all of the promises of God, all of them are absolutely certain. They're completely 100% certain. Does anybody have any doubt whatsoever that Jesus Christ failed to fulfill or will fail to fulfill a promise? I doubt my hand will be raised. In him applies a covenantal connection, and this is where it touches us, because part of those promises relate to us 2 Corinthians 6 says this in 16. It's the tail end of the passage I'm focusing on. It says, as God hath said, I will dwell in them and walk in them, I will be their God, they shall be my people. We dwell in him, he dwells in us. There is an interesting, close covenantal connection. There's a relationship, a very deep, abiding relationship that's there. And so if we're in him, And all the promises of God are yea and amen, then they are yea and amen to me as well. All of those promises come through to me as well. When we're raised in glory with him, Peter says this, 2 Peter 1. 4, whereby are given unto us exceeding great and precious promises. That's the covenantal connection. That by these you might be, bless my soul, partakers of the divine nature. That nature, that inclination, that thought process, the way he thinks, the way he acts, we're being conformed to that image. Drawn and molded closer and closer, that which we formerly despised, that which we formerly hated, that which we Counted as a thing of naught, that which was maybe just a traditional thing, a family thing, a fill-in-the-blank is now very real, and God is drawing us into that, and we are partakers of that divine nature. What can we say to such words? These are the two main points John anchors it on as to why Christ came to give us an understanding in these two things. That what does it say? That he is the Son of Man has come, he actually came before the scriptures, and that he um that we are in him that is true. You know, it's almost as if though we are royally dispatched to and yet pulled out of this world whose occupants cannot tell who a real Christian is or not. People have asked me before, and it's a really good question. You know, why is it when God, when he saves us, why didn't he just take us home right away? It's a good question. I kind of wish he would But we are actually privileged to remain here as Christians. Yes, privileged, because God gives each of his blood-bought sons and daughters a task. They have a jobado. As I used to tell my young kids, you got a job a do. What's your job to do? I'd put it in pictures, hanging on their wall when they were five years old. This is your job. God gives every believer a privilege. He gives them a gift. He gives them ability. He gives them, what's the parable talk about? Talents. He gives them some talents. Some 10, some five, some two. He gives them something. And they are pleased to be a part of building his kingdom They're privileged to do that. So he saves you, and you're immediately dispatched at that instant back to your field of service. And so you can face whatever life throws your way. Because you know him and you're in him that's true. Those are two ground foundational truths. Someone says to us, man, I'm ready in this. the the ravens or the Orioles. We know what they mean by really being into when someone says they're into Christ, that should mean more than that. Or it'll say to you, uh, I see that girl you've been asked for questions and you've been dating her for a while, and you'll say, I'm really in sort of we know what that love means Well we don't hear much of Christ or people calling about Christ and saying, I'm really into the Lord Jesus Christ. I'm really into my Bible not the same emphasis and energy of being the raiders. I was add. That's a really interesting point. Uh Brother Bernie said people can be fans and zealots of everything except the Bible. And yet you're correct. If you have this understanding, if you have these two things, it doesn't take much to get them that excited and zealous about it. You know, be encouraged with this from 1 John 3. 2. It says, beloved, now, right now, not tomorrow, not later. Right now are we the sons of God. You're a son and a daughter of God. And it does not yet appear what we shall be. You're incognito. You're undercover. I kind of like watching some of these, oh, I think there's Spider-Man clips that with this doofy looking kid has these incredible abilities or or Superman he looks like an average person the moon pops out I've dreamed of getting cars that are these dumpy looking cars but have a you know 600 horse hemi engine under the hood just to really blow people away with you know it gives incog this strength incognito, right That's what a believer has. It does not yet appear what we shall be. But we know that when he shall appear, we shall be like him. Well, how is he coming back? Well he's not coming back as a suffering servant He's coming back as a majestic king. He's coming back as a judge. He's coming back as an omnipotent, as a sovereign. He's coming back to receive a kingdom to himself. He's coming back to rule and his kingdom shall reign forever and ever, and of the end of his kingdom there shall be no end. The increase of his government He'll be called the Prince of Peace. All of those promises of God in him are yea and amen. When he comes, we shall be like him, for we shall see him as he is. And what's John's conclusion? Look at the tale, the last sentence in the verse. He says, this This understanding is the true God. There's many gods out there, but this is the true God and eternal life. That's eternal life. Do you have any problem today? I want somebody to tell me a problem they have today that cannot be solved with eternal life. I'm losing my eyesight, I'm losing my strength, my back is bent over fifteen different ways like a like a bent spring and a clock. My knees hurt, my head hurts, my eyes are failing, my sciatic is killing me, my job is killing me. Yeah, but if you have eternal life and he comes and you're restored completely, what's not fixed, what's left undone, behold, all things are made new. Do you see why those are the two best things you could possibly ever embrace and grasp? Do you see why that's an understanding? These other things are wonderful that you talked about. And I rejoice in all of them And John points to us these two things. If you know this, if you follow this, rather you understand this, you stand on it. And you dwell in him, brother or sister, you have eternal life, and you'll never die. I put it this way, the church wins by default. Everybody else is on a path to failure. I I don't care how much they have in the stock market, I don't care how pretty they are, I don't care how many wives they have, how many congressional medals of honor they get, medals of dishonor is what it looks like these days Um flush those down the toilet. I mean, it doesn't matter. It doesn't matter. They're winding up in hell if they don't know him. The believer wins by default. The Christians will stand at the grave of fill-in-the-blank nation. They'll stand at the grave of Russia. They'll stand at the grave of Ukraine. They'll stand at the grave of Israel. They'll stand at the Brave America Christians win by default because we're in him and this is eternal. Comments, ideas, thoughts? Yes, to be in Christ is to be alive. Everything else is to be dead. And him was life. They that love those that love me hate death. Right. Yeah, and Christ gave the illustration of the vine. I'm the vine, you're the branches. Abide in me. Next week we get into that wheelbarrow and possibly go over Niagara Falls as we look at Hebrews 10. 28. It's a very fearful We'll we'll get across, but it'll be kinda scary. It'll be kinda scary. Um Anton, could you close us? Father in heaven, Lord, we uh thank you for gathering us and being able to hear your word be read and expounded soundly, O Lord. We pray, O Lord,