The privilege to worship. It has been said that evangelism exists because worship does not Lord God, may it be, that our hearts and minds would be directed to the things of thee this morning. Clear out from our minds the cares and the affairs of this Egypt in which we sojourn. Grant our hearts to be refreshed and renewed again in the blessed promises that we have of thee, the only tokens of heaven. which we have at this present time, all being recorded without error, transmitted to us faithfully in thy word, from which we shall hear today Lord, please bless to that end. We ask all these things in Jesus' name. Amen. Our opening song this morning comes to us from number 454 in your hymnal. If you would please turn there. 454. Our music arrangement has a little deviation for today. A nice variation, I should say. I don't even want to use the word deviation. But the variation is that we will have organ led and violin accompanied. And that without prior practice, together at least, certainly at home. But uh we These are not inexperienced musicians and you'll be grateful that yours truly is not at the keyboard. Our opening song is 454. My faith looks up to the sing all four stanzas. Uh, My books are me. We run this big holy Oh my god to before men change must be a I start me thy try and rings are on this bread. With my God, they shine the strong way, life song was away. Lord me a strength from me threatened. And the dream that's called stream shall be As they are missing. Amen. That just dispelled a bunch of my fears. That's great. Praise God. Please be seated. And uh we're grateful that uh God does gift his congregation and uh certainly music is uh an exceptional one to have. Um Brother Anton, if you would please lead us through the confessional Good morning. Please turn to the back of your bulletin. This morning. We'll be reading from the Belgic Confession, the 19th article, and this is the second part of it, or Part B, regarding the union and distinction of the two natures in the person of Christ. Christian, in what do you believe? But these two natures are so closely united in one person that they were not separated even by his death. Therefore, that which he, when dying, commended into the hands of his father was a real human spirit, departing from his body. But in the meantime, the divine nature always remains united with the human, even when he lays the green. And the Godhead did not cease to be in him any more than it did when he was an infant, though it did not so clearly manifest itself for a while. Wherefore we can confess that he is very God and very man, very God by his power to conquer death. And the very man that he might die for us according to the infirmity of his flesh So further consideration regarding those two natures that were found in Christ, that human nature and yet at the same time the divine nature. In Luke 23, verse 46, it says, And when Jesus had cried with a loud voice, he said, Father, into thy hands I commend my spirit. And having said thus, he gave up the ghost. Christ's crucifixion and his resurrection were of the greatest displays of his two natures. You could see those two natures. both even in the crucifixion and in the resurrection of Christ as truly man We say he's verily man, he was able to die, as all men are able to die, or prone to death He uh put on our sins, he endured the wrath of God, and he died under it. He paid that penalty so that at the cross he was able to say, It is finished. He yielded up his spirit, his ghost, his uh human spirit that was within him. That's what we see on the part of the man that he was, the the nature of the man that he had And yet at the same time, as truly God, he was able to conquer death, which is an amazing thing to see, and no other man can say that they've experienced that of themselves. No none have had that divine nature, have had the Son of God there incarnated, unlike or or or like Christ had As truly God he was able to conquer death. In John chapter two, verse nineteen it says, Jesus answered and said unto them, Destroy this temple, and in three days I will raise it up And in John ten eighteen he says, No man taketh it from me, but I lay it down of myself, I have power to lay it down, and I have power to take it again. This commandment have I received of my Father. It's amazing. Only God has the power to take life and to give it. And yet Christ says of himself That I have power to lay down my own life and I have power to take it again. We see that divine nature within Christ himself. And yet at the same time it's interesting because in the resurrection of Christ we see the whole Trinity being at work, being at play. Christ himself took part in it. He gave his life and he was able to take it up again. And yet we see the whole work of the Trinity there. On the Father's part we we read in Galatians chapter one, verse one, that Paul, an apostle, not of men, neither by man, but by Jesus Christ, it says, And God the Father, who raised him from the dead. We see that God the Father raised Christ from the dead. And on the Holy Spirit's part, we read of in 1 Peter 3. 18 That for uh for Christ also hath once suffered for sins, the just for the unjust, that he might bring us to God, being put to death in the flesh, but quickened by the Spirit So we see the whole work of that triune Godhead in the resurrection of Christ. What an amazingly good shepherd. And uh truly man and truly God he was. He gave his life being punished. Um for sins, even for the sins of his sheep. And yet at the same time he was able to conquer death, to take up his life again And with that to give his life eternal uh his uh sheep eternal life. Just listen to the language carefully in John chapter 10, verse eleven. I am the good shepherd. The good shepherd giveth his life for the sheep. And then in that same chapter in verse seventeen he says, Therefore doth my father love me, because I lay down my life that I might take it again. His whole uh ministry and sacrifice there it was for his sheep. He's the good shepherd. And we read of the good shepherd that he gives his life for his sheep. What an amazing, great shepherd we have. Thank you. Thank you, Brother Anton. More popular recent bits of activity we have from our Gen Z outreach across our newly made social media accounts are snapshots from the confessional readings. It appears that good doctrinal teaching in snippets is of great interest to people who don't otherwise hear what truth really is in a sea of uh sound bites that are meaningless. Well we turn at this time for our season of prayer, congregational season of prayer. This is a model that we find in scriptures. Now I would for the moment put a plug in for this idea of the regulative principle of worship. We worship God the way that he demonstrates he ought to be worshipped in Scriptures. Our call to worship is just that. God speaks. He speaks to us. He calls us to worship. We don't start in prayer. We start because God calls us. And our response is prayer and singing. We then hear doctrine to which we respond again in prayer. And so all of it is designed. Our entire worship service on the format is to mimic as to emulate is to model precisely the form of worship that God would have his people to worship. Not in the vain imagination and idolatrous thinking that the world may produce. So Congregational prayer is an important part of that. All of the people of God, at this point, I enjoin you to lift up your hearts and bowing your head and focus and meditate. on the greatness of our God as we call upon him together in prayer. Join with me in prayer, shall we pray. Lord God in heaven, we are grateful that you have given us a place to worship. You have not left us destitute, so that we are stranded in this vast sea of multitude of darkened minds, depraved hearts, and idolatry. Indeed, this is a land of great idolatry. And Lord, we pray that we would indeed sojourn past the time of our sojourning here in fear, that our walk might be by faith, not by sight. And Lord, as we walk through this vast, barren, desert land, spiritually deprived, Lord, we pray, Lord God, that you would be. pleased to hear us, that you'd be pleased to grant unto us our requests, and that you might speedily answer these prayers of this thy people. Lord God, we are grateful to have with us a dear family we have not seen for a while, whose daughters recently have made missionary trips And we do thank you for their uh activities in El Salvador and Jamaica. We do pray for much fruit from that, and we pray for a uh uh a deepening of their relationship to thee and perhaps a sensing in their soul of what you might be calling them to. We pray for their continued growth and education. Father, we lift up the widows in our midst, those newly others for a long season, those who still do not forget their their dear spouse. Or we pray for them. We pray for those who have various emotional struggles of other sorts, either from the distress of ministry. uh from the distress of the uh economy, from the distress of things going on even in our country. Lord, we uh pray that there would be a refreshing uh that a bright light would shine forth from thy word to the encouragement of their heart. We do lift up those who have had procedures and are seeking to recover from them and those about to go into some procedures. In particular, we think of our uh pastor's daughter soon to be uh relieved of a child by way of C-section. We pray that that surgery would go well. We pray that there would be no complications from that and that a healthy elect child of dying could be brought forth and mother and child safely brought home. We uh thank you for uh our brother and sister in Alaska for our dear sister's uh incredible translocation from uh from Georgia all the way up to from Virginia, excuse me, all the way to Alaska, uh with her husband away and her great with child. Thank you that She was able to give birth to a healthy daughter, but we do pray for that daughter's growth and that child's growth and development. We thank you that some Near calls have been averted, and we pray for uh their homeschooling efforts as well. Uh we pray for those who are still battling with cancer in our midst either in the spine or in various organs. Lord, what a grievous thing to be struck with this disease. And it does indeed make the glories and the promises of the new heaven and new earth all the better. where there is no more pain, no more sorrow, no more crying. We have free access to the tree of life and can be entirely healed. And we will be healed for we will have a new body that will never die. We look forward to that day. And until then, Lord, we pray for life. We desire life. And we do desire life for our loved ones as well. Give them comfort Grant wisdom to their caregivers. Please grant that they could have a speedy relief and remission. Lord, we pray for those who are extraordinarily busy in our midst. Certainly our speaker today comes to mind. We pray for efficiency of the use of time. for a focus in ministry on those things which matter the most. We pray that you would bless those efforts and grant that the work of thy kingdom could be carried about with little distraction and great efficiency. We pray for the shortfalls to ministry. Lord, there has been a season now a long time where certain industries are very much uh emaciated. They have been uh cruelly uh cut down by the work of the former administration of this government. And uh their ridiculous policies have run some industries uh shipwrecked, of which some of our members uh directly or indirectly, depend upon. We do pray for sustainment for them and that you would bring sufficient funds to their to their needs, Lord, as their They're just trying to get by. They're not trying to build an edifice to their name. They're trying to do that which is needful. We uh pray for our college students, for those who have wrapped up finals and have walked the stage, and we rejoice with them that they have completed a signal milestone in their life. Indeed it is a great honor and achievement to uh to to make and I rejoice when I hear uh that many are coming out with their heads screwed on straight, that they're not been moved by uh the errors that and surely they will hear in any large institution And we're grateful that it has been an opportunity for them to strengthen their faith and to uh wrestle with, to find, to to to own the God of their forefathers. We do pray for their upcoming job search as well. Please grant them a career that would be of great interest to them and where they can be of great benefit to their employer. We uh pray, Father, for uh those who are uh preparing messages for uh thy people. We have uh uh schedule that extends out several months and we have various speakers there. We do pray for them as they try to juggle many summertime tasks. We pray that uh their uh Their preparation in the study would indeed result in a zealous heart to come into the pulpit to joyfully share what you have taught them. We pray for those who are seeking to raise a godly home. We pray for the mothers, Lord. Indeed, it's Mother's Day and it's fitting to remember those near mothers. We pray for all who seek to raise their household in the nurture and admonition of the Lord, Lord, that this would not let up. It's been the testimony of godly mothers that have brought forth strong preachers that have impacted a nation and we continue to pray for that, Lord. May in our midst uh there arise a great many mighty Speakers, preachers, deacons, music ministers, Lord, that would benefit thy house and for the furtherance of thy kingdom. Or we uh thank you for the brother who got through his extraordinary busy work season, that extraordinary season of tax time, which uh can be very exhausting. ridiculously long hours deep into the night with an early start. We thank you that he's passed all that. We also pray for our federal employees, those in our associated family and in our midst who are uh facing very uncertain times as they find some of their colleagues receiving a knock on their door and a pink slip in their hand and a box to say, clear out your effects, your job and position has been terminated. Lord, if such falls upon our saints, Lord, please grant unto them an excellent next path of of career. And if it doesn't fall upon them, help them to work efficiently and to continue to provide a public service for the benefit of all, including my people. Lord, we pray for your afflicted saints abroad. Lord, we rejoice that this pastor in Africa has been kidnapped and rescued. Yet we read of others who have a tribe of Muslims fall upon them and slaughter all in the village. Lord, these things are Beyond our pale, we don't experience such things, thanks be to thee, in our land. But Lord, we know our brothers and sisters abroad suffer. We pray for them and that their faith would fail not, Lord, keep them faithful. in that uh in those dying moments should have come upon them. We pray, Father, for those who have recently lost loved ones, our sister in Wisconsin who uh lost her sister and others in Texas who've lost a mother. Lord, we pray for comfort for them and for opportunity to be a witness to others in the family who who mourn as those without hope. Lord, we pray for the unsafe family that perhaps this event would be the one that would cause them to seriously consider their own life. Am I ready to meet God? We pray, Father, for our ministry to only memory care facility and for the saints there. We pray for their spiritual feeding, Lord, and for their encouragement and their uh in the final years of life, please grant that our ministry there would be a benefit to them. We uh pray for our sister whose eyes are struggling and deteriorating and for the family that has a breadwinner with ALS disease that is continuing to decline And for his dear wife, who is working practically around the clock to be now the breadwinner and the caregiver, Lord please have mercy there We pray, Father, for those in the real estate business that they would get listings, that those listings would sell, and that indeed things would begin to move along. Father, we pray for our brother in Texas, uh excuse me, in Tucson, who probably is visiting now in Texas. He does a lot of traveling, Lord, and we're grateful for that because as he travels, he Hands out many tracts, he witnesses to many people, he shares the testimony of the of the gospel to a great many souls. We pray that those endeavors would be uh fruitful, Lord, as he spreads the seeds of thy word. Lord, in all these things we lift up to thee and look to thee for help, for aid, and for guidance. Please bless the remainder of our worship at this time. In Jesus' name. Amen. Please turn to Hebrews chapter ten for our responsive reading. Once you locate Hebrews ten in your Bibles, please rise. We're just reading the first ten verses of Hebrews chapter ten. For the law having a shadow of good things to come, and not the very image of the things Can never with those sacrifices which they offered, year by year, continually, make the comers thereunto perfect For then would they not have ceased to be offered, because that the worshippers, once purged, should have had no more conscience of sins. But in those sacrifices there is a remembrance again, made of sins every year. For it is not possible that the blood of bulls and of goats should take away sins. Wherefore when he cometh into the world, he saith, Sacrifice and offering thou wouldest not, but a body hast thou prepared me. In burnt offerings and sacrifices for sin, thou hast had no pleasure. Then said I, Lo, I come in the volume of the book. It is written of me. Above when he said sacrifice and offering and burnt offerings and offerings for sin, thou wouldest not Neither has pleasure therein, which are offered by the law. Then said he, Lo, I come to do thy will, O God. He taketh away the first that he may establish the second, and altogether by the which will sanctify through the offering of the body of Jesus Christ once for all. May the Lord add a rich blessing to the reading and hearing of his holy words. Our Sunday school series has been marching its way through the book of Hebrews, and I don't think I could ever get tired of the book of Hebrews. It was simply a marvelous portion of Scripture. We turn to our sermon song number 588 in your songbook, Come, We That Love the Lord. Five hundred and eighty-eight in your songbook Sing all five stances. Join it a soul with sweet corn last round. I never knew I don't forget. Joyce of law of them grace that holds glory be coming. Let's go earthly roam, room, they hope they grow the hero. Please let our songs alone and everything drive with marching. You managed round to live where the world's all. Thank you, thank you. You may be seated. It seems some of our younger members forgot how to sing the song and have belted out a slightly different variation of that, but that's all right The lips of infant praised. You know, I'd I'd really wouldn't you rather have your children come and sing happy birthday to you than a bunch of drunken musicians who can play their instruments well? I mean seriously, you'd rather have your children. And no matter what sound they make, it's a pleasant thing to the Father because they are his children. Children are indeed a blessing of the Lord. Well, speaking of blessing, we are blessed today to have our dear brother Dr. Elliott come and minister to us today. Uh and I don't think a soul here is one who doesn't know our dear brother who's been here Before. And we pray for his ministry, and we are grateful that he has made the trip this morning. Thank you, brother, for coming down. Please come and bring the word to us this morning. Morning. The blessing this morning is mine. It's always a blessing to be with you. I guess. Uh when uh Brother Vince told me that you were gonna be doing something a little bit different with the music this morning, I uh I I quick shot off an email back and I said, well, that's better than having a uh Worship band in tight jeans with with with drums and laser lights and this will be a whole lot better, whatever it is. It'll be a whole lot better Well, this morning the subject I'd like to take up For our time together from the Word of God is the subject of tabernacles And not merely the tabernacle, did we think of the tabernacle of Israel in the wilderness But tabernacles in the plural, because we find different tabernacles through Scripture, and some that we don't always think of. And in doing that this morning, we're going to begin with that tabernacle in the wilderness. We read about that in both the Old Testament and the New Testament. But I'd like to begin In the book of Colossians, Colossians chapter 2, beginning at verse 13. Colossians chapter 2, beginning at verse 13. This is the Word of God. And you being dead in your sins and the uncircumcision or the spiritual uncleanness of your flesh. That is your old nature. Hath he quickened or made alive together with him, having forgiven you all your trespasses. Blotting out the handwriting of ordinances that was against us, which was contrary to us, and took it out of the way, nailing it to his cross. And having spoiled or disarmed, defeated principalities and powers, he made a show of them openly. He made a public spectacle of them, triumphing over them in it, triumphing over them in the cross. Let no man therefore judge you in meat or in drink, or in respect of an holy day, a feast day, or of the new moon, or of Sabbath days. And let's notice especially what comes next. Which are a shadow of things to come. But the body is of Christ. Now, verse 17 Could be more literally translated like this. The word that's translated body there, it's it's the word soma in the Greek. That's a word that can be used not only to represent the physical body, it can also be used to represent other things. And a more literal translation of those words might be that these things are a shadow of things to come, but the substance or the reality is of Christ. Shadow and substance. That's what we're going to be dealing with this morning. The tabernacle of the Old Testament gives us the shadows. of good things that have come in the person and work of Jesus Christ. You've been in Hebrews, I'm sure you've been focusing on that Beyond that, we're going to see that the tabernacle also speaks of good things that are yet to come. Good things that are yet future in the unfolding plan of God. When Paul by the Holy Spirit speaks here in Colossians of the handwriting of requirements that was against us and regulations concerning food and drink and regulations concerning a a a festival, a feast day, or a new moon or sabbaths. He's speaking of the Old Testament ceremonial law He's speaking of that law that was given in great detail in the books of Exodus and Leviticus, and the centerpiece of that ceremonial law was the tabernacle. which was first constructed and erected when the children of Israel were traveling in the wilderness for over 40 years. After the Exodus from Egypt, before they entered the promised land, that tabernacle was later erected in Shiloh uh when the Israelites entered the Promised Land and it was superseded centuries later by the Temple in Jerusalem built by King Solomon. That temple was destroyed at the time of the exile. A second temple on the same site was erected after the Israelites returned from their 70 years of exile. And that temple, greatly expanded by Herod, was the temple of Jesus' time on earth. But notice what we're told here in Colossians chapter 2 verse 17. We're told that the Old Testament ceremonial system, the law, the regulations, the feast days, the new moons, the Sabbaths, all of that were a shadow of things to come, but The body, the substance, the reality is of Christ. Much of what we find in the Bible is given to us in this kind of a pattern. We first get the shadow And then we get the substance. We get the symbol, then we get the reality. We get the promise. Then we get the fulfillment. And the word for shadow that Paul uses in verse 17 is a Greek word that speaks of, it speaks of the image that's cast. By an object when light passes over it, I'm standing up here and I hold out my hand and there's a shadow. And that shadow that's cast by the lights above Is something that represents the basic form and outline of my hand. The shadow is not my hand. The shadow is a simple representation of something more complex, far more complex. Aren't these hands amazing? The shadow is a forerunner of the object itself. Think of it this way. Picture yourself, you're you're sitting in you're in your bedroom. Okay. And the door to your bedroom is open. You're sitting there and uh there's light coming from outside the doorway, from the hallway, into the room where you are, and you hear the footsteps of somebody coming. Down the hall. Coming toward the room that you're in. Now, because of the light that's coming from the hallway What's the first thing you're going to see as that person approaches the door? You're going to see a shadow. You're going to see a shadow on the floor or on the door or on the wall. You're going to see that first. And that's where the idea of our English word foreshadowing comes from. The shadow that comes before. But then that person who was out there in the hallway enters the room. And you not only see the shadow, you see the person who cast the shadow. And You saw the shadow and you might be thinking, well, uh Is it my father? Is it my grandfather? Is it my uncle? I you know I can tell it's a male shadow coming, but I don't know any more than that. Uh you may be able to tell a little bit more than that, but You're not sure. It's not absolutely clear. You're going to see a shadow. You're going to see just that. You're going to see an outline. But when that person comes into the room, you see not only the shadow, you see the person who cast the shadow. You see the actual person. And now you see clearly the relationship between the shadow that you first saw and the actual person. And you see that they're in one sense the same But they're substantially different. They're substantially different. You see that the shadow was only an outline, only a representation. But now you see all the detail, all the fullness, you see the full reality of the person himself. Now, that's the picture that the tabernacle gives us. What the Apostle Paul is saying is that the things of the old covenant are the shadows of things to come. They're a mere outline, but the one who casts the shadow is Christ. It's all about him. Every bit of it. I oh I can't remember how many years ago now I was I was asked to do a Bible conference at a church in North Carolina and talked with the pastor back and forth about different subjects and I said, Well, uh How about the tabernacle? And he said, Fine, can you do five messages on the tabernacle? Sunday morning, Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday. Yeah. Yeah, we can do that. We can do that. Um there's a lot of detail. There and and you know in those five messages we didn't begin to scratch the surface. But uh What we saw in that over and over again is that the book of Hebrews, as I'm sure you've been realizing, is the Holy Spirit's commentary on those things under the old covenant And let's think a little bit about the tabernacle. Let's just picture what it would be like if you were the Levitical priest. And you're coming to the tabernacle to do your work, to do your priestly duty. Well, the first area that you would enter would be the outer court. And as you entered that outer court, which was an area that was walled off by panels And the first thing that you would see as you entered that outer court of the tabernacle, there would be this one thing that would visually dominate everything, and that was the brazen altar. The altar on which animal sacrifices and burnt offerings were presented to God, offerings for sin And the brazen altar, as we find in Hebrews and elsewhere, that brazen altar speaks to us of the grace of justification, the principle of substitutionary atonement. The identification of a sinner with a sin bearer. Something or someone bears the sinner's sin as a substitute. It speaks, as 1 Peter 3. 18 tells us, of the fact, the great fact that Christ suffered once for sins, the just for the unjust. that we might be brought to God, that He might bring us to God. Now the second big item that you would have seen in that outer court was the labor, the labor, this big basin of water for washing. And Ephesians chapter 5 tells us that Christ also loved The church gave himself for it that he might sanctify and cleanse it with the washing of water by the Word. That's the picture that we have with the labor. The labor. The brazen altar speaks of God's once-for-all act of justification. The labor speaks of God's ongoing act of sanctifying us. The work of the Holy Spirit, the work of the Word of God in the life of each of us who have been justified by faith in the sight of God. Now Once you passed through the outer court, you would go through a curtain and you would enter what was called the holy place. First inner room of the tabernacle. And you would see three things. On your left you would see a golden lampstand. On your right, you would see a table with bread on it, the table of showbread. And directly ahead of you you would see an altar on which incense was burning. The lampstand As we find elsewhere in Scripture, speaks of the fact that we are in Christ. Union, communion with Christ. Speaks of the fact that in the eyes of God the Father we are united with Christ. All the sticks of the lampstand had one supply of oil, one spirit, one Holy Spirit. The showbread. That was food for the priests. It was food for those for whom substitutionary atonement had been made. Speaks to us of the Word of God, spiritual food for those who have had their sins dealt with at the brazen altar and who were maintaining their growth and sanctification through the washing of water at the labor. And We find many places, of course, in Scripture where incense speaks as a symbol of fellowship with God, specifically prayer. The altar of incense speaks to us of the privilege that we have of access to God through Christ. But then finally, if you were the high priest once a year and only once a year on the Day of Atonement. You alone would have seen the last and most elaborate of the tabernacle furnishings, and that was, of course, the Ark of the Covenant. And we're actually talking about something that's in three parts, if you will. There's the Ark of the Covenant. Above that, there is the mercy seat. And above that, two solid gold cherubim over it, one from each side. And the mercy seat speaks to us of the fact that God has extended mercy to believers in Christ because God's justice has been satisfied out there at the brazen altar. Christ has atoned for our sins. And so the mercy seat in the Holy of Holies speaks to us of the security that we have in Christ, the security of the satisfaction of God's rightful wrath, knowing that it's been dealt with, knowing the security that Jesus paid it all. The security of knowing that nothing can separate us from the love of God because of what Christ has done. And I'm going to digress for just a moment. I appreciate your prayers for our ministry. And Yesterday, Saturday's a work day for me in the office. Thursday's my day off. So I went to the post office yesterday, and there's a letter from a lady in Arizona And I open it up and I realize, oh, this is from somebody that I knew and was in church with. For nearly 20 years. And uh she got married she got married for the first time in her early sixties. Don't don't know How in the world that happened? But uh she got married for the first time in her early sixties and she and her husband moved to Arizona. Uh he was a pilot And uh they ended up in a church in Arizona. Things were fine for a long time, but as she told me in her letter The change of the man in the pulpit. And you've got a man who is subtly introducing the idea that we're saved, not By the blood of Christ alone. But we're saved, our salvation begins with baptism with water. And she said she said I she said I had your one of your books, Christianity and Neoliberalism. And she said I I I I bought it before we moved west, but I never read it. It just sat up there on the shelf and it was one of those things that yeah, one of these days I'm gonna read that. And she said so I pulled it down, I started reading, and there was exactly what I needed, what my husband and I needed to answer this, to deal with this. Uh so Praise the Lord for what he does and and sometimes those things are a long time in coming. Uh that's it's over twenty years uh that passed. But uh Long story short, uh they had an opportunity to to bear very clear testimony uh in that church, but then they left and they're now in a church that's sound once again Praise the Lord for that. But uh I just thought of that, just thinking of this, that Jesus paid it all. Yeah. That labor That labor, the symbolism there has nothing to do with being justified before God, being made right with God. It has to do with being made more and more like Christ. That's that's the symbol. Now, you know, a lot of people ask you why why should we study the tabernacle? This is something that was instituted Some 3,500 years ago it was part of the old covenant, hasn't existed in either tabernacle or temple form for 2,000 years. Uh well There are a couple of reasons that I would put forward. One is one of the things that we find throughout the history of the church, and I'm sure that we've all experienced this The church has always had to battle and always continues to have to battle against the false teaching of legalism. The false teaching that says that man can and must do something in order to have peace with God. That we've got to do something. The false teaching that says that we need to offer something to God instead of or in addition to what Christ offered in order to have eternal life That false teaching has plagued the church in various ways almost from the beginning. We heard that false teaching. Out of Rome this week when a man stood up on a balcony. Some of the first words that he said were a denial of the truth about the person and work of Christ. What would we expect? But that's something that's plagued the church for so long. It continues to plague the church But what we have a picture of in the tabernacle is what it takes, what it truly takes for a soul to be made right with God. The all-sufficiency of Christ. But there are other reasons. And one I think that is very important and that we often don't consider is that the Old Testament the Old Testament tabernacle is one of a succession of tabernacles that we find in the Bible And that succession of tabernacles ends in glory in the book of Revelation. And that succession of tabernacles tells us the story of our redemption. The Old Testament tabernacle was based on the pattern of unseen things in heaven. The tabernacle in heaven. That still exists. That's going to exist for eternity. So the types and symbols were a portrayal. What did the Lord say to Moses? Make it according to the pattern that you've seen. In every detail. Just so make it. Things that are at the heart of our present salvation, things that are at the heart of our present standing before God in Christ, the fact that his blood is on the heavenly altar. Things that are at the very heart of future judgment, as we're going to see in a few moments. Things that are at the very heart of future glory for us. The tabernacle of the past tells us about things of the present. It also tells us about things of the future. And as I've said, God's. The tabernacle was God's way of showing mankind what it takes for a sinner to be made right with him, for a fallen member of Adam's race to be brought back into fellowship with God. What did God say? He said, make me a sanctuary. So that I may dwell among the people. I will be their God, and they shall be my people. But in order for me to dwell among them, they must be a holy people. Man must be made right with God, so that man may have fellowship with God. Sin must be dealt with. Blood must be offered for atonement. Without the shedding of blood, there is no remission. Leviticus chapter 1 We read that an Israelite who had sinned would come to that outer court with an animal without blemish. The foreshadowing of Christ. And we're told that the Israelite was to come of his own free will. This wasn't a matter of compassion of compulsion or forced religion. It wasn't a matter of simply entering into a practice of a religious tradition or a liturgy because that's what we do. That wasn't it. The Israelite was coming to God in order for God to deal with his sins. And we're told that he was to come before the brazen altar, he was to put his hand on the head of that live animal so that it would be accepted on his behalf to make atonement for him for his sin. Now Who killed the animal? Who killed the animal? Often I think it just slips into our thinking, oh the priest killed the animal. No The priest didn't kill the animal. The sinner who put his hand upon that animal put the knife in The priest didn't kill it, the sinner killed the animal, and then the priests were to sprinkle the blood of the animal all around the brazen altar, and the entire animal was then to be burned on the altar and this foreshadowed what it takes for sinners to be made ultimately right with God. In a very real sense, in a very real sense When Jesus went to the cross, each of us drove the nails in. Each of us drove the nails in. In a very real sense, each of us plunged the knife, as it were, into the Lamb of God. Who took away our sins. That's the picture. That's the picture. So the tabernacle pictured for the Israelites what it would take for someone to be made right with God, and the priests had to continually wash themselves. They must keep themselves and their vestments clean, God says. Moreover, the fire of that brazen altar must never go out The light of the lampstand must never go out. The bread on the table of showbread must be continually renewed, and the fire of the altar of incense must never go out. These things must be perpetual. And then on the great day of atonement, the high priest must enter the holy of holies, or he must but he must come with blood, or else he'll die. And he's going to offer that blood upon the mercy seat, not only for the sins of the people, but for his own sins. As we read in Hebrews, they had to offer not only for the people but for their own sins. But one came who didn't have to offer an offering for any sin of his own. The tabernacle points to the great plan of redemption in Christ. One of the things, as I've said, that we find throughout Scripture is this pattern of symbol and fulfillment. And very often in Scripture, some aspect of God's plan is first revealed to mankind in form of a type or a symbol. And the type comes first. And then at a later time in the plan of God, a later point in Scripture, we see what's often called, the theologians call it, the anti-type or the fulfillment of the type. Symbol reality, promise, fulfillment. And in the case of the tabernacle, that's what we see in the pages of Scripture. Exodus 25, as I said. God promised to dwell among the people, let them make me a sanctuary that I may dwell among the people, according to all that I show thee, after the pattern of the tabernacle, the tabernacle in heaven, and the pattern of all the instruments thereof. even so shall ye make it. And then we see that for that promise fulfilled in Exodus chapter 40 Moses obeys God. Moses anoints Aaron and his sons as priests. He sets up and dedicates the tabernacle and its furnishings. And God keeps his promise. You make me a sanctuary and I'll come. Exodus chapter 40, beginning at verse 34, we read this: Then a cloud covered the tent of the congregation, and the glory of the Lord filled the tabernacle. And Moses was not able to enter into the tent of the congregation because the cloud abode thereon, and the glory of the Lord filled the tabernacle. And when the cloud was taken up from over the tabernacle, the children of Israel went onward in all their journeys, but if the cloud was not taken up, Then they journeyed not till the day that it was taken up. For the cloud of the Lord was upon the tabernacle by day, and fire was on it by night, and the sight in the sight of all the house of Israel throughout all their journeys. And we come later to the dedication of the temple in Solomon's time. God's glory again fills the place. So that man can't have it can't even enter for a time. And we're gonna see that again. One more time But again, type fulfillment, type fulfillment, type fulfillment Gospel of John chapter 1. We don't even have to turn there. You know these verses. Gospel of John chapter 1. How does it begin? In the beginning was the word. Jesus Christ. And the Word was with God, and the Word was God, the same was in the beginning with God. And then you come down to verse 14. And the word became flesh and dwelt among us, and we beheld his glory, the glory as of the only begotten of the Father, full of grace and truth. The Word became flesh and dwelt among us, literally. In the original language, the word Jesus Christ became flesh and pitched his tent among us. He tabernacled among us. Another tabernacle. The fulfillment of the type. God comes not in unapproachable cloud and fire where you can't even enter But God now comes in an approachable state, in a human body that can be seen and touched and handled and ultimately sacrificed Jesus went to the cross, rose from the dead, as the writer to Hebrews tells us. He then entered the holy place in heaven, the holy place that's not made with hands. The eternal one. He placed his own blood upon the heavenly altar and the heavenly tabernacle. It's on the mercy seat. It is there forever. It is there forever. And throughout eternity, we're going to be able to point to that. That's why I'm here. That's why I'm here. Because Jesus paid it all once and forever. But that's not all. This fulfillment of type and fulfillment that that chain of events. Another one comes. Jesus tells his disciples, John chapter 14 Before he goes to the cross, he tells his disciples, I'm going to be leaving. They didn't understand what was going to be happening. He told them very directly what he was going to go through, but they didn't believe it, and Peter at least said, Oh, not not so. Ain't gonna happen Well, it did. But Jesus in John 14 said, I'm going to be leaving, but I'm not going to leave you alone I'm going to send another comforter. I'm going to send the Holy Spirit. And what do we find later? What is. Again, we have these commentaries scattered through the word as we go forward. 1 Corinthians chapter 6 verse 19. We've got a commentary on what Jesus said in John chapter 14. Know ye not that your body is the temple of the Holy Ghost, which is in you, which ye have of God, and ye are not your own, for ye are bought with a price. Therefore, glorify God in your body and in your spirit, which are God's. Same thing, 2 Corinthians chapter 6, beginning at verse 16, for ye are the temple of the living God, as God has said. And here Paul quotes God's words from Exodus. God's promise. I will dwell in them and walk in them, and I will be their God, and they shall be my people. Dear friend, if you're here this morning and you're a believer in the Lord Jesus Christ, you are the present tabernacle of God on earth. The temple of the Holy Spirit. Your present state is part of the chain of types and fulfillments pertaining to our salvation. But then we find that even this present fulfillment that we're experiencing is the type or foreshadowing of further fulfillment that is yet to come. We come to Revelation chapter 15, beginning at verse 5. Just want to read a few verses there. Revelation 15, beginning at verse 5. The Apostle John's writing, and he says, after that I looked. And behold, the temple of the tabernacle of the testimony in heaven was opened. the eternal tabernacle, the one that was the pattern for the one on earth. And the seven angels came out of the temple, having the seven plagues, clothed in pure and white linen, having their breasts girded with golden girdles, and one of the four bre four beasts that gave gave unto the seven angels seven golden vials, full of the wrath of God. who liveth forever and ever. And the temple was filled with smoke from the glory of God and from his power, and no man was able to enter into the temple. There it is yet a third time No man was able to enter. Moses couldn't enter. They couldn't enter in Solomon's time because of the glory of God. And here even in heaven. No man was able to enter into the temple. Until the seven plagues of the seven angels were fulfilled And I heard a great voice out of the temple saying to the seven angels, Go your ways, and pour out the vials of the wrath of God upon the earth. Final judgment is coming upon this world. Final judgment is coming upon all those who reject the God who dwelled above the mercy seat of the earthly tabernacle. Final judgment is coming upon all those who reject the Christ who pitched his tent among men and died for sinners. Final judgment is coming upon those who refuse to become the temples of the living God. The temples of God the Holy Spirit. And that judgment will issue forth from where? From the true tabernacle in heaven. The tabernacle of which all the types and symbols speak. It is the sight of God's mercy upon his elect And it is the site from which his wrath on the rest emanates. Those who have received Christ, those to whom He's given the right and the authority, as we read in John chapter 1. to be called the sons of God because they've done nothing more or less than to believe on his name. Those who are the very temple of the living God on earth at this present time, we ourselves We're going to be saved from that wrath to come. Why? Because we are the temples of the living God ourselves. But then we come to a final consummation of all the types and all the symbols. We come to Revelation chapter 21 and we read this. And it's already been alluded to, I think, more than once today. Once at least in prayer I saw a new heaven and a new earth, for the first heaven and the first earth were passed away, and there was no more sea. And I, John, saw the holy city, New Jerusalem coming down from God out of heaven. prepared as a bride adorned for her husband. And I heard a great voice out of heaven saying, Behold, the tabernacle of God is with men. And he will dwell with them. And they shall be his people. And God himself shall be with them and be their God. We're right back there in Exodus again, aren't we? Only this time God doesn't say build me a sanctuary. He says I'm bringing my sanctuary with me. God shall wipe away all tears from their eyes, and there shall be no more death, neither sorrow nor crying, neither shall there be any more pain, for the former things are passed away. This is why it's important for us to understand the Old Testament tabernacle. Nothing could be more relevant for us. Tabernacle tells us about our past, it tells us about our present, it tells us about our future, tells us what it takes for sinners to be made right with God Tells us what's going to be happened when we're ultimately with the Lord forever. All these things are wrapped up in that picture. And where does it all begin? Where does new life in Christ begin for every believer? It begins at the place of sacrifice for sin. It begins at the cross, which is pictured for us in the praise and altar. Our own dear Lord experiencing the wrath, the fire of God's judgment. The finished work of Christ. The finished work that was foreshadowed by the never-finished work of those Levitical priests in the Old Testament. The tabernacle was the centerpiece, the shadow of things to come, but the substance, the fulfillment, the reality is in Christ. A great day is coming. A great day is coming. When the words of the voice from heaven will be fulfilled. And I believe we're going to hear those words ourselves. Behold the tabernacle of God is with men. He will be among us. We shall be his people. No more need for types or symbols. The ultimate reality will come. And we'll be with our Lord forever. It's all about Jesus. And Jesus always keeps his promises. Promise fulfillment, promise fulfillment, promise fulfillment. We see it all the way through. And it just builds and builds and builds until we get to glory His person, his work. They're the good things that have come, they're the good things that are yet to come. The guarantee. Of all the glorious things that are yet to come. Let's pray. Our Father. We thank you that you are God and that you are utterly unlike us. We are covenant breakers. We are promise breakers. We make all the promises in the world. As the hymn writer has said, O Jesus, I promise to serve thee to the end, but then he goes on to lament, to lament his failures. We thank you, Father, that Jesus has never failed and never will. We thank you that you give us all these pictures in your word We thank you that by your Spirit you give us understanding of these things. And understanding, Father, as you've told us in 1 Corinthians chapter 2, that the world simply does not have. Because these things are spiritually discerned. And Father, that spiritual discernment is nothing for us to be proud of. It's only by your grace, only by your mercy, only by your Holy Spirit, as it were, pitching his tent within us as we walk through This dark valley. Thank you, Father, for doing all this for us. And thank you for the confidence that we can have that you will do all that remains to be done. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Thank you, brother, for the Exhortation from the Word this morning. We'll turn to our closing song. It's number 587, Like a River Glorious. 587 in your songbook. Please rise if you're able. Five eighty-seven, like a river glorious. We will sing all three senses. Oh, I love liberals is God's perfect beast over victorious. And this bright green worth over every day. Straight up on your body as a Perfect is my worst, yeah, and in the last time. Never both new, never quite a spell, so Thank you. Every time you grace the morning. My last mother who he made us more. They would trust them only, I am holy true, stay up on your home. Oh no, please receive it.