Gonna really look at one verse because I want to kind of make our studies a little more interactive. And I really want to spend a little more time deeply thinking about a phrase that maybe you've heard an awful lot But haven't stopped to take time to think about it. And it's in Hebrews 3. 12. So you have your bulletin. It's on the insert. Otherwise you can turn your Bibles to Hebrews chapter 3, verse 12. Where we read this, take heed, brethren, lest there be in any of you an evil heart of unbelief. and departing from the living God. You know what's interesting about this passage is the audience. Who's it addressed to? It says brethren. Hebrews. To Hebrews? To Hebrew brethren? To Jewish brethren? And the first audience it would be the Jewish brethren. Does that exclude us Gentiles? At that time, yes. At that time, yes? Okay. I think we'll see through the rest of scriptures that take heed, brethren, is a pretty popular phrase. uh good for being historically accurate. Have you ever thought about this phrase, take heed? It's not one we use much. I don't know, maybe some of you parents do with your kids. Take heed. Take care Okay, take care. What what do you think it means? What's the sense? Take notice. That's actually quite accurate. Yeah. Take notice that word heed is um oh maybe you say that to your dog. Well I guess you say heel. Heel is what you say to the dog. Not heed. Maybe you'd say it to the to Rover Oh the um that that word heed relates to knowledge. It relates to awareness, perception, has to do with sight, take sight So when you tell someone to take seed heed, what are you saying for them to do? You said to be careful, all right, what else Listen? Yeah. To be warned. To be warned? I'm kind of emphasizing that site perspective. Don't do what I don't do what I do Yeah, don't do what I do what I say, not what I do, right? Well not quite. That sight perspective and that word heed, it could be literally rendered take sight. Take perception. In other words, I want you to stop and think. So when you tell someone to take heed, when the Bible tells you, when God tells you to take heed, he's telling you Put your brakes on and use your brain. Start using your brain and think deeply about what you're looking at. The word heed here is not something this warning for instance of take heed there's a lot of take heeds in the Bible. This one in particular is not talking about take heed, they'll deliver you to counsels, don't meditate before him. It's not talking about take heed You know, don't miss Jesus' second coming, you know, being found eating and drinking with the drunken. That's that one is in the Bible, not the one we're dealing with here. Not the one that talks about He who thinks he stands, you know, take heed lest he fall. That's not this warning here. It's take heed lest there be in any of you an evil heart of unbelief. That that idea here is uh lest there be an in an evil heart of unbelief, the the sense is Take heed that you be not deceived because of an evil heart of unbelief. Take heed that you not be deceived because of an evil heart of unbelief. Alright, then I got a question. With that Little introduction, I'm just trying to wet your appetite some. And this is kind of on a personal level. If you want to share it, that's fine. If not That's fine too. I've got some ready examples, but have you and this won't apply to you, Mrs. Ross. Have you ever made a big mistake? Have you ever ever made a big mistake? Somebody describe that event to me. How did it happen? If you're willing to share it. And you've gotten over it. Lisa I saw you shaking your head. Which one to Joke? Tried to hold a piece of board with a su with a circul with a tried to hold a piece of board and cut it with a circular saw. My finger still bears the mark. Oh yeah, right. That backside of the saw coming through the board where your hand is. Yeah, I I've I've I've done something stupid like that before. Have you ever made a big mistake? I made it. You made it? What was your big mistake? It's untold story. It's untold story. Again, you gotta have one that you're willing to tell. Okay, I've lost some important signature pages at work. Oh. Lost the don't know where where it went. Oh. And that was a big mistake because I should have paid more attention to what I was doing with those signature pages. And on Yeah, losing something critical at work. Yep. Yeah. So describe your thought process to me. Um how did that even come about how did it come about me losing it? Yeah, how did you 'cause you must have thought you were paying attention. You were paying attention, so you maybe I could have taken it and I could have put it somewhere with the other signature pages where it would just take too much to go through the look for it was just uh you know it's overwhelming not knowing exactly where it was and going through everything going through all the files It was just a little too much and I I wasn't paying attention to where I should have put them and I put them somewhere else. Yeah. Now at the time when you went to deliver and pull the papers together, what was your expectation? Oh I'm like, oh no Well before you discovered it before you discovered it, what was your expectation? That it will be there. You thought They're in the pile. Right. Alright. Uh what led you to believe that they were in the pile? That's where I should have put them. It's where you should have put them. It's where you've done it in the past. Okay Yeah, that's a really good example, and you'll see why in a minute. Anybody else make a really big mistake? I'm looking for a couple here. Well, I'm only one, but I made one. You made one well that is a big mistake. Only made one, alright. My first marriage. Your first marriage, okay. That's the only one I'd miss. All right, all right. And um in that situation, uh you obviously were enamored enough with the individual that you married him, but then something got discovered later, right? We don't have to get into details, but More knowledge came in later that that said, hmm, okay. All right. Mom, did you have your hand up? Oh, you've never made a mistake either. Penny? I made time. This one was fairly recent. I needed to send a personal rebuke to a fellow staff member based on my position. And I accidentally send it to every female Oh ouch. Oh, okay, so yeah, email mistakes where we put something in. How about can you see this sort of list? Oh yes, one. Yeah, I only have one and it's um you know, I have it ten outscripts weekly. And I sent out the wrong chapter. You send out the wrong chapter. Because I wasn't paying attention, I was in a hurry. That is a mistake, but that's not a Big mistake. I'm looking for the word of big mistake. But you sent the word of God out, right? Yes. So it was still the word of God that went out. So let's think about some other big mistakes. I've got some examples here. Imagine a man who is looking to find a way to treat his cancer. And he goes to a doctor. The doctor says, Why, yes, I have an article here that says this is how we can treat this. And uh I think it'll work for you. Why don't you read it and you come back and let me know? The man goes home, he reads the article, and It's close. I mean the biopsy showed his cancer to be a certain type, but the article describes something slightly different. Just slightly And he said it's close enough and he went ahead with the treatment and instead of making his cancer Better and go away, it made it worse because it was really not for his type. He didn't follow the letters in there. That's a big mistake, would you say? Or maybe a mother rushes to get some medicine for her daughter who's vomiting and violently ill and grabs the wrong bottle off the shelf. And gives it to her daughter and it makes the condition worse so that she ends up in the hospital. That would be uh A big mistake. Does that sound like something maybe you've heard other people making in life? They they thought they were doing the right thing But perhaps in their haste or their lack of carefulness or their lack of diligence in doing due diligence and a little more investigation, or another example, somebody Watches a YouTube video and they're convinced that ACME stock, I'm just going to make something up, is a wonderful investment and you'll make a lot of return. And they go and put Their life savings into Acme stock only to find out that it tanks. shortly thereafter. That would be a big mistake where you just lost a lot of money. Can you think of other examples like that? I'm sure you can. What do they all have in common? How did that mistake get made? A mistake in perception? A mistake in Perception. How did we make a mistake in perception? What happened? What was crucial in that? Complacency, can be uh complacency, alright. So they were a little small on the uptake, and their knowledge was dead wrong. They had some understanding in their head. None of us, I think, rush into a situation knowing that I'm going to screw up. My hands behind this board, here's the saw. Yep, I know I'm going to go through the fingers, but I'm willing to do it anyway. We tend to not go into those situations if we know we're gonna cause ourselves harm. We don't knowingly do that. All of these big mistakes are typically born. Of ignorance. Do you see that? We were ignorant of something. We didn't know something. But we were convinced otherwise. You see where I'm going? Take heed, brethren. Pay attention, lest there be in any of you an evil heart of unbelief. So I think it's helpful to investigate this text here of taking heed. How can an evil heart of unbelief show up in the heart of a believer? And that intrigued me. And so I'm asking some questions. What do you mean unbelief? What type of unbelief does it mean I'm going to quit? believing there is a Jesus? Am I going to quit believing God entirely? Or is it something else? Unbelief. What kind of unbelief are we talking about? Can we can we categorize that some? Is it even useful to categorize it some? Unbelief in what specifically. And whatever that is, how did that unbelief get in and set in and stand up these evil doubts? To begin to make me think, no, not this path over here. And that's kind of where I'm going with this, because I think our passage is a continuation really of Hebrews 3, 2 verses. Earlier it's in your handout. You can go to Hebrews 3. 10. It says, Wherefore I was grieved with that generation, and they said, and here's the kicker, they do always err in their heart. And they have not known my ways. Ah, that's interesting. They make an error in their heart, and they have not known my ways. Take heed. Take perception, take knowledge, brethren. Why? Because these people in the wilderness did not know my ways. There's a connection here. There's a a pointer here. They is pointing us back to a group of people we considered last week, the Jews in the wilderness, whom the Hebrews would understand. That's their forefathers. That's their forebearers. That's their national heritage. God points out two things. They err in heart, they haven't known my ways. Erring in heart is connected with ignorance of who God is. Did you catch that? An error in your heart connects intimately with ignorance of God, ignorance of God's ways. Can you imagine the woman who gets married and has no idea her husband's ways and how he operates and what he's really like? I know all you wives discover this over time, which is why you ought to take some time and some due diligence before you say I do. And then you'll say I've been had. I've been done alright. I've been had. And you're stuck And so we find that this ignorance of how God is, I mean of who God is, is how we are to take heed. Don't be ignorant. And that really is everything I'm trying to point out to you today. But let's look at some examples. We've actually got a couple of examples in the Bible. The first one is the Sadducees, and with that I want you to turn in your Bible to Mark chapter 12 and verse 18. We're going to look at this first example. of how ignorance causes us to err in our understanding of God and we can make some really mighty big mistakes If we have a horrible conception of who God is and his teachings. And I find this to be an interesting concept. Thematically, it ties in with this concept of being ignorant And erring greatly. We find in Matthew chapter 12, verse 18, the Lord Jesus is encountering the Sadducees And we read here in Mark 12 and verse 18, then come unto him the Sadducees. Now they have a certain doctrinal position. They say there is no resurrection. In another passage, we read they also believe there's no angels or spirits. Either. They denied both And they asked him, they asked Jesus, saying, and then you know the account, they go into this bizarre hypothetical situation of a man, uh and he has uh there's seven brothers totally, one man and six brothers, and he dies. The next brother marries the woman, so that Uh he can raise up seed into his brother's name, he dies, etc. None of them have children, all seven brothers had him. And then they ask in verse 23, in the resurrection, therefore When they shall rise, because they don't believe in the resurrection, so they're positing this bizarre scenario, which will never happen, but they posit it anyway. When they shall rise, whose wife shall she be of them? For the seven had her wife. Well, they think they got Jesus. Jesus is going to uh promote polygamy of the worst sort. Seven men and one woman. How does that work? I can't imagine more than one man and one woman. I can't imagine two women sharing the same kitchen. That doesn't work. Ask Abraham. So here they think they got him. This is really not going to work. And then notice Jesus answers. He answers said to them, Do you not therefore err? Alright, that's one of the same words we have in our Hebrews passage. You do err. Because you know not the scriptures, neither the power of God. So Jesus says, number one, you got a bad question. Side note, sometimes Christians, you'll get bad questions. Anton, have you stopped beating your wife yet? That's a bad question. Because the presumption is he is beating his wife If he answers yes, well, you're a horrible person, you've been a wife beater. If he says no, well, you're still beating her, well, that's terrible. There are bad questions. And Jesus flags him for having a bad question. Sorry to pick on you. Muris is gonna quit comments. I don't like this man, he always picks on me. He's picking on my son, he's picking on my husband. Um And so Jesus flags them and says, No, you're erring for two reasons. You don't know the scriptures and you don't know the power of God. Let's start with you don't know the scriptures. Well, what is he going to point out? He's going to point out that they have two big doctrinal errors, and he's going to refute both of them one sentence apiece. These are Sadducees, folks. This was the ruling religious group. The Pharisees didn't rule, the Sadducees did. They were the ones in charge. The Pharisees were held in high esteem by the people And they were the more, shall we say, noble batch, the stricter batch. But it was the Sadducees who were the ruling elite, but they were really wacko in their thinking. And so we read, we read in Matthew 12, 25, he's going to correct their first doctrinal error, and he says this: for when they rise, when they shall rise from the dead They neither marry nor are given in marriage, but are as the angels which are in heaven. Ah, so he just nails them on point number one In heaven, we're like angels. We're not angels. We're like angels. The point being is that angels have to exist in order to be like something. So you Pharisees who don't even believe in angels, you've missed a whole doctrinal point. You don't even have a point of reference. You've even thrown that possibility out. Now I'm here to tell you that in the resurrection They're like angels. They don't marry. They don't give in marriage. And you know what? All throughout the Bible, what do you read about? Do you read about baby angels? No. Sorry, Elias. You don't read about baby angels. Raphael, the great Renaissance painter who painted all kinds of stunning portraits, would often depict Fat little cute cherubs and baby angels. That is just theologically inaccurate. Nowhere in the scriptures do you read about that. Well, then you argue from silence. The book of Hebrews argues from silence. For unto which of the angels hath he said Sit, thou art my son, sit thou at my right hand till I make thy enemies thy footstool. Hebrews argue some silence, and so Jesus is implicitly doing the same You also don't read about female angels and you don't read about angel procreation. It's just not like angels. It's a totally different ballgame. Theologically it makes sense. There's one bride and one groom The groom is Jesus Christ, the bride is his church. That's how it operates. They're like angels. So there's marriage doesn't continue. There's no need to procreate So their first premise is stupidly wrong. There's no marriage in heaven like there is here on earth. That's for the here and now. So they're way off track because of their bad doctrine of angels. Point number two, Jesus says in verse 26, as touching the dead that they rise. Have you not read in the book of Moses? Have ye not read, I love it, how in the bush God spake unto him, saying, I am the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob. He's not the God of the dead, but of the living The reason this is a powerful proof text is because the Sadducees only held the first five books of Moses. as canonical. They didn't take the prophets. They didn't take the later writings. Because there are some very plain passages that speak in more detail about the resurrection. Job speaks about it, that who mine eye shall see and not another. Hosea speaks of it. Ezekiel talks about it. Why would he go there? Because that's one of the five books they hold as canonical. And Jesus says, Yep. God says I'm the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. But he's talking to Moses. So where's Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob? Aren't they dead? God says, no, they're not dead. They're alive. They live forevermore. And their bodies will rejoin them in the resurrection. They're alive. God is the God of the living, not the dead. There's a resurrection. And so he concludes uh with this. He uh says uh in in Matthew 12, 27, actually before I get to that Oh, he says, yeah, ye do therefore greatly err. So I want up that that word greatly errors the word for deceived. You're greatly deceived. Deceived by way of ignorance. There's a connection between deception and ignorance. Deception and false knowledge. Huge connection. How do you think the Sadducees got this way? They rejected the prophets. They rejected a large portion of God's word to begin with They reject a large portion of the Word of God. Yeah, absolutely. How else? What might some other factors be? And I'm kind of poking around the premises here. And I don't have any particular answer in mind, but how do you think they got there? Put yourself back to first century. You're a religious ruling group. You're leading the people, you're the ones in charge. You've just rejected a whole chunk of scriptures. No, I don't want that. How else might they have gotten that way? What could lead to that? Oh, listen to my choir back here. Yeah, I heard you though. Arrogance. Arrogance and ego. Arrogance and ego and pride. I know it says this, but I'm smarter. Right. I'm in charge. I'm a I'm I'm smarter. I I watched a YouTube video. I I know everything now. Right? I'm I'm a I'm a you know, uh microwave theologian. I just Puts in my 30 seconds. I'm smart. I'm smoking hot. I really got it. I'm here and now. Arrogance, yeah, arrogance is a big way that leads to to ignorance. Like the kids that jump on their motorbikes and go 120 miles an hour down the road. I can handle this until they hit a little patch of gravel. Yeah. So they made a major blunder because of ignorance and wrong doctrinal thinking about two doctrines that actually connect to others, to each other. Because if you reject the resurrection, you reject Jesus. Do you see the tie I'm making here to ignorance, lack of knowledge, a willingness to not want to learn because of arrogance? That will lead you into significant error. Let's go to our second example instead of the Corinthians. Let's go to 1 Corinthians chapter 6 And I know you know these things, but I'm I'm trying to try to slow roll it so you don't hear a fire stream of monologue. It'll knock you to sleep. First Corinthians six nine. First Corinthians six nine and we read I'm just going to go through the first part of verse eleven. First Corinthians six nine. Know ye not that the unrighteous shall not inherit the kingdom of God. Be not deceived. Neither fornicators, nor idolaters, nor adulterers, nor effeminate, nor abusers of themselves. With mankind, nor thieves, nor covetous, nor drunkards, nor revilers, nor extortioners shall inherit the kingdom of God. And such were some of you. So here, Paul is listing and I counted ten different types of sinners that do not inherit the kingdom of God Ten types of sinners. They don't inherit the kingdom of God. He says, don't be deceived. And those who live like this have no place in heaven, have no assurance of going to heaven. They they're they're flat out deceived. But thank God he says in verse 11, such were some of you. But that implies that this is addressed to believers. Again, the warning to believers. Okay? Now, Peter has an antidote. Peter has the flip side of this. It's in 2 Peter 1, and I put it in your handout there. Keep your hand in 1 Corinthians 6 because I'm going to have you look back at that. But in 2 Peter, excuse me, 2 Peter 1-2, Peter writes this. Grace and peace be multiplied unto you. through the knowledge of God and of Jesus our Lord, according as his divine power hath given unto us all things. He continues on through uh the knowledge of him who called you. Verse four. And beside this, giving all diligence, add to your faith virtue and to virtue knowledge. And he has a number of other things to add. Verse eight If these things be in you and abound, they make you that you shall neither be barren nor unfruitful in the knowledge of our Lord Jesus Christ. There's my question In these two passages, what's the common word? Knowledge. In fact, in Peter it uses it how many times? Let's see. Verse 2 Verse three, verse four, verse eight. I mean four, five, six times, quite a few times. There is an intimate connection, folks, between lack of knowledge, which leads to ignorance, which leads to deception, which leads to missing the kingdom of heaven. That's a little important, don't you think? That's where deception starts is through ignorance. And so the point to all this is that knowledge, and this may be a handout note, knowledge to avoid such deception is vitally important. That is the thing that is vitally important. God would not have us to be ignorant. He's given us some 800,000 words. There's a lot here. It's all recorded for our benefit, for our education. Oh the Old Testament has got some weird walky accounts. Sure it does. But it's giving some historical aspect It's giving some allegorical teachings. It's giving some word definitions. The Bible's a self-contained book. And the more you get familiar with the Bible, and the more you get familiar with God's ways Do you remember his accusation against the wilderness Jews? They have not known my ways. So not knowing God's ways, folks, leads to an error in heart. An error in heart leads to deception and unbelief, and that leads to damnation. So this is a very relevant passage when it says, take heed, take knowledge, learn something. You know Let me give you some practical helps on all this stuff. How many of you have ever been discouraged greatly as a Christian? Just discouraged. I see a few headshaking, yes. Discouraged greatly as a Christian. When you experience that, tell me what you think is going through the Christian's mind. When a Christian experiences great discouragement, what tends to be going through their mind? Well I will hope they're not questioning God That's what I would hope that that could be. I do. I'll admit it. Okay. But you're right. They start to question God. And kinda how might that question come out? One word, why? Yeah, one word, why? Why, Lord, why this? The Psalmist in Psalm 73, Aseth, surely God is good to Israel, such as pure of heart. But my feet nearly slipped when I was envious. I saw the prosperity of the wicked. And he goes on to describe all the wonderful things that are happening to the wicked. Boy I want their life. That ain't my life. He's asking why. And fundamentally, what was the psalmist problem in Psalm 70? I always get seventy-three and seventy-two mixed up. Which one is it? I gotta go look it up. I'm doing this. What was this problem? Do you remember that psalm? 73? Remember how it concludes? It was beautiful. He says Verily I've cleansed my heart in vain. I'm in Psalm 7313. I've washed my hands in innocency All the day long I've been plagued and chastened every morning. This doesn't sound like a lot of fun. I thought Christianity was the happy life. It says blessed. Blessed means happy. Blessed means holy, first and foremost. If I say I will speak thus, behold, I should offend against the generation of thy children. I don't even want to say that I'm questioning God because I'm going to offend somebody else in doing it. See, God knows our thoughts already When I thought to know this, it was too painful for me until I went into the house of God. Then understood, then I took heed, then I took knowledge, then my ignorance stopped And then understood I their end. Oh yeah, you don't want to go down that path. Boy, that's a deceptive path. It looks good on the outside. For a while it's fun, but it leads to death. So if you'd known that in advance, you might not have joined in with all those saying, Yeah, come invest in Acme Yeah, have come fun with us. After ten o'clock at night, we're gonna go to downtown Baltimore at this happening club with a bunch of stupid people doing stupid things at stupid times We're going to have a great time. And end up dead. How they are brought into desolation is in a moment they are utterly consumed with terrors. So I would assert to you that when you feel discouraged or disappointed, fight back. Fight back against that. Have a little discussion with yourself and say self. God is good. God's adopted me as a child of his. He has promised me great and exceeding precious promises. He has never broken one of his promises. But he has never promised me that I will have an easy life. And in this particular situation that I am in at this time, when life is miserable There is some area of ignorance in my life that is causing me to doubt God. And the sooner I quit questioning God. And the sooner I start digging into learning more about who God is and what his ways are Then I might just get out of this pit, this stupid pit of depression. You know, Jesus says, rejoice in that day, be exceeding glad when men shall persecute you, call you falsely for my name's sake. He says, leap for joy. He says, when that sort of evil thing happens to you, you need to say, Glory, hallelujah, my name's written in heaven. The apostles went out of the council having been beaten. Not because they failed to make an impact, but they were beaten and they came out rejoicing because they'd been counted worthy to suffer for his name. They understood God's ways. And they said, ah, this is the mark of God's ways. I'm in God's path. It's actually happening as God said. Glory, hallelujah They looked past the circumstances. They had knowledge. They took knowledge of God's ways. Many Christians are very ignorant, and therefore they're very depressed. Because they're ignorant of God's ways. I was really struck yesterday by Hebrews ten twenty-three. Let us hold back the professional faith without wavering, for He is the faith That promise. Whether I understand his ways or my circumstances, God is so faithful, and that is exactly what Yes. Yes. Hebrews ten twenty three is a very relevant verse, and we'll revisit this topic again when we hit Hebrews ten twenty-three because it's a common one throughout here. Don't give up hope. Jesus is better. He's never failed his promises. You just hang on. Yes, it's going to get rough, but look at our Lord. He didn't have a cakewalk down here either. Number two, second, recognize, and this is like related to our word, perceive, take heed. That's what take eed means. Recognize, recognize and understand that in this area of your life, when you're when you're discouraged You're ignorant about some aspect of God in his ways. You know, we might want to look at Ephesians four fourteen, because it's very relevant to this. The Apostle Paul puts it a little differently He has a little different approach to describing this. In Ephesians four, he writes this way. He speaks, beginning in verse 11, that God gave some apostles, some prophets, some evangelists, some pastors, some teachers. What do all those gifts have in common? I'll tell you. They're all a speaking role. They talk. They're all talking roles. Yes, a deacon is a gift of God. Yes, a a widow who serves God night and day with her prayers is a gift of God But he's talking about the the the speaking roles here for a moment. Why? Verse twelve, for the perfecting of the saints, for the work of the ministry, for the edifying, the building up of the body of Christ, till We all come, we're not there yet, in the unity of the faith. We're going in that direction. We're not there yet. And of the knowledge of the Son of God, notice that word knowledge, unto a perfect man The measure of the stature of the fullness of Christ. Why? What's the reason? You want to increase the knowledge? Why does God give people who are persuaded that they need to sit down, do a little digging in the Bible, do a little reasoning with the scriptures Starting to prepare a lesson, to share with you some things they've learned, not so you can come and fall asleep, although yes, we can drone on and make people sleepy, so I'm not trying to make you sleepy. That we henceforth be no more children. Tossed to and fro with every wind of doctrine. Why are children tossed to and fro with every wind of doctrine? Because they're fundamentally ignorant. They're fundamentally stupid. They don't consider And Paul will say, do be a child! Man up! Ladies, put on the big girl underwear. It's time to quit being goofy. You gotta you gotta get smart in this thing. It's okay You ladies know how to be smart. I've seen some I've seen some I've stood at the checkout counter at Giant and there's a lady up front with a massive cart of groceries and a big book of coupons And when she's done, they're handing her money over the counter and she walks out with plenty of groceries. This woman knows how to diligently track Coupons, double manufacturer coupons, triple disks, and man she is kachin kachin. You see the minus sign coming off. She's smart, she can dig, she can spend time, she can investigate And sometimes these are the people that come to Pastor Joe and I with the greatest griefs of mind because they're ignorant of the scriptures. They're just ignorant. We don't want to be children tossed to and fro with every wind of doctrine. I heard this on the radio, I'm so concerned, I think Jesus is coming because of the earthquake in Turkey. No, he's not coming because of the earthquake in Turkey or wherever the latest earthquake is. Jesus says there will be wars, rumors of wars, earthquakes, famines in the first place. These are the beginning of sorrows. In other words, this isn't it Ignorance. Ignorance. We have to fight against ignorance. Your sons received advanced degrees. Why? To fight against ignorance My dad told me, son, there's plenty of ignorance in this world. If there's one thing the world's not short of, it's ignorance. We don't want to be like them. And so knowledge is power. Especially the knowledge of God. Especially the knowledge of God's ways. It provides us better prayers. Ever been impressed with the prayers of Moses? God says, I'm tired of these Jews. Moses, step aside. I'm going to wipe them out and I'm going to make a better nation out of you. Moses, knowing the ways of God, remembering the word of God, interceding on behalf, Lord, time out. If you do that, then the Egyptians will say, because you went to the Egyptians, said, I will give me glory over the Egyptians. They're going to say, You brought them in the wilderness to slay them, and the Lord could not deliver them. And they're going to have worn up on you. He knew God's ways. Have your prayers been informed by the way of God? You know, you can pray to God very effectively if you show to the Lord, hey This is in alignment with your way. Lord, I want this thing removed because I believe it's interfering with your glory. If you know what God's about, You can ask a very intelligent prayer, but ignorance, ignorance keeps us from that So that's what I want to present to you today. It's not a complex topic. Many of these things you already know, but I was just blessed by going through it and just considering what take heed means. Take perception, take knowledge. Evolve would you close us in prayer, please? Your heaven father Thank you, Lord, for the light of thy word. Pray, Lord, that we would grow in the knowledge of it, that we might. Stay encouraged in our walk, Lord, and uh never walk in error, Lord, not walk in ignorance or arrogance, Lord, but uh grow embraced by it Lord and uh even to the uh subverting of uh be hearers of thy word, Lord, as we proclaim the truth of the gospel. And just pray, Lord, that you would continually build us up in it And uh pray all these things, Lord, in Jesus' name, amen.