I'd like you to open with me in your Bibles to the 11th chapter of Matthew. And I hope you brought your turning thumbs with you. Because we will be turning to a lot of different scriptures this morning. I should have given our internet guy a list ahead of time, as I sometimes do. But he's got pretty fast fingers, so I think he'll be able to keep up with us. Let me mention I appreciate the fact that in this congregation, uh Everybody does something. Nobody's idle. It's a good thing to see that we all are participating in the work of the Lord. If you have your place in Matthew chapter 11, I'm going to read verse 25 through verse 30 as we begin this morning. Matthew 11, verse 25. At that time Jesus answered and said I thank thee, O Father, Lord of heaven and earth, because thou hast hid these things from the wise and prudent, and hast revealed them unto babes. Even so, Father, for so it seemeth good in thy sight. All things are delivered unto me of my Father And no man knoweth the Son but the Father, neither knoweth any man the Father, save the Son, and he to whomsoever the Son will reveal him Come unto me, all ye that labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. Take my yoke upon you, and learn of me. For I am meek and lowly in heart, and ye shall find rest to your souls. For my yoke is easy, and my burden is light. Let us pray. Gracious Father, Lord, there is so much before us this morning. A great banquet of thy truth is spread for thy people in the Word. And Father, how could our souls gorge any more on thy truth? But help us this morning to be able to digest the Word of God by the leading of thy Spirit. May you direct our hearts And Father, I pray that every single one may receive some blessing today, whether they be here with us in person. or worshiping with us online or worshiping with us later in this day online or listening to this message years and years from now. Father I have nothing to say to this people, but thy word is filled with thy truth. And so, Father, as we examine the scriptures, And compare Scripture with Scripture. May thy Spirit fulfill the promise that the Holy Spirit would be given to guide us into all truth. And so, Father, guide us into thy truth this day. Magnify and glorify thy son in our estimation. And Lord, we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. I've commented to some of you before that some preaching is like the painting of a broad, broad landscape. And other preaching is like a very detailed portrait. And I tend to preach more to the landscape. And I'm often guilty of attempting to consider far more scripture than is reasonable at one time. And this is one of those messages that began as one message and really can be divided into seven or eight different messages. And yet I feel like we need to cover it all. So I would ask you to fasten your seat belts because we're going to drive pretty quickly through some of these passages. Here in Matthew 11, We find in the last three verses this great call of Christ, which probably most of you have memorized: come unto me, all ye that labor and are heavy laden. And take my yoke upon you and learn of me, for I am meek and lowly, and ye shall find rest to your soul. What is the yoke that is spoken of here? Well, in our Old Testament, there are four different words in the Hebrew that are translated yoke. And in our New Testament, there are four Greek words that are translated yoke, and yet they all mean basically the same thing. The variance of words in the Hebrew and the Greek It's just a further testimony to the sovereignty of God over his word. Because God's word in its original Hebrew, Aramaic, and Greek, is excessively expressive. Those languages are far more detailed than our English into which it's translated for our understanding. And God, as we've said many times before, has preserved his word for our edification and our benefit. So this morning We're not going to concern ourselves with the Hebrew words or the Greek words, but we're going to focus on the instances in Scripture where we find this word yoke in our English Understanding that it's essentially the same meaning from all the different scriptures. Now, there are 66 of them. So we can't cover them all. We read one of them in our responsive reading this morning. It is good for a man to bear the yoke. in his youth. And we understand what that means for a young man to face trials which refine him and which teach him and guide him. A young teenage boy can be the most foolish thing on earth. And then how amazing that that young teenage boy, ten years later, can be a mighty preacher of the gospel of Jesus Christ. It's good for a man to bear the yoke of his youth. We understand that what that is. And so this word yoke comes as an agricultural term. I'm sure most of us have seen a horse collar. Maybe if you've seen the Amish going down the road and a horse and buggy and there's a collar on the horse that ties it to the to the um ra rails and to the reins, to the harness, the yoke. It's what ties the animal to the job. We may have also seen a picture of biblical times when there would be a yoke of oxen and there would be a long bar that goes across and two oxen would be in with loops around their neck which hold them to the burden. A yoke is that which ties some animal or beast to the work. And that's the expression that is used here, the yoke of a man's youth. the burden of casting off the foolishness of youth. When I was a child, I thought as a child, I understood as a child, but when I became a man I put away childish things That's what we're reading there of in Lamentation chapter 3, that process of growth. So we're going to begin this morning. By looking at some of the evil yokes, some of the yokes which are to be cast off. But then we're going to turn to the yoke of Christ. And the yoke of Christ is not a heavy burden, but a delightsome burden. It is that which binds us to Him And it is precious. So to begin with, I'd like you to turn with me to Galatians chapter 5 and verse 1. And hopefully, when you hear that reference, it comes to mind right away. Galatians chapter 5 and verse 1, there we read, stand fast in the liberty wherewith Christ hath made us free. And be not entangled again with the yoke of bondage We're not to be entangled with the yoke of bondage. But what is the yoke of bondage? Well, I'll tell you right away, and then we'll look at God's word for proof. The yoke of bondage is first the bondage of the law, and secondly the bondage of the things of this world, the bondage of sin. So to get the context, turn back to chapter 4 of Galatians. And there we're going to begin with verse 4 of Galatians 4. Just a page back from where you were, and we find there, but when the fullness of the time has come, God sent forth his son, made of a woman, made under the law, to redeem them that were under the law that we might receive the adoption of sons. Okay, the first thing this yoke was was the yoke of the Old Testament law. It was a very narrow and restrictive law, and man could not keep that law. God in his infinite wisdom had ordained that the for the law for that time for Israel. Now we're not talking about the Ten Commandments per se, we're talking more about the ceremonial law of Israel. It had purposes, and it all pointed to Christ. All the feast pointed to the coming of Christ. All the articles in the tabernacle pointed to Christ. The law was our say it with me. Schoolmaster. It was our teacher. It bound us in and yoked us up for that time. But now we're made free from those things. So the first thing we're free from is the law. But continuing to read there in Galatians 4 and verse 8. Howbeit then when ye knew not God, ye did service. What did a yoke do? Well, it bound the animal to service. Ye did service unto them which were by nature no gods The law was not a God. The things of this world were not to be our gods. Verse nine But after that ye have known God, or rather are known of God. How turn ye again to the weak and beggarly elements under which he d sorry, the weak and beggarly elements under which he desire again to be in bondage. Okay, so Paul was saying here, stand fast in the liberty. Christ has made us free. If the Son shall set you free, ye shall be free indeed. There is therefore now no condemnation to them which are in Christ Jesus, who walk not after the flesh, but after the Spirit, for the law of the Spirit of life in Christ. hath made us free from the law of sin and death. So turn with me to Leviticus 26 and verse 13. Leviticus chapter 26. Just one verse there, but I want you to see it with your eyes. Leviticus 26 and verse 13. Leviticus 26, verse 13. Here Jehovah says, I am the Lord, I am Jehovah your God. which brought you forth out of the land of Egypt, that ye should not be their bondmen, and I have broken the bands of your yoke, and made you to go. Upright. Isn't that a glorious verse? God says, I've delivered you from Egypt. Egypt throughout Scripture was a picture of the world. Satan was a Pharaoh was a picture of Satan. God says, I have broken your bondage to this world. I have broken your bondage to sin. I have broken your bondage to To Satan that you might not be his bondman, I have broken the bands of your yoke that ye may go upright. Consider this. We were weighed down with our sin. It bent our backs low The burden was heavier than we can ever bear. But Christ has broken the yoke that bound our sin to our backs We are no longer bondmen to Satan. We are free, free, free indeed. And Christ has made us to walk upright. And that upright is referring to the position of the body, but further it's referring to the position of the soul. And as I prayed in our Call to worship prayer this morning. We rejoice that we stand before God in the righteousness of Christ. We walk upright. Because Christ has broken our band. And so the call to the believer is don't get entangled again in the yoke of bondage. Don't go back to those old sins. Don't pick up that burden of iniquity. Be careful, little eyes, what you see. Be careful, little ears, what you hear. Be careful, little mouth what you say. Because Christ has broken the bondage of the law. And Christ has broken the bondage of this world and the bondage of this world is found in Jeremiah 2, verses 19 and 20. I'll read them for you quickly. And this is a glorious passage because in Jeremiah 2, go ahead and turn there, folks. We've got all day. We have an extra hour. Jeremiah chapter 2, verse 19. God deals with his elect in all things to set us free. This is a glorious passage, folks, and Jeremiah 2, 19 through 20 could be our message in itself if we had time to expound all that is here. Jeremiah 2 verse 19, thine own wickedness shall correct thee. Brethren, if you're a child of God and you sin, it smites you If you're a child of God, your own wickedness will smack you in the face. Why did I do that? Why did I think that, Lord? Why did I look at that thing? Why did I say that? That's the work of the Holy Spirit in your heart. For the believer, your own wickedness comes back and bites you. I hate that. Why did I return like a dog to his vomit? Thine own wickedness shall correct thee, and thy backsliding shall reprove thee. Know therefore and see that it is an evil thing and bitter Ah, how bitter the sin of the believer is to his conscience. That thou hast forsaken the Lord thy God, and that my fear is not in thee, saith the Lord God of hosts. For of old time I have broken thy yoke and burst thy bands. God says, I freed you from all that. You don't have to pull Satan's plow anymore. I freed you from that. I burst your bands. And thou saidest, I will not transgress. Do you ever say that? I'm not going to do that anymore. I will not transgress. But here, the children of Israel, God says to them, When upon every high hill and under every green tree thou wanderest playing the harlot God has broken the yoke of bondage. Child of God, don't be entangled again with the yoke of bondage. That's the first yoke that we're to cast off. The yoke of bondage, and it's cast off to the power of Christ. But there is a second yoke of bondage, which we're to cast off, and that is the yoke of false religion. or the yoke of unbiblical practice. Turn with me to Acts chapter 15 and verse 10. I'm going to read verse 10, which is the verse with Yoke, but then we're going to back up in the chapter and see what is taking place. Acts fifteen verse ten. Now therefore, why tempt ye God to put a yoke upon the necks of the disciples, which neither our fathers nor we were able to bear. Now what is the context Well, the context is found in verse 1 of the chapter. So look up the Acts 15, verse 1. And certain men which came down from Judea told the brethren and said, Except ye be sacrificed, sorry, except ye be circumcised. After the manner of Moses, ye cannot be saved. What's the verse that says you can't be saved except you're circumcised? It's not there. Look down to verse five. But there arose certain of the sect of the Pharisees which believed. saying that it was needful to circumcise then and to command them to keep the law of Moses. What do we just see about the law of Moses? Well God has freed us from the bondage to the law And so here we find Pharisees that have believed. These are men of the Pharisees. They are true believers. They're listed here as believers. And yet they got their old habits going on. And so they're insisting that you have to be circumcised. They are bringing something in which the Bible doesn't say. And so in verse 8, Peter stands up and he says, There in God, which knoweth the hearts, bear them witness, giving them the Holy Spirit. This is the Gentiles that they try and circumcise as he did unto us. And put no difference between the us and them, purifying their hearts, verse 9, by faith. Verse 10, now therefore, why tempt ye God to put a yoke on the neck of the disciples, which neither our fathers nor we were able to bear? Now why do I bring this yoke in, this yoke of false religious practice? Ever hear the rosary? Show me that in Scripture. Did you ever hear the confession booth? Show me that in Scripture. Did you ever hear a paying penance? Show me that one in Scripture Stephen didn't receive the last rites when he was stoned. And yet he saw heavens opened. You will not find one person in the New Testament that joined the church Now I'm not saying church membership is bad or wrong, I understand it. You know, and there there are some benefits to uh officially associating yourself with a particular congregation. So I'm not trying to condemn that. But there are people who say, oh, if you're not a member of the church, you're not saved. If you weren't baptized by this particular mode of baptism, you've never been baptized. If you don't do this or do that, you're not a Christian. You see, there's all kinds of yokes that men, some of them well-meaning but wrong, try to put on us. But those things are cast off. And Peter here, when they were trying to force circumcision on the Gentiles, said, look, they're saved by faith, just like we are. For by grace are you saved through faith. And so, my friends, if you are told, oh, you need to be in this church or you're not saved. Or you have friends or family that are in those churches because they want to be saved, take them to the Word of God. That is an unbiblical yoke which is to be cast off. And so we have the yoke of false religion or the yoke of unbiblical requirements. The third yoke that's to be cast off is the yoke of possessions The yoke of possessions. Turn with me to Luke chapter 14. And there I'll begin reading in verse 16. And again, you heard these stories in Sunday school. They're familiar to us to you, but maybe we haven't considered. them in light of the yoke. Luke 14 and verse 16 and following. There we read this. Then said he unto them, A certain man made a great supper and bade many. And he sent his servants at supper time to say unto them which are bidden, Come, for all things are now ready. And they began, and they all with one consent began to make excuse The first said unto him, I have bought a piece of ground, and I must needs go see it. I pray thee have me excused. And another said, I have bought five yoke of oxen And I go to prove them. I pray thee have me excused. And another said, I have married a wife, and therefore I cannot come So that servant came and showed his lord these things. Then the master of the house, being angry, said unto his servants, Go out quickly into the streets and lanes of the city, and bring hither the poor, the maimed, the halt, and the blind Here we find these that were invited to the marriage of Christ, to the supper, the great supper. And one said I bought a piece of land that I have to go go see it. Do you ever buy a piece of land you haven't seen? I'll sell you London Bridge if you want it. Uh my father used to talk about in the sixties and seventies there were big companies selling land in Florida. And he knew some people that bought some of it. The problem was it was swamp. It wasn't really land at all. It was underwater two-thirds of the year, occasionally a dry up, but it was it was worth nothing The only thing you could grow on it was mosquitoes. Who buys a piece of land they haven't seen? And yet that was the first excuse that was made. You ever buy a car you hadn't seen, never test drove? When I was was selling cars, what you always hear in the you go back into the manager's office and the first question was, has the customer driven the car? Because you can't sell the customer the car if they haven't driven it. I bowed a yoke of oxen. You see, the things of this world had these tied down. Remember the rich young ruler The rich young ruler came to Christ. And it's in Matthew, Matthew 19 And verse twenty and twenty-one, Jesus said unto him, If thou wilt be perfect, go and sell that thou hast, and give to the poor, and thou shalt have treasure in heaven, and come and follow me. But the young man, when he heard that saying, went away sorrowful, for he had great possessions. What shall it profit a man if he gain the whole world and lose his own soul? Or what will a man give in exchange for his soul Having food and raiment therewith be content. Folks, we as the children of God are not about the things of this world. Hey, I'm wearing clothes this morning. I'm not standing here naked. Thank the Lord. You'd be running out the doors if I was. We need clothes, we need a place to live, we need a house, we need food. But we're not about the things of this world. But how many people today are out in their camper? Rather than being in the house of the Lord. How many people today are at a place of employment because I've got to work, I've got to work, I've got to work. And they're all about the things of this world and have no care at all for eternity. But folks as Christians, we've cast off the yoke of things. But everything I have belongs to the Lord, and everything I have was given to me by the Lord for his glory and the furtherance of his kingdom. And so the third yoke that we're to cast off is the yoke of possessions. But then we turn a little bit in our message And again, as I said, there are 66 verses with yoke, and we are far from covering all of them. But we turn to yokes that are a great blessing. And we saw that a little bit where where God says he's broken the yoke of how our our own sins will convict us and bring us back. He's broken that yoke of bondage. But now I'd like you to turn with me to Jeremiah chapter 31. And here we're going to find the yoke of repentant submission. The yoke of repentant submission. And this is where we start to see that indeed God's burden is light. Ephraim learned the joy of the yoke of Christ. As opposed to the yoke of this world. In Jeremiah 31, we have a blessed account of the repentance of God's people and their submission to loving discipline. And so we're going to begin reading with verse 18 as you had her place now in Jeremiah 31 And Jeremiah 31, verse 18 begins with God speaking. God says, I have surely heard Ephraim bemoaning himself thus. And after the thus, we find Ephraim's voice. Thou hast chastened me, Ephraim says to God, thou hast chastened me, and I was chastened. As a bullock, unaccustomed to the yoke, turn thou me, and I shall be turned, for thou art the Lord my God. Ephraim says, You've chastened me, God. Lord, put a yoke on me to turn me. The yoke of submissive repentance What is the purpose of the yoke on the animal? Well, part of the purpose is to be able to turn that animal so the plow goes where the plow is supposed to go And here we find Ephraim saying, Lord, you've chastened me. Lord, put a yoke on me, Lord. Turn me in the way of righteousness. And indeed is that not what Christ is saying in Matthew, where he says, Take my yoke upon you and learn of me, for I am meek and lowly, and ye shall receive rest of your soul. For my yoke is easy, and my burden is light. Oh, turn us again, O Lord. Cause thy face to shine, and we shall be saved. And so continuing there in Jeremiah 31, we just read verse 18, now verse 19. Surely after that I was returned surely after that I was turned, I repented. And after I was instructed, I smote upon my thigh. Oh God, why did I do that? I smote upon my thigh. I was ashamed, yea, even confounded, because I did bear the reproach of my yoke. Remember Lamentation 3 Is Ephraim God speaks again? Is Ephraim my dear son? Is he a pleasant child? For since I spake against him, I do earnestly remember him still, therefore with my bowel therefore my bowels are troubled for him I will surely have mercy upon him, saith the Lord. Cast off the yoke of the law in this world. Cast off the yoke of false religion, cast off the yoke of possessions, and take the yoke of Christ, that he may turn us into the way of righteousness. Oh, it's glorious to be turned of God. Before I was afflicted I went astray. But now I have kept thy law. Blessed is the man that thou choosest, O Lord, and teachest out of thy law. Lamentation 5, verse 21. Turn thou us unto thee, O Lord. And we shall be turned, renew our days as of old. Oh God, every time I sin, put the yoke of your mercy on my neck and turn me back to you Oh Lord, when my heart would wander, as the song says, prone to wander, Lord, I feel it. Prone to leave I the God I love. Here is my heart, O take and seal it, seal it for thy courts above. Lord, put the yoke of repentance and mission on my neck every time I turn from thee. Indeed, take my yoke upon you and learn of me. But then further we find the yoke of sacrifice And folks, there is a sacrifice to serving the Lord. We've talked about that yoke of possessions already. But I'd like you to turn with me to 1 Kings chapter 19. In 1 Kings chapter 19, 1 Kings, sorry, chapters 17 through 19, we have the account of the conflict on Mount Carmel between Elijah and the prophets of Baal. And wicked seeing Ahab and his more wicked wife Jezebel uh stand in opposition to Ahab And Elijah calls down fire from heaven and it consumes the sacrifice, and the prophets of Baal are slain, and wicked Jezebel says to Elijah, I'm going to kill you, just like those prophets. And so Elijah flees for his life. That's the background of the story. We pick up in verse 9 of 1 Kings 19. And he, that's Elijah. Came thither into a cave and lodged there. And behold, the word of the Lord came unto him and said, said, What dost thou hear, Elijah? Verse 10, and he said, I have been very jealous for the Lord God of hosts, for the children of Israel have forsaken thy covenant thrown down thine altars, and slain thy prophets with the sword, and I, even I only am left, and they seek my life to take it away. And we know the story. God says to Elijah, no, I still have seven thousand that have not bowed the knee to Baal. Elijah, go find Elisha Go find the one who will help you. And so we drop to verse 19 of 1 Kings 21. So he, that's Elijah, departed thence and found Elisha, the son of Shahat who was ploughing with twelve yoke of oxen before him, and he with the twelfth And Elijah passed by him and cast this mantle upon him. And he left the oxen and ran after Elijah and said, Let me, I pray thee, kiss my father and my mother, and then I will follow thee. And he said unto him, Go back again, for what have I done to thee? And he, that's Elisha, and he returned back from him. and took a yoke of oxen and slew them, and boiled their flesh with the instruments of the oxen, and gave unto the people, and they did eat Then he arose and went after Elijah and ministered unto him. Folks, there is a beautiful sacrifice here. Elijah, oh sorry, excuse me, I know you get it wrong, Elisha is plowing with the oxen. In that day the oxen were a measure of man's wealth. Remember in the story of Job, his wealth is measured in the number of oxen and camel and sheep that he had. This was a sign of Elisha's worldly possessions. But now he's been called to pull a different plow. He's been plowing in the fields, but now he's to plow in the Lord's harvest. Now he's to work in the Lord's garden. Now he's to be a fisher of men, to use the New Testament expression. And so he takes the oxen with which he had just been ploughing. He sacrifices the oxen. And the wood that he uses for the sacrifice is the plow that he's been plowing with. If you talk about burning bridges, those oxen will never take another step in the field The plow is gone. And I'm sure you've all heard the old chorus, I've decided to follow Jesus. No turning back. No turning back. Folks, when we take Christ's yoke upon us, the yoke of oxen is slain. When we take Christ's yoke upon us. The ploughing of the things of this world are done. In fact, we read in Scripture that the plowing of the wicked is sin. You see, when we take the yoke of Christ upon us, we are totally transformed. We may still be a plumber. You may still be a truck driver or a carpenter. We still have our occupations. Paul was still a tent maker. He made tents for a living. But our lives are transformed. And we pull a different plow. We're a different people. That's what it is to take his yoke upon us And learn of him, for he is meek and lowly. And folks, there we find rest for our souls. The body doesn't say we find rest for. Our bodies are tired. Right. But our soul rests in Christ. Hallelujah! The burden of my sin is gone. I don't pull the devil's plow anymore. I'm plowing for the Lord now. My occupation has changed. I'm no longer a Saul, I'm a Paul. I'm no longer Cephas, I'm Peter. And so we find the yoke of sacrifice. It's a glorious yoke of Christ. We find of the disciples, and Jesus came unto them and said, Come after me, and I will make you fishers of men. And straightway they forsook their nets and followed him. The sixth yoke we find, a yoke of Christ, is a glorious and a blessed yoke. And it follows right along that we find Elijah. In the cave, discouraged, and he says, I'm all alone. And God says, No, I still have 7,000. But then God sends him out to find a partner in the work to find Elijah. And we read there that Elijah came and ministered unto him. The sixth yoke we find is the yoke with the fellow servant. And folks, it is one of the most blessed yokes that we find in the yoke of Christ. Turn with me to Mark chapter 6. And verse Well, I won't have you turn to those, I'll just read those. Mark chapter six, verse seven. And he called unto him the twelve and began to send them forth two and two, and gave them power over the unclean spirits And Luke chapter ten, verse one. After these things the Lord appointed other seventy also, and sent them two and two before his face. And then I'll have you turn to Philippians chapter four, verses one and following Philippians chapter 4. Therefore, my beloved brother, verse 1, dearly beloved and long for my joy in crown. So stand fast in the Lord, my dearly beloved. I beseech Udus And beseech Syntheci that they be of the same mind. And I entreat thee also, true yoke fellow. Help those women which labor with me in the gospel, with Clement also, and with the other fellow laborers whose names are in the book of life. You know, sometimes we feel like we are all alone in the ministry of the gospel. And yet we are not. And when Christ sent out the disciples, he sent them two by two. And when he sent out seventy more, he sent them two by two. What do you think of when you think of Paul? Paul and Silas. Or Paul and Timothy. Matthew, Mark. Luke and John. You know, we we think of it. God has ordained to give us fellowship in the gospel. And folks, it is a glorious yoke. And here. Paul talks about these as true yoke fellows. And that word true yoke fellows, we only find it as yoke fellows two times in Scripture. But it is a word that in its first instance is a picture of marriage. It is the union of two together. And we go all the way back to the Garden of Eden where God said it is not good for man to depart. God gives us true yoke fellows, and with many of us, that true yoke fellow is a mate. Is a lifelong partner in the gospel of Jesus Christ, and it is a beautiful and glorious thing. It's a precious thing. But it also means a colleague. Someone who holds the same office, a laborer, or a comrade in the same yoke is the way it's defined in the Bible dictionaries A true yoke, fellow, iron sharpeneth iron. So a man sharpeneth the countenance of his friend. In Ecclesiastes 4 verse 9, for two are better than one, because they have a good reward of their labor. If one fall, the other will lift up his fellow But woe unto him that is alone when he falleth, for he hath not another to help him up. Folks, one of the joyous privileges and blessings of the ministry of the gospel is that God gives us help. We're not alone. God has given me a godly mate. And I used to say in Jamaica, my job in Jamaica was to drive her around so she could evangelize. Because Because she had seven six, seven, sometimes as many as eight children's ministries at the same time in Sunday schools and in community centers and in one of the public schools once a week and you know all I did for most of those was drive her around and keep her own children while he taught she taught the other children. But God made us partners in that And then I've told you before about my dear friend in Jamaica. Independent Baptist, a brother in the Lord. We don't agree on a lot of things, and we leave those things alone. But oh when we're together, the sweet times of prayer we've had. There in Jamaica, and when I pastored Marcus Hook, he and I knelt at the front of that church and just had a glorious prayer meeting together one day. God gives us that kind of brethren. Brother Vince and I have often observed that we, for God's glory and in his loving pleasure, share a wonderful relationship and prayer and of fellow laborers. Folks, when Christ says, take my yoke upon me It doesn't mean we're going to be lonely. It doesn't mean we're going to be all alone. We find in Scripture no man has not forsaken father and mother and brother and sister. But folks, we're all brothers and sisters here. We have a glorious fellowship. If you want evidence of it, look at what time we leave this place on Sunday afternoon. And we leave with oh it's time to go. But oh how we love the fellowship. Oh how sweet it is, how good and how pleasant it is for brethren to dwell in unity. Folks, that's the yoke of Christ that we share. That's the yoke that he says, take my yoke upon me, and ye shall find rest to your soul. Because when we're here together, we don't have to block up our ears to cursing. We don't have to worry about a dirty joke. We don't have to worry about some complaint of other things and as God gives us grace we try to stay off politics in our afternoon. But we're all of one spirit. And we might disagree with each other on something or this or the other, but it doesn't matter. Because we're true yoke fellows. We're all in the same work for the Lord's glory and not for our own. Mm-hmm. The folks that's the glorious yoke of Christ. The yoke of the fellow servant is blessed. For we are laborers together with God. Ye are God's husbandmen. Ye are God's building. 1 Corinthians 3 verse 9. 2 Corinthians 6 verse 1. We then, as workers together with him, beseech you that you receive not the grace of God in vain. Folks, that brings us to the final one we're going to look at today. The yoke of Christ. And folks, this is glorious, and this this last page of my notes, actually last page of the half of my notes, really could be a full sermon in itself. Come unto me, all ye that labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. Take my yoke upon you and learn of me, for I am meek and lowly in heart, and ye shall find rest to your souls. For my yoke is easy and my burden is light. Turn to Lamentations chapter one And hear the voice of Christ in the Old Testament in the first chapter of Lamentation. And I'll begin reading in verse 12. Lamentation chapter one, verse twelve. If you know and have been blessed by Handel's Messiah. You'll know that one of the choruses in Handel's Messiah is taken directly from this passage. Lamentation chapter one, verse twelve, is it nothing to you, all ye that pass by? Behold and see if there be any sorrow like unto my sorrow, which is done unto me. Where it the Lord hath afflicted me in the day of his fierce anger. Jeremiah was writing here about himself, but he was writing prophetically about Jesus Christ. And Christ on the cross. When the wicked walked by and wagged their heads, he saved others himself he could not save. Verse 13 From above he has sent fire into my bones. Why was Christ on the cross? Why was he suffering? Well, because of his father's will. And it prevailed against me. He has spread a net for my feet. If it be possible, let this cup pass from me, yet not as I will, but thy will be done. He hath turned me back. He hath made me desolate and faint in that day. The yoke of my transgression is bound by his hand. That's the voice of Christ, folks. And Christ is saying the vo the yoke of my transgression What transgression did Christ have? The yoke of Christ's transgression is bound by his hand, by God the Father's hand. But Christ's transgression was my transgression, for the Lord hath laid on him the iniquity of us all. And my iniquity was bound to Christ by the hand of the Father, and that's the yoke he bore. And so when Christ says, take my yoke upon you, It is a yoke of righteousness. For the yoke of my sin was bound to his neck by the hand of God the Father. Folks, this is glorious This is marvelous in our eyes that Christ bore the yoke of my sin on Calvary. The yoke of my transgression is bound by his hand, by God the Father's hand. They are wreathed, it's woven together, and come upon my neck. He hath made my strength to fail. He could have called 10,000 angels, but he hath made my strength to fail, to fall. The Lord hath delivered me into their hands. He gave his own life, no man took it from him, but God the Father delivered him into the hands of the wicked when he sent him here to earth to die for our sins. From whom I am not able to rise. Surely he hath borne our griefs and carried our sorrows For he hath made him to be sin for us who knew no sin, that we might be made the righteousness of God in him. Take my yoke of righteousness on you and learn of me. I am meek and lowly. It was the meekness and lowliness of Christ that sent him to the cross. And ye shall find rest Your soul. Why? Because the yoke of my sin, the heavy burden of my sin, was bound to Christ. And so indeed his yoke is easy, because it's a righteous yoke. And then turn over to Isaiah chapter nine with me as we consider the yoke of Christ. In Isaiah chapter nine, the context is that of Midian And the deliverance from Midian by the hand of Gideon is what Isaiah is referring to. And yet you're going to see very quickly in the passage the context is of Jesus Christ. It's all metaphorical, it's all looking forward. Isaiah chapter 9, verse 4. For thou hast broken the yoke of his burden. He's broken the yoke of the Midianites, he's broken the yoke of Satan, he's broken the yoke of my sin. For thou hast broken the yoke of his burden. And the staff of his shoulder, the rod of his oppressor, as in the days of Bidian. God has taken away the yoke and the burden of sin. He has broken the staff of Satan. He has broken the rod of the oppressor For every battle of the warrior is with confused noise and garments rolled in blood. Remember in the New Testament, who is this that cometh from Bozero in blood-dipped garments? It's the blood of Christ. But who uh for the bat every battle of the warriors with confused noise and garments rolled in blood, but this shall be with burning fuel of fire. For unto us a child is born. Unto us a son is given. And the government shall be upon his shoulder. He's broken the staff of the shoulder of Satan, but the government is upon the shoulder of this one And his name shall be called Wonderful Counselor, the mighty God, the everlasting Father, the Prince of Peace. Of the increase of his government and peace, there shall be no end. On the throne of the kingdom of his father David, to order it, to establish it with judgment and justice from henceforth forever. The zeal of the Lord of the hosts will perform it. Did you ever read With understanding verse four of this chapter. We all go immediately, unto us the child is born, unto us the son is given, without considering the context. A child was born for the purpose of breaking the yoke. My friend, Jesus Christ has broken the yoke of Satan upon us. We don't pull his plow anymore. Jesus Christ has broken the yoke of sin. We don't drag around our sins anymore. Jesus Christ has broken the yoke of false religion and brought us to the truth, the simplicity of Christ. And so Christ says to his own, take my yoke upon you. And learn of me, for I am meek and lowly, and ye shall receive rest to your soul. Rest in Jesus Christ. When the temptations come, Lord put the yoke of repentance on my neck When the trials come that are too hard to bear, catch your yoke of this world on him and replace it with the yoke of his peace. Hallelujah. What a savior. Let us stand for prayer. Our Father, we thank you that your word is so simple and plain that a young, young child can understand it. And yet it is so deep with truth that we can never plumb the full depths. And Lord, every time we turn to your word, there's something fresh. And something new to us, it's not new because it's always been there. But oh Lord, by your spirit, you are gracious to illumine our understanding and guide us in the truth. And for this we thank you. Lord, we thank you that Christ has broken the yoke of the law and broken the yoke of our sin and has replaced it with the glorious yoke of his righteousness. Father, bless us, your people. Comfort us in your truth. Use us for your glory. In Jesus' name. Amen.