If you'd like to open your Bible, you can turn to the fifth chapter of Hebrews and I'll be reading starting in verse ten. And then I've got a discussion question. Which was mailed out in advance. Some of you have acknowledged getting the email but not reading it, so this is kind of interesting. Oh we exclude you because you know everything. That would give you a head start. We're not gonna do that. Hebrews five, ten through fourteen. Um Called of God and high priest after the order of Melchizedek, speaking of the Lord Jesus Christ. And then he continues, of whom we have, speaking of Melchizedek, many things to say. And hard to be uttered, seeing ye are dull of hearing. Now in Hebrews 5. 12. For when for the time ye ought to be teachers You have need that one teach you again, which be the first principles of the oracles of God, and are become such as have need of milk, and not of strong meat. For everyone that useth milk is unskilful in the word of righteousness, for he is a babe. But strong meat belongeth to them that are of full age, even those who by reason of use have their senses exercised to discern both good and evil. That ends that portion of scripture. And frankly, it somewhat teaches itself. There's not much really further to get into, but there are some interesting things, and I've got a couple of I think exciting nuggets to share with you, which I hope you'll appreciate. But our discussion question. And in discussion, it does mean there's not a right or wrong answer, but I'm just trying to explore some things. So the questions are Uh let's start with the first one. Have you ever tried to teach someone, for those of you who have ever been in some kind of a teaching role? It could be to a child. It could be to a coworker. Maybe you were the boss and you were trying to teach somebody else or you were giving piano lessons or the like. You were have you ever tried to teach someone and they didn't get it What was that experience like? What was the teaching situation and how is it that you experienced that? Repetition in a good way. Okay, but tell me about the individual who you were teaching and they didn't get it That depends on the intelligence of the person you're teaching. Okay, so who was this individual you were teaching that didn't seem to get it? one of the ones that was not very smart would be the one I would use as an example. Okay. And uh with him, um I I uh I had an an association with him in not in music but in other things so that he could understand me better. Okay. And I would repeat things And if we didn't get it that time, then next week we would work on it again. Okay. All right. So um uh that's an interesting story. So you're teaching piano, a particular individual that just didn't quite seem to mentally have the capacity for that. All right, other teaching experiences were you're Teaching someone they just don't seem to get it. Uh-huh. All right. Didn't know the donors between fork and spoon. Just uh an infant and they just can't get it, you you hand them the fork, they use the spoon, you hand them the spoon, can't you use it a fork? All right. Well I'll eat with my spoon this evening to remind you of good old times. Others have had teaching experiences um where somebody just didn't get it I had a German Shepherd that never did get it. All right. A German Shepherd never did get it. Well, I find it difficult to teach theology to dogs. They uh tend to not really absorb it well, that reading, comprehension, speaking thing they just can't quite form Price said cats not your pearls before swine. Yeah, right. Didn't mention dogs. Okay. So as you think about these individuals, um Miss Saba, you've been in the teaching business for a long time. Surely you're some of your students Well not exactly I gave up on them. You gave up on them. I just can't imagine teaching in the Montgomery County Public Schools that you had any difficulty whatsoever. They were all bright Shining A plus students. Describe some of these students that you would sit there, maybe you even have them come after class and spend a little bit more time explaining things. Uh I'm just making a situation up. Do you have any stories like that? Well they did uh did uh the th they well in fact I had some students come to me and I was given a task to teach them math uh they are were not able to understand it from other teachers but because I'm from different uh culture so I had to explain them the way that I learned and then they got it It's the way sometimes you explain to them it's the f it makes it set makes some sense. Sometimes it it's worse, but there are situations that you need to change That's a good illustration you're speaking to a student perhaps from a different uh ethnic background, a different culture, and your experience set or the American or Western set of explaining things doesn't convey well to somebody of a different background. And so that's an interesting one there. Now think about this same person that you've got in mind. You're a piano student Yeah, we'll forget your example. Uh your public school student. Um but considering that same person, could they listen carefully to something else and just readily pick it up? Now different topic. Not not piano, but something totally different. And they just immediately get it. Not bad talent in that Yeah, well I had some I was teaching like shorthand. Uh when I changed they were not able to get it. At last I made it like in a musical Ah, so you shifted from shorthand to uh music. Music. Yeah and they pick that up. Alright, so that's a good example where rather than um Maybe a book method, you put it to song. And they could readily pick that up. Okay. Um what are some other students is a crossover. Maybe they can't mem can't memorize a list of facts, but you put those dates into a song and they can they'll remember it. Yeah. Okay. Yeah, just a different mechanism of uh presenting the information and then they start to pick up. I like the example of the public school students. You know, I have I guess in my mind and and and we all I don't think will find this to be a stretch, but imagine a public school student and you're in there speaking. I actually taught in her school one time. I was a guest speaker, never so terrified in my life Walking down the hall, I'm like, these are high school kids who look like NFL football players. This is ridiculous. I didn't realize they'd been there for a while, you know, eight-year seniors, but um The curious thing was that as I was speaking to them, I could sense and detect that only about one out of the 25 in the room had any, shall I say, interest whatsoever But I dare say that if the boom box were turned on, they could immediately, even if I just sang or played a brief clip. of say some famous pop star, hip-hop, whatever. But they could immediately name the musician. They could name the album. They could name which pot part in the album. Now given that scenario, does that seem like an out-of-touch example? Does that seem like something Why is it that just a few notes or a few lyrics of a very popular song they could pick up But the teacher standing right in front of them conveying something they don't pick up. Why do you suppose that is? They're not interested. Yeah. They're not interested. They're just not interested. You know it's one thing to have an excuse whether the child's an infant or persons from a different culture, and we do look for excuses when we're teaching someone. But when you've got ample opportunity Ample facilities. The brain's working last we checked. The ears work last week checked, unless the hearing aid batteries died on us at the wrong time. You begin to wonder why aren't they picking it up? And that gets into what our topic here is today, and it's actually a difficult passage to speak about. Because this is the first word of reproof that we actually find in the book of Hebrews. Up to this point has been a glorious declaration of Jesus Christ and who he is. God who spake in time past unto the fathers by the prophets hath in these last days spoken unto us by his Son, whom he has made heir of all things, by whom also he made the world. He speaks about the glory of the Son. He's made a priest forever after the order of Melchizedek. his his glorious work, all of it. He's just exulting over Christ. And he has for many chapters. And now he gets to this. And he hinges off this phrase that I've really not talked about because it's been showing up a lot. For instance, it's in Hebrews 5 Verse 6, thou art a priest for order forever, after the order of Melchizedek. Again, verse 10, called of God, a high priest after the order of Melchizedek. He keeps mentioning this Melchizedek. Now I will get into that, but that's covered more at length in the seventh chapter. But he pauses right there. It's almost like you're left hanging. The order of Melchizedek, and the question shows up, well what does that mean? What do you mean? And the only thing he's called out is that he is a priest forever. after this order. And he has a reference back to Psalm 110 to show the eternality of Christ. And he says, we have many things to say. But they're hard to be uttered. Now the word hard to be uttered is again again is a unique word in the Bible. It's one Greek word. And it means difficult to explain You know, considering your challenged student who just couldn't quite get piano, there's probably a lot of techniques you'd like to explain to him. But you just know or your dog. There's a lot of things you'd like to teach the dog, but how do you explain it to Rover? You know As a supervisor, unfortunately, sometimes in an engineering company, we would refer to other engineers as quote A box of rocks. They just aren't getting it, Carol. You're shaking your head. Perhaps you've seen a few of those in your software development team. Just talking to a wall. Like talking to a wall, the words are bouncing off. They're just not getting it. And that's what he says here. We have many things to say. Hard to be uttered. Hard to explain. Where do I start? I I I you gotta you know, I I used to say, you know, you gotta be this high to ride the train. You gotta be this high to get certain things. Spiritual dullness, folks, is the reason for it. He says they're hard to be explained because you're dull of hearing. What does dull of hearing mean? Well He's not talking about the fact that sound waves hitting these things hanging off the side of your head are not penetrating. It's deeper than that. Dullness of hearing in scriptures is a theme that is talked about, and it's never a good thing. It's never good to be dull. Dull of hearing. You read for instance, and it's in your bulletin insert on the inside, you can look at Isaiah 6, 9, and 10. He said This is Isaiah. He said, Go tell this people, hear ye indeed, but understand not, and see ye indeed, but perceive not, make the heart of this people fat. And make their ears heavy and shut their eyes, lest they see with their eyes, lest they hear with their ears, lest they understand with their heart. I'm inserting that just to underscore and footstop that God does not want this to happen Lest they be converted and be healed. In them, Matthew declares, is fulfilled the prophecy of Isaiah. There are some individuals of whom you speak to, and they are dull of hearing Carol used the illustration, speaking to someone is like a wall. It's interesting, the Bible uses that word doll. Imagine if I took a knife. Gable is the knife sharpener in the house. He does a very good job. He doesn't release the knife for service until he can shave his arm hair. So if you see strange patches of hair missing on his hand, you just know he's been sharpening knives in the house. But imagine I took a sharp knife and I took a piece of rebar, a rough crude, and just grated over the top of the thing. just just really damaged that edge. Maybe took a hammer to it and you'd go you'd cringe. Oh that's a good fine knife and you just keep grating over it. You're dulling it And then you try to cut something with it, it just it won't it wouldn't even cut butter plainly. It would just be a rack. He says here you're dull of hearing. Your ability. Do you know hearing is an active sport It requires mental engagement. You know, the entertainment industry is called amusement. It's made from two basic words, ah, meaning not, and news, meaning to think. Entertainment is about not thinking. And so when you listen to a lot of entertainment that has to do with not thinking It causes your ears to be dull of hearing because there's no thinking involved. You just want to hear a sound bite. You want to hear something that sounds good And so you become dull of hearing. Hard-heartedness, folks, is the root of dull hearing, and that is the aim, the goal, the intent of the amusement industry is to harden your heart. Jesus says in Mark eight, listen to this very carefully. Mark eight, seventeen, and eighteen. It's it's in your handout if you wish to follow along. But I encourage you to try to exercise this listening skill. When Jesus knew it he said unto them, Why reason ye because you have no bread? Perceive ye not yet, neither understand, have ye yet your heart hardened Notice the connection. Dullness of hearing, hardness of heart. What does that tell you? Hearing is done in the heart. Why can't you teach the box of rocks how to play piano? Because he has no heart for it. There's no interest. You see? How is it, Jesus said, having eyes see ye not, having ears he ye not, and do ye not understand? How is it that ye do not understand? Like hardness. It's hardness. It it it's not getting through, there's no interest. Dull hearing can also be to a slow heart That's another interesting phrase from Scriptures in Luke 24, that glorious day of the resurrection on the road back. To Emmaus, the two that were on that road, certain of them which were with us, they closed, saying to the unknown Jesus, unknown to them, Certain of them which were with us went to the sepulchre and found it even so as the women had said, but him, Jesus, they saw not. Then said he unto them, O fools, and slow of heart. To believe all that the prophets have spoken. Dullness of hearing. The prophets are speaking. The blood of Abel is still speaking. But there's a dullness. There's a A dullness of heart it can't ingest. Ought not the Christ to have suffered these things? In other words, this ought to have been so? And so I have a couple of applications just from this very introductory verse of verse 11. That unconverted hearts need, dull hearts, unconverted hearts need evangelism, not Bible study. If there's no interest, why show them the glories of the gospel? And that is why on holding fast there are certain things and materials that are free, but others require that you give a testimony Jim, in the five or six years I've had it open, I've had less than a dozen people willing to give a testimony to get an account. I'm not going to feed and fuel mockers with Bible information. No. Bible study and food is for the cheap and the children of God. I'm not going to waste my time with the mockers. I'm not going to bother with them. I don't have time to it says to avoid foolish questions. One way you avoid foolish questions is you try to do a basic test. You've got to be this high And if you can't get this high, I'm not going to waste my time. Probably a hard heart. That's right. If you're hungry, you'll come. You'll be interested. And strong meat belongs to their Yeah we're gonna get to that. Absolutely. Strong meat does belong to them who are of full age. Don't cast your pearls along swine. Exactly, you don't cast pearls before swine. They walk like a pig, they look like a pig, they grunt like a pig. It's a pig. You know, the Bible study for the unconverted Is Bible study is for the converted because he says we have many things to say. And so I can say that because you have a foundation in place. I like what Matthew Henry writes, and this is an additional application from here. I really like this very much. It says the author here insists upon the faultiness of this infirmity of theirs. It was not a mere natural infirmity. This is not a natural infirmity. They're not just a little their mind their mental capacity is not there. Homeschooling moms don't panic if your boys can't read until eighth grade. The mental capacity is not there Homeschooling moms don't panic if your daughter can't do math until a certain age. The mental capacity is not there. It just takes time for that brain. In fact, child's brain's not fully developed until about the age of 18 No, it's scientifically correct. Biologically, it's just not there. It's still growing. That's like trying to make an eight year old throw a forty-five yard football pass. It's not going to happen. To use a silly analogy. It was a sinful infirmity, and more in them than others by reason of the singular advantages they had enjoyed. For improving in the knowledge of Christ. And so from this, hence learn, number one, God takes notice of the time and help that you have gained For scripture knowledge. Some churches take record of Sunday school attendance. God takes note of every word you've heard and when you heard it. You ever see these big investigations in the companies that have done wrong? They drag out the email. Well, you heard this warning at this person from this time. God does the same thing. He knows exactly when you've heard, thus saith the Lord. Now what did you do with it Do you realize God holds you accountable for what you know? This is not entertainment. If you're here for me to entertain you, you're going to be sorely displeased. I can't sing, I can't play a guitar. And that's pretty sad for the song leader. You can't sing and can't play an instrument. Number two, from those to whom much is given, by way of hearing, to whom much is given. Much is required. That's not just Joe and I. It's anybody that has spent time in the hearing of the Word of God. And he says, and we continue in verse 12, he says, For when for the time he Ought to be teachers. That word ought is a powerful word. It means you're indebted. There is an expectation Right? If you spend time, I know you used to like teaching piano to little kids because you could pour into them a little easier. They were much more moldable. They would absolutely do whatever you asked them to do You even taught your dog how to play piano. She taught a dog to play piano. Two of them. Two dogs. So they can be taught. Even a dog can learn. Some of them. Yeah. He says there is an expectation there's and this is the verse that I came across and I'd like you to see it in your own Bible uh and mark in it if you're using a digital. Go to Ezra chapter seven and verse ten This is the dynamite path. This was my verse of the week that I really enjoy just just to listen to and to meditate. And it's it's it's really kind of good for Joe and I, but for anybody who's in Some kind of a teaching ministry. We're going to expand what that means here in a moment, because I'm looking at quite a few actually who are teachers. Ezra 7. 10 in your Old Testament account Listen to this language. Ezra had prepared his heart. Remember, hearing is in the heart. He prepared his heart. He's going the extra mile. He's doing what it takes to prepare his heart to seek The law of the Lord. He's preparing, he's seeking, and to do it. He's going to put some shoe leather to it, and to teach in Israel statutes and judgments. Who's the best teacher you've ever had? Probably the one who's actually done it. I'd rather learn from a guy who's been a welder for a great many years to learn and teach me how to do welding than from somebody who says, Yeah, I'm in the metaverse with the goggles on and I'm welding air. Give me a break. You gotta be joking. I'd rather hear it from the guy who's actually done it. But notice all of this indication of Ezra, he prepared his heart. So he could hear the law of God and to seek it, a preparation. Any teacher knows that you just don't walk into the classroom on the first day of class and say, okay, well I guess I'll get my material together now That's a recipe for failure. Not in your public school, it probably wouldn't matter. We wouldn't notice the difference anyway. You know, you don't have to get serious for about two or three weeks You know, one's teaching does not have to be a doctoral dissertation. Don't get the idea that you need to have this mastered so well that you can write a 200-page thesis. Listen to what the Apostle Paul wrote in 1 Corinthians in verse 14. He says, yet in the church, I'd rather speak Five words with my understanding. I'd rather speak five words with my understanding that by my voice, by my voice I might teach others also. Then 10,000 words in an unknown tongue. Have you ever talked to people that are a fog machine? You get in their presence and you ask them a question and Man, it's like the disco balls are starting, all the fluffy words and all those great swelling words of vanity come out and afterwards and I can I've got a specific example in my mind and Angela and I looked at each other We said, she looks at me and says, What did he just say? thinking I knew. And I said, I was about to ask you the same question. What did this guy say? When I am trying to down-select for a contractor to do work around the house, I was looking for a uh landscape architect who could kind of help help lay it out. And I look for what I call the bubbling fountain of information. Somebody who just freely shares really good little tidbits. Oh yeah, this is a good plant to plant over here. Don't trim these at this time because this will happen. These will grow by themselves and the deer hate them. And put this just little short oh that's good. Oh I didn't know that. Thank that's good When I met Brother Bernie, one of the things I appreciated about him was his wisdom. And his wisdom was such that with a few words he could dispel great clouds of doubt. It just blew the confusion away. It just cut right to the quick. It got right to the the base of everything and said, this is why this is happening. And I had no basis of how to understand how to live in a very large corporate conglomeration He had thrived in that world and survived in it. And so he really helped me understand how to live in that environment as a Christian. And that was very vital to me. You know, teaching also can be and should be through music. Consider this passage from Colossians 3, the same apostle that talked about five words. He says, Let the word of Christ dwell in you richly. Let that word, preparing that heart, let the word, its dwelling richly. If it's in you richly, I can tell you right now, if you Or in the habit of Bible memory, you think about it a lot, and you can make some connections that are very interesting. Let the Word of Christ dwell in you richly, I mean Colossians 3. 16, in all wisdom, teaching and admonishing one another. And Psalms and Hymns and Spiritual Songs. Principally, the purpose of music in corporate worship is to teach If the words are such that they are not suitable for teaching and that for teaching sound doctrine, eject the song. I don't care how pretty it is. There are some Roman Catholic pieces of music that are very delightful to the ear, but they teach the wrong thing. They're an abomination. I have a little parable for you. Imagine somebody discovered a scroll and it was ancient. They said, this is notation we've never discovered. And they gave it to the experts and they deciphered it and they said, you know what? These are musical notes They they date back from uh you know uh a couple thousand BC or such very ancient time. In fact they date back to about 786 BC, way back, not not thousands, seven hundred BC, and they decipher this thing. And they say, we know how to play this music. And so they start to play the music and it catches on. In fact, the church grabs onto it and they say, Wow, this is a great Ancient song, look at this, this is wonderful. And they start to put Christian words to it, and the music is going along, and then all of a sudden they discover digging further, oh, this was the music That Belshazzar had everybody sing to when they wanted him to bow down to the idol. Would the church keep using that song? Would you want to keep using that music? This is yeah, you immediately eject. Eject. You ought to. I'm not so sure today's church would do that. I think if they accidentally played a rock song on a Christian station, they might have put it out through the churches and say, let's start singing that Crazy OEF things today. Older women can and should be teachers. Older women, you can and should be teachers. He says this in Titus 2 and verse 3. The aged women, the elder women likewise, that they be in behavior as becometh holiness. Not false accusers, not given to much wine, teachers of good things. And he tells you what they are to teach, that they may teach the young women To be sober, to love their husbands, to love their children, to be discreet, chaste, keepers at home, good, obedient to their own husbands. That, the word of God, be not blasphemed. That's the role of an older woman. And if you're an older woman, I ask you, do you have a younger woman you're teaching these things to? If not, why not? It talks about by the time you ought to be teachers. Folks, I'm here to tell you the passing of time does not automatically produce mature Christians. Just because the clock spins Doesn't mean something's happening. Typically, if nothing's being applied, if there's no preparation of the heart, there's greater corruption setting in. That just goes down the natural path. Point is all believers, all believers have a teaching role to some audience. You're holding your student right there. Yeah. All believers have a teaching audience to their spouse, older to the younger, all believers. He says from when look at Hebrews chapter 1. Verse 1, God who at sundry times in diverse manners. This is not, it doesn't say Paul to the church, to the bishops and deacons at Corinth He's not writing to the leadership. He's writing to the Hebrews. The title is Pros Hebrew to the Hebrews. He says, you Jews ought to be teachers. You've had plenty of time. You've had plenty of information. And so all believers, ye, plural, ought to be teachers. You ought to be. And now he says, verse 12, you have need that one teach you again, which be the first principles of the oracles of God. And or become such as have need of milk and not of strong meat. You know, the Bible does have milk of the word teaching. It is very milk of the word teaching, and there can be quite a lot of meat in the milk. You know, it says in 1 Peter 2 and verse 2, as newborn babes desire the sincere milk of the word that you may grow thereby. Oh, they're young believers. Don't hit them with too much theology. Well, you're not supposed to coddle them. You've got to get them off the pablum. At some point, they've got to grow. The point of the milk is that they grow Well what happens after they grow? Well I can tell you what happens to a a young boy who grows, you're not going to find much meat in the fridge after a day. It's going to get devoured. It's going to go. As it should. As it should If he's still asking Mama for the bottle, we got a problem. Can you imagine? Gable running around, Mama, Mama, bottle, bottle. I mean that's ridiculous. But spiritually, can you imagine what that looks like in the house of God? Somebody who's been in the faith older or I've been saved all my days, but they still need the bottle. And I'm not talking liquor. I'm talking milk. They need the baby stuff. That's not good. It's never good It's a condemnation. It says, for the time. What have you been doing with the time? You've been in class all this time. I presented the material. What are you doing with it? Are you preparing your heart? Are you thinking about it? Are you meditating on it? Some people keep asking the same stupid question over and over again. It's like they don't get it. Because they're not interested. Because they're dulled hearing. They're listening to other things that are dulling the hearing. And there is nothing penetrating. There's an interesting wordplay going on here, and I'd like to share that with you as well. This is really a magnificent piece of Greek. The eloquence and the oratorial skills of persuasion are second to none. It really is impressive. He says We have many things to say is the word logos. You know what logos is, right? That's the word. Now uh and he says that are hard to be uttered. That word uttered is the word Lego So you've got Logos and then you've got Lego. Well, Lego, you understand, Lego blocks. It turns out that the name of that popular plastic toy that you always step on and bust your toe in the middle of the night because the kid didn't pick everything up uh is actually from the Greek. And it's exactly what the toy is. Little Lego blocks. Words are little Lego blocks. They're blocks. Alright? They're communications of thoughts. Alright? And it says uh uh to y it also has a sense of laying forth Then it says the first principles, that word, has to do with things that are laid down as foundational. Words, foundational words, thoughts, and concepts, foundational things that are laid down. And then he says And you need to be taught the first principles, the foundational things of the oracles of God. When you get to oracles, that word, again, has to do with an eloquent wisdom. We can't even hit the eloquent wisdom because we ain't got a foundation. We don't have any place to put the two by fours. There's just nothing there. It's just not going to support it. It's going to sink in the mud, it's going to fall over It's going to be ridiculous. But do you see the progression? The building blocks. I've given you building blocks. You haven't connected the Legos. In infants that's called failure to progress. If they don't mature, there's something medically wrong. And spiritually, there are those who are deeply spiritually diseased because there's something wrong. They're not progressing because there's no interest. There's no interest because there's no heart. Because there's no converted heart. It's a hard heart. This is the problem. What are these first principles? Well, Hebrews 6 and the first three verses will cover the six basis basics of the faith. We'll expand upon those later. You know, the scripture says in Isaiah 28, precept must be upon precept, line upon line, precept upon precept, precept upon precept, line upon line, l Pineappon lines here a little there a little God expects you to be able to connect the dots. That's how you learn Bible doctrine. Well, where's the verse that says we can't do X, Y, or Z? Where do we start? The Bible doesn't lay out the answer to every single question you'll ever encounter in life. It lays out the principles. by which you operate. That's like saying, okay, I want to drive a race car. Now I'm coming up on this curve. Now what do I do now? Now what do I do over here? Now what do I do in this situation? Do you know how to drive the car? Do you understand momentum, your skid ratio, your G's, all the stuff that's I don't know how to race car driver, I'm just imagining these things. But you get the idea. There's principles that you operate on And I have to ask the question, do you always need to hear the basics? Right? Repentance from sin, believe in God, and sadly some are weak in the church because This is all they ever hear from the pulpit. There are some pulpits they said up they've got a one-string guitar. Well, when you found that string, you hit it. We just talk about Jesus. Jesus Oh, okay, yes. Yes, the Son of God, that's great. But that's a broad topic. That's He fills heaven and earth and you got him in a picture frame behind the wall. Like you can fit him in there. You know you've Got to have the whole counsel of God. There can't just be a hobby horse. You know, the preacher is just going to ride his hobby horse and he's going to use the same Verses every week after, and he's just gonna, oh yeah, he knows what's gonna get a clap from the congregation, and they're just nothing but a bunch of babies because they've never gotten anything beyond milk. And that's why perhaps some of you are here Because you actually hear something that's beyond milk. I hope. You know, there is a spiritual eye. There is such a thing as a spiritual ear. There is such a thing as a spiritual appetite. There is such a thing Is a spiritual taste a taste and a sense for spiritual things. There is that. And likewise the Adamic soul has these two. It has a carnal eye, it has a carnal ear, a carnal heart, and a carnal taste. And those two are in battle, I think, one of the best illustrations I heard early from Pastor McKnight. And I'm going to get this wrong, but help me uh see it's a little allegory of a man who had a baby wolf and a baby lamb. He says, Oh Which one's gonna live? The answer is depends on which one you feed. That's right. It depends on which one you feed. Is that right? Did I get it right? Close? Close. I'm close enough. You know, Paul? You'll learn eventually. I'm sorry, I just had to. Well this side of the room has just beat me up over here. I'm gonna talk to this side of the room because They smile at me, they're more goodly to me. I brethren could not speak. He says brethren. He calls them brethren Could not speak unto you as unto spiritual, but as unto carnal, as unto fleshly, even as unto babes in Christ, that's not good. I fed you milk and not with meat, and hitherto you weren't able to bear it, neither now are you able. For you're yet carnal. Whereas there is among you envying, strife, divisions. Are you not carnal? You walk as men That's a huge question mark over these individuals. I can't say, oh, they're Christians, they're saved. I can't say that, not based on that description. If he calls you carnal, that's not good. That's not good. And then 13 and 14, levels of skill. He says everyone that uses milk is unskillful in the word of righteousness. He's a babe. Strong meat belongs to them that are full age. That's that word perfect. He's mature. Strong meat belongs to the mature. Some of the deep, mysterious things. Concerning the return of Christ, concerning the nature of the Godhead, concerning God's eternal predestination, how He ordains all things that come to pass, and yet man remains accountable. These strong meat, meaty doctrines. It says they belong to them that are of full age, even those who by reason of use, that's in the unique word, Have their senses, unique word, exercised to discern good and evil. There are some weighty doctrines in the Bible. Think weightlifting If you hadn't been practicing, if you hadn't been exercising yourself in the scriptures to understand these things, you can't handle these other doctrines. Jesus says, I have many things to tell you, but you are not yet able to bear them. You can't handle it. It will crush you. Solomon said that with much knowledge comes much grief. And that is true. That is true. You learn a lot about yourself, you learn a lot about the world around you, you learn a lot about what it means to be conformed to the image of Christ with much knowledge, as much grief. That full age means perfect mature Just as a weightlifting teenager devours meat, so does the Christian who use the scriptures to exercise their mind. And only these can discern evil that masquerades as good. They have a sharp penetrating sense. Don't listen to that man. He may say some nice things. 90% of what he's teaching sounds good, but that 10% error is poison to your soul. It'll plant seeds of doubt that'll come out. Mothers you need to know that. You can tell your son, no, don't listen. Your son, your child will listen to you at that point. They won't when they get older. It says, refuse profane and old wives' fables and exercise thyself rather unto godliness. But there's the carnal individual Oh, he exercises too, or she. It says a heart they have exercised with covetous practices. They their feet are swift to shed blood. They're exercised in these things. They're exercised in evil. They know how to do evil. Have you ever Heard some of these scams that occurs like how do people come up with these things? I don't even think like that And you would say, yeah, I don't. I'm not exercised to think like a criminal. I don't know what that's like. How do I get there from here? So I ask you as a parting question, and I have to I have to ask Christian, why are you here? To be coddled in a nursery? You're looking for some basics again? Or did you come to a spiritual gymnasium to take advantage of the things given? Either way, will you be a teacher? A sharer of the knowledge of God's Word? Not everybody who's a teacher is going to be burdened with the role of standing here. But all are teachers in some way, shape, form, or fashion. You're sharing it with somebody Are you? That's a condemning statement. For the time you ought to be teachers, there's an expectation from the Word of God that this will be you. And so I leave you with that. And I have to close as we prepare for our morning services today. Brother Jim, could you close us in prayer, please? Thank you. Oh, well what a lovely to uh gather together with like minded brothers and sisters so we may walk in this the uh doctrines of your word that we may stand upright in this world and uh to get to throw to the back the things of the past and people thought was this and that because most people may have to be honest with one say this and that's why he was preaching. But most if they haven't heard something you talk something they've never heard before they don't think they won't hear anymore Because they've never heard I've never heard that. I've never heard that. They don't care to hear this thing. Because this culture is carried people alive. So we thank you, we thank you for teaching and I guess I'm going on board a little bit, but I can't answer but uh he uh the way he teaches it is just something that we must take hold to. We must take hold to. You're not gonna get a lot of chances like this in your life. That's right. We thank you, we praise you. And pray that we be live up to that which we've been called children of God. Amen. Amen. There's one guy I see sitting in those chairs all the time. True. He's at the gym. Here's all the exercise machines. But he's sitting in the chair. He went to the