Hebrews 12, we're continuing through. Hey, good morning. Have a seat wherever you'd like. And we are in verses 12 and 13, which I'm going to read for us. Hebrews chapter 12. 12 and 13 reads as follows. Wherefore lift up the hands which hang down and the feeble knees and make straight paths for your feet. Lest that which is lame be turned out of the way, but let it rather be healed. Alright, I know nobody heard that, but that's okay. We're going to go over it in detail here in a minute. I have my opening question, which I emailed out. If you didn't get it, I'll re repeat it to you, to try to spark some discussion about some things I think are relevant to understanding this text. It has to do with sports And the discussion question was this, pick a team sport you're familiar with, such as soccer, basketball, volleyball, or even crewing. That's a team rowing sport. If you live near the Potomac, they have a crewing team out there, skinny little boat, a bunch of guys rowing. Now imagine you're the new coach. Okay? Put yourself in charge for a minute here. You've just taken over this team and it came in dead last in the previous season. Absolute last place Now, what would you do to make them champions? So we had a couple of interesting replies from our online viewers The first was this. I don't watch sports anymore. God delivered me from that idolatrous addiction. That's a good start. I like that. I would tend to agree, very much so But I can say bring on discipline, including having discipline, regular workouts, where you focus first on the fundamentals of how you play the game. I think it was Vince Lombardi that started off by saying, this is a football. This is a football. I've pitched some Charts to the Pentagon with that as a startup. But anyway, I digress. Teach the fundamentals of each position and build on that. We had another spiritually minded viewers said pray for them individually in my private time. Oh Lover. This team needs a lot of help. There's something to be said for that. Talk with them as a team first about their strengths Then their weaknesses about the goal, about my expectations of them. Lastly, offer a word of reassurance of their ability. Let them know I'm available one-on-one. Yeah, that almost sounds like a small business owner. Get your team moving forward. Any other thoughts? You're coach of a new team dead last last year. What would you do to improve them? Make them champions this year? Anybody, any thoughts? Change the players. Change out the players. Uh well that would work. Hopefully you get a better set of players Uh yeah, maybe do some trades? Okay. What else would you do? You're trying to make your team champions. I think I want to figure out why we're last. Okay. Why were we last? Yeah, yeah. Why? Alright. And uh you discovered that There's a variety of reasons why. What are you gonna do to make them champions? Pick pick any sport you're familiar with. I'm just not making it random. For example basketball and maybe we have a team that isn't athletic enough. They get tired too quickly. So I would have them exercise. I'd have them do summer workouts, build up the stamina, and then just kind of just look at the areas in which we're failing in and try to figure out individual things that can help target Yeah, that's real good. Yeah. Uh focus on what's wrong first because you just want to throw any old one size fits none solution. You want to go fine-tune it. Uh maybe your center guards I played basketball and Fifth grade so and that was my one and only year. I made two points the whole season, man. I was stoked. Um in your basket or the other Yeah. I got the red basket. Ten points was for the other team, but two for mine. Uh yeah, and exercise 'em. Get 'em exercise. Strengthen, you know, the part that's not too good. Yeah, that's good. Good. Anybody else for for a sports uh team that you like. That was gonna be exactly the one I was going to mention. Uh our coach said, look, we may not have the skills of those guys, but when it gets to the fourth quarter, if they're worn out and we still have energy, we'll catch up and beat them What sport was that? That was in soccer. Soccer? Okay. Yeah. So we had a lot of running around soccer. Yeah. Yeah, stamina towards the end. Having that stamina goes a long way. Pick any sport you're familiar with. And of course the old standard, you know, the beatings will continue until morale improves. Absolutely. Yeah. Yeah. That's what I did for the engineers that worked with this Over here, somebody who's played volleyball. You just inherited, I don't know, pick your favorite losing team, the the the Bob Jones volleyball team. They were dead last last season. What are you gonna do to make them champions? This exact scenario happened. Okay. Uh so I did coach last year. Oh my team did come dead last season. But um I'm sorry, Joey, I didn't know that. I wasn't thinking on you. Nobody told me that. So Two things I did is first mindset. When you're in a team that's in a repeated losing culture, you've got to expel that to the best of your ability and get into a mindset of these are people we can beat if we do this, this, and this. So motivation, making sure they're not giving up on plays. The second thing I did was just defense. You can't lose if they can't score Hm. So before every game I would just drill defensive drill to them before we did anything offensive warming up. Just digs, dives, just get warm, get loose so you can defend And how did they do? Were they last together? Made playoffs this year. Made playoffs. Bravo. All right. Well so nobody else's example counts because we've got a real world example here. That's great. Excellent. Thanks for sharing that. I like that Find out what's wrong, exercise, practice, keep it going until the end, keep them the endurance, the stamina. The fourth quarter, I like that fourth quarter analogy. Mindset. I love mindset. That's a really good one. And defense Yeah, start with good defense. Wow. Well that's great. Well you've preached everything, don't just hang it up. No, you don't count. I don't want to hear your example. Go ahead now I was just it this came to mind just right now. You know, I think it uh applies both in the physical and spiritually, but um you know it'll probably be good to know your opponent and where he's gonna attack Um on the on the playing field that you're aware, okay, where is it that we have to have our defenses up? I think the uh NFL and football leagues do this a lot. They look at plays, th they review the plays not only of their own team to find out where we screwed up, but also the team that we're about to play. You know, where's their strengths, where's their weaknesses? What do we gotta shore up for? So yeah, Soon Zhu wrote a book back in the eleventh, uh, ninth century, something like that, about Sun Tzu and the Art of War and one of the enduring tenets of that very ancient Chinese book is Know Thy Enemy. Know the enemy well, and your snow your s know yourself and your enemy better. Patton is supposed to have said of Rommel, I read his book. Yes. Yeah, you read the book. Well. We have a book. God's given us a book. And that's kind of what our passage here is dealing with. It starts off by saying, wherefore lift up the hands which hang down. And the feeble knees. Now, this metaphor, I I had to stop and think about this for a moment because this the context here is changing. The metaphor that we've been dealing with so far is fathers and sons kind of a patriarchal, famili uh filial, family type relationship. Now it's shifting uh the metaphor. It's now talking about hands and knees. And that implication, lift up the hands which hang down. It's not exhorting a self-made man, although yes, you do need to be encouraged, but I believe there's a a different group of people here. I think the The idea is that there were others who were going to help lift up the hands. Think about, for instance, Moses at this battle and uh his hands got heavy. Well Two old boys came alongside and lifted up his hands, and long as Moses' hands were up, the Israelites were winning the battle. So the idea is there's someone else there helping to lift up the hands and to strengthen the feeble knees. I believe there's two groups of people in view here, not to rule out our own self-inspection, but It's moving, I think, more towards a group activity. There's a couple of reasons I believe that. Uh when you think about the first table of the law Uh the Ten Commandments can be broken up into two tables. They were on the same tablet of stone front and back. We don't know where the break was, but I suspect The first table of law is the relationship between God and man. You shall have no other gods before me, not make golden idols, keep the Sabbath day, don't profane his name, etc. That's the relationship between man and God The second table of laws between man and his neighbor, man and his fellow man. When asked about which is the greatest commandment, Jesus said there's not one, there's two. Love the Lord your God with all your heart, soul, mind, and strength. The second is likened to it, love thy neighbor as thyself. On this hang all the law and the prophets. And so now we're shifting from this father-son, God the Father, man the creature relationship to us. your fellow man's lift up the feeble God doesn't have feeble knees he doesn't have weak hands and the exhortation is to a group of people in fact job apparently did this We read in Job 4, 3 through 4. It's short. I'll read it for you. It says this, behold, this is some one of his friends speaking to Job in Job 4, verse 3. Behold, thou hast instructed many. And thou hast strengthened the weak hands. Thy words have upheld him that was falling, and thou hast strengthened the feeble knees. So his friends are kind of pointing out, look, you've been a helper to others, now we're here to help you. And of course we know that that wasn't particularly what he needed to hear at that time, but that was their opinion of him, that he was one who strengthened feeble hands. held up weak knees. Also the book of Isaiah, and I want you to turn there to Isaiah 35. If you don't have a Bible, you can look it up on your phone. I got a house Bible over here. Maybe Anton could reach along, arm out and help. Isaiah 35, he's prophesying during the reigns of four Judean kings. This is the whole book of Isaiah. And it's from 810 to 726 BC, a long period of time. And he wrote of events that would lead to Israel's captivity, these Judean kings' captivity. And interestingly, I think there's a fitting connection. to the New Testament Christian Church when God's chastening judgment is going to come and some will be taken away to glory, others too. Condemnation. And in fact, our language here in Hebrews 12 borrows from Isaiah 35, particularly verse 3. But I thought to read the whole chapter because it's such a fitting commentary of this. Now remember, this is to Hebrews, so these are the people who are allegedly familiar with the Old Testament. And in Isaiah 35 we read this. Oh my, this is a long chapter. I'll see how far we can Go here. The wilderness and the solitary place shall be glad for them, and the desert shall rejoice and blossom as the rose. It shall blossom abundantly. And rejoice even with joy in singing. The glory of Lebanon shall be given unto it. The excellency of Carmel and Sharon. They shall see the glory of the Lord and the excellency of our God. So this is a Promise, a prophecy of encouragement. Good things are coming. Okay? Verse 3. Strengthen ye the weak hands and confirm the feeble knees. That's. something that ties into our passage. So I think we're on track here. Say to them that are of a fearful heart Be strong, fear not. Behold, your God will come with vengeance. Even God with a recompense. He will come and save you So that's kind of the encouragement to to continue on in doing what they're doing. I think we had an online viewer uh listen mention that. Then the eyes of the blind shall be opened, the ears of the deaf shall be unstopped Then shall the lame man leap as a heart. You know, if you've got a weak knee, you're not into jumping. Then shall the lame man leap as a heart, that's a deer, and the tongue of the dumb dumb shall sing For in the wilderness shall waters break out and streams in the desert, the parched ground shall become a pool, thirsty land, springs of water, and the habitation of dragons where each lay shall be grass with reeds and rushes. And a highway shall be there, and a way. It should be called the way of holiness. Now that word's going to come in in a little bit. The way of holiness. There's a highway. And the unclean shall not pass over it, the filthy, the defiled, the unclean, shall I say the unredeemed, or not go on that way. But it shall be for those, the wayfaring men, though fools, shall not err therein. We're fools for Christ's sake. The world thinks we are, but that's our highway. No lion shall be there, nor any ravenous beast shall go up thereon. It shall not be found there. But the redeemed shall walk there. That's pretty clear language. And the ransom to the Lord shall return and come to Zion with songs and everlasting joy upon their heads. They shall obtain joy and gladness. Sorrow and sign shall flee Begins with a great promise, it ends with a great promise. But in between is this strengthening business, strengthening feeble hands, strengthening weak knees. And you know, uh that's an interesting verse there, three and four. Say to them that are of a fearful heart, be strong, fear not. You know, when A Christian has weak hands, feeble knees, fearful heart. What do you think begins to happen to such a person? They drift away, yeah. What else begins to happen? You talked about mindset. Talk about mindset to somebody it can be in volleyball. What what was what was the mindset you were trying to get rid of Don't give up on plays. If you know a ball goes off somebody's hands instead of going forward, it goes to the left or the right, chase after it. Just run, try it everything you can to get it. If you have to dive, dive, just get to that ball. Don't give up. Keep your eye on the ball. It's a very good piece of advice. There's a lot of spiritual truth to that. Don't give up Things don't go the way we want them to many a times. You get a spike in your face, you know. I tell you it's rough. I haven't played I played volleyball once at a beach and it was pretty embarrassing. You know, when a Christian begins to lose hope, what is that like? What's it like when a Christian begins to lose hope? Pitiful. It's pitiful, isn't it? It's pitiful. Uh you ever use ever heard the phrase your tail feathers begin to drag? Your tail is between your legs, your ears are down, you know, you're just dragging along. You know, what kind of things might a Christian begin to do That they would normally wouldn't have done if you begin to lose hope. You can think of biblical examples or examples of what perhaps you've seen others doubt Begin to doubt. How far does that doubt reach? Despairing doubt. Despairing doubt? Yeah. The more you stay the deeper the doubt goes. I think the example that I think of Warwell is a great example. I think of King Sol. I think of a lot of times how he would always ask for more and more and more signs from the Lord that he had his favor and you could kind of see that it was continued down and that kind of made it easier for him to Turn it's hard. That's a great insight. That's really good. I hadn't thought about that. But yeah, you're right. Why was he asking all those signs? I hadn't connected the dots there. It's because of doubt Because of doubt. You begin to do things that are just not not right. Um, you know, you see the disciples, when Christ had died and was in the grave, they kind of gave up. And he said, well, I'm going fishing. Go back to my day job. You know, doubt is just not a good position. You know, I doubt I'll get that ball. It's too far out. No, don't chase it. Go chase it. Go go after it. Get after it. Do it. Put some effort in there. Yeah, there's many things that our feeble hands and weak knees can lead to if they're not strengthened up. You know, I I like your point. I'm sorry, I forgot your name again. Rick. Rick? Yeah, Rick. Thanks. Um that the longer you stay in it, the worse it gets. It's not something you can dawdle in or dwell in Yeah, that's very good. It goes on and it says, make straight paths for your feet. Now we're now in verse thirteen. Straight paths for your feet. Now um that's interesting. This passage, we can turn back to to Hebrews. This uh section This whole book of Hebrews is truly a masterpiece of Greek persuasive speech. And I'm just impressed with the alliteration and the metaphors that are brought in. You know, we began in verse 2, you know, to to run the race that is before us with patience. So now he's talking about straight paths. And we saw that that running the race had to do with a lifelong marathon. Now, is there an easy way to run a marathon and is there a hard way to run a marathon? How would if you're a coach of a long distance running team, how would you coach people to how would you what's the easy way to run a marathon? Marathons are not easy, right? My knees and shin splints would kill me in the first quarter mile What's the easy way to run a marathon? Anybody? Just to run cross-country, um, you know, pacing yourself If you start off with a sprint you're not gonna make it. Mm-hmm. But if you're you know if you're paced and well hydrated before you start. Well hydrated. Lots of water. Yeah. Pacing. Even steady pace. What's a uh a hard way uh to run a marathon I agree with wrong shoes. Wrong shoes? Oh that's a good one. Have the wrong shoes on. Not have a coach. I can do this without a coach. I don't need a coach. You know, coaches will tell you how to approach things. There's a hill coming. Others are going to fade back. Not you. You're going to motor up the hill. A lot of pre-preparation too. Yeah. If you're gonna run a marathon tomorrow, you don't stay up all night doing something else. Yes, preparation. You don't eat a big breakfast just you'll be losing your lunch behind the first oak tree you find. Yeah You know, again, I assert that there are two groups of people in here, those who are enjoined to run the straight path, and that word straight is literally an upright path An upright path, a straight path for your feet, an upright path. And those with lame legs, they're unable to walk right. Let's call them the strong brother and the weak brother You got weak knees, they're the weaker brother. They're just not cutting it, right? They're as a team member, they're just not making it along. You know, this is where the illustration of the race a marathon is gonna not support us entirely. That's as far as you can take any of the metaphors in the scriptures. I've heard somebody say one time that with the parables, you can't make them stand up on all four legs and walk. There's it's usually focusing on an aspect, some aspect of Christianity This gospel message is like a diamond. It's got many beautiful facets to it. You can't view it all, the brilliance of it from any one perspective. You have to kind of twist it and turn it and look at it different ways. You each have your own lifelong personal marathon to run. But this is not a just me and God kind of thing. It is also a group effort, which is why I was even talking about team sports. You're on the team called church. If you're a Christian, you're in a team. It is a family. It is a group. And in fact, the pursuit of God is a team sport. if I could use the term sport, but it's going to go your whole life like a marathon. You know, What are the ways that a strong Christian can make a straight path for himself? What are some habits that strong Christians do to make a straight path for their feet? You had one earlier, which is just preparing for what's coming. And I said this to others and to parents with young children. The battle for church on Sunday morning begins Friday. Because Friday if you get too wiped out and don't do and then Saturday you try to do all your day tasks and now you're wiped out from Friday, a long week, wiped out Saturday Sunday morning you ain't getting out of bed on time. This is not going to happen. The battle for church begins on Friday where you have to pace yourself. You have to make it there. What are some things that that's one example. What are some things a strong Christian do to make straight paths for their feet Daily Bible study and devotion. Yeah. Keeping hydrated daily Bible study and devotion. Yeah, absolutely. Staying close to it. Just having that constant little reminder as opposed to waiting for a big dump Well I didn't get fed. Well, you know what's interesting? That's a I'm off on an aside here. If you take r rock hard, dry ground been dry for two or three months, and you put an inch of rain on it, what's going to happen? You're going to get a flood. Why? The ground is so dry and hard it can't absorb the rain If you have a quarter of an inch of rain once a week, and you have that over four weeks, that ground will absorb every inch of it. Because it's not going to run off. It's just a little bit of the time that soaks in gently. So it is with the scriptures. There's a lot of parables here. Let me ask a slightly different question. How could a Christian make a crooked path for themselves? Focus on yourself, focus on your problems. Yeah. I was just thinking you could do the reverse of what Psalm 1 says, you know, blessed is the man And then if you're going to walk in the crooked path, well then do the opposite. Go ahead and walk in the um counsel of the ungodly. Stand in the way of the sinner's too Sit in the seat of the scorpion and don't meditate on the word of the Lord. You know, then you'll be tossed to and fro. Yeah, good example. Right. You know, and that listening to the counsel of the ungodly is so crazy easy to do these days. So easy to do. It's one foot away from you. An ungodly person is somebody who just simply never talks about God. God's absent. Absent from the basis of consideration, absent from their position where they stand on, they come with their own professed wisdom. They may have some smart and interesting ideas, but God says, blessed is the man that doesn't walk listen to, follow in, the counsel of the ungodly. That's a profound thought. I leave it to you to contemplate. You know, crooked paths can be a sin of commission Or, as you were pointing out, a sin of omission, to not do things that we're supposed to do. I'd give you two examples of a crooked path from scriptures. Two examples One is in Isaiah 58. You can turn there if you'd like. It's Isaiah chapter 58 and verse 9. And we'll see if we can get that up on the screen for a or online peoples. Isaiah 58 and verse 9 is a classic passage that God's talking about his Sabbath day. And uh one of the things he points out of uh of their issues He says, beginning in verse 9, there's two sentences in there. I'm going to start on the second sentence. In 9B. If thou take away from the midst of thee the yoke the putting forth of the finger, you know, this this business, the pointing, and speaking vanity, and if thou draw out thy soul to the hungry and satisfy the afflicted soul Then shall thy light rise in obscurity, and thy darkness shall be as the noonday, the Lord shall guide thee continually. If you get out of this crooked path and go down this other path, then There will be improvement. Look at verse 13. If thou turn away thy foot from the Sabbath. Now this is talking about a week. feeble knee on a crooked path. If you take away thy foot, your interests, your desires from the Sabbath, the day you want to call the Lord's day. I'm not going to get hung up on Sunday, Saturday, Friday, Wednesday Whatever day you esteem to be, yep, that is the day of the Lord, we'll make it the day of the Lord. Take your foot away from it, your desires, your interests Don't do your tax returns on the Sunday. Don't do business work on the Sunday if you count that as the Lord's day. If you take that away. From doing thy pleasure on my holy day, and call the Sabbath a delight, the holy of the Lord, honorable, and shall honor him, not doing thine own ways Nor finding thine own pleasure, nor speaking thine own words, then shalt thou delight thyself in the Lord. And I will cause thee to ride upon the high places of the earth, and feed thee with the heritage of Jacob thy father, for the mouth of the Lord hath spoken it. Let me tell you something. It is a great delight when you have scriptures, memorized scriptures, going between your ears, and when you wake up at night and you can think upon the meditation of scriptures. Those have been some of the happiest times of my life, frankly, when I actually had scriptures, meditated scriptures, memorized scriptures going between these ears. And one crooked way can be when you just simply drop off and leave off of that habit. You know, don't read the Bible, let me give you a pro-chip. Don't read the Bible like a newspaper, because it's not. It is a It's a book of food for the soul. You don't eat your whole plate of food like a mule. It's not gonna happen. You have to take it bite at a time. And when you come across something that you don't understand, okay, that's fine. Know that this is God speaking. Keep in your mind, put a question mark. That's interesting. Someday I'll have to look that up. If you have the time, do it. Do a little research. There's a ton of tools out there to do that. And but when you do find something is like, oh, that's really interesting. Write it down on a three by five card. Don't use notes. Don't do that. Just put an old school physical hard copy, right? This is useful, but this is also a door for the devil to bring a lot of distractions to you. In fact, I'm going to turn this off right now Because phones are just a gateway of all kinds of other things. Mail and chat and that thing you're selling on Facebook and all these other distractions can come in, then that's exactly what the devil would love to have Do it old school. Put it on a three by five note card, the verse of scripture on the front, flip it over, put the reference on the back, stick it in your pocket somewhere. You're standing in a grocery store in line You've got some dead time on your hands, not behind the wheel of the car, and you can refresh your memory from it. You'll be amazed over time, and you'll begin to get sensitive to just how God speaks. God has a very distinct way of talking. He has a very distinct way of reasoning. And if you will but spend time in it and think about it and meditate on it, he mentioned Psalm 1, good Psalm to bring in hand. to meditate on it, all of a sudden, something goes click. You'll discover that, oh That language in Romans 8 is the same kind of language in Ezekiel 36. That language in Jeremiah is similar to this, and you'll begin to make these connections. And they're glorious when you find them. They're just these little explosive jewels that just expand the mind and you just there's a tremendous sense of rejoicing. And you know what? That's hidden all over the scriptures. It is all over the place in the Bible. So I encourage you to that. Another example of a weak and a strong path is in Romans 14. This is the proverbial passage concerning the weaker brother, and I want to get through this fairly quickly without preaching Romans 14. It's beginning in 14, I'm going to start there. Romans 14, 14. The issue was that there was a strong brother who could eat everything, and the weak brother could only eat vegetables, not meats. He stayed away from these things. And there's some historical context to that as well And he says here in 14, I know and am persuaded by the Lord Jesus that there is nothing unclean of itself. Meats offered and sacrificed to idol, it's a dead idol, it's a dumb idol, there's nothing to it. Uh pork, we can eat pork. We're not stupid, we're only eating raw. We know about the diseases that pigs carry with them. There's nothing unclean of itself, but to him that esteems anything to be unclean, to him it's unclean. If this brother in the Lord's talking about brothers Says it's unclean, it's unclean. But if thy brother be grieved with thy meat, your food, now walkest thou not charitably, destroy not him with thy meat for whom Christ died. Yes, Christianity does give us certain liberties and rights, and there are things Christians can partake of. I'm not talking about fornication, murder, adultery, right? I'm talking about some um areas that are known as Christian liberty. There are some things people can do that might offend others And it's quite wise to simply steer clear of these. This is particularly true for young believers. They're very sensitive. They can become very constrained. They can become I don't want to use the term Pharisaical because they're still saved, but I'm not talking about the Pharisees, but the young believer can become very rigid. That's okay. Just don't Don't grieve him with your meat. That's an example of a uh of of of being uh uh of giving up a right so that you can help a brother out to strengthen a feeble knee. Well we're going to look now back in Hebrews 12. The last section it says Lest the lame, lest that which is lame, be turned out of the way, but rather let it be healed. Okay, question. What is the way? Is it just the name of Jesus? John 14, 6, he says, I am the way, the truth, and the life. What is the way? I know you don't. He always raises that. That's okay, he stirred up a little bit. What is the way in a sabba? Is it just the name of Jesus? What do you think? Yes, that's the way. What is the way? The way. Yeah, what is the way? When it re when it it refers to lest it be turned out of the way. What do you think that refers to? Mm-hmm. Okay. Um you're not wrong. You're not wrong. I want to build on that some Joey? In faith by grace. Okay. In faith by grace? All right. You're not wrong. I want to keep building on it. Those are all good answers. I don't think I'm dismissing you And yeah, I have something in mind and but I'm not dismissing anything. Yeah, I think it might have to do with uh being on the narrow way that leads to life, being on that continuous walk of uh building up his kingdom, uh pushing away sin, affecting holiness and the fear of God, being conformed to the image of Christ. That's uh basically staying in the faith rather than falling away from it Okay? Staying in the faith. You know, there's a f you're right, you're right. Um I'm just exploring right now, right? I'm I'm I'm not trying to to beat up your answers. I've I've looked at my old Bible studies and go, Vince, why did you ask the question that way? You're beating people up. Um You know, there is a passage in Acts that just came to my mind which he said there's this sect called the Way. Early Christians were referred to as a sect called the Way. Why do you think they got that name? Why would they have called them a sect? Jesus said I am the way, but some of your Uh-huh. Yeah. 'Cause I think that's still masking it. It will say it's calls it the way of righteousness. Okay, what is that? Um living if God would have you still live once you know how to live Yeah, I'm kind of getting back to this passage, this context here, make straight paths for your feet. Run a race. So a easy way to run a marathon is A figure out what the course is so you're actually staying on track. B preparing for it. C get some coaching. D get some encouragement. What's a hard way to run a marathon? Have no idea where the track is, no exposure to it. Don't listen, maybe talk to some other people who have run this before. Well, yeah, we're not going to do that What's the hard part? What's the easy part? Let's get some other examples. Let's fail to get a good coach. Let's do it on our own. Let's get sloshed the night before and try to run it with a hangover. I mean, right, there's a million wrong ways to do it. So what I'm trying to get at is the way is more than just the name of Jesus. Right? That's kind of a an easy out. Yes, Rick? Well I when I think Jesus is the way I think about how with his introduction and the life that he lived and the path that he walked across, I think that was the way. And I think that When I now when I think of this verse, I am a sort of calling to the path that Jesus walked and Saying that not only is he the way himself, but it's also looking at the path that he walked, the actions that he took. The decisions he made and the fact that he was sort of he was tempted in the very same ways that we were. But we see how you walk. And in the same way that, you know, we have coach And maybe tell us that they there's gonna be a hill here. And Jesus ran that risk, so Yeah, yeah, you're amplifying this phrase the way, yes, Jesus is the way. He says so. He says he is, right? But what does that mean? Is it just okay I I I the way of life just the way of the way of your life. Talk about how you're gonna live Okay. That God has set out in his word. uh the the way of the justice is a shining light that shines more and more. Yeah, all of these are getting at the fact that it's I think Hebrews here is just describing with different metaphors the same Old Testament truths that have been around, but he's using slightly different language. He's moving it to a team sport. You know, a lot of these questions I asked earlier uh related to this concept of a team sport, you know, how to take a dead last team. Frankly, all of us were dead last. If you're a a Christian God rescued you from the pit of destruction. You were going to hell. You were going to lose. You were going to get a big fat zero when the final tally was going to be made. But God Almighty has redeemed you from the pit, has given you a new heart and a new soul, a new mind, new spirit, new strength And now you're in this lifelong marathon, but it's not just you. Christian, here's my applications. We're in this together. One way, and the marathon, this is where that illustration starts to go weak. It's a team effort. It's a volleyball team, it's a soccer team, it's a whatever, and I I'm not going to stretch it too far, but Christianity is a group event. You cannot be in the way and strengthened as a Christian in isolation. It's just me. I can learn more about God. I've had people tell me, I was on a vacation, excuse me, a business trip Um wish it had been a vacation. And I was talking to somebody about the gospel and they said, well, you know, I I can learn more about God just sitting on the beach and watching a beautiful sunrise No, you can't. That sunrise is not going to tell you about a blood atonement. It's not going to tell you about the way of holiness and righteousness. It tells you there's a creator. That sun just doesn't appear out of nowhere. And uh yeah, there's a creator for sure, but that's not the way of righteousness. That's not telling you the gospel. And there is a group aspect to it. We must help each other along. We have to find ways to bear one another's burden, to strengthen those weak hands and feeble knees. the current illustration that I think fits really well. I have a friend of mine who recently ran a hundred mile areas. Yeah, exactly, the thought of it took me in the hospital. Um but she had to run she's been running the wrong way, she had to run at night through the woods on a path she did not know. No light And she knew that that was going to be the weakest part of the marathon for her. So her husband, who was not a trained marathon runner came and ran with her for the I think it was twenty five miles. I know. So he ran with her at night through that point so that she had somebody with her, so that he would not let her fall, he would help keep her on the path, he would encourage her. And she successfully completed that hundred miles. So she told me she didn't If my husband had not been with me, there were times it was scary. I was so exhausted, I just wanted to sit down and wait for them to come pick me up. But he kept me on the back. He kept me up. Right. You know, just like a runner, you know, without a coach, without a good knee, without a helper, you know, you can't win your marathon either. Your spiritual success is in fact linked to the body of Christ. These principles only work when you're around God's people. It it's it's a point that bears thinking about. We sort of need each other. Look, I know familiarity breeds contempt. We're a mighty small group and there are little nuisances and annoyances that can come up. You know, I'll just pick on my dear brother over here and he knows I'm picking on him. Uh I'm just picking on you. I got it. I'll pick back. You can. You can But um I'm not gonna pick on it, that's just right. No, I'm not gonna pick on it. But there's little nuisances in the well I will just to fill out an illustration. Very first time we were here in the house I gave me a big cup of water and I gave him a big cup of water and the first thing he did is smell half of it on the floor. I said fine you only get half a cup of water from your ass. Now I'm getting tea. Now now you're getting tea, yes. You've improved so But those small things can become big things unnecessarily, right? You know, our passage assumes, in fact, that there are strong in the church. Now, it may be the pastor, and usually is, or the teacher. It can also be the lady struck with cancer. who, though debilitated and at home, endures her cross just like Jesus. She prays for her church family. She sends kind letters and small tokens of love to others facing difficulty. You know, spiritual strength is not tied to physical strength. Sometimes in your weakest physical moment, you can be strongest spiritually. You learn to lean and depend on the Lord. All of the commands in Ephesians, the one another command, if you just look at Bible search in your favorite Bible app and put quotes around the phrase one another, you'll find a bunch of those commands in the book of Ephesians. You can't do those in isolation. That can't be done. And so my point is we're in this together. You know, let me go back to my illustration about the sports thing one more time. Here's another way to ruin your sports team Hey guys, did you hear the news? Oh man, they were trashless. They said we did miserable last season and we haven't learned from our mistakes yet. Boy, that's terrible. Hey, did you hear the news? These guys are predicting we're going to come in last again. They're running down the coach. They're running No, you tune out the bad news. You tune out the stuff that's keeping you off the path How many of you are glued to this that's pumping in all this bad news into your head? Is it the counsel of the ungodly? Is it helping you spiritually? Is it really encouraging? You know the news makes money from you watching. it right that's how they make money. Because if you watch it you're gonna see their ads, right? They don't care to give you the news because they're not gonna give you the whole story. They're not gonna tell you the glorious miracles that God has done at times to rescue and redeem people. I'm amazed that shooter didn't kill everybody in there. Oh, because a Christian was carrying and he took out the the perpetrator. They're not gonna give you the full story on things. They just don't. They're there to make money. That's their profit. That's their motive And so tune out bad news. Your team isn't going to win if it's filled with bad news. So I'll get off my soapbox. I hope you appreciate this, that it is a team effort And we cannot say I have no need of thee. They may be the very one that later on becomes extremely helpful to you. Well, let's uh close in prayer. Joan, would you mind closing us in prayer? Thank you. Father, thank you for this day, Lord. Thank you for gathering together. Thank you that we can gather. That the church is not one, it is a body of believers that strengthen each other, Lord. Please help us to strengthen up with each other as we walk through this life. Uh please bless the message today, give the pastor ours in my son's holy name. Amen. Amen.