Turn with me this morning to First Samuel chapter twenty three. First Samuel twenty three verses one through thirteen Then they told David, saying, Behold, the Philistines fight against Keilah, and they robbed the threshing floors. Keilah was in the tribe of Judah. Like David's backyard. And therefore David inquired the Lord, saying, Shall I go and smite these Philistines? And the Lord said unto David, Go and smite the Philistines and save Kelah. And David's men said unto him, Behold, we be afraid here in Judah. How much more than if we come to Keilah against the armies of the Philistines? And if you recall, David only has about six hundred men, and they're trying to hide and keep out of the sight of King Saul, and now they're going to expose themselves by going to war against a large army of Philistines. It just didn't make sense to the men. They said they're afraid enough just living in Judah, but now they're going to go out and fight the Philistines. It was even worse in verse three And David inquired the Lord again verse four, and the Lord answered him and said, Arise, go down to Kela, for I will deliver the Philistines into thy hand. So David's men went to Keilah, and they fought with the Philistines, and they brought away their cattle, and they smote them with a great slaughter. So David saved the inhabitants of Keilah And it came to pass when Abiyarthar, the son of Ahimelech, fled to David to Kilah, that he came down with the ephod in his hand. So after the battle, David's resting there in Keilah. And here comes the Arthur the high priest, the only one left, remember, Saul had killed all the other priests and Nob. And he finds out David's in Keilah and he meets him there. And it was told Saul that David was come to Keilah. And Saul said, God hath delivered him into my hand, for he is shut in by entering into a town that hath gates and bars. And Saul called all the people together to war to go down to Keilah to besiege David and his men And David knew that Saul secretly practiced mischief against him. And he said to Abiathar the priest, Bring hither the Ephhod. And then said David, O Lord God of Israel, thy servant hath certainly heard that Saul seeketh to come to Keilah to destroy the city for my sake. Will the men of Kelah deliver me up into his hands? Will Saul come down as thy servant hath heard? O Lord God of Israel, I beseech thee, tell thy servant. And the Lord said, He will come down. And then said David, Will the men of Keilah deliver me and my men into the hands of Saul. And the Lord said, They will deliver thee up. Then David and his men, which were about 600, arose and departed out of Kilah and went whithersover they could go. And it was told Saul that David was escaped from Kelah, and he then forbeared to go down. They told David that the Philistines were fighting against Keilah and they were robbing the thresher floor. The threshing floor, that is The people in Keila would have no grain, they'd have no bread, they'd have basically no food, they'd be starved out, they'd be run out. They would be destroyed by these actions of the r raiding Philistine armies And so David inquired, he's such a small number, only six hundred, and he's really in hiding from Saul, and he wonders if this is a fight he should get into or not, as much as it was in the land of Judah, it was his backyard And David would not do anything without first inquiring of God, even though the answer seemed uh like it was something you should do, you'd want to do, to help out a brother. And so David inquired of the Lord, he said, Tell thy servant, shall I go and smite the Philistines? And the Lord said, Go. Probably it was Saul's killing of the priests of Israel in the city of Nob, if you remember that a few weeks ago, when Saul killed all the priests but one. It was probably this killing of the priests of Israel and the seeking of David's life as well that encouraged the Philistines that things are all that Not that warm and fuzzy between David and Saul, not all that warm and fuzzy between Saul and the God of Israel. And it must be a good time to attack Judah and this little city of Kelab. When the rulers persecute the church, the government can expect some Philistine-sized problems. When the rulers persecute the church. The government can expect some Islamic size problems, some ISIS size problems, some Al-Qaeda-sized problems, some Palestinian Liberation organization size problems when a government persecutes the church. And here we have Saul doing just that. He's persecuting the church. And the Philistines were coming in upon him. Now David knew the risk of going to Keilah. They had been hiding out there in the mountains of Judah in the cave of Adulum and so place. And in the forest of Harath and and they hadn't been spotted, they hadn't been found. But he knew if they were marching down a main road, down to the city of Kilah, it wouldn't take long for Saul to find out where David was, where David's men were, how big his army was surround him and destroy him. In fact, whatever the Philistines don't destroy, Saul would destroy. Or perhaps while David is attacking Keelab in the front of him, Saul could come in behind David and attack him from behind. It's called a pencil movement, and David would be just crush between the Philistines and between the army of Saul's of Israel. So David knew the risk and going to Keilah to fight. To fight the Philistines, for Saul might come as well. Just as Christ taught, though David did. Christ taught in Luke 14 and 31: when a king goeth to war against another king, Sits he not down first and count the cost, and that's what David was doing. He was the king of Israel, and he was going against one of these Philistine kings, and he sits down to count the cost. He just doesn't say, Well, I know it's of the Lord, and that's what should be done, so I'm going to do it He sits down, he counts the cost, he recognizes the situation he may be in, and he approaches the Lord and asks him for counsel. What king going off to war does not sit down and consult whether he'd be able to? And God told David He was able to. And so David consults with the Lord. About a people needing saving. And that's what he's really doing. He's asking the Lord, Do I go down and save these people? David is consulting before he goes down to save the people. Pilgrim, do you ever pray before approaching someone in need of salvation Because that's what David is. It seems obvious. Keilah needs saving. And it seems obvious that David probably should go and do it. And yet he consults the Lord, how do I go about it? When do I do it? What's the approach I take Do I stay there after I wipe them out? You know what if the Philistines, if I get the victory, you know, tell me Lord. He consults the Lord before he goes down to approach someone who needs saving. And I think oftentimes We don't do well in our witnessing or talking to someone because we haven't approached today with Lord put someone in my face today, put someone in my path today, someone that needs saving. Lord, help me to prepare for this We don't just go out and at a whim think we can do it. We need to sit down and consult the Lord, praying before approaching those in need of salvation. It may not be successful, but at least you've done what David does here. And David has been said Rather David's men said to David, We're afraid here in Judah. I mean we're we're already in a panic. We're a small number. We're only about 600 men, and we're trying to hide out in the forest. We're trying to hide out in the caves of Medulla We're trying not to be spotted and found out by Saul, and now you want to run down tequila, down a road that everyone's everyone's going up and down this road, they know the area The Philistines are down there making havoc, they've already got Saul's attention as they're warring down there in Kelath and robbing the threshing floors. If David knows about it, Saul knows about it And maybe Saul's getting ready to move on Keilah. And if we move down there, we're going to run smack dab in the middle of it, and Saul's going to spot us. And David's men don't want to go. Even though David said, God has told me we should go So, what does David do? Does David chew his men out? Does he call them cowards? Does he say you don't trust me? You don't believe me that we should go? Where's your patriotism? Does David do all that? No. David inquired again of the Lord. Tell thy servant, he says in verses three and four, the Lord, Should I go and will I deliver the Philistines? And God says, go. I will deliver the Philistines into thy hand. So David's gone to the Lord twice. Even when the answer seems obvious to David, he goes to the Lord a second time. My men aren't confident. My men aren't comfortable going. They they and you already told me we should go, but I'm coming back to the Lord. Have I misunderstood something? Is there something I can say to the men that will give them confidence and encourage them? And so David, even though he knows the answer is obvious, he's supposed to go He goes and asks God again. And I just wonder how many times you think the answer is obvious. I know what I should do. And so you don't go, Lord. Even when the answer is obvious, we need to approach the Lord For confirmation in our hearts and our minds that what we're doing is right, that the timing is right, that the situation and the moment is right. We don't just do it without prayer. And so David goes a second time to the Lord. And the Lord this time, first he just told David, Go, just go. He didn't say whether he'd win or lose. But this time he says, Go, I'll deliver the Philistines in thy hand. So David goes back to the men and he rehearses before the men. What God has promised. I will deliver the Philistines into thine hand. God just didn't tell me to go the second night. God said, I will give you the victory. I will deliver them into your hand It may seem obvious to seek out the confirmation, but also the scripture we find God's people doing that. The Bereans, it says of the Bereans that they received the Word of God from Paul as Paul was preaching. They received the Word of God, but nevertheless they search out the scriptures to see if it be so. And the same thing with Mary. The angel comes to Mary, she says You're going to be with child, you're going to bring forth the Messiah, and the Christ, the anointed one. And Mary, she got an angel tell her from heaven, telling her. I mean, is there any doubt in her mind? And yet it says she began to ponder these things in her heart And so even when things seem obvious to us, we need to go to prayer about them before we act on them. So David and his men, in verse 5, they went down, and they smote them with a great slaughter, and they saved the inhabitants of Kilah. When God promises something, he comes through with it. When God promises something, he will deliver. When God promises something, he even delivers abundantly. He told David, go down Smite the Philistines, you get I'm going to deliver them in your hand. And yet when David gets down there, he not only smites him, he not only delivers him in his hand, but in the meantime, as we see in the battle down there, he gathers up all the cattle of the Philistines. He gets a lot of a a lot of You know, goodness Ah, this is not just he defeats the Philistines or drives them away or slaughters them, but he captures all their cattle. Six hundred men can use some food And so God did more than he promised. He said, You'll slaughter them, you'll beat them. God didn't tell him, Oh, by the way, I'm gonna open up a grocery store for you right down there in Keilah you're gonna have all the food you want for your men, you're gonna capture everything the Philistines have been capturing and stealing and the things they brought with them, all their cattle. God follows up with his promises, he delivers, and he delivers above and beyond what we expect. What are some of God's promises today to us? God's given us so many promises, and they'll be better than we expect. The Lord Jesus Christ so that He would never leave us or forsake us. That is a great promise when you're going through trials. To realize if you're sitting in a doctor's office and you look across at other people and there's an empty chair and May the Lord sitting in it. He says he'll never leave us or forsake us. That's a great promise. He says he'll deliver us from the evil one. We pray that in the Lord's Prayer, deliver us from evil. Actually, the in the original Greek is deliver us from the evil one or from Satan. He says he'll deliver us from Satan. He says he'll, another promise of the Lord Jesus Christ is that he will love us like a bride. Wow. He'll love us like we're his bride. Then we are his bride. These are the promised the Lord. He says he'll provide us daily bread. He says Christ promises us forgiveness. He promises us mercy. And I love this one. In Proverbs eleven thirty-one's promised the righteous shall be recompensed in the earth, or the righteous shall be rewarded in the earth. Everybody thinks, well I know if I'm righteous, I know if I love the Lord and I put on the righteousness of Christ, that Sunday God's going to reward me in heaven. But Proverbs says, no, God will even reward you here on earth. These are the promises. We're not just going to beat the Philistines. We're going to get all their cattle So, think about some of the promises that we have today as well. And then on top of all that, there's eternal life and there's everlasting joy and no more tears. You'll wipe them away. These are the promises of our Lord. Jesus Christ has given us. And David's got a promise toy, you're going to beat the Philistines, you're going to slaughter them, and he found out it was better than that. When we get to heaven, eternal joy, eternal bliss, wipe away all our tears, it's going to be better than that It every one of God's promises always appeared one thing very clearly in front of the people as they heard of them, and then the fact was they were always better, always more abundantly blessing the people than they ever expected. And so David here, we've he's actually a couple of blessings. He has he he slaughters the Philistines, he gets the victory, he gets the cattle, and there he is in Keilah. They're still relishing in the victory and Here comes the high priest, Abby Arthar. The high priest is coming to Keilah of all the cities he can come to in all of Judah or of all the tribes of Israel. He's down in Judah and he tappers upon coincidentally, I don't So he comes in the city of Kilah. Now David's not only got the victory, he's not only got the cattle, he's got the high priest of Israel, and he's carrying the ephod. Wow. He never expected all of that. By obeying God, he just expected to slaughter the Philistines and get the victory. And he's got cattle, he's got the high priest, and he's got the ephas. The ephhod, I had Rob Krittman out this morning for me. It may not be something that you're very, very familiar with, but the ephod was used to seek God's direction in the life of the people of Israel. And some of you maybe know about the breastplate that was on the priest. And there were twelve different colored stones, very precious stones, and each stone represented one of the twelve tribes. And the epud was hung over the shoulders and across the chest, actually over the heart of Aaron, the scriptures say. And The ephod supported this and was adhered to this, and he would reach inside where the Urim and the Thumim was What was the Urim and the Thum? We know from the Hebrew that the Urim was the light of the Lord, and the Thuman was the truth of the Lord. And some think that when there was a question asked of the high priest, he'd reach inside, and if he pulled out the Urim, the light or the white stone, it was yes, go ahead. And if he reached in and pulled out the black stone of truth And truth was sometimes pretty dark, that then it was a no not to go and do something. That's they surmise that, but nobody knows As we read along, we find the occasions when they would come to the priest and say, Do we go out to war or don't we? Do we stay here or don't we? And then they would give the Lord's words from the heart of the priest. And what they really believe it was is that when the high priest put on the breastplate with all the twelve tribes with the Uram in the Thuum encase attached to it. And they would come the high priest and they'd say, We need to know the truth We need to know the light. We need to know the Urim and the Thuim. And the priest would pray and God would speak through the priest what Israel was to do. Now those are kind of the two theories. No one really knows from the writings of the rabbinical writings, those are the two things that come up most frequently. We don't really know, but what we do know is this that a priest who had the ephod, who had the breastplate of the high priest He had contact with God. You could talk to the high priest. He could talk to God and give them an answer of what they should do. That was a wonderful, favorable thing you wanted to have King Saul didn't have it anymore. Why should he have it? He killed 85 priests in Nob. The only one that escaped is Abiathar, and he escapes with the Ephod. King Saul doesn't deserve to have the light and the truth to guide him anymore. King David has it instead. David goes down to Keilah and he kills off the Philistines. He gets the cattle. He gets the high priest and he gets the ephod with the high priest. He now has direct direct contact With God, the light and the truth. Exodus 28, 6 through 14 talks about the breastplate of judgment of the Urim and the Thuman. It was upon Aaron's heart. When advice was needed, the Israeli rulers, they had go and they'd ask counsel of the judgment of the Urm before the Lord and his word, they shall go out to battle, they shall come in from battle, Numbers 27 and 21. So there are a couple of verses there that tell you how the Urim and the Thum was Thumim was used. It guided Israel. Gave them access to God. in a special way. Wouldn't it be great that we had something like that today? You know, we could we could go to a church and And the breastplate would be hanging in the church or on the pastor and and you could come to her, you know, who should I vote for? You know, should I take this job? Which doctor should I appeal to for my surgery? I mean you could wouldn't this be great to have something like that Should I have surgery? I mean, there's just so many questions we could ask. Should I buy that car or some other car? I mean, of course, some of those things you might not think the priest would want to hear the mundane things, but there's important things in life That we could go to someone who had the the breastplate of judgment. That's what it was called, the breastplate of judgment. And to go to him if we had if we had the ephod today Wow. Wouldn't it be great? You really do And not just the high priest has the ephod, but everyone's got a Bible. That's the New Testament Ephad. We go in here and what is in here? Christ who is the light of the world. Christ who is the truth. If we need some enlightenment of what we should do, we go to the scriptures. If we need to know the truth about something, whether something is right or wrong Abortion, gay marriage, whatever you want. We've got it right here. It tells us. We don't have to wait for Congress or the Senate to tell us, or a President to tell us, or the City Councilman to tell us what's right and what's wrong, because they might be wrong. We've got the truth and the light. We have the Ephi today. The light of the world, Christ, John 8. 12, the truth, Christ, John 14 and 6. We're not to follow the crowds today. We're not to follow the circumstances today. We're not to follow the customs today. We're to follow Christ's words. That's the truth. That's what lights our path and lights our way. We're not to follow anything but the Word of God. The ephod Turn to God's word. We can pray as we turn to God's word. We got something going on in our life about a doctor we want to see or a hospital we want to go to or a surgery or wherever we're facing. We go to our knees, we pray, we ask God, show me what I should do. And you pray until the answer and read until the answer becomes clear to you. And there's nothing, there isn't a question in your life. Because all scriptures give them the inspiration of God as profitable for rebuke, instruction in righteousness. It's all here. I can't find the answer to the Bible for my problem. Keep reading. Keep reading praying. You have the ephod. It says that the ephod was next to Aaron's heart. So it says in Numbers. In Numbers 27 and 21, is God's word next to your heart? Then it will guide you. And you will know the truth and the right decisions to make. Grab your Bible, go to your knees, and cry out to God, Tell thy servant what you'd have me to do. You know, you go all through this this chapter here and David's going to God, should I go? Then David goes back, should I go? David goes back a third time. Tell thy servant. I don't think many people they really want God to tell them what to do. They don't want their parents to tell them what to do They don't want their older sister or older brother to tell them what to do. They don't want their boss and work to tell them what to do. We live in an age where nobody wants to be told what to do. But King David wanted to be told Well, if a good spirit in a person may say, tell me what you want me to do. Husbands, try that on your wife. Honey, what would you like me to do? Tell me. Ladies, same thing with your husbands. Children, go to your parents. Tell me, what would you have me to do? Wow, when your parents get up off the floor and grab them their heart, they'll probably have several things they want you to do. But that's the spirit of David. He sought instruction, he sought to be consulted. Tell me what we can do. Verses 7 through 8, it was told Saul that David was come to Kelah. He's got his spies throughout all Israel. He knows where David is. He finally spotted him, he knows where he's at. And Saul said, God has delivered him into my hand. To besiege David and his men. He's inside this little town. It's got bars and gates on it. We can surround it. We'll put up a siege that we've got him. We'll destroy him and all his men. If we have to destroy the whole city, we'll do it Saul invokes God's name. God has delivered it into my hand. There are a lot of people who invoke the name of Jesus Christ. We hear it all the time. Thinking that their actions are blessed of God because they invoke the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. How many times must Saul fail to kill David before he realizes that God is not on his side You know? I mean we're going to go through this Bible uh for several more chapters. So constantly trying to kill David. It never happens, no matter how encapsulated David may be, no matter how surrounded David may be, no matter how outnumbered David may be Saul will never succeed in killing David. What does it take for him to finally realize that God has not delivered David into his hands? Well, how does that apply to us today? Mm-hmm I can think of a number of ways, but uh let me just give one that I think is very clear. How many times are the nations the PLO, the Hamas, the Hezbollah, the ICC al-Qaeda's how many times are going to try to destroy Israel and fail and not finally realize that God still loves Israel. Israel's not perfect. I realize that Some of their leaders and their people there. They still don't love the Lord. They still don't love the Old Testament or the New Testament. I realize that. But as a whole, God still has a plan for Israel. He loves Israel. He cannot Bless them, do not curse them. What is it going to take for this world, the United Nations, and most of the nations of the world, to realize that God is not on their side when they're trying to destroy Israel? What's it going to take? They're as blind as King Saul. Saul should have rewarded David For wiping out the Philistines who are taking the threshing floor grain and food from the people of Keilah. He should have rewarded David. Instead, he wants to kill him. You know, there's it just makes no sense They say we want our own land over there and we want to take it from Israel. Have you ever looked at a map? I mean, I mean if you look This is about the size just perspective wise, that's about the size of Iran, and that's about the size of uh of uh Afghan Afghanistan and and then Saudi Arabia over here is about that big and and then you got about the size of about Syria like that and Lebanon like that Israel's about that big in comparison to all these other nations. And where do they want to get land from? They want to get it from not the big country. All the big countries are surrounded. They want it from Israel. Little Israel. Oh, and by the way, all these ISIS and Al-Qaeda's, if you check their passports, it doesn't say Palestinian. Their passports say Jordan. Their passports say Syria, Lebanon, Egypt, Saudi Arabia. Who are Palestinians? Our passports don't say that. They speak the language, they speak the Egyptian language, they speak the language of the Iranians and Iraq, of Iraq, and Afghanistan. They're not Palestinians. But they've decided that they want a chunk. They read how much do you know how much they re-wanted this little Israel? Guess how much they want of it? All of it And Israel can go fly the coop, go somewhere else, fly a kite somewhere. They say they can go find some land somewhere else. What does it take for the world to realize that God is not going to deliver Israel into their hands? Saul should have rewarded David, but he wants him dead. David knew in verse 9 that Saul secretly practiced mischief. For David's in communion with God. He's able to perceive the dangers that are ahead of him because he's on his knees, because he's praying, he knows what's going on. And then he says to Abiyathar, the priest, Bring hither the Ephod And he prays in verses ten through twelve with Ili uh with uh uh uh uh Abiathar, the high priest of the Ephhod, God says, the Lord will Oh Lord, will the people of Keilah deliver me up? David says. This is his question. Will Saul come? That's the second question. Tell thy servants. And the Lord said, He will come. Saul will come. You stay here, Saul will come. And the people of Keilah, the people you've just saved from total ruin, the people you've just saved from starvation. The people just stay from slaughter. They're cheering you and they love you and all kinds of hosannas for their David, their King David. That's just wonderful. And they will deliver you up. Boy, that's a disappointment, isn't it? You're their hero. They love you. They're celebrating, they're banqueting. It's wonderful. Oh, King David, this is great. But if Saul comes, we'll give you up in a heartbeat. They don't tell him that, but God who knows the hearts of all men, what a disappointment. What a disappointment Are you ever disappointed with what God has appointed for your life? Do you have disappointments in your life? You ever feel like, oh God, do this to me? I love the Lord. How can He do this to me? What a disappointment. I want you to know that every disappointment in your life is an appointment from God It doesn't just happen and now God's gotta get some contingency plan to help you out. But we look through the Bible and we see there's a lot of disappointments in the lives of godly people Adam and Eve had a child named Cain. Anybody here want that child? Anyone here? You want a child so bad you'd even take Cain? No, you wouldn't. Adam and Eve had a child named Cain. What a disappointment. How about Ruth? Ruth's over a living. She marries a godly into a godly family. She's got a godly man, you couldn't ask her anymore. And her husband dies What a disappointment. Who in the land of Moab wants to marry Ruth? She married an Israelite. Nobody wants to touch her. Her husband's dead serves her right. You don't find any husbands here in Moab You're a Moabite traitoress. She was a Moabite. She married this Israelite. And her husband dies. Is that a disappointment? Everybody here, please say if my husband died tomorrow, I'd be disappointed. Right? Amen, right? Okay. About a half of you. Well, it's because the other half are are men The life is full of disappointments. Paul has a thorn in his flesh. That's a disappointment. But all our disappointments are appointed of God. God knows all the possibilities out there. God knows all the contingencies. God knows all the likelihoods. And yet He controls every action, every thought, every word, every deed of every creature and every event for the good of every lamb in his flock. He does. Ruth, your husband's dead is for your good. Paul, the thorn in your flesh, it's to humble you, to keep you humble. It's for your good. He asked God to remove it three times. He wasn't so Happy about it. He was disappointed about it. There are disappointments in life, but they are for the good of every lamb in the flock. This is not the only person who is king of Israel that's been disappointed by what happens to him. How about the Lord Jesus Christ? He comes into Jerusalem and Galilee and Judah and all he's all over Calpurnia. He's healing people. He's preaching to people. He's feeding the mass of the five. He's doing it all. And will they will they shout, crucify me, crucify me! Well of course Christ knew they would. He knows their hearts, but what a what a betrayal What a disappointment. He had to have looked out there on the crowd and all her shouting, Christianity, Christianity. And for us he says, I healed his daughter. I fed his son Wow, I cured that one over there, their uncle of leprosy. I mean he had to have seen all of this. What a disappointment in the nature of man. Life's full of disappointments Came onto his own, his own received him not. John 1-11. Wasn't that the story of Christ? And now it's the story of David. David goes to Keilah. Keilah's in Judah. David came onto his own, and his own are ready to deliver him up to Saul. History repeats itself, doesn't it? Well I wouldn't do that. You you see something in the newspaper with some guy goes off and he shoots his whole family or he or he He he kills his father or his mother. I mean I wouldn't do that and I don't know of anybody that would do that. Friend, you don't know the hearts of those around you Jeremiah tells us that the heart is deceitful above all things and desperately wicked, and who can know it? Isn't that what people say? I can't believe he did that. Not my son. There must be some mistake. The heart is deceitfully wicked, and who could know it? By the grace of God, you have nobody in your family that's done some of the horrible things that are on TV, some of the horrible things we read about in the news, but by the grace of God Or it will happen. There will be a Cain in your family. Or a Jezebel or a Delilah. It'll happen. But for the grace of God, the prisons, the graves, history are full of those who people never suspected. Would do such diabolical, devious, demented, disastrous things to mankind. I'm here as little baby Charlie, little baby Charlie Manson. I wonder what he's gonna grow up to be. Yikes, right? Oh Adolf. Oh Adolf, he's such a little cute baby. I mean some mother thought that at one time, Adolf Hitler, right? We have no idea what's in the heart of man. Pharaoh, Holocaust, Charles Manson. He says to David, David, you've got to get out of town. These people who right now are celebrating and throwing their arms around you and hugging you and kissing you and praising your name, they'll deliver you up, they'll turn you, you've got to get out of town. It'd be kind of hard to leave a body of people that are treating you that good, wouldn't it? I mean, they're just they're just praising you. Maybe they're carrying you around on a throne, they're calling you the king. You don't want to leave that David, you may not want to leave that, but you better believe God. And God says he'll deliver you up. And his men, about 600 of them. They arose and they believed David. They believed God. And they departed out of Keilah. It was told Saul that David had escaped. David escaped because he believed God's word. Do you believe God's word? Do you want to escape hell? Fire? Brimstone? Eternal anguish? The wailing and gnashing of teeth? You have to believe God's word. David escaped because he believed God's word. You want to escape judgment day? You have to believe God's word. People have trouble believing God's word. They pick and choose what they want, and know what happens? By the time they get through with the Bible and the parts they believe, you can probably write them all on these two little pieces of paper. I mean I I go through Genesis and Revelation and I first wipe out all the miracles. People don't believe that stuff. How about in Genesis? The rib God has taken from man and he made him a woman. Do you realize that I don't care if you're an evolutionist who's trying to make it fit the Bible, or if you're a theistic evolutionist and say, well God had his hand in it somehow and it worked out through evolution, do you realize that these evolution, the theistic evolutionists When when they talk that way, and you read that verse where God made the woman out of a rib, there's no room for evolution in the rib. They just believe that Adam and Eve both evolved up out of the muck and the mire. But God says no, the woman Came from the rib of Adam. What are you going to do with that, you evolutionists? What are you going to do with that, you theistic evolutionists? They don't believe the Bible They think that both Adam and Eve came from an ape like preacher without a soul. But God says that Eve came from the rim I know some of the women think, I don't know, I see my husband on Saturday morning, he looks like he came from an ape. But the women don't, right? The women look nice and pretty, uh, her hair's all nice and God says he didn't evolve us, and people have trouble believing that. There's no room for evolution. Now, how about this verse in John 5. 23? All men should honor the Son even as they honor the Father The Father in heaven, God the Creator of heaven and earth, the holy, holy, thrice holy God, we're to honor the Son as we honor the Father. Then how do we honor the Son? We have to fall prostate before him. We have to worship him. We have to believe that he is God from all eternity, that Christ is the Alpha New Maker, the beginning and the end. If we're going to honor Christ, that verse Christ said that in John 5. You're to honor me as you honor the Father. Well, how do you honor the Father? We worship the Father. He's God. How do you honor the Son? Christ says if you're going to honor God that way, you need to honor me that way. Wow. There's no wiggle room there. What a statement. Honor God as you honor Christ as you honor God. You worship Him. Let not your heart be troubled. He said, You believe in God, believe also in me. John 14, 1. Wait, whoa, wait a minute. We're supposed to believe in God to get to heaven, right? Christ is, oh no, no, you believe in God, believe also in me. That's blasphemous unless Christ is God. I mean, there's no wiggle room here when you go to the scriptures verse by verse. Christ is God. He's not just God come in the flesh. Before he came in the flesh, he was up there on the throne in the heavens as the Alpha and the Omega. From all eternity, he was God. Jehovah's Witnesses don't believe that. Mormons don't believe that. Muslims don't believe that. Christian scientists don't believe that. I mean, you're wiping out a whole lot of people who do not believe the Bible, and yet if they want to escape hell and judgment They have to believe this. David, if he wanted to escape Keilah, he had to believe what God said. And we've got the Bible full of stuff. There's no wiggle room for Jesus being a little God with a small g. He says, Honor me as you honor the Father. He who has seen me hath seen the Father. And then these verses that people are spitting at and scoffing at and trampling on their feet all the time. Matthew 28, 6. He is risen. As he was buried in that same fleshy body, that same fleshy wounded body, he was risen in that same. And not only is he risen, behold, he cometh with the clouds, and every eye shall see him, and also they who pierced him. Pierce him with their nails, pierce him with the spear, pierce him with their words, pierce him with their eyes, pierce him with their tongues, pierce him with their sins They'll all see him. One must make room for Jesus the Christ. One must make room for Jesus the Christ. in their heart, in the here, in the now, if you're going to have room in the Heavenly Father's mansion in the eternal hereafter. Oh, so important that you believe his words Plural, not I believe his word or I believe someone. It's so important that you believe. David believed every word that God said to him. Get out of Keilah, they will betray you. And they will deliver you up. Saul will come if you stay here. He believed every word. He believed the words of God. Do you believe the words of God Someone says he believes the Bible from cover to cover and he even believes the cover. Holy Bible. I believe that too. Do you want to escape? Believe it all. Let's pray. Father, we thank you this day that you have spoken to your people throughout all the ages. Sometimes you came down as an angel. Sometimes you walked in the garden with Adam and Eve. Sometimes you sent a prophet or someone inspired of God to write your words. And Lord, we have those inspired words today. And we read through the scripture that those who saw you and believed, and those who have not seen you and yet believed, are even more blessed. Oh Lord, may we believe. May we believe every word, all the words of Scripture That we might escape the judgment that is coming. It's in Christ's name we pray, our great God and Savior and Redeemer. Amen.