Providentially, about two weeks ago, I stumbled across an old study which apparently I'd never spoken on. I have no recollection of ever speaking about it or having recorded it And there it was languishing in the files. And I said, Hmm, this is not bad. I think it could be polished up in short order and delivered. And I spoke with Pastor and I said, Hey, if you ever need a break in the pulpit and want to do a pulpit swap, um, you know, by all means. I was thinking perhaps when Joey might come back he'd want to enjoy some time with his son. He reached out to me and said, How about this week? And I said, Sure, and I polished it up and then I went and broke my hand. Promptly broke my finger. So in God's providence, my right wrist is doing good, my left, well, better, but cast up a bit. So that's why you have yours truly up here today We're going to talk about ten marks of spiritual childhood. You know, we love little children, don't we? There's just something to a newborn baby, to little children, that is just so to they have such big, bright, clear eyes. I I love little kids when they're about oh I don't know, however old they are when they can hold their eyes open and they're not used to seeing anything, and they just stare at you With those gorgeous eyes. You know, their eyes are as big as they'll ever get, and so they're disproportionately large to the face. Just marvelous. They have soft, blemish free skin. You know, women would just kill for that, right? So I would kill for it, frankly. It's just blemish-free. It's just picture perfect. Everything. They're they're cuddly. They're warm. And they bring a ton of joy into a home. Such love and warmth. In fact, they turn a house into a home. Mm-hmm. It's just a structure until a little one arrives. I mean it's their domain. They there's nothing the world offers greater than a newborn child in the home. It truly is a blessing. You know, likewise, new baby Christians are a delight. You can almost tell the new believers by the by the light in the eyes. look back at some old pictures of me in college and I could see the darkness and the sunkenness. And then that first Christmas when I went home, I was saved in the fall of about 1988 or 89, I forget exactly which year There's a picture of me standing next to the family Christmas tree. I could see the light in the eyes. There was a light there. There was a hope there. There was just a a glow. You could almost tell a new believer from the light in the eyes. They're full of zeal. No greater zeal hath a new convert. They ask good questions. They enjoy Bible studies. They like to discover and talk with other true believers. They're ready to share their newfound faith, and they add great joy to any assembly of Christians. It doesn't matter what church they go to. They're just very excited to hear them. The Apostle Paul, though, pens warnings like this. He says, for instance, in 1 Corinthians 14, Brethren, be not children in understanding. Howbeit in malice be ye children, but in understanding be men. Well that's interesting. There's many positive references to spiritual children In the Bible. Many positive ones. But this passage exhorts correct behavior of a child in malice be children, but it also warns of an incorrect mindset What does God mean? What does he mean? What are those childish traits to be avoided? Yes, in understanding, don't be a child. But there's others the scripture talks about. Let's imagine for a moment a young man who's fully grown. He drives a car, he just got a new job. What would your opinion be of this man if he began crying loudly for a baby bottle? If he starts making a ruckus about something very insignificant, if he falls to the floor and starts pitching fence. You know, y he does it once. Yeah, you chalk it up to maybe a little too much drinking. He keeps doing it again. And again, and again he's going to lose his job, he's going to lose his driver's license, and he's going to lose all confidence of those around him. He may find himself in the funny farm. You know, likewise, there are marks of spiritual childhood that are not those of a mature Christian, that are not unlike the silly illustration I just gave you. In fact, those marks are areas for clear improvement, and I want you to look with me now at ten marks of spiritual childhood. Now I've tried this on myself, and I am not perfect, but again, it's pointing out areas of correction for all of us to think about. The first mark of spiritual childhood is ignorance. Ignorance. Little kids and babies don't know anything. I mean But you know, you can tell 'em the moon was made by God. It's great. You know, you can fill them in on all kinds of things, and they actually believe it. You you can just It's it's phenomenal that you can tell little kids so much gospel truths at an early age and they'll swallow it, hook, line, and sinker. They they they just know it. But God would not have his own to remain ignorant. You can't stay that way. You may start that way, but you can't stay that way. Turn your Bibles to Hebrews chapter 5 and verse 12. I'll have you jumping around a little bit today, so keep your Bible handy. You want to pull it up on your phone, that's fine. Just don't hit play, so it starts talking back Hebrews 5 and verse 12. The penman writes this. For when for the time you ought to be teachers. Notice that, you ought to be teachers. A certain passing of time has occurred. You ought to be teachers. You have need that one teach you again, which be the first principles of the oracles of God that was covered It'll be covered in a few verses later. Enter become such as have need of milk, not of strong meat. Notice the ill the illusion To an infant needing milk. For everyone that useth milk is unskillful in the word of righteousness, he is a babe. And so you might ask, well, at what time ought someone to be a teacher? You know, some churches find a zealous convert, they make him a teacher right away. Not a good idea, not a novice, less being filled with Priority's puffed up and becomes the snare of the devil. Well, practically speaking, you need to be able to teach when you're married to teach your wife, your family. So when you're single, invest the time, get smart in the Word of God, learn it, know it. When you're caring for children, young ladies, to be able to teach your children. When you're still living at home with your parents, you have unsafe siblings, family, extended family, you can teach them, you can get smart in the scriptures. When you're single on your own, you can teach co-workers, friends and associates and contacts through your behavior, through your demeanor, through your speech. To do that, you need to pay attention when you're being taught and not be ignorant, to ignore what's being presented or available to you. That's mark number one. Mark number two is weak digestion. Weak digestion. You know, babies can't handle heavy foods. You start them off with a mashed banana, then you might move up to other mashed foods and boy when they start to get Rice and some more heavier things. You know, I'd like to start them off with T-bone steak, right? Let's get this business going. That'll come, but not right off the bat If you continue looking in Hebrews 5, it says in verse 14, it says, strong meat belongeth to them that are of full age, even to those who have, by reason of use, their senses exercised to discern both good and evil You know, to have senses exercised to good and evil implies effort, implies application of what you are no longer ignorant of. You're thinking about the Word of God and you're making application and you're using it. And you begin to discern that which is good and that which is evil. The apostle writes to the Corinthian church in 1 Corinthians 3, 1 and 2, he says, I, brethren, could not speak unto you as unto spiritual, but as unto carnal. Even as unto babes in Christ I have fed you with milk and not with meat, for hitherto you were not able to bear it, neither yet now are you. The Lord Jesus even told his disciples at one point, he says, I have much to tell you, but you cannot yet bear it. You're still spiritual children. They've been walking with the master. So, by way of application at this second point, you know, instead of entertainment, how about memorizing the Word of God and then meditate on it? Those are glorious times when you can memorize scripture and then it goes through your head and then you cannot but help. But to compare spiritual spiritual, the Bible with the Bible, and ding, you'll be amazed at how many light bulbs go off on your head It's astounding when you do that, and I would encourage that. In fact, the Book of Proverbs is like a book of probiotic enzymes to strengthen your digestion. It really helps break things down Mark number three of a spiritual child is they are factious. They're factious. They like little factions. Some children will get together with other neighborhood kids or schoolmates and they'll form a clique. Never had those in high school little cliques, except you weren't in the right clique. Some kids in certain neighborhoods will get together and form a gang. If you're not in the right gang, the other one comes after you. They form a club. And sadly, this evil occurs in religious circles as well. You know, here what the apostle says to the Corinthian church in 1 Corinthians 3 and 3 and 4. He says, Whereas there is among you envying, strife Divisions. Are you not carnal and walk as men? For one saith, I am of Paul, and another, I am of Apollos. Are you not carnal? This is fleshly, this is childish. You know, there is a chance when I see that there was a uh a time, an event in the ninth chapter of the book of Luke, Luke 9. 49, as the Lord Jesus was walking with his disciples John answered and said, Master, we saw one casting out devils in thy name, and we forbade him because he followeth not with us. He's not from our school. Jesus said unto him, forbid him not, for he that is not against us is for us. You know, mature Christians ought to be ready to honor and to work with other mature ministers who are in fact pulling the same plow. The worst state a church can fall into is it becomes a club. It's a little faction. It's a little click. And we ignore true ministers and we lose sight of the mission. That's one of the marks of spiritual childhood. There's a fourth one. Again, I've got ten. The fourth one is dependence. Dependence. This one's a little tricky, so let me try to work my way through it here. Walk with me now. Children have many daily, basic needs which have to be met. They're very basic, they're very simple, but they're daily. And without that attendance, they die You can't just tell the kid, hey, you're on your own, go on vacation for two weeks and come back and expect everything to be fine. It's not going to happen. And frankly, unless they weren't so loving and wonderful and cute and from you, you would view them as a tremendous burden. And they are a burden. They're a burden, especially to their parents. Loving burden, but they're a burden. And frankly, spiritual children are not much different. Listen to Moses as he was dealing with the grumbling Jews that he was carrying about in the wilderness. They're complaining to him for a lack of food. Oh, they've seen plenty of miracles. They seem to have forgotten a lot of the miracles, but they're grumbling and they want to go back to Egypt. And he says this, he says, have I conceived all those people? Have I begotten them that thou shouldest say unto me, Carry them in thy bosom as a nursing father beareth a sucking child unto the land which thou swearest unto their fathers? Moses is Talking to God. Have I borne these people that I should bear them? They're too much for me to carry. This is too hard. It was a burden. That's a bad dependence to have They're complaining to Moses for a solution when they should have trusted the Lord, and they refuse to remember God's miraculous Deliverances and promises that they've had so far in their journey. In fact, the matter is, ignorance often plays into dependence. They feed on each other. Isaiah says this, whom shall he teach knowledge? And whom shall he make to understand doctrine? Them that are weaned from the milk and drawn from the breasts. It's a very interesting passage that Isaiah writes. To him who has knowledge, knowledge will be increased. It'll continue to go. You know, if you exercise, you eat more meat and you get stronger, and you exercise and you eat more protein powder and whey and you get stronger, and it's a wonderful virtuous cycle. But The little kid that goes back to the Pablum becomes a burden to others. There's many ways the Church of God has people in it that are dependent on others. Some in good ways, but others in bad ways. You know, we need to value a life of sacrifice, of saying no to ourselves to achieve a greater good. We need to learn to be providers in the house of God and not hangers on, not there because I'm looking for you to give me something That's that club mindset, looking for churches that offer the fun and the games, all the what can you offer me? We offer you one thing, the worship of the true God and the knowledge of his glorious name. We don't want to have depending on others as a way of life The fifth mark of the spiritual childhood is credulity. Credulity. You maybe have heard the word credulous, or you hear somebody say that's incredible. What is credulity? Credulity is simply a tendency to be too ready to believe that something is real or true. You know, little kids believe anything you tell them, good or bad. And for Christian parents, it's a blessing. It's an opportunity to pour in solid foundation of gospel truth. That's why we prevent bad teaching from entering their ears, because they'll believe it. They don't have their senses exercised to say reject these things. Turn to Proverbs 14-15. Proverbs again has got a lot of really good helpful tips. Proverbs chapter 14 and verse 15 Proverbs 14, 15 is very short and to the point. It says the simple Children are simple, believeth every word. The simple do. They believe everything. But the prudent man looketh well to his going. What does that look like spiritually? Well, a spiritually simple person without discernment Spiritual child. Hears one preacher say one thing. Well that sounds good. And he hears another preacher say something else. Well that sounds good. And he hears a third that says something different than the other three. Well that sounds good too. And they begin to scratch their head. Now what do you think? And they hear a fourth thing And they go to somebody else and they hear a fifth thing, and they just they kind of believe everything, and pretty soon they're confused. They're messed up. You know, little children, babies in particular, will open their mouth and swallow anything The little glass baubles or little small plastic toys manufacturers try to avoid putting those in Toys for infants and babies. Why? Because they put everything in their mouth. They just stick it in. And so it is with the simple. They swallow everything. What happens if a little baby swallows a small plastic toy? Or two. Or three You know what the danger is these days, is the child swallowing these little neodymium, I'm pronouncing it wrong, magnets, these really powerful magnets, they're small. And it gets into a stomach, and if they swallow more than one of them, it can pinch parts of their intestine together. It's a little small, it's a very dangerous thing, and it doesn't pass, it stays there Swallowing things that are wrong can hurt you. But if you're always dependent on somebody protecting How do you keep that from happening? That's a spiritual child. You know, there are false preachers who peddle spiritual bright flashy baubles and they're there to harm you. Our passage we read here in Ephesians, and I'll read it for you again in 4. 14, says, Ephesians 4. 14, that we henceforth be no more children, tossed to and fro. carried about with every wind of doctrine by the slightest man. This is not accidental. This is intentional. by the cunning craftiness whereby they lie in wait to deceive. There are some Christians that I think of When I drive down the freeway and you see these plastic grocery bags, some bag just fell out of the back of a contractor truck, and here it is floating around in the freeway. A car zips by at 65 miles an hour, that bag catches some wind, and whoosh, it's flying behind the car. And this verse comes to mind. Because when that wind is gone, a car from the opposite lane, a truck catches it, and all of a sudden it's going just as fast in the opposite direction. It's carried about by every wind. It's just blown back and forth. He has no stability, no gravitas, no way to rescue itself. It's just carried about The Apostle Paul spoke of false teachers who serve not our Lord Jesus Christ but their own belly, and by good words and fair speeches deceive the hearts of the what The simple, who believe every word. I'll name one for you. Joel Osteen. He's a huge peddler. And all these kinds of false ideas. And I've had a close relative come and say, boy, I really like this gay. This guy, he's wonderful. Have you heard him? I said, yay, he's a disaster, stay away from him. I don't know if he did. But he loves him. He sounds so good. The simple. Believe every word. Oh by the way, you can check us out here in the pulpit, and that's okay. We're quite alright with that. Now don't Flames on the spot. I'm not saying pick up a tomato at the moment and check it this way. You're more than welcome to. Consult us and help us out. You know the world is full of liars with deceived hearts, and if it sounds too good to be true, folks, it probably isn't. Fickleness is point number six. Fickleness Children are sickle, aren't they? One minute they like you and the next, no, they like daddy better. This hour they like this toy, but oh their sibling or playmate is playing with their toy. I like your toy better In Luke 7. 31, the Lord said, Whereunto then shall I liken the men of this generation? The men of this generation? What are they like? They're like unto children sitting in the marketplace, calling one to another, We have piped unto you, we've played a nice song, and you've not danced, we have mourned unto you, and you have not wept. You're fickle. He says, that's what you're like. You're like little children. And you think that you can just make me go with every wind of doctrine like you do. Now let me tell you what can happen among faithful churches solid in the fundamentals. This is years of ministry and home-based ministry and being in different churches. There are those individuals who show up. They join up the church. Church is always happy to have new people come in. But they begin to nitpick insignificant things. Your church is too white. Your church has too many nationalities Your church doesn't use enough water in baptism. Your church doesn't have a nice building with a lot of programs. And on and on. Nitpicking. Just nitpicking. These people are church hoppers. They constantly bounce around, they're unwilling to join. Again, I'm not talking about deformed churches, right? I'm not talking about a church that shows up and they don't have the gospel right. I'm not talking about that. I'm talking about among faithful churches that are sound in the fundamentals, preaching the Word of God. They've got the gospel right. And even in that niche, you get these nitpickers of the stupidest little things. It can be from desserts to the color of the carpet to the the I've had one man report, I didn't witness it. I've had one man report to a an older fellow who was in one of my early Bible studies in California. The minister told him, we don't like you here because your glasses are not square. His eyeglasses have the wrong shape. Of all the stupidest things to get hung up on, the shape of his eyeglasses. And you had to have a three-piece suit on top of it. There are the stupidest silliest things I'm not sure that was a faithful church, but anyway, that's a dumb thing to nitpick about, isn't it Hebrews 13, 9 says, Be not carried about with diverse and strange doctrines. It's good that the heart be established with grace, not with meats, which have not profited them that have been occupied therein. You know, this business of fickleness, what would a businessman survive long if he kept switching his marketing plan? You keep changing it. You know, you're picking on the small things. You know, you're majoring in the minors and minoring in the majors. Is that going to last? No. You know, you need to find a faithful church where you can feed and you can grow and join them in their service to the Lord. Help plow with them Seventh point of a mark of spiritual childhood. The love of amusement Little children love to play. Now that's not a bad thing. That's a blessing that children love to play. Zechariah says, and the streets of the city shall be full of boys and girls playing in the streets thereof. And in that context of Zechariah 8. 5, it's a wonderful promise that, yes, Jerusalem and the nation will be restored and you'll have children playing once again. That is a blessing to see that at that age. But all spiritual play isn't good. The Apostle Paul warned in 1 Corinthians 10: neither be idolaters, as were some of them. As it is written, the people sat down to eat and drink and rose up to play. They made a calf, and they started dancing to it. They rose up to play. 1 Corinthians 10, 7 There was a first-century Roman poet named Juvenal, and he made famous a little saying, Panna Metcircances. It's Latin for bread and games. And he applied it to those rulers who would appease the masses like little children, gave them free bread, plenty of gains at the Colosseum. The Apostle Paul, however, said this to their world and to ours, and I'd like you to turn to that in 1 Peter chapter 4. 1 Peter 4 and verse 3. This business of a love of amusement, and there's plenty of it out there in our day. 1 Peter 4 and verse 3. The Apostle Paul writing to his first century, or excuse me, Peter, the Apostle Peter speaking to his first century audience, and by extension, by virtue of inspiration to us Says this in verse 3, for the time past of our life may suffice us to have wrought the will of the Gentiles. What is the will of the Gentiles? What do they want to do? When we walked in lasciviousness, it's unbridled lust. Lusts, excess of wine, revelings, banquetings, just having lots of banquets. Lots of big dinner gatherings and abominable idolatries. They raise their glass and toast to fill in the blank to this wonderful year at the company. to this to another good season of football, to uh you name it, the idolatries. It's idolatries He says, wherein they think it strange that ye, mature Christian, run not with them to the same excess of riot, speaking evil of you. Concerning this business of love of amusement, I want you to consider with me the Lord Jesus Christ. He never went to a gladiator event. We never read in scriptures that Jesus took his vacation and bought tickets to the local gladiator event or watched the horse races. A Christian's life is not all about entertainment. You know, John Bunyan, when he was in prison, wrote Pilgrim's Progress, and one of the most fascinating, insightful chapters is when pilgrim crosses through Vanity Fair, where they had everything in the fair to excite you. Everything that would amuse you. And you know, think about that word amusement for a moment. It's two phrases. Ah, muse. To muse on something is to think about something. So ah amusement says you don't want to think about anything We'll do the thinking for you. And we're going to play it out for you right here. And you can think long. That's what amusement is. It's really Nick, it's it's really hydrocodone for the brain. It's numbing up the brain is what it's doing Eighth mark. Eighth mark of spiritual childhood. And I will readily confess in advance before my wife throws a tomato at me that this one stepped squarely on my toes. Foolishness That is a mark of spiritual childhood. Foolishness. Little kids can be goofy, right? They can really be quite goofy. I remember one of our children which she'll be unnamed. But uh he stuck a bucket on his head and fell down the the stairs because he thought it was really cool to walk around with a bucket on his head and not see where he's going and uh that didn't pan out well. Thankfully it didn't involve a trip to the hospital either. Left unchecked, that foolishness can become downright annoying. Solomon writes this in Proverbs 22:15: foolishness is bound in the heart of a child. Not goodness, foolishness. But the rod of correction shall drive it far from him. The apostle says this, let neither filthiness nor foolish talking nor jesting be your way of life, but rather giving of thanks. Now, this may shock you, but believers who are under the greatest threat of foolishness. Those who are under the greatest threat of foolishness are those with the most money. Listen to the Apostle Paul. I'm not making this up. In fact, when I thought about it and read through it, I was like, yeah, I can see why that would be the case. But here are the scriptures first. Paul says this But they that will be rich fall into temptation, in a snare, and into many foolish And hurtful lusts, which drown men in destruction and perdition. Think King David. You know, when he was young, not yet on the throne, on the run Valiantly fighting Goliath, he didn't do anything foolish. It was when he was a wealthy king. And he's standing up At the top of his palace and wasting his time. He should have been at the front of battle. That's what King David was known for. He was a mighty warrior. And he fell into a foolish lust If you're struggling to make ends meet, you ain't got time to waste time. You're busy working and struggling and scrapping and you ain't got spare time. But the person who has a man is a man or a woman of means, has plenty of time on their hands. And Idle time is the devil's playground. And they can land you into foolishness and foolish things. You know foolish or spiritual children can get entangled into foolish arguments 2 Timothy 2. 23, but foolish and unlearned questions avoid, knowing that they do gender stripes. Some things you just don't want to get into. Folks, Jesus Christ never cracked a joke. I bristle when people say, God has such a sense of humor, God has a sense of irony. He has a sense of irony. He repays man's ways upon his head, which we think is funny. There's little video reels you see called instant karma. You know, where somebody cuts somebody off and in the process they flip their car over, right? You know, oh, that's funny. Well, God operates like that. If you do this to me, I do this back to you And he does it and he demonstrates it in Scripture. That's not humor. That's God repaying man's ways upon his head. Jesus Christ never cracked a joke. You do not read any place in Scripture where Jesus was laughing. He was a man of sorrows. He was acquainted with grief. God's people should not have a reputation, key word, as a comedian. I like that pastor because he tells jokes. We had a minister who every service opened up with a joke That's starting off on the wrong foot. I'm sorry. It was Sunday school. I'm sorry. It's the wrong foot It just doesn't have place up here. It really doesn't. Out there. Now, some humor is fine, but believers have a deadly serious message. Yes, a merry heart maketh a cheerful countenance. Brother Bernie used to say, we can't walk around like we haven't had a bowel move in three days, right? You can't be That's Brother Bernie. But your behavior, your behavior ought not to be foolish. Matthew 5. 13, ye are the salt of the earth, but if the salt had lost his savor, that word lost his savor literally means become foolish. If your salt has become foolish, wherewith shall it be salted? It is thenceforth good for nothing but to be cast out and trodden underfoot of men. Now, gospel ministers must especially be on guard against foolishness, especially because of this. Listen to Ecclesiastes 10. 1. Dead flies. Dead flies cause the ointment of the apothecary to send forth a stinking savor. So doth a little folly to him that is in reputation for wisdom and honor. Ministers have to be very careful about it. Pray that your ministers and all of God's sheep build a strong bridle for the tongue. Ninth mark a spiritual childhood. Petty complaints. Kind of like thickleness, but it's a little little different. Petty complaints. Kids complain about the smallest things. I want the pink toothbrush, not the green one. The color doesn't matter. That is so insignificant. There are three words that describe those who are given to petty complaints. Captious, carping, and sensorious. I'm going to expand your dictionary today. Captious means an inclination to raise trivial faults. That's what it means to be captious. Carping, kind of what it sounds like. Picking on things. A perverse picking of flaws. Oh, why doesn't so-and-so go to a dermatologist? She has a mole right here. Oh no, she just needs to fix that. Carping of something insignificant, censorious, a natural bent to be severely critical. Beautiful day outside, isn't it? Well it can really be rainy tomorrow That was a really wonderful service. Ah, that thing in his prayer, I didn't like that. Just a natural bent To be severely critical. Turn with me to Luke chapter twelve and verse thirteen. Luke chapter twelve Luke chapter twelve and verse thirteen One of the company said unto him, Jesus, Master, speak to my brother that he may divide the inheritance with me. And he, Jesus, said unto him, Man, who made me a judge or a divider over you? In other words, this matter of the inheritance, insofar as Jesus Christ was concerned, was a petty complaint. Don't you know what Jesus Christ is about? I'm talking about the kingdom of heaven. I'm talking about eternal life, everlasting riches and treasures. You're worried about this world? Man who made me a judge and a divider over you. That's petty. That's nothing. You remember Gehazi, Elijah's servant After he'd healed the Assyrian commander of his leprosy and wanted to give Elijah many gifts, and Elijah said no. And Gehazi ran after him and said, Well actually the master changed his mind. I'd like to have a you know new Bill Blass uh coat and shirt and a few ties and he hauled it all back and Elijah said, This is not a time for these things The leprosy of the Naaman, the leprosy of Naaman will now cling to you because of a petty desire, a foolish desire Jesus even rebuked the disciples for whining about a lack of food and feeding the 5,000. He said, You feed them. You feed them. Well we only got You feed them. I'm telling you, you feed them. The master said, and they're gonna push back. Penny! So being hungry isn't even a reason to complain. Complaints about a fellowship dish, folks, are disrespectful. We have a lot of good cooks around here. Mm-hmm. One of the most offensive things done to my wife has been when she labors hard, and thank God nobody here does this. Thank God nobody here does this that I'm aware of. She labors hard to make a good, healthy fellowship do fellowship dish. And somebody puts a whole bunch of it on their plate, not having tasted it, and a whole bunch of it goes in the trash. That's pretty bad. If you're not sure, take a little bit. Again, mark of a spiritual child. Praise is comely, not petty complaints. Last one, tenth point. Need of rulers. A need of rulers. Little children always need adult supervision. You cannot leave them alone. They have to have a ruler over them. They have to have some authority over them, especially as they get older and they begin to test the boundaries. And this is also true for spiritual children. In Galatians, the apostle wrote this in the fourth chapter, the opening two verses, he says. The heir, as long as he is a child, differs nothing from a servant, though he be lord of all, but is under tutors. and governors until the time appointed of the father. This is the structure that we expect for children. They've got to be under a tutor. They've got to be under a governor, a ruler Turn with me now to the last verse for today in Proverbs chapter 25. Proverbs 25 and verse 28. Now this is going to sound strange in your ears, but this particular weakness Is common among older saints. You would say older saints. Older saints Listen to Proverbs 25, 28. He that hath no rule over his own spirit. It's like a city that's broken down and without walls. What does it take to build a city? A lot of time, a lot of wisdom. Your citizens have a lot of time in the books. They've seen a lot of things. And what happens when they get older? They let loose. They'll let anything fly from their tongue. The restraint's not there anymore. They just say whatever to whoever, because I don't care anymore. That is an area of weakness that is particularly egregious to older saints. They give themselves a past Frankly, you don't have to be old to give yourself a pass. And you don't want to begin to loosen the tongue. In the same proverb of Proverbs Proverbs 1632 says, this he that is slow to anger is better than the mighty. And he that ruleth his spirit, now notice, this is a internal rule. You can rule over yourself You can subdue your own spirit. You can rule it. He that ruleth his spirit is better than he that taketh the city. If I can't restrain myself, Somebody else may be brought in to enforce it. You know, one of the saddest videos I've seen on some of the channels I watch. came from one that talks about how to properly protect yourself in this world. It's called active self-protection. The host of it used to be a pastor, he got into this business of how to conceal care and how to protect yourself. And he reviews various videos and badge cameras to receive to get lessons on how to handle defensive encounter situations. Very instructive. One of the saddest ones I've seen was when Uh the middle-aged children called in law enforcement for a senior citizen who had gotten so angry That she, Grandma, grabbed a knife, a big butcher knife from the kitchen, big sharp pointing, and she was just angry and she was trying to get her point made, and they're like, we can't touch grandma, she's nuts And they called in law enforcement, which does what law enforcement does. Ma'am dropped the knife, and she wasn't listening to anybody. Ma'am dropped the knife. She wasn't listening to anybody. And they shot and killed her. Because grandma had no rule over her spirit. And no this wasn't a they chalk it up to mental distress, she didn't look mentally distressed to me. She was downright angry. She was just angry and lost it And that's sad. A ruler had to be brought in to control and constrain her because she had no rule over her spirit. She had not developed and built habits and the necessary guards over her mind and her tongue to not let things get out of hand. And these all play together. Ignorance, weak digestion, all of that. We have to learn to restrain ourselves or we'll fly into a rage. And so in conclusion, I ask you, Christian. Christian. Where are you today? I just took you to God's pediatrician And there's a list of symptoms, there are possible causes and the cure. What's your weakness? Is it ignorance? Weak digestion? Being factious? Being dependent? Credulous? Are you fickle? You love amusement? Are you foolish? Petty complaints? Need of rulers? Folks, I have no particular individual in mind. I honestly don't. Like I said, this is from the shelf. Twelve years ago. Yeah I didn't even know many of you at that point in time. I've tried this on my deself on myself, starting with a 10, and I deducted every point from my failing. Thank God I'm not a zero, but I'm not a perfect ten either. There's always room for growth. My suspicion is we all have room to grow. And may this serve to help all of us identify our own individual areas where we need to grow up. Stand with me as we close, if you're able, for a prayer. Dear Lord Jesus, help us all to obey the last words of the Apostle Peter. who did many foolish things, yet learned over time to be a mature and solid pillar in thy house. When he wrote, Ye therefore, beloved, seeing ye know these things before, beware lest ye also, being led away with the error of the wicked, fall from your own steadfastness. But grow in grace and in the knowledge of our Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ. To Him be glory, both now and forever. Amen.