And uh just one verse. We did it in response to reading Colossians three and verse fifteen. And let the peace of God rule in your hearts, to which also you are called in one body, and be ye thankful. Thankful in the Lord, maybe not always in the circumstances. Ephesians 5 and 20 says, giving thanks always. That's really, really hard to do isn't it? To give thanks in the circumstances. But is it hard to give thanks in the Lord? Because he usually takes care of the circumstances and we see the good that comes out of it. First Thessalonians five and eighteen. In everything give thanks. I like the clarification that I forget who the preacher was that said it. How do you give thanks? You know, in everything give thanks. It's not that we give thanks for everything that happens to us, but in everything that happens to us We should still be able to still give thanks in the Lord. Alright? We're not thanking God for that horrible circumstance we're in, but no matter what we're in, in everything that we've going through, we still, oh God. Thankfulness. So on Thanksgiving Day, uh or we're celebrating our Thanksgiving Sunday today, I want to talk about B, yeah And many of you know I'm not saying this from a position where well you haven't had the problems I've had. You you know we've had we've had problems. We've all of the sitting here. Uh horrible circumstances. I don't think There's a family here that hasn't been touched or isn't still being touched by something that is just horrendous. And yet some of these people, they're the most thankful people in the congregation. Those who govern our country in years past, and even recently now, they've taken the birth of Christ, commonly celebrated as Christmas, and they now call it a winter break. And they've also taken the resurrection of Christ, commonly called uh Easter, and they've called that spring break. But I thank God today that they have not taken Thanksgiving Day and changed that It's still a day that we celebrate our thankfulness to God. In the uh overlooking our country in the last couple of years, we know that uh Johnny cannot read and Johnny cannot write and now we find that Johnny's not even allowed to pray. Can't even can't even drop to one knee and give a short prayer in school in most places or even in public We had a football player named Tebow, and he would take the knee when he connected or got a touchdown or he won the game, and boy, they just they hated the fact that he took the knee for the Lord Jesus Christ How that has changed this past year, that all the NFL players can take the knee against our American Constitution. Take the knee against the flag. Take the knee against a God that founded us. That's okay. And not just once in a while like Tebow did it, and it was ridiculed, but it's done so much now that It's hard to turn on the TV on without seeing it. Praying. In the Holocaust Museum in Washington, D. C. are these words: guard yourself and guard your soul carefully. Unless you forget the things your eyes have seen, what God has done in your lives, dear friends. Unless you these things depart from your heart all the days of your life. We should be so thankful what we've seen God do in our lives and should never depart from our life And you shall make them known to your children. We need to share some of us this morning the things that God has done for us. Our children see us at home crying, crying and and weeping and complaining and murmuring, but do they ever hear us being thankful. Let your children let these things be known to your children and to your children's children. Deuteronomy 6 and 9. So yes, this morning I am thankful that those who govern us have not removed Thanksgiving day We give thanks for God's providential care on this day. There's a Superman comic book. I used to read a lot of comic books. a kid growing up. I love to read. There was a character in it called Bizarro. And Bizarro lived in a world opposite of reality. He'd walk down the street. He was dressed like Superman, but he didn't look His face was all crackly and and malformed. But he was bizarro. And he would try to do good, but everything he did was wrong. When he saw the green light, he thought that meant to stop. When he saw the red light, he thought that meant to go. He went down a one-way street the wrong way. I mean he was he was bizarro. And we live in a world that's like the world of bizarre. It is so bizarre the the world that we're living in, or at least in this country. And I think of that verse in Psalm 82 and 4 and 5. The wicked, they know not. The wicked, neither will they understand. The wicked, they walk on in darkness. And the foundations are out of course. And that's what's happening in America. And yet I'm still thankful that though the foundations are shaky and falling out of course, I'm still thankful. Though we can can't burn our trash in America anymore, we can still burn our flag. Isn't that nice? That's like the bizarre old. Cigarettes are now bad for you I understand that, but marijuana is good for you. We're legalizing that in Colorado and Washington and elsewhere. I think Washington, DC just did it as well. Why You can still in this country kill your baby just before it exits the womb. Partial birth abortion. You can kill your baby, but by George, don't you get caught chopping down the cherry tree, right? The tree huggers will have you in jail in a heartbeat. That's a bizarre world that we live in. And yet I'm still thankful that there are those who appreciate God and the old foundations and the old landmarks. You can't talk about God in school, can't talk about God publicly, but you can use his name in vain anywhere and anytime. And nobody complains about that. Libraries and schools promote porno. And don't tell me you don't, I was in public school, and the books we were assigned for pre-college. I'm not going to mention the titles because young folks will run out and get them and want to read them. But our school systems, public schools and colleges, they promote porno, but they forbid biblical views. That's a bizarre world. But I am thankful that the Library of Congress still exhibits the scriptures. in gold gilt around the walls and in the rotunda. How many have ever been in the Library of Congress? If you go in the Library of Congress, there's a place where you're going down and you look down into the Central Library. That's the rotunda. And in that rotunda, they've got Moses up there, they've got the Apostle Paul up there, large statues of Paul, large statues of Moses, and they got Bible verses around the walls inside the rotunda and outside the rotunda. And for that I am thankful. In the rotunda on the science column is this verse. The heavens declare the glory of God, and the firmament showeth his handiwork. Wow We live in a world that people are so thankful for their freedoms in this country and their liberties, but they're so often the freedoms that they're happy for, and the liberties they're happy for are those that are contrary. to the holy God in his scriptures, the holy scriptures. Sodomites may now wed in holy matrimony. I cannot do that. How do I say, dearly beloved, we are gathered together before in the presence of God? to bring these two people into holy matrimony. I cannot call it holy matrimony. The word matrimony comes from the root word for matriarch Or the meaning is mother, holy matriarch. The whole it's a holy word. You bring these two together and one is going to be the mother and produce more children in another generation. That's where the word matrimony comes from. And my question is when he's people are wedding those who are gay, which one is the mother? In fact, which one will ever be a mother? Whether it's two girls or two guys, there's not going to be a mother. How can you call it holy motherhood or holy matrimony? There will never be a mother in that kind of a marriage. You walk into the capital of the United States, and I should have brought the postcard today, but there's a picture of Pocahontas being baptized. Now if you walk into Rotunda it says the great big paint paintings with about half the size of our ceiling here and it says It's it's painted under the painting. What's on the painting? At the bottom of the painting it says the baptism of Pocahontas. So you go downstairs, I'd like to have a picture. Oh, you got cards right, these big four by five cards of the painting of Pocahontas being baptized. Look carefully, friend. They've removed the words Pocahontas being baptized. But I'm thankful the painting is still there and you can still see that she was being baptized. That ought to be important to you. She's an adult being baptized. I know she's being sprinkled in some mate. Are we so thin-skinned that we can't take Polka Hans being baptized? Sprinkled, poured immersed, but it's there. And I'm thankful that that painting uh is still there. I guess uh what would it have been like about the baptism of Pocahontas Two others have stepped forward. In a Christian ceremony. She was a Christian lady, Pocahontas. It would have been like at the the ceremony of the baptism of Pocahontas and the marriage of Pocahontas if two others stepped forward, Coach Heast and Crazy Horse, and these two guys wanting to get married. What would our founding fathers have done They'd have thought that was bizarre, wouldn't they? If the foundations be destroyed, what can the righteous do? Psalm 11 and verse 3. In Broward County in Florida. They had a church that was denied to enter the float, the annual Christmas Day Parade float. I thought, well, I wonder what this church did wrong. Man, they must have already done something pretty pitiful No, the float said on it, Jesus is the reason for the season. They can't have a float like that in the Christmas Day parade. My goodness, bizarro world, isn't it The court in Alabama has removed the Ten Commandments. You remove the Ten Commandments. You're coming into court, Your Honor, what have I done wrong? Well, just look on the wall. This is what you've done wrong. But they removed the Ten Commandments. Remove the Ten Commandments from the courthouses all across the country, except the Supreme Court. I am thankful they're still in the Supreme Court You go in there and there's several places the Ten Commandments are issued. On the doors going in, and inside the actual uh Supreme Court itself, there's there's a statue of Moses holding the Ten Commandments. Well, of course, when they give you the Torah, you know what they tell you he's holding? The Bill of Rights. Wow. But I'm thankful Moses is there in the Supreme Court I'm thankful the Ten because when you remove the Ten Commandments from a court, that's like removing pills from a pharmacy. That's like removing hyperinct needles from a hospital. That's like removing ammo from the army To remove the Ten Commandments from a courthouse. The Library of Congress, we still have Bible verses there, and I'm thankful for that. What does the Lord require of thee? Well, that's an interesting question, isn't it? What does the Lord require of thee? Look at the Ten Commandments. You'll know what the Lord requires of thee. You remove them out of a courthouse, and now what does the Lord require of thee So in the courts that is missing, but in the Library of Congress, what doth the Lord require of thee, but to do justly what is just look at the Ten Commandments, to love mercy, and to walk humbly before thy God? Micah six and verse eight. I'm thankful that there are still Bible verses around our Washington, D. C. area in gold guilt in the Library of Congress. By the way, how did they get in the Library of Congress? Congress voted and they uh enlisted men to come up with verses and quotations and to put them in gold guilt and they said yes go at it in the eighteen hundreds Those gold, gilted Bible verses were at the express permission of the Congress of the United States. And I'm thankful for them in the 1800s. Hide the Ten Commandments. How do you know what the Lord requires of us? Ten commandments are hidden. They used to be on every public school. When I was in public school, they'd be on the ten, you'd walk in the morning, there was a flag in one corner, the pledge of allegiance to the flag He didn't drop on one knee and raise a fist against the flag, and the Ten Commandments were there on the wall in every classroom in a public school. They're gone. They're gone What does the Lord require of thee? The kids they don't know what's required of them. You might find this interesting that the Alabama court, they took the Ten Commandments out and they hid him. Do you know where they hid him? Took a few days to find them. They hid him in a closet I guess that the gays had come out of. Bring the gays out of the closet and stick the Ten Commandments in and lock the door. Wow. Is that The czaro. What does the Lord require of us? But I am thankful because Psalm two tells us the kings of earth set themselves and the rulers take counsel together against Against the Lord and against his anointed, saying, Let us break his bands asunder, break his commandments, break his rules, his statutes, his laws, let's just break them asunder and cast away the cords that restrict us. We want to live the way we want to live and do what we want to do. And it says, he that sits in the heavens shall laugh and the Lord shall have them in derision. I am thankful that God still laughs. I'm thankful that God can laugh at what's going on in America and around the world. I'm thankful that I can still laugh. with all the things that are going on around the world. So we can rejoice in the face of obstinacy, that we can rejoice in the face of adversity, that we can rejoice in the face of absurdity. You know why those laws are in the Bible? Not to be a killjoy. God understands how our DNA works, He understands how our genes work, God understands how viruses and bacteria work. God understands that we disobey this by committing adultery. We're gonna probably get some pretty nasty diseases. These laws are written here to protect us and to preserve us and to keep us healthier. Honor your father and mother. Why? Why should I obey my father and mother? That your days might be long upon the earth. That's why that law is there to protect you, dear friends. Thou shalt not kill. That's there to protect you, so people won't think nothing of it if they kill you or want to abort you. These laws are there to protect us and give us a healthy climate and a safe country to live in I'm thankful that God still laughs. I'm thankful that I can still laugh. I'm thankful we still have in God. We trust on our coins. I just pray more that it would be in our that Christ would be in our hearts. And on our minds as much as it's on our coins, we hope Our hope is in the Lord, our hope is in the the shepherds who preach the gospel of Christ, and yet we look around us today, and there's evangelicals teaching evolution Or I like to call it evolution. The evangelicals are teaching evolution. There are priests out there who are perverts. There are churches who cooperate with the cults on all kinds of issues. There are bishops that okay abortion and reverence and attack the reliability of the scriptures. Shepherds, we read. In Isaiah 56, 11, sarcastically, shepherds, they cannot understand what their job really is Shepherds that have caused things that cause us to go astray, and these shepherds are our sleeper, they slumber, Isaiah says. And Jeremiah 50 says in verse six says the same. And Nahab 3 in verse 18 says the same thing. But I am thankful that stones will immediately cry out. Luke 19 and 40. And the stones on the outside of the buildings in Washington, D. C. and on the inside of the building cry out the truth. Sadly, I heard this week that our government, military specifically, has been ordered by a judge to do gender reassignment surgery. The military said, you're taking away money we need to fight our enemy. You're taking away money we need to clothe our enemy our our our soldiers we take away money we need to to feed our soldiers. You're taking away money that our soldiers might need uh for other things like cancer surgery or an amputation. You're taking money away for gender reassignment And they said, it won't hurt the military. Won't hurt the military? It's going to cut the finances way down And so our government talks about gender reassignment, and God realignment to his word is ignored even by the shepherds in the pulpits Wow. But I'm thankful. When I go into Washington, D. C. , if you ever, how many of you have ever written on the subway down to Washington, D. Or you've been down in Union Station. Walk outside of Union Station once you arrive and look up behind you. And there are four Bible verses on Union Station. written in stone. The stones will cry out when our politicians don't. The stones will cry out when our preachers don't. The stones will cry out. when our teachers won't. And there outside the the main entrance of Union Station is engraved in large letters in concrete, the truth shall make you free. John 8 and verse 32. You are hearing so much about statues being torn down in Washington, D. C. and all over the country, you know, different military leaders and different presidents and so forth. They're gonna when they get through the statue, well it's only a statue, and you know he wasn't a perfect man. No, there were some plenty of unperfect men in the White House. Did you know there are unperfect men in the White House? Even in my time You want me to name a few? Clinton? Kennedy? There's never been a perfect man in the White House. Trump's not a perfect man. Man in the White House. They're never mentioned. So they want to tear down all these statues. And you say, well, okay, maybe we idolize them too much. Maybe you should take on the statues. They're coming for the Bible verses next. And they will sandblast Union Station and they'll sandblast the Library of Congress. Oh yes, they will. They want to sandblast the Wa the Mount Rushmore out in South Dakota and remove the faces of Teddy Roosevelt, Jefferson, and Washington And some are even asking for removal of Lincoln. And they're coming for the Bible verses next. We live in a bizarre world, a world that's not thankful to God for what He's given us for several hundred years. On the tomb of George Washington, engraved again in stone. And if you've ever been down there, maybe you've never seen it, but you walk in the back of his home And he's he's buried out back, and sometimes you have a guard there with the steel grates over it. The guard's not there, you walk up the steel grates, you lean in about eight foot inside. It's kind of dark in there. But on the tomb of George Washington from John 11, 25 and 26 I am the resurrection and the life. Whoa! A president has that verse put on his tomb. I am the resurrection and the life. He that believeth in me, though he were dead, yet shall he live. And whosoever liveth and believeth in me shall never die. That's a pretty good verse to put on a monument. They will sandblast or remove that. someday too. The statues, that's just a start The Muslims removed our twin towers in New York, with the airplanes. They removed a portion of our Pentagon and in the process, 3,000 lives. But greater damage has been done since then by many a judge in this country. I love what the Psalmist 82 wrote about the judges, Psalm 82. verses six and seven. Because they had judges there that that weren't thanking the Lord. They weren't thankful in the Lord. They were they were anti-God as well. And the verse says, Ye are God He are god. They think they're gods. They don't care what the Supreme Court says. They got judges overruling the Supreme Court. They got judges overruling the President, judges overruling the Congress and the Senate, the laws that are passed and signed. One judge will stand up and over the This is happening all the time. He said, you are God, you shall die like men. Psalm 82, 6 and 7. Some wish to remove God's name from the pledge and the flag. And not that long ago, in the last couple of years, they rebuked General Jerry Boykin. Uh you might not know Jerry Boykin, but he was the first commander of Delta Force in the army. Fantastic. Hey, Del what's Delta? I've heard of Green Beret, I've heard Navy SEAL, I've heard Marine Recon. Who's Delta Force? Oh, they're the elite of the elite of the elite. In fact, you've got to be a Navy SEAL or a Green Beret before you can even get into the Delta Force. And General Jerry Borkin, born again, blood-washed Christian, do you know what he did that was so bad? He spoke in his church at a Christian school that they were involved with about the Lord Jesus Christ in his uniform He was done. Removed. Now chaplains speak about the Lord Jesus Christ in their uniforms all the time. But a two-star general? Delta Force, commander, a hero of our country? We've got to quench this really fast, and they did The judges. They overruled Congress, the Senate. 2003, George Bush passed a law making partial birth abortion illegal. You know why it still takes place in America? Because there are judges in different states that overruled the vote of Congress and the Senate and the vote and the signature of the President of the United States. In 2003. So what did they do? The president and others, they took it before the Supreme Court Can this judge overrule the President's signature and the Board of the Congress or the Senate? Don't we have a government represented by the people? What's going on here? And in 2007, the Supreme Court ruled that judge is wrong, and he can't do that But you know what's happened since 2007? Now you've got the Senate, the Congress, the President, and the Supreme Court saying can't do partial birth abortion. And there are still judges overruling it. And those are working their way back at the Supreme Court again Judges, he think you're gods, you'll die like men. And I thank God for that What would happen if the wickedest people we've ever known, the Stalins and the Khrushchevs and and uh the the uh uh male ta stung and and uh and fight uh uh uh fight old casserole, what if these men never died What a world we live in today. I thank God for death. And yes, it will take some of you and my Away from myself. But I thank God because that's a way of gleaning and pruning out this world. I thank God for the flood that came in the days of Noah. I thank God for the fire that's going to come down from heaven someday and destroy this earth and give us a new earth Have you have you ever read that in Revelation? Because God's going to destroy this planet, He's going to destroy this earth, and He's going to give us a new heavens and a new earth. Question for you. Ask your evolutionary friends. Ask your confused evangelical Christians this. God's going to come back, destroy the heavens, destroy the earth, give us a new heaven and a new earth. Not the heaven that we go to, but you know the stars and movies just destroy it all Ask them and he's going to give us a new heavens and a new earth. Ask them this. Will that take six billion years or just six days for him to give us a new heavens and a new earth? That's a long time to wait. If it's going to take God six billion years or sixty billion years to give us an earth, I think God's going to do it in a twinkling. of an eye. You see, he's done it one time in six days. I think the next time everybody does a job easier and quicker the second time around, right? I just can't believe it could take God six days I don't think it would have taken God six days before. It would just in order for us to wrap our minds around what he's doing, he spread it out over six days so we could comprehend how how it kind of worked. Well, he gives us the new heavens and new earth instantaneous Twinkle of an eye, I believe. Certainly not six million years, or six billion years, or sixty billion years, and I thank God for that. But there will be a new heavens and a new earth. I thank God for the Constitution Hall has a Bible version of Constitution Hall. Just a couple blocks from the White House. This is what it says. Proverbs 22, 28. Engraved in stone. Have to sandblast this one someday too. Remove not the ancient landmark which thy fathers have set. Boy, we're removing the ancient landmarks, aren't we, in this country? We can kill babies. Yikes! We can take the Lord's name in vain. Whoa! How dare they! We even have state sponsored adultery in Nevada. They have house for the prostitution. They're legal. They're state certified. I mean we've removed the lay ancient landmarks of this land. And we and we we think that You know, maybe maybe God they don't want to we don't they they don't want a sovereign God that we have to obey. They they want a servant God. And yet they run around all the time saying, God bless America. Why should he? That's their mantra. God bless America. If God were to bless America, what would that say about his holiness right now? Oh, the only blessing I want from God is revival. Because without revival, there's not going to be a blessing. This idea of God bless America, what would it say about his holiness? What would it say about his justice? What would it say about our present morality in this land? Oh, we just want God to bless us on our terms. No, He won't. No, he won't. We need to know what God demands before he'll bestow a blessing. Here it is, folks It's not that big a book to read, Old and New Testament. People say, why did he put this in there? Why do you put that in there? You know what I say to people? Well, have you read what he's put in there so far? Well, no, I haven't read the whole thing yet. Well then don't worry about what he didn't put in there. Well, have you read what he did put in there? You want to know why when God will bless us when we start reading His Word, loving His Word, obeying His Word, sharing with others. God's not going to bless America until there's There's a revival and a change of heart. And then he'll bestow some blessings. But we need to know what God demands of us. And by taking the Ten Commandments out of the courthouse and the schools Our the this younger generation, some of you sitting here and some of you come up behind even your younger people here, they don't know what God demands of them. They never seen a copy of the Ten Commandments. They've heard about it. Teachers laugh and they call it the Ten. Suggestions. Hmm. Some say, well, maybe just get the laws changed, get the conservative right-wingers in court you know get the conservative right wingers in Congress, if we can just change the laws, then God will bless us. If changing the laws and creating a righteous country would bless us, then righteous doesn't would come to the law. In Galatians 2. 21 it says that righteousness does not come to law but through Christ who died. Christ would have died in vain. If we can just pass some good laws and obey the laws, and we still ignore Christ, and still ignore his dying on the cross, shedding his blood for our sins Then if righteous if righteousness comes to law, Christ has died in vain. It it's not enough that we get conserved as an office and they change the laws to righteous laws or holy laws, our hearts have to change Our worship has to change. The object of our worship has to be the Lord Jesus Christ. And then God will bless us. I love that verse of Nehemiah 8 and 1. The people gathered together as we are gathered together this morning. And you know what was on your mind? The people gathered together and Ezra was standing before them and he must have been standing or something like he must have been a standard something like this. And the people were all gathered and they looked at Ezra and they started shouting to him Bring us the book. Oh, the wolf, the wolf, yes. And he runs back and he gets the book. Bring us the book of Moses, the people shanted. They wanted to hear from the Word of God. They weren't just gathering for some sort of a Sunday fellowship time. They wanted to hear the Word of God. And so he says in Ezra, or rather Nehemiah talks about Ezra, Nehemiah 8 and verse 1. The people gathered together and said, They told Ezra, Bring us the book of Moses. That includes Genesis, by the way, in the sixth-day creation. This is what they wanted. The message is not that morality is going to save America, it will not. Israel was moral Israel was filled with Pharisees and righteous people, self-righteous people. It didn't save Israel. And changing the laws in this country and getting some morality back in this country, it won't save America either The consequence of immorality certainly is not salvation, and the consequence of morality without Christ is not salvation either. Putting on morality without Christ, that's just cosmetics. Christian cosmetics, maybe, but it's just cosmetics The real message today should be: what think ye of Christ? Matthew 22, 42. Did he die for your sins? Did anybody else die for your sins? Is there any other way to get there? No, no, no. Christ only, the only way. We need to be mourning over how we've offended God, mourning over how we've ignored his son Jesus Christ. Our best weapon today for where America is and where it's probably headed is not a political process. It's the proclamation of the gospel. We can pass laws to enhance morality and create a society filled with Pharisees and will end up just like Israel. It's not sufficient. Because the Pharisees in Christ, they rejected him as a Messiah. And America is rejecting Christ as a Messiah. The religious right movement, as much as I enjoy hearing what they're doing, it's filled with morality. Great But these religious Protestants and these religious Mormons, religious Jews, religious Catholics, and religious conservatives, but the divine favor is not there because they're trying to get somewhere with just works, moral works, morality They're trying to all come together, all these religions, in a conservative moral gathering, and they don't mention Christ because it will offend the Mormons, the Jews, Jehovah. witnesses. It's gonna offend others. And so they're trying to bring America back together without Christ, without the gospel. Think about it. The Lord Jesus Christ in his day he rebuked the religious and the moral because they rebuked him and rejected him. Today the movement they unite with unbelievers, with cultists, even enemies of the gospel, thinking that that is the answer bring America. America round. The answers have ambassadors of Christ. And that's what Christians are called. 2 Corinthians 5. 20. We're called ambassadors of Christ. We need ambassadors of Christ. That's the movement we need. Christians Who are shouting, bring us the book. The writings of Moses, just a starter. And that Christ is the only answer. For ambassador of Christ, we ought to know that He's the only answer for America's problems. He's the only answer for our own problems. And this is a church full of people with problems. Problems. But so many Christians are reluctant to say that they're an ambassador of Christ, so reluctant to put Christ in the center of what they're having. to share with others. They dilute the message. The right wing movement has diluted the message and expect God to bless. America. 2 Corinthians 10, 4 and 5. We are to bring every thought into captivity into the obedience of Christ. Even the conserved right-wing movement, and I love the conservative right-wing movement, but they're dropping the ball. Most of them, not all, they have not brought every thought in captivity into the obedience of Christ. I don't know what God's plan for America is this Thanksgiving season, but I'm probably thankful that I don't know. But I do know, and I'm thankful for this, that the plan of Christ, and that plan that He's given to His disciples, that we're to daily cease not to teach and preach Jesus. Jesus Christ. Acts 5 and 42. I'm thankful for that message because that is the answer for all our woes, individually, as a country, as a nation, and as a world. So are you thankful for the gospel of Christ? Maybe you're not thankful for the situations you're in this morning or you were in yesterday, but are you thankful for the gospel of Christ? If you are thankful in the Lord for the gospel of Christ, then share it with others. And I'll tell you this, you will find some that will be thankful that you shared it with them. Be thankful. Be thankful. And share your thanksgiving, the core reason for it with others. Let's pray. Father, we thank you this day. That it's all about Christ. Someone once said, All that we say and do shall pass, only what we do for Christ will last. Seems simplistic, but there's a lot of truth. Truth in that. We're all going to pass. But what have we done for Christ? Has Christ worked on our hearts? Oh Lord, pray that He will. Yes, there's things out there we love to do that we shouldn't do. And there's things out there that we do because others are doing them. There's things out there that we do because the majority do them. There's things out there that people are doing. They're getting by with it. And so we think it's okay and that God will turn and wink at it or look the other way. But we have the book And Lord, there's things there that that I wish weren't there myself, but they're there and they're from the Lord and may we just in the Lord be thankful that Whether we see it or not, that they are there to keep us safe. They are there to keep us whole. They are there to keep us healthy. They are there to save our souls. Oh Lord, bring us the book. May that be the cry of every heart here today And let the book settle every situation in our life. We ask this in the name of our great God and Savior. The Lord Jesus Christ, the only way to fix it all. We ask this in his name. Amen.