Service we'll be talking about the pilgrims, our founding fathers. Things you you may not have heard as you were going being raised in school or you weren't all that interested, I hope Hebrews chapter eleven, it was a responsive reading. And uh the word pilgrim is only used in the scripture twice, and this is one of the places uh Abraham's talking here about the promises God had gave for a city whose builder was not made with the hands of man and a country and a promised land and and he said these old died in faith they never got to see the outcome of the promises Not having received the promises, but having seen them afar off, and were persuaded of them, and embraced them and confessed that they were strangers and pilgrims on the earth. Our founding fathers came to this land in the like manner. They came to set a light upon a hill. Our founding fathers, the pilgrims and 1620 arrived here in a wilderness as it were. They were the church in the wilderness as Moses had the church in the wilderness, and they had that same concept of bringing the gospel uh with them and sharing it. In fact the Mayflower Compact uh people teach all the time our young people in school that they came here for the gold. That's not true It's just not true. They came with the gospel, and if you read the Mayflower Compact, an official document of this country, it says they came to spread the Christian faith. in America among the heathen. And they did that. Did it quite successfully. They made a movie about uh Disneyland made a movie about Pocahontas It's not very accurate. But she really did accept the Christian faith. She really got baptized and there's a painting of it. Uh done almost Uh 200 years ago. It hangs down in the rotunda in Washington, D. C. of Pocahontas, one of the early converts to Christianity. And if you look at that painting, she's being baptized And it even says on the painting at the at the conversion and baptism of Pocahontas. And you go downstairs and you can buy the little postcard of that same painting. They've cut off that she's being baptized for the Christian faith, but she was And not to push it too heavily today, but in that painting of her being baptized with the first Indian converts, she was sprinkled. She wasn't immersed. Immersion would have been okay, but they she was sprinkled. That being said, I want to talk to you a little bit about our founding fathers. When I think about our founding fathers who came here with promises of the Lord and to bring the gospel of Christ to the heathen, we know that there are those who spread a different another gospel about our founding fathers and about our founding of our country Uh those who spread a different gospel, an apostate gospel, had they been the first ones to step foot on the Plymouth Rock, I'm talking about these modern day Flimsy, frothy, namby, pamby, wishy-washy critics of our founders. Had they been the first ones to step their foot on the Plymouth Rock, the barbaric heathen would have squashed them like a bug That it never survived. We had a sturdy stock that came to this country in 1620. The larger part of these pilgrims as they left Holland had originally come uh left Holland on the Mayflower, but they had originally come out of England, a place called Scrooby, England. Scrooby. Scrooby, England And that place was so surrounded by an awakening and a quickening and a revival among the people that to this day The people led in the surrounding area of Scruby, England. It is still called the Holy Triangle. There was a body of people so touched by God in that day that 400 years later it's still called the Holy Triangle. One of the hearts that was touched by the Holy Spirit in that day was a twelve-year-old boy named William. William Bradford. And William Bradford was so touched and there weren't any churches nearby that really preached the gospel, that really loved the scriptures, that really saw the Bible as the Word of God. And remember, this is about A hundred years after Reformation, and already things are starting to fall apart among the churches. And young William Bradford, twelve years old, would walk nine miles one way to church every Sunday. He was destined to become the governor of Plymouth Rock or Plymouth Plantation in 16 1621, he would become their governor. This young twelve-year-old boy. He wasn't twelve by the time they arrived at Plymouth Rock by the way. But here he was a twelve year old orphan boy, and he wanted to go to church. He wanted to go to a good church. He wanted to go to a church that that would was a separatist church, a nonconformist church a Bible-believing church and his uncle made fun of him, the family made fun of him, the neighbors made fun of him, and he took that ridicule and he'd walked nine miles almost through a gauntlet of ridicule that he was going to a separatist church And this twelve-year-old boy caught the eye of the elder of that church, William also William, William Bradford, and he caught the eye of the elder William Brewster. of that church. When he found out that this boy, where'd he come from? Oh he's just twelve miles down the road. Well has he got a horse? He got a wagon? No, he walks it. He's 12 years old and he walks this nine miles Every Sunday to church. And it caught his eye in a few years of him walking this every day and every day. Finally he moved into the house of Elder Brewster. Those that seek me early shall find me, Proverbs 8 and verse 17. And this young boy had sought the Lord early. He moves in the house of Elder Brewster, who would become the first elder of the pilgrim church at Plymouth Rock. as well. They didn't have a pastor for four or five years. And living in the house of the elder Brewster, he began reading and studying the Word of God, this young William Bradford, this twelve year old boy. He was seventeen when he moved into the house. And he learned the Greek and the Hebrew and the Latin at the knees of Brewster. That home that William Brewster lived in, by the way, it's a famous home today. It's got a plaque on it. Famous home that he lived in. In fact, before he lived in this home, William Brewster, he he was a high member of the court of of of Elizabeth, uh Queen Elizabeth, uh the ambassador of Queen Elizabeth, he was the ambassador uh to the Netherlands at one time in the diplomatic service, and so he got this house. It was quite a unique house, and in this house where he lived uh had been occupied previously by Henry the Seventh. Uh the Archbishop of York, the daughter of Henry the Seventh A Queen uh Mary, Queen of Scots that lived in this house. Cardinal John Wolsey lived there. King Henry VIII had lived in this house. There was all kinds of royal blood that lived in this house before Elder Brewster purchased the house and lived in it. And he had the he had authority with uh in the in England. He was a part of the government And he was quite renowned. But and that house has a brass plaque on it. And the brass plaque, remember we're we're talking about the place of the Holy Triangle Scrooby England. The grass plaque never mentions the daughter of Henry the Seventh, never mentions that King Henry VIII lived there, never mentions that Mary Queen of Scots lives there. lived there. The only thing it mentions on the plaque is that Elder William Brewster, the founder of the Plymouth Plantation in America, lived there. That's the only name mentioned on the house Because in the day that plaque was set up, they knew the importance of the gospel of Christ far outweighed the importance of King Henry VIII and all his wives and whatnot. Or Mary Queen of Scots, they knew then the importance of what took place in America at Plymouth Rock, the Plymouth Plantation, and how important William Brewster, the elder, was to the establishment of that church A good name is rather to be chosen than great riches and loving favor rather than silver and gold, Proverbs 22 and 1. William Brewster and William Bradley had a good name. And it's still a good name. And when we find there out there today in our colleges and universities that they mock our founding fathers and they mock the William Brewsters and the William Bradleys that came this country and established this nation. You beware. Woe to those who would not mock the godly men that set this country. Up and kept it going. William Brewser is known today as the Father of New England. That's a Massachusetts, New Hampshire, that area, the New England states. He's known today as the Father of New England And while serving as a royal postmaster over in England, he had several other high positions as well. But he began to feel like Moses Moses high position in Egypt. Brewster was rising in the government in England, but he began to feel like Moses. We read it today in a responsive reading. And he chose to suffer affliction with the people of God, William Brewster did, as Moses did. than to enjoy the pleasures of sin for a season, esteeming the reproach of Christ greater riches than all the treasures in Egypt or all the treasures in England that were before him Not fearing the wrath of the king, for he endured as seeing him who is invisible. Hebrews 11, 25 So much of the life of William Brewster and of William Bradford and of the Pilates Plantation or Pilgrims, it just coincides with Moses. Elder Brewster was prepared by God to lead his people out of a bondage in England that they felt they suffered under into the promised land. Elder Brucer met privately before he took this pilgrimage out of Scrooby to Holland and then to Plymouth Rock. He before doing all this he sat in a home with a relative of John Knox. Boy, I'll tell you, sometimes the apple doesn't fall far the sh fall very far from the trees, does it? The leader of Scotland, his realth has met with Elder Brewster in his home. And they discussed the idea of the difficulty of leaving England. The king would not let the Separatists or the Nonconformists or the Puritans leave England He didn't like them, but he enjoyed punishing them and he wouldn't let them leave. And he said, you'll be taking your life. You get caught leaving. You'll be in prison. You'll die in prison. And if you read the whole story, there's not time for it. He was caught and he was imprisoned and eventually released. And eventually he took the people out of Scrooby and to Holland, as we've already said. The intense hatred The intense hatred in the early 1600s, so close to Reformation time, and yet the grandchildren or great-grandchildren of Reformation were under intense hatred by England. They've forgotten about Tyndale and Tyndale's Bible, and were going after people who read Tyndale's Bible, quoted Tyndale's Bible, loved Tyndale's Bible. And so the i there was this intense hatred for the Puritans, the nonconformists, the Separatists and the and the Pilgrims. And William Bradford, that young twelve year old boy, he also sensed this and as he was growing up under living with Elder Brewster in Scrooby, he also sensed the intense hatred of the governor at that time against these people. So intense was the hatred that William Bradford, the twelve year old boy who's now much older, Been living in Brewster's house for a long time. He's married. He has a child. He names the child fear. That's the kind of intense hatred that the pilgrims are living under in England. These scrooby pilgrims, the authority of the English crown was vigorously employed to exterminate their principles and their doctrines. Sixty years before our founding fathers landed at Plymouth Rock in 1620, the throne, the government was continually sending forth executive orders. Sounds familiar, doesn't it? Sending forth executive orders against the believers, the Bible believers in Scrooby. Ministers in Scrooby were rejected from their pulpits, banished, imprisoned, put to death. And the churches were locked up because they weren't politically correct, according to the throne, according to England. They refuse to make the sign of the cross during the services, and for that you could be in prison or put to death. They refuse to kneel before the communion elements as if the the the the bread and the wine was actually the body of Christ, and you must Genuflect before it and praise it and worship it. They refuse to do that. They refuse to recite in their services only government approved and pre-written prayers. And in some cases they were told they couldn't even preach a message unless their sermon was pre-approved. by the king and those in authority over them. And so they fled to Holland. Fleeing to Holland was not a very uh it was a tragic, horrible moment as they went over to Holland. They ran into a fourteen day storm. The weather was so bad they thought the ship was going to be destroyed and all the pilgrims We're gonna die leaving England, going to Holland, a very short distance really. But the storm was so bad it lasted for 14 days. Similar to the 14 day storm that the apostle Paul was in. This one was so different that after 14 days the ship survived. It landed in the Amsterdam area. And by the way, the Amsterdam area and over there at Hung was one of the largest shipping and commercial hubs of that day. And they told them the pilgrims as they landed in Amsterdam that day after this 14-day storm that everyone in Holland knew about. They said, you were the only ship. They came across and survived in fourteen days. We have heard nothing of the other ships. They have sunk, they've been destroyed, they've turned back. You're the only ship that made it through. Do you not see the hand of God? the miraculous hand of God in getting these pilgrims out of Scrooby and into Holland, where they spent several years worshiping the Lord more freely. But life in Holland was difficult for them. They had to adjust to language, and the young children began to lose their English language. And the pilgrims they they didn't want them to lose their culture as well, their English culture and their language And so they decided they would go further and they come to America and and as they begin to gather a group that would across a larger body of water, hoping there wouldn't be a storm on that trip, and there was a worse storm There won't be time to talk about it. But one of those who would join them as they went to the wilderness, knowing they'd be facing the heathen and the Indians If you ever read the description of the heathen and the Indians, I've shared with you before, but when they met these Indians on the shore a few days later after they arrived there, they they came up to them and and their their hair was uh weird and chopped the way it appeared and and they had these tattoos on their faces and and they had these piercings in their skin and their ears and their cheeks and their butt It looked like the kids at the mall, actually, but you know, for for them, for them they'd never seen a White Marsh Mall or a Gold Ring Mall before, you know? And and this is what they read. And they called them heathen for the way they looked. Today we just call them teenagers. Wow. But they knew what they were going to be facing and they brought along with them a soldier, Miles Standish. Dutch army man, he fought in some wars. He gets converted to Christianity, by the way, has a wonderful Christian testimony that maybe you never heard uh if you went to college in this day and age. It would knock him They'd ridicule him, but they would not uh tell you of his great Christian testimony and I preached on his whole life before, but in Holland the pilgrims They were projected as faithful witnesses. The people in Holland loved them. They were known for their humility, their loving kindness, their consistency, their strength their fundamental beliefs, their sacrificial life. And they spent 12 years in Holland and things were going smoothly until a man named Arminus I've got that pronunciation wrong. Let me get his uh name here. Arminius, thank you. Arminius began to teach a different gospel. And the council of Dort hauled it in and they talked about it and they debated it and they came up with a five points of faith that we call tulip today. And there was language barriers, and some of the Dutch people thought that the pilgrims were a part of the Arminius Pelagian uh disbelief in the sovereignty of God and so forth, and so some of these uh Dutch people in ignorance begin riding and stoning the pilgrims in Holland And so they left Amsterdam and Leiden, and they went looking for a city which had the foundation as builder and maker as God. Hebrews 11, 11. And they arrived in America, Plymouth Rock. And yes, there's not time to talk about that storm that they went through today. There's a painting on the back that I could tell you about. Two ships had been originally set out the speed well and the Mayflower and the Mayflower was the only one that would make it, the speedwell was turned back for problems. Whole new story. I haven't time for that either. But the Mayflower had never carried passengers before. It was the first time it ever crossed over the ocean carrying passengers. It always carried cargo before. 120 passengers were on that. Most of the names are recorded If you see them on the Mayflower Compact, it may not even be their real names. They were so persecuted by England, they were afraid they were caught over there that they might be repercussions for their families back in England. And so some of the names are not even their real names because they were fugitives from England. They'd fled to Holland. So Mayflower carries them over here. They run to a large storm. They're at in the storm so long that by the time they reach Plymouth, they have run out of food. They've run out of decent water. It's late in the fall. It's wintertime. It's cold. It's miserable. Nothing to drink. Nothing to eat. They begin to drink from the streams. They're filled with cholera and typhoid and bacteria and other viruses. And before spring, half of the founding fathers and founding mothers, the pilgrims, before spring Of the 120, more than half of them are dead and buried. When asked When the next ship came in, are you ready to turn back? This has been a horrible experiment. They're ready to turn back. We'll put you on the new ship. Not one said they would return to England. And be treated the way they were. It was for religious persecution that they left there. They came here because of religious persecution not only spread the gospel, but they came here because they were persecuted for spreading the gospel. They came here under persecution. of the religious faith, not gold as we're often taught. That's what I was taught when I went through school. By the way, they never found any gold in New York, Massachusetts, and New Hampshire They came for gold, how disappointed they must have been. But if they came now for freedom to preach the gospel and live the gospel, they were not disappointed Thanksgiving celebration that took place. They hadn't been there but a year. They'd already lost most of the women were dead. They'd lost half the people off the ship. Had no food, the water was contaminated, but they got a crop in in 1621. And you would think with half the most of the wives dead, you would think that uh Uh Miles Standy's wife was dead, William uh uh Bradford's wife was dead, a lot of their wives were dead, and they were raising children by themselves And so here we are a few months later after all these bodies are buried or and had to bury them secretly so the Indians didn't know how few of them there were. And in 1621, with half of them dead, just coming through starvation, had a good crop They invite the Indians to a celebration, 1621, a Thanksgiving celebration to their God, and they witness to the Indians At that celebration. The Indians knew what they had gone through. They they knew the about the deaths, they they'd seen the decimation of the pilgrims. And here the pilgrims were standing up and they were praising God and thanking God. And it wasn't a two-minute a sermon or or a five-minute prayer, the first Thanksgiving in 1621 lasted for three days. No, we're gonna have we have one day of Thanksgiving here in the church. How would you like if we just came here and we stayed for three days? And invited all the heathen in. They brought 90 Indians. They were outnumbered by the Indians. How dare they take the chance of being outnumbered by the Indians for a three-day celebration Well, because they were already touching the hearts of the Indians with the gospel. Some of those Indians were getting saved at an early date, and you know the names of some of them, but So there they were, and for three days they celebrated prayers, scripture, preaching. Oh, I forgot to mention that they also had uh they brought their guns and they did and they showed each other, they competition who could hit the target best and Maybe we should do something like that. Can you imagine this church? We all brought our guns, set our target out here in the back, and we had we tried to see who was the best shot. That's what the pilgrims did at the first Thanksgiving. Brought guns to church. Wow. Hmm. And they had wrestling matches and they had running matches and three-day celebration. Bradford would say, William Bradford, the young twelve-year-old boy that walked those nine miles and eventually became the governor of Plymouth. He said Brad would say years later as the governor of Plymouth And he was a governor for thirty-five years, by the way. They loved him and kept re-electing him. These all died in faith, not having received the promises, but having seen them afar off. We persuaded and embraced them and confessed that they were strangers and pilgrims of the earth Hebrews 11 and 13. It's Bradford that would first use the term pilgrim in reference to those who landed at Plymouth Rock. Pilgrims believe that the government must not dictate what people should believe and what manner and way they should worship in their churches. What an innovative idea. The church must be free from all those who govern the nation, William Bradford said. We ought not to obey, we ought to obey God rather than man, he said, Acts 5 and 29 So blessed of God, the people were there that every nation in the world is still seeking to come here today. They all want to come here. Even though America appears to be in its waning years, our borders are still being flooded by people who want to come to the nation blessed of God. for the last 400 years. I say waning years, because too much of America today is fascinated with pleasure and entertainment. And it's keeping them away from their devotions and our Bible reading and fellowship in the house of God. We're in our waning years. We we see an assault upon the moral fiber of our churches today, our colleges, our laws. assaults upon our founding fathers who established this place. We see that these innovations are perverting and removing the ancient landmarks that our followers have set. Proverbs 22 28. We are warned not to remove the ancient landmarks And we see that coming on us, the waning years of America. Many of almost all have agreed that that's where we are. this time. And yet people still want to come here. The waning years where the governments and churches are changing the requirements for pastors. Changing requirements for church membership, changing requirements for citizenship. These changes are devastating to a church body and to a nation. But there is a remedy for a nation to be really great again. There is a remedy The Holy Spirit must come upon us once again by the faithful preaching of the gospel of Jesus Christ. And if not the dark clouds will envelop us and the descent upon America will be more rapid than America's rising. There is a remedy. Revival. Talked about it here before. Boy, if we had revival, that would really be something to be thankful for in the coming years, wouldn't it? May God revive us again. That the world that has stood astonished for four centuries at what the pilgrims started here and what had been accomplished here, that that same world who knows and recognizes the miraculous events Too numerous to note this morning of a God that saved them from ocean storms, a God that brought them through starvation, a God that kept them from the arrow that flieth by night and the pestilence that walketh in darkness Psalm 91. 6. The world is still astonished by what has been established here. Still astonished. And also the salvation of the savages. Astonish is the world as well. May this world be continually astonished. May God bless us today as we are thankful and have given thanks on this service. May God bless us. That we might continually astonish the world with what God has done here. Let's pray. Let's pray. Father, we thank you this day. We know we've rushed through the message and we left so much out about the salvation of Miles Stanish the salvation of the Indians, the salvation of Pocahontas. Oh Lord, we We're at a point now where we just want to pray for the salvation of our country, the salvation of our people. Those in attendance here today, uh those in attendance in other churches, Lord. Our hope, our remedy is for revival in this nation again. The election has been of interest to us all. It's encouraged us for oh Lord, without revival, this world will not long be astonishing. Christ anymore of what goes on here. Oh Lord, bless this nation again, not because we deserve it, but because we beg for it. Bless this nation in Christ's name. Amen.