Turn in your Bible with me this morning, please. To the Gospel of Luke and the first chapter. Luke chapter 1. How many of you have ever read the Christmas story? Well, every one of us have either read it or heard it read. Probably many of you in Sunday school have uh been in part of a Christmas pageant as a child. And we have heard this story again and again and again. And yet isn't it marvelous that sometimes the most familiar passages contain the gems of blessing to our soul? There's Few passages that we probably have read more than these passages before us this morning. But I'd like to start in verse 26 of chapter 1 of Luke. And read through verse thirty-eight of the passage Chapter 1, verse 26. And in the sixth month, the angel Gabriel was sent from God unto a city of Galilee named Nazareth. To a virgin, espoused to a man whose name was Joseph of the house of David, and the virgin's name was Mary And the angel came in unto her and said, Hail, thou art highly favored. The Lord is with thee. Blessed art thou among women. And when she saw him, she was troubled at his saying, and cast in her mind what manner of salutation this should be. And the angel said unto her, Fear not, Mary, for thou hast found favor with God. And behold, thou shalt conceive in thy womb and bring forth a son. And shalt call his name Jesus. He shall be great, and he shall be called the Son of the Highest. And the Lord God shall give unto him the throne of his father David. And he shall reign over the house of Jacob forever. And of his kingdom there shall be no end. Then said Mary unto the angel How shall this be, seeing I know not a man? And the angel answered and said unto her, The Holy Ghost shall come upon thee, and the power of the highest shall overshadow thee. Therefore also, that holy thing which shall be born of thee shall be called the Son of God. And behold, thy cousin Elizabeth, she hath also conceived a son in her old age. And this is the sixth month with her who is called Baron. For with God nothing shall be impossible. And Mary said, Behold, the handmaid of the Lord Be it unto me, according to thy word. And the angel departed from her. Let us bow for prayer. O Father, now I plead that thy Spirit may work through thy word for the glory of thy Son, for the education and edification of thy people. Lord, I pray that you would grant that the Spirit of the Lord may have free course and be glorified as he expounds the word of the Lord to the hearts of thy people. In Jesus' name. Amen. I was arrested three or four weeks ago by just a few simple words in verse thirty-five Therefore, also that holy thing which shall be born of thee Shall be called the Son of God. Why would the Spirit ordain that Jesus be referred to as that holy thing? We're going to get there. But I'd like to begin with the first verse that we read and work our way through this passage. And folks, it is the plague of our fallen minds that the most familiar passages are the passages we pay the least attention to. Because I know that. I've read that. I've heard that. And yet as we take this passage apart and consider the import Of that which we find here in this passage, it's astonishing how much we've missed over the years. In verse 26, in the sixth month. It is the sixth month because as we read there, Elizabeth was in her sixth month. And so the angel comes to Mary in the sixth month after the conception of John the Baptist in the womb of Elizabeth, which was a miracle, because Elizabeth was well past age. It had ceased with her as the manner of women is. And yet a miraculous thing came about, a barren woman conceived, a child. In the sixth month, the angel Gabriel was sent from God. This is glorious, folks. This Gabriel we find throughout Scripture This is a choice angel of God. If you look up to verse 11, it says there and there appeared unto him, that's Zacharias, the father of John the Baptist. There appeared unto him an angel of the Lord standing at the right side of the altar of incense. And then in verse 19 And the angel answered and said, I am Gabriel that stand in the presence of God, and am sent to speak unto thee and to show thee glad tidings. John the Baptist, or sorry, Zacharias, the father of John the Baptist, was carrying about his ministry there at the altar. And Gabriel appears to him to tell him that he is going to have a child. And his thought is, how can this happen? My wife is not only barren, but she's old. With God, all things are possible, as Mary declares at the end of our reading. But look what Gabriel says to him. First of all, he says, I'm Gabriel. I'm Gabriel. What do we know about Gabriel? Well, Gabriel was the angel that was sent to Daniel in Daniel 8 and verses 15 and 16. Read this, and it came to pass When I, even Daniel, had seen the vision and sought for the meaning, then behold there stood before me as the appearance of a man, and I heard a voice, this is the voice of God in verse 16. I heard a voice uh uh uh uh between the bank of yuli that called and said, Gabriel, make this man to understand the vision. Daniel sees a vision, he doesn't understand it. And he sees the form of a man, and the voice of God speaks to the form of a man, which was Gabriel. And God tells Gabriel, make Daniel understand the vision. We think of Daniel as a great and mighty man of God, Daniel and the lion's den. Daniel with Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego. Daniel with the finger on the wall, meeny, meeny, tikol Yepharasan. But this same Daniel, the same Gabriel, here appears to Zacharias. And this same Gabriel appears to Mary. Now, why is that important? Well, consider what we learn about Gabriel the first time we meet him there in Daniel. God says to Gabriel, Gabriel, make Daniel understand! Give him knowledge that is beyond his knowledge. For there's been a vision, and Daniel doesn't understand the vision. And then again in Daniel chapter 12, we refine there in verse 21, yea, while I was speaking in prayer, even the man Daniel Gabriel, who I had seen in the vision of the beginning, being caused to fly swiftly, touched me about the time of the evening oblig ablation. And he, that's Gabriel, informed me And talked with me and said, Oh Daniel, I am now come forth to give thee skill and understanding. So going back to chapter 11, chapter 1 of Luke and verse 11 and verse 19, in verse 19, this angel says to Zacharias, I am Gabriel. I'm the one who comes with information from God. I came to Daniel when he didn't understand, came to him twice. And God sent me so he would understand the vision. We're going to see that about Gabriel as we consider him through this passage. I am Gabriel. I'm coming with the message of God. But then also there in verse nineteen he says, I am Gabriel that stand in the presence of God. He stands in God's presence. And there's multiple images that we find here. First, we find one who's standing ready. He's right there. He is standing waiting for command. He's standing waiting for a word. Okay, I will stand here in this spot until you, oh my God, tell me what to do. And folks, Gabriel has stood at the side of God for thousands of years between being sent to do something. But he faithfully stands in the presence of God. But not only does he stand waiting in the presence of God, he stands. He's not sitting down. He is recognizing the holiness of God. I stand in the presence of God. But do not all the angels stand in the presence of God? Well, they're all in God's presence, but Gabriel stands there as a prime minister, as one ready messenger. The prime minister is always the representative of the king or the queen. Because in in England. In Jamaica we had the Governor General, and the Governor General stood in the place of the king, even above uh place of the king, even above the prime minister of the country But here Gabriel stands as the prime minister of God, the first minister, as they would say in Northern Ireland. He stands. He's ready to go with a message. And look what he says. Verse 19, again, I am Gabriel that stand in this presence of God And I'm sent to speak unto thee. I'm not here because I thought this was a good idea. I'm not here with a message of opinion. I am sent from God with a message to you, Zacharias. I am sent to speak unto thee, and to show thee glad tidings. And folks, this is glorious. Because we never find in Scripture Gabriel coming with a bad message. He comes with a good message. You see, the name Gabriel itself means the man of God or the mighty of God, the power of God, the man of God. He comes with a good message. And so we find in our scripture reading from this morning, there in Matthew chapter one That the birth of Jesus Christ was on this wise when he was espoused to Mary. But while he thought on these things, behold, the angel of the Lord appeared unto him in a dream, saying, Joseph, thou son of David, fear not To take unto thee, Mary, thy wife. That thing which is born of her is of the Holy Ghost. Gabriel was sent from God. We're not it doesn't say Gabriel in the passage, but for all we can see it was Gabriel again that came to Joseph. The same with the shepherds. They were in the same country, shepherds abide in the field. They were keeping the watch for their flocks by night. The angel of the Lord appears to them, and they're sore afraid. And what does the angel say? Fear not! For behold, I bring you good tidings of great joy, which will be to all people. Under you is born this day in the city of David. And so that's what we find here, that this Gabriel This mighty one comes to Mary, comes to this virgin, to marry We can see him coming to a Daniel, and maybe even to a Zacharias. But he comes to Mary. We find there in verse 27 to a virgin espouse to a man whose name was Joseph of the house of David. And the virgin's name was Mary. First of all, we have to note that this was not simply just a young girl. The critics will try to say, well, virgin just means a young girl. No, Scripture is very clear there in verse 34. Mary says, How should this be? Saying, I know not a man. I I've never had relationships with a man. How can it be that I conceive? And remember in in Matthew 1 where we read it, before they came together, one of those biblical euphemisms that we understand there had not been a physical relationship take place there. Nothing is impossible with God, verse 37. She was truly a virgin, unsoiled, unspoiled. She had never had relationships. And yet we find that she was a virgin that was espoused. And sadly, in our modern context, a lot of people try to sit to compare being a spouse to engagement Engagement in our sense is not the same as an espousal. The espousal they had was as a marriage, but there had not yet been a physical relationship. And it says there in Matthew, fear not to take unto thee, Mary thy espousal. No, fear not to take unto thee Mary thy wife. And it says, and her husband being a just man and not willing to put her away, which would have been a divorce hole, not willing to put her away. Or not willing to make her a public example, thought to put her away privately. This was not simply an espousal. It was a contract of marriage And the violation of this contract was adultery, and the penalty for adultery was stoning. That's the place that we find this young Mary in. She's espoused. And if she had relationships with a man, it would be adultery. It would be a violation of the marriage. Now why is that important? Well, read in Hosea chapter 2, verses 19 and 20. God says, I will betroth thee unto me Yea, I will betrothe thee unto me in righteousness, in purity, as a virgin. I will prove betroth thee unto me in righteousness and in judgment and in loving kindness and in mercies I will even betrothe thee unto me in faithfulness. Well, faithfulness is not a violation. See, my people shall be willing in the day of my power. He shall not ask everyone of the law, for God will put his law in his heart. We have a glorious picture here of the Virgin Mary who was unsoiled by human relationships, and God says in the same way, I am going to betroth you to me. I am going to engage the church to me as a faithful and as a pure virgin. And so we bring that to the New Testament and the Apostle Paul under inspiration in 2 Corinthians 11, verses 2 and 3. For I am jealous over you with a godly jealousy. Joseph was jealous over Mary. She was his espoused wife. He was very troubled when he finds that she's pregnant. And the angel comes and says to Joseph, No, this is of the Holy Ghost. Paul says, I am jealous over you with a godly jealousy, for I have espoused you unto one husband. that I may present you a chaste virgin to Christ. And so What reading James, ye adulterers and adulteresses, know ye not that friendship with the world is enmity with God. And so here in the Virgin Mary, we have a picture of what Christ has made of the church by his incarnation. By his immaculate birth, by his birth outside of sin, he is able to make us outside of sin in the same righteousness. So Paul says that he has espoused us to one husband that he may present to us us as a chaste virgin to Christ. And we understand that word chaste is the old word that means a pure virgin, an unsoiled virgin, a perfect virgin. My wife was chased before we were married. She was pure, but she was also chaste and then I had to fight off a dozen guys to get her. Because differ different word chase. She was chased without the tea, but she was chased with the tea as well. And I'm embarrassing her. But folks, you see the glorious picture here of Christ in the church, where Christ is now espoused to us, and by his death he has made us pure again A virgin is only a virgin once. But being born in trespasses and sins, we the church are made a pure virgin of the Christ. He's espoused us unto himself. Verse 28. And the angel came unto her and said, Hail, thou art highly favored. The Lord is with thee. Blessed art thou among women. That word hail is most often translated rejoice. It's only translated hail a few times. It's the word rejoice. REJOIS! It is the same word Godspeed. I prefer among the body of Christ to say Godspeed rather than say goodbye Now goodbye means God bless ye. God be with ye is where it comes from the old English God be with ye is where our goodbye. Um you know an atheist has no right to ever say goodbye Mm-hmm. Because goodbye means God be with ye. Mm-hmm. And it's a blessing. But I prefer God speed which is the biblical blessing, which means, be well, may God be with thee. That's what Godspeed means. It is a term of blessing. But this word hail is actually the same word that's translated Godspeed at two types in Scripture. Mary Blessings. Mary, rejoice. Mary, God is with you You are highly favored little girl from little Nazareth of Galilee. The Lord is with thee. And Mary, you're going to need the Lord with you for what's coming. Remember the penalty for adultery was stoning. Mary, no one's gonna believe you, even Joseph But we'll take care of Joseph. Elizabeth will believe you, because the babe will leap in her womb when you come to visit with her Thou art highly favored. In verse 48 of Luke 1, in what was called the magnificent Mary's song, she says, For he hath regarded the low estate. of his handmaid. The Lord is with thee. Blessed art thou among women. Mary, you're chosen to a special purpose. Moses was chosen by God to a special purpose Joseph was uh uh uh Joshua was chosen by God to a special purpose. Joseph of the Old Testament was chosen by God, David, Esther, and Mary Little girl, pure virgin of Nazareth, thou art highly, highly favored. Unto us a child is born, unto us a son is given. Verse twenty-nine. And when she saw him, that is the angel, she was troubled. This is the typical response. We find it from Daniel, we find it from the shepherds of the field. We find it from Zacharias, we find it from Joseph, we find it from Mary. She was troubled when she saw him And the angel said unto her, Fear not, for thou hast found favor with God, and guess with me what word that favor is. Grace. You found grace. I'm not coming to destroy you. I'm not coming to judge your sin. I'm coming to give you a glorious message from God. Mary found grace in the eyes of the Lord, just as certainly as Noah found grace in the eyes of the Lord. Mary, you have found grace with God. God is with you. And behold, thou shalt conceive in thy womb. And bring forth a son, and thou shalt call his name Joseph. Mary, you're pregnant. No not. Mary, you're pregnant. How can this be? Seeing I know not a man Man, this is impossible. Later, Mary will say with God, all things are possible. Because she knows it is true. Mary, you will have a son in spite of the fact that you live in a day when medical science does not have sonograms. Mary, you have a son in spite of the day that you live in when they can't do a blood test to determine the sex of a child. I have a granddaughter yet in the womb. And we were able to tell this time that it was a granddaughter before the sonogram. Because by the blood tests they determined that my daughter was having a little girl. And then they confirmed it later visually with the sonogram. Mary didn't have any of that. Mary, you're pregnant. Mary, you're having a son. And Mary, thou call his name Jesus. And shall call his name Jesus. And do you notice anything particular about Jesus there in your Bible in verse 31? It's all capitals. It is all capitals. Why is that? Well, because the name Jesus means Jehovah is salvation. or Jehovah's Salvation is the Hebrew meaning of the name. And we know that when the name Jehovah was used They we find it in all capitals in our Bible because the Hebrews would not fully use the name. They would leave out the vows because they held the name in such high reverence. Mary, this is what you're going to name him. You're going to name him Jehovah is salvation. And in the Matthew account, which we read For a responsive reading, it is more fully explained. For there in verse 21 of Matthew 1, God speaking to Joseph, he says, And she shall bring forth a son, and thou shalt call his name Jesus For he shall save his people from their sins. There's a certainty there. He shall save You see, Jesus Christ will not fail to save anyone for whom he died. That's solid, sound theology. I was involved in an extended Argument dispute over this very fact online this week. And I I I try not to get into arguments unnecessarily, but there are times when it is a good spiritual exercise to expound the scriptures over the internet to people that just they're earnest people but they don't see the truths of scripture. The Son of Man has come to seek and to save that which was lost. If he doesn't seek and save everyone that was lost, he failed for the purpose of getting. He shall certainly save a specific people. Not all people, not the people. He shall save his people from their sins. It is a specific people. And he will save them not from their sin, but from their sins plural. He saved me from the sins I committed as an infant. He saved me for the sins I committed as an adolescent and as a teenager and the sins I committed yesterday and the ones I'll commit tomorrow. You call his name Jehovah is salvation, for he shall save his people from their sins. Folks, these verses that we just fly past have so much to teach us if we'll just stop and read them In Isaiah 53, verse 11, he shall see of the travail of his soul and shall be satisfied. Isn't that glorious? He shall see of the travail of his soul and shall be satisfied. By his knowledge shall my righteous servant justify many. Doesn't say all, so justify many For he shall bear their iniquities. Folks, God is not in heaven wringing his hands, wondering who will be saved. I've heard preachers earnestly say before that God has done everything he can do for his salvation, and now all you have to do is believe. That makes belief just one last good work. Now I believe because God has done everything He can do for my salvation. Because He made me believe. Verse 32. Speaking of this child to be born, he shall be great. Great is the Lord, and greatly to be paid. Is Jesus great? He's my Savior! He's my deliverer! He's my Messiah! And there is none greater. He shall be great. And he shall be called the Son of the highest. Who do men say that I, the Son of the Man, say? Thou art the Christ, the Son of the living God. That's who he is. And the Lord shall give him the throne of his father David. Folks, the Israel we find in the news media is not the Israel of God. The Israel we find in the Middle East, I support them. I want to build their military because they protect us But the Israel of the Middle East is not the Israel of Scripture. The Israel of Scripture is the elect. The Israel of Scripture is the people of God. The Israel of Scripture is the church. And who sits on the throne of the church? Christ. The throne of his father, David. Verse 33. And he shall reign over the house of Jacob forever. Oh, that wasn't true of physical Israel. of that country that I support in the Middle East. But he rules and reigns over his people, Israel. Forever and forever. And of his kingdom there shall be no man. And Mary said to the angel, how shall these things be, say I know that man. And suppose we've taken a long road to get to verse 35. But we needed to walk that road. For verse 35 is actually our text for this morning. And the angel answered and said unto her, The Holy Ghost shall come upon thee. That phrase, the Holy Ghost shall come upon thee, is very important. Because no man has come upon her, she is indeed a virgin. She is to bear this child, but the Holy Ghost shall come upon thee. And the power of the highest shall overshadow thee. And that phrase, overshadow, is the picture of a hint brooding over her truth her chicks. It is the same word that is used in Genesis chapter 1. For in Genesis 1 and verse 2, we find that the Spirit of God moved on the waters. The earth was without form and void, and darkness was upon the face of the earth, and the Spirit of God moved on the waters. And folks that word overshadow is the same word as moved It's only used three times in Scripture. The Spirit of God moved on the waters. It was a creating force. And God says, Mary, the Holy Ghost is going to overshadow you. There's going to be a creative force. And why is this important? Because the first Adam was created without a physical birth. And the first Adam was created sinless in the Garden of Eden, but the first Adam sinned. And so in order for God to send the Second Adam. It must be a creative force as certainly as it was in the garden. And so the Spirit of God moved in the creation of the earth And the Spirit of God moved, it overshadowed, it fluttered upon Mary, and a creative being was born in Mary's womb without human father and therefore without sin. And it could not be any other way. It must be just like that. I mentioned flutter The other place that word is used is Deuteronomy 32 verse eleven. As an eagle stirreth up her nest, fluttereth over her young, just that same word moved. It's this same overshadowed that we find in the New Testament as an eagle flutters herself over her chips. guards and protects them. So the Holy Ghost will overshadow you and there will be a new creation in your womb, which is as impossible as the creation of the earth. There's only been one born of a virgin. And Mary, this is gonna how it's gonna happen. The highest shall overshadow thee. Therefore I love the word therefore in Scripture. Because the Holy Ghost is going to, in a creative fashion Overshadow you as certainly as the Holy Ghost overshadowed the water in the creation of the earth. Therefore, that holy thing Which is born of thee, shall be called the Son of God. Folks, the Catholics try to take this verse and say Mary's the mother of God. Our King James translators, who were a product of the Protestant Ref Reformation. knew that Mary was not the mother of God. For God has no mother. And so our King James translators put holy thing. They did not put holy one. They did not put holy child. The two Catholic Bibles have Holy One and Holy Child. The ESV has holy one. Even the new King James has holy one. But folks, holy thing is very important. Because what is being taught here is this. Mary, the Holy Spirit will come upon you without the seed of a human father. Therefore, that holy body, sacrifice and offering thou wouldest not, but a body thou hast prepared me for me. That holy body, which is born of thee, will not be called the son of Joseph. This holy body, which will be born of thee, will not be called the Son of the flesh, but rather will be called the Son of God. But this does not take a voice apart the fact that he is the eternal Son of God But it's talking about the incarnation itself. Jesus of Nazareth will be the Son of God because the Holy Ghost overshadows you all. Mary, you're not the mother of God. You're simply the mother of a lump of flesh that has come about miraculously. And why is that important? Because no man born of man is born without the curse of Adam. We're born in trespasses and sins. And therefore no man born of flesh could ever die on a cross to save sinful flesh. If I died on the cross, would I go to heaven? No, I'd go to hell with the thief that went the other thief that went to hell. The only possible way there could be salvation was that married, you're going to bear a holy thing. You're going to bear flesh that is outside of sin. For he was made under the law to redeem them that were under the law, that we might receive the adoption of sons. And therefore, married that holy thing. For this reason, Mary, that holy thing that is born of thee, shall be called not the son of Joseph. But shall become called the Son of God. Emmanuel, God with us, for he shall. Saved his people from their sins, and there could be no other way. He shall save us people from their sins. And so God, in the womb of Mary. Did a new work of creation. Remember what we find about creation? But God rested on the seventh day. And we find that God saw all that he had made. And what did he say? It is good. It is good. Because man at that moment in time was good. Human flesh at that moment of time was unfallen and good. Adam sinned. Wherefore as by one man sinned into the world and death by sin, so that death passed upon all men, for that all have sinned. The only way that one could take away that sin is if almost that holy thing. Escaping the curse of Adam by a new creative work. When a father and a mother come together, the sperm and the egg become alive. But with Mary, there was no sperm of a human father. But only God creating the ovum, God creating the fetus in the womb. Therefore That holy thing which shall be born of thee shall be called the Son of God. And Mary's only response could be, my spirit hath rejoiced in God, my Savior. Folks, this is glorious. This is the true incarnation. I don't call it Christmas because there's no mass for Christ. But this is the true incarnation. This is the story of salvation. And it's because of that holy thing that Jesus was able to say commonly All ye that labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. Hallelujah, what a savior. Father, we thank you for the glories of Christ We thank you for the glories of thy word. We thank you, Lord, that you've removed the blindness of our eyes that we might see. Bless thy truth to our hearts this day, we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen.