Boy, we are at the tail end of the last bit of warning out of the book of Hebrews, and uh as I kinda look back at the different studies I've done, I go, wow, this is awfully negative, but you know, some parts of scriptures can be dry. Can be uh yeah, dry 'cause it's uh uh harsh to hear, but uh I hope today we'll uh start to liven that up a bit as we go into the next next chapter here soon. Hebrews twelve 25, and we're going to cover all the way to 27, says this. See that you refuse not him that speaketh. For if they escape not, who refused him that spake on earth, much more shall not we escape if we turn away from him that speaks from heaven, speaketh from heaven, whose voice then shook the earth. But now he hath promised, saying yet once more, I shake not the earth only, but also heaven. And this word, yet once more, that's going to be a very key phrase signifieth the removing of those things that are shaken, as of things that are made, that those things which cannot be shaken May remain. Alright. This is our text, and I've got a couple of questions here for us today What are the distinctions between a living thing and just the collection of matter? I gave an example, or if you come up in a forest, here's a toad, he's sitting there, he's quiet, he's not moving And next to him is a rock. And the rock, they're both slick, they're both a little greenish, brownish. How can you tell one of them is alive and one of them is not? What's the difference between living things and and non-living things? Any ideas? What are the characteristics? I would say a cellular structure. However, things that were once living will also demonstrate a cellular structure. But I would say a biologically a a a cellular structure. Okay, biologically you got some kind of cellular structure. Alright, yeah. Uh so you carry your microscope in the forest. How would you tell the difference between a frog and a rock? Living things eat, breathe, and produce. Okay. Eating, yeah, these got they gotta eat rocks don't eat, frogs do. Uh they they breed. There's some kind of um uh ability to uh metabolize or process energy if you will. Reproduction, yeah, that's generally is is a characteristic. What else? Cellular structure, that's a good one If you're in the forest looking at the frog and the rock and neither one is moving, what would you do to figure out which one is which? You said something earlier Well you touch them. Okay. Yeah. What would happen? Yeah, then you know that they are living. Right, right. The rocks you can. They touch them and it stays where it where it That's right, right. Now the rock may move, but it may just tumble into place or something whereas the frog is if you move them. Yes, if you personally move it, but if you just touch it. Right, right. That's known as a response to stimuli. Uh if you poke it, in fact when we I took one of our cats that unfortunately passed because of some bad poisons on the lawn, but One of the tests the doctors do is they they pull the cat's leg and in the forest when we're hunting, if we want to know if an animal's dead, you touch his eye. If he's responsive, because the eye is very irritable, then you know it's still alive. Yeah, those are some basics of things we look at. There's actually seven things according to certain biological structure textbooks, two others that may not be obvious is metabolism. Excuse me, not metabolism, homeostasis. I think this is an interesting one. This is fascinating to me. The human body has nine layers of homeostasis. What's homeostasis? Well If you get a a rental truck, Joey, at Home Depot, and you want to go 70 miles an hour down the road, it won't go 70 miles an hour down the road because it's got this little device attached to the carburetor called the governor And it restricts the velocity of the vehicle to only 60 miles an hour. Your body has the same kind of system in it at multiple levels These little governors, these control mechanisms that keep cells from going crazy. If the cell is doing something wonky, it has pre-programmed cell death, it just dies. And there's all there's nine layers. There's nine layers of government in your body to control and regulate things. That's how complex we are. The other is uh adaptation. uh you know humans know to adapt to their environment. If it's too cold in this region, it's getting colder and colder and colder, or if the coastline is coming closer and closer inland, they get up and move. They don't stay there. They can uh uh adapt and and move along. So uh there's a bonus question. How do professionals harvest olives from many, many, many olive trees? How many of you actually ever harvested small fruit from a tree like olives? You've picked They're tiny. Have you picked Olives and Outry? Uh yeah, well there's sometimes they put uh a blanket under the on the the tree and then they move the tree and then it falls off. Yeah, yeah. Lebanon has lots of wonderful olive trees and they produce in bounty But the real way that you can get them off without accidentally picking a green one is, like she said, you put this tarp underneath it to get these machines, really cool. This long arm just vibrates the daylights out of it and all these olives just harmlessly fall down right onto the mat and they take it away. It's a wonderful way. Just shake the daylights out of it Well, speaking of shaking, this is what we're talking about today in Hebrews 12, 25, whose voice then shook the earth But he's now also promised not earth only, but also heaven. So I want to look at shaking earth and shaking heaven for just a moment. In our context, shaking earth referred to what period of time, what event was in view in this context from previous Sunday school lessons. Yeah, Mount Sinai, the voice of God on that mountain as it was thundering and quaking and lightning and earthquakes, and it was just the whole thing was vibrating, shaking. That range was just really being rocked. There was also another time that God shook this planet. Any ideas? Elijah, wondering us. Okay, tell me about that one. Uh Lyja had run after the death threat of Jezebel and got some fire and earthquake in my Yeah, that's a good one. Yeah, God shook the earth through an earthquake and it was specifically for Elijah's benefit. Yeah, that's a good reference. Any other times God's I don't remember how much the earth was shaped necessarily, but when Jesus went up on the mountain with uh eater and James and he showed himself stand and then the God the voice of God came through and everything out Yeah. Yeah. Scripture doesn't specifically record that it shook, but certainly was enough to throw Peter, James, and John on the ground and bow down to their faces, right? Other other times God has shook the earth. Sinai, the giving of the law? Yep, Sinai, the giving of the law. All right. How about the flood? Was there a little bit of shaking at that time? Actually, there was. Turn to Psalm 18, if you will. I wasn't going to have you turn there, but I think it might be useful to see. It's kind of interesting because our context shows that, yeah, that was a rather large shaking, and indeed it was catastrophic, and indeed it was global. Psalm 187, there is a lengthy description of what God has done. Verse 7, then the earth shook and trembled. The foundations also of the hills moved and were shaken because he was wroth. It mentions many other things as well. Now you might think, well, this was just a different particular time, but then you go down to verse 15 as a result of that shaking. Then the channels of waters were seen, and the foundations of the world were discovered at thy rebuke, O Lord, at the blast of the breath of thy nostrils. We read in Genesis, at the flood account, that the fountains of the Great Deep were opened up. And that's exactly what that mid-Atlantic Ridge is. a place where the subterranean waters that were below the continental masses at that time spewed forth. It's called a hydroplate theory. And uh you can read about that from uh Dr. Walter Brown. just a phenomenal resource. You can go to holdingfast. net and search for Walter Brown and you can find the link to his material. Fascinating uh uh account and or I should say recollection, forensic recol recollection of how things went, that's where the water would have come from. It really wouldn't it really would have been a mist that comes up through the ground. But Now that split the continents apart, that rained through all the water up in the atmosphere, so it would come down as a massive amount of rain. That would be a mighty big shaking In fact, it was big enough to shake so that it destroyed all the inhabitants of the earth except for those in the ark. He talks not only about shaking earth, but he also talks about shaking heaven. We uh uh uh read first of all we have to ask the question which which heaven do we have in view. Now why would I ask that? Well go to 2 Corinthians 12 uh Uh Second Corinthians chapter twelve, we're going to begin in verse two. There's a lot of NDEs, near-death experience videos that you might find clips of on the internet of people saying they died, went to heaven, came back. They have various similar but also dissimilar responses. Well, here's a man who actually went there and came back and gives a report. We read about it from the Apostle Paul's own mouth as he testifies to the Corinthians here of all the visions and revelations that he had. In 2 Corinthians 12, 2 he says, I knew a man in Christ, a very humble way to refer to himself, above fourteen years ago, whether in the body I cannot tell, or whether out of the body I cannot tell God knoweth. So we have this He couldn't tell. In the body, out of the body experience. It was something very different and unique. He says such a one caught up to the third heaven. He mentions a third heaven. Verse 3, and I knew such a man, whether in the body or out of the body, I cannot tell God knoweth. How that he was caught up into paradise and heard unspeakable words which it's not lawful, meaning not permitted for a man to utter. What he heard he couldn't report when he came back. He was not permitted So my only point there is not about near-death experiences because he wasn't near-death at that point, but rather that he mentions three heavens. He went up to the third heaven God in our context says that he's going to shake not only earth but also heaven. And the question is which heaven or which heavens. That's my question I'm trying to answer. We have three to deal with, and what are those three? Well, uh theologians have kind of identified the three heavens in this layer that we've got The heavens in which the birds and the fowls of the air fly. That would be called Earth's atmosphere. They are called the fowls of the heaven. uh the birds of the air, as it were. That would be our first layer of heaven, the Earth's atmosphere. Second would be what we would know as deep space. It's where the stars are at, the planets. That would be the second heaven. The third would be, of course, where God dwells at. We don't know anything in between. There's no body of water floating around out there, raining. moisture laden asteroids to populate the earth with water. That's fiction. Uh there is no such thing as the uh oh what is that name of that silly belt the They they call it uh it'll come to me, but astrona a stro astronomers have interesting ideas for where Earth's water came from. We just read about it. It's called the flood of Noah's Day So at a bare minimum we have Earth's atmosphere being shaken. I think that would go along with our text. He says I'm going to shake not only Earth, but also heaven. Well, if he's doing some significant rearrangement here on the terrestrial ball in which we exist, it shouldn't surprise us that there's going to be some atmospheric impacts as well. If allegedly a woman's can of hairspray can destroy the ozone, imagine what happens when God starts to shake the planet. But what about deep space and the stars? Is God going to do anything with those? Any thoughts? Yeah. Okay. Yeah, that's correct. He speaks about when he returns that there's a new heaven and a new earth and getting getting Ties into our question, you know, what heaven is in view, what about the stars? And you're correct, uh, but what scripture do I have for that? Well turn to Job uh twenty-five. Job chapter 25 and verse 4 gives us some insight about God's opinion of the celestial body. Now you would think, wow, stars, what how I mean what what harm do we have there? But we read in Job 25 a record of the shortest man in scripture, his name is Bildad the Shuhite. He's only the height of the I know it's a car corny joke. Penny doesn't like it. Joey's gonna throw something at me. Um Job 25, verse 4. How then can man be justified with God? That's a really good question. How can he be clean that is born of a woman? Then he goes to make a comparison. He says this Behold, even to the moon, and it shineth not. The moon has no native light of itself, it's merely a reflector Yea, the stars are not pure in his sight, how much less man that is a worm and the Son of Man which is a worm. So, from God's opinion, even the stars themselves are not pure. Now you would say, well, why would that be? Why might the stars not be pure? Uh you know, scripture doesn't give any further description of that other than to simply say they're not pure in his sight, not according to his standard. Joey? They have also been affected by the set of that. Yeah, yeah, very good. Right. Universal curse. That's a good good insight. Stars die, right. God's not going to have things go poof and die in the new heaven and the new earth. Yeah, excellent. There's another thought I had, just kind of scientific mind going. We look at distant galaxies with a telescope, and we can see star death through the telescope that they claim happened a great long time ago I'm not going to argue at this point, though I could, about the distant starlight problem and the age of the universe. But the point being is that if you were to set up a telescope From God's vantage point in heaven. And zero in on earth, you would have a continuous record in all directions, if you could zoom in closely enough of all the sinful activities that have occurred on this planet since the beginning of time. That's actually still Emanating in space. The record of all wars, sinful acts, deeds, all of that is still emanating through the light waves through the universe. It's unclean. It's got a record of bad memories, and it's there. You and I can't assemble it, but God obviously can see it, and it's an offense to him. That's my reasoning. Now you can change it, take it, or leave it. Job says the stars are not pure in his sight. All of that illuminating light, shedding further information. So stars are not pure, that heaven goes to. You read in Matthew 24, 29, and Revelation 6. 13, the same basic teaching as well. You don't have to turn there and read it. Jesus speaking of the of his coming, he says, after the tribulation of those days, the sun shall be darkened, the moon shall not give her light, and the stars shall fall from heaven. falling in the sense of failing, they're dying, they're they're they're they're crashing, they're they're they're just and the powers of the heavens shall be shaken. Revelation 6. 13, the stars of heaven fell unto the earth, even as a fig tree cast her untimely figs when she is shaken of a mighty wind. So that's the second heaven. The third heaven is the place, of course, where God dwells. It's immovable. It's also a place from where the wrath of God is emanating. It comes from there, so I don't think that's being reconfigured. God's not going to do a makeover in heaven. Uh our sin did not affect that per se. That's God's presence that is God himself, I believe. Deuteronomy 4 says, the Lord He is God in heaven above, and Romans 118 says Paul speaks of the wrath of God revealed from heaven. He is the one that's emanate that's the source of it. He emanates that. And the point is this. You know, now that Jesus Christ has come, we have the fulfillment of the old. He is the messenger, the mediator, the man behind the new covenant, the new testament. We have one key promise left remaining, that of Jesus' return. That's fundamentally that open promise remaining. Now what's interesting here is there's no mention of a rebuilt earthly tabernacle. There's no Other promise of end-time significance highlighted here in Hebrews. I mean, think about it. This is specifically an epistle written to Jews Believing Jews, you would think if you wanted to encourage them, hey, hang on to your Jewishness. You don't have to abandon that. You don't have to abandon your your traditions of Moses, because there's going to be a new tabernacle rebuilt, and so hang on to that. No, the warning is the opposite It's we've gone from the tribe of Levi to the priesthood of Melchizedek, an eternal priesthood. We've gone from an earthly tabernacle of signs, shadows, types, and figures to the New Testament temple. And the only temp temple the New Testament knows about is the body of believers. Paul says, ye are the temple of the living God. There's a big shift. And now we get to this warning in Hebrews Which plainly tells us that I am going to shake everything. There's a big shaking coming. Now how do you clean a rug? What's a really good way to clean a rug? What do you think? This this rug that I have here, this red rug, I've got it tacked down, but it doesn't have to be. Some solvent, some sort of it first. Yeah, shake it first. I take it outside with a stick and I hold it up and you just beat it. Some things you s Yeah, it's what you used to do, right? You just take it and beat it. You just beat it and beat it and beat it and shake it and you know I tell you That's uh there's a great illustration I came across today because that's exactly the illustration God gives to you and I when he talks about this shaking. It's phenomenal. Go to the book of Job. I hope I haven't lost it in here. You've got to go to the book of Job, chapter 38, and verse 13. And maybe Gabe can pull that up for us. I love this verse that I discovered Boy, what an illustration you've got here. Job 38 and verse 13. And we read this. This is the Lord answering Job And he's asking him questions, and I'm just going to focus on the latter part of this question. He's talking about, have you commanded the morning, verse 13, that it might take hold of the ends of the earth. So apparently the earth has ends It's got two handles to it. He's going to grab it, he says, that the wicked might be shaken out of it. Can you imagine? What kind of a shaking that is? God grabs the ends of the earth When you think about the size of those hands, uh it says he the nations are like a drop in the bucket. He takes the ears of the earth and he's going to shake the wicked right out of it. What an illustration. What a phenomenal illustration And so this is the expectation the believers have coming. There is a great shaking. Many are praying for another great awakening. I think I'm praying for a great shaking. That's going to be the solution to it because it's going to rid us of all the wicked Uh and and off they go. And so, you know, the question is, are you ready for the for the great shaking? Are you ready? I remember when those towers came down on 9-11 There was a real sense of fear that came upon me and and and I wasn't alone. There was a great but those are just two buildings. Yes, large buildings. I certainly couldn't build them, couldn't design them, couldn't even make a model of them that would stand up Uh but that was fearful. Can you imagine if they all fall down? Can you imagine if terra firma cracks up? Can you imagine the dirt on which your house rests is liquidated and it's just all is collapsing Are you ready for that? When Jesus returns, that's what he's talking about. I shake not only earth, but heaven also. You know, Elon Musk, the brilliant mind that we have, who's come up with things such as um Uh I think he started PayPal, turned it over and another guy, then he went and did uh SpaceX and then he did Tesla and he's picked up some made some battery companies. He's got another business he started, I forget. He's currently in X doing all kinds of fascinating things. Starlink. He's tying all this because he's trying to set up the processes for interplanetary travel. He wants to populate Mars because he's thinking Earth is doomed. Note to Elon. No refuge in Mars. These guys coming to shake heaven and earth. Your refuge can be found right here. It's not far away that you should go to heaven and retrieve it. It's nigh unto thee. The word is in thy mouth. Believe in thy heart that Jesus is the God, is the Christ, the Messiah, the one to come. You'll be saved. That's the solution. You know, turn to 2 Peter 3. 10. We looked at it last week. It's worthy of looking at again. 2 Peter 3, one of my favorite passages in all scripture. Where God says in that third chapter. Second Peter three and verse ten, just a marvelous section of scripture. He says the The day of the Lord will come as a thief in the night, in the which the heavens shall pass away with a great noise, and the elements shall melt with fervent heat, the earth also and the works that are therein shall be burned up. That's a mighty big shaking. Prior to 1940, I don't think anybody looking at this would say that that doesn't make any sense. I mean we we can put a bunch of Firewood together. Uh what's the hottest burning wood, Joey, that you know of? Uh it's not oak. There's another type that burns hotter than oak. Ashwers Ash burns pretty. I think locusts would burn you can't even start a fire with locusts. It has to have oak to start it before the locusts will burn. Very very hot. I've lost two fireplace glass windows in my former fireplace because of burning locusts it gets so hot it'll shatter the glass and I decided that there's something called transparent ceramic you can use which has a higher temperature. But I'm off track. They could have not thought what would melt the earth. It says the elements will melt with fervent heat. Think atomic elements. Oh, well now we know. It's called nuclear explosions. We understand that there actually is a way for the elements to become unstable and you have a nuclear explosion. That can actually happen. Einstein stole somebody else's equation and refined it and called it E equals Mc squared. He was not the inventor of that, by the way. He just popularized it And so we understand that there's a connection between mass and energy. And there's a tremendous releasing of it when God comes, because he right now, Freddie, upholds all things by the word of his power And he's got one word left to unhold. Right now he's saying hold together, and it's staying that way. It's not, and he's going to come and say, vaporize. One word. I don't know if that's the word he's going to use, but all he's gonna say and then there's a tremendous melting A tremendous shaking. There's a shaking because of all this energy release. It's actually going to happen. Where's your place of refuge when that happens? You're not making it to Mars in time. You can't launch. You can't where are you going to go? Your body is vaporized And so we keep reading and we think about what that might happen, what would would go on. I will answer that question. Hebrews points to this specific Old Testament promise, which turns out the shaking of heaven and earth is actually a common theme in the Old Testament. But the penman in epistles says he focuses on a particular phrase, yet this phrase wants more. Well, there's only one place in Scripture where that phrase is tied to the shaking of heaven and earth, this yet once more. Turn to the book of Matthew, back up eight pages to get to the obscure, short Old Testament book of Haggai. Hagei? Mm-hmm. Hage-eye. I pronounce it hage-i. It may be pronounced hage eye. I I I don't know. This is one time when your electronic uh Bible will come in handy The book of Haggai. He's just before Zechariah, if you happen to hit Zechariah. There's actually some debate as to when Haggai. the prophet wrote his prophecy. And I won't get into that now because it actually doesn't matter. Because Hebrews says, this promise yet once more is applicable to us right now. It's an open promise on the books. Alright? That's the point. It's an open promise on the books. And you read in verse 6 of Haggai chapter 2, the following, For thus saith the Lord of hosts, yet once, that's our point from Hebrews 12, yet once more, yet once. It is a little while. And I will shake the heavens and the earth and the sea and the dry land, and I will shake all nations. And the desire of all nations shall come. Oh yes. The only way all nations will have that one desire is that out of every tribe, kindred, tongue, and nation there will be God's people. There will be those of whom he has become their Savior. Those are the ones that were looking for him, that love his appearing. The desire of all nations shall come, and I will fill this house with glory, saith the Lord of hosts. Now, we'll talk about what that house is in a moment. He says, the silver is mine and the gold is mine, saith the Lord of hosts. That's interesting. It just kind of Tucked into the middle there like out of place. And then he goes in verse 9 and says this, the glory of this latter house shall be greater than of the former, saith the Lord of hosts. And in this place, in this place, in this house that survived the shaking, I will give peace, saith the Lord of hosts. So Hagai's promise is referencing historically a soon-to-be rebuilt tabernacle. Cyrus has issued his edict Israel would come back. They would rebuild and have it started in 520 B. C. , right around 516 B. C. So this is approximately 520 historically But it's interesting because he says once more, I'm shaking it all. My glory is going to fill this house because my peace is there. The gold and silver are mine So God through this obscure prophecy, and that's how all Old Testament prophecies are, they're obscure, they're dark, we see through glass darkly, says But we're given great insight from the book of Hebrews because it's applicable there to us now. We're not looking at a tabernacle that exists. Oh, but yes I am. I'm looking at the temple of the living God. We are the tabernacle of God. We're the place of God. It's the people of God where His peace and His rest dwells. And so It doesn't frankly matter when the book of Joel is dated because the dispensationalists prefer a date of 800 B. C. There's really little evidence for it. Turns out the key verses I think Hagi 2. 3 when it refers to the Greeks making slaves of the Judeans. And that really wasn't happening. That really wasn't a thing until much later. But the point is this, it's referring to our generation, and the impact is going to be far more catastrophic than one structure. It's cosmic in scope. It's not related to one building. He's shaking it all. And it's one glorious temple, the body of believers, the temple of the saints, that's going to be preserved. That's the once more that he ties with Hegi. Now what are these things that are made that are going to be shaken versus the things that cannot be shaken by God? I mean, if you ask me, You know, what can God do anything? You ask a little kid, well God can do anything. You know, and I would say that's a pretty safe answer, sweetie. Absolutely, God can do anything Actually, there are several things God can't do. Number one, he can't lie. God cannot lie. And God can't shake certain things. There are some things God cannot shake, because it's not possible to shake them. They're immovable. They're made in his image. They're redeemed by his son. They're secured by the blood of his son. They're untouchable. That would be his people. They're in his hand. He who touches you, he says, touches the apple of my eye. God's not going to grab himself by the ears, if God has ears, like you and I do, and shake himself. It's not going to happen So what are these things that are shaped? Things that are made are those that are all created in Genesis 1. You read the whole scope of it. Everything from From the earth, the dirt, the water, light itself, light can be shaken all the way to the very fabric of the human being. Things which cannot be shaken, therefore, are things that have to have an eternal existence. They're eternal in nature. And you and I would say, well, they have eternal life. They abide, they live, they dwell forever. That can't be shaken. So It turns out that things that can't be shaken have a totally different set of properties to them, which gets back to my original opening question. The difference between a rock and a frog in the forest is there's two totally separate Different set of properties. The frog is so much more advanced over that rock, it's just got a totally different set of properties. If a fire begins to sweep through the forest and there's that frog sitting next to a rock, the frog isn't going to sit there, he's going to feel the heat He's going to detect it coming, and he's going to move. He's going to go to his hole, a place of safety. So it is with living things when God returns. You and I right now are hearing the warning. I hope you feel the heat. I hope you see the pressure, the urgency, the sound. It's a trumpet sound, and I hope it's not an unclear trumpet sound that there is a great shaking coming and you cannot escape in the flesh. I don't care how many guns you have, horses, I don't care how deep your bunker is. When the globe is gone, and God's able to do that, because he spoke it into existence, where do you flee? What is your place of refuge? And the answer is you need to be born again. You have to have a soul that can endure. You have to have a God who resurrects. You have to have a hope and a home and a citizenship and a license to get into heaven. That's how you endure the great shaking that's coming. And this illustration in Scripture of these two totally different categories of truly living things and really dead things is illustrated so many ways I'll just give you a few of them. And you know these. You know these. The wheat versus the chaff. You've heard that. It's in Matthew. John the Baptist came and spoke of the coming Messiah, whose fan is in his hand. He will thoroughly purge his floor and gather his wheat. into the garner, but he will burn up the chaff with what? Unquenchable fire. A fire that doesn't stop. They're going to be destroyed. They're going to face a great shaking. You say fire doesn't shake. I've got a great story for you My dad was a little nuts. He was a firebug. We used to have live Christmas trees. They weren't very big. We had a small house, so we didn't get You know, these six foot monsters, four or five foot, nice little tree. I didn't care how big the tree was, as long as there were pretty shiny wrap things underneath it, that was great. One year Tad decided to dispose of the fire tree. Yes, you guessed it. He shoved it right up the chimney of the fireplace and he lit it. The house shook. I never felt So much movement. My mother was aghast. What are you doing? You're gonna burn the house down. He probably could have. First and last time. One little Christmas tree shook the house So yes, fire can shake when a forest really gets going. You can feel the heat. There's a rumbling to it Can you imagine the fire of his wrath coming as the elements are melting the fervent heat? What kind of a shaking that could be Moe shaking with a fire is it removes oxygen. There's that backward secondary Whatever it is, it's a real shaking. Yeah. Turn to 1 Corinthians chapter 3. There's another illustration of things that are made because it ties in nicely to Hegai's prophet uh prophecy rather in that second chapter. 1 Corinthians 3. 12 is our next passage, and uh we're going to be in Corinthians for one more verse and then we'll wrap it up. First Corinthians three and verse twelve. The Lord speaks about another comparison of of things that are made uh at things which can't be shaken. And in particular, shaken by fire, if you will. It says this in 1 Corinthians 3. Now if any man build upon this foundation, and he's already said who the foundation is, the foundation is Jesus Christ. If any man build upon this foundation gold, silver, precious stones, and then there's another group, another set, wood. hay and stubble. I'm sure it's finely carved wood. I'm sure it's stained, plained, uh plain, then stained, you know, nicely uh laminated Wood, haste double, every man's work shall be manifest. For the day, the day, there's one big day in view here, and that's the day of his return, shall declare it, because it shall be revealed by fire Yeah, in this room, in my audience, whether local or out abroad, there's gold, silver, precious stones, and there's wood, hay, and stubble. I cannot tell None of us have a big E on our forehead that says elect, or a big 666 on your head that says not elect. I don't know they are. God knows. And it'll be revealed. It'll be made manifest very plain to all. You simply burn it You can't burn gold. Oh, it may come out of shape, but it's still intact. It's an inert metal. You can't do it with silver. In fact, burning it purifies it of all things. A precious stone. A precious stone is formed under great pressure and in intense heat and fire. That's how you get diamonds and amethysts and all these marvelous minerals. They're not in sedimentary rocks. They're in igneous rocks. They're in things of high pressure, depth, temperature, heat, darkness, obscurity, pressure. Why am I under so much pressure? God's forming a stone, a precious stone, right? It hurts, okay, but you're a precious stone. You're going to endure the fire. And this is a description of the people of God versus the things of the world. They have no hope. Two different characteristics. Two different characteristics. There's another one in 1 Corinthians 15, the Apostle Paul gives, oh I'm sorry, Rick, yeah, you had a comment? Oh this is a little bit off topic, but in terms of the golden silver, one thing I always think about is the golden silver has retained its value uh since forever essentially and the reason that it's retained its value as opposed to like man made government currencies Because we can make more dollars, we can make more yen, whatever at whatever pace we want, but there is no way to make more gold sold. Excellent observation. Yep. That's uh I hadn't thought about that enduring aspect. It's something that's not made. Yeah, that's right. You can't You either find it or you don't. Good, good comment, thank you. First Corinthians fifteen forty nine, there's another illustration. So there's wheat and there's chaff I won't say chaff, it's chaff. Uh gold, silver, precious stone versus wood, hand, stubble. Then there's earthly or flesh versus heavenly heavenly, like you know, stars or light or where God himself is. First Corinthians fifteen forty-nine says this As we have borne the image of the earthy, we shall also bear the image of the heavenly That heaven that can't be shaken. We're we're assimilated into God's very character and nature. It says we're partakers of the divine Godhead. I don't know how that works out, folks. It's Eyes not seen. This I say, brethren, flesh and blood cannot inherit the kingdom of God, neither does corruption inherit incorruption. That's another property of the child of God. He's incorruptible. Oh my glory. Wonderful. Can't be corrupted. Viruses come. Kind of have you ever seen a sick bar of gold that got a virus Was the gold wearing a mask during COVID? No. It's incorruptible. That's you, if you're a believer in Jesus Christ. If you're born of his spirit, if he dwells in you, incorruptible. We live in a body of corruption and it's decaying. So there's also the illustration of darkness versus light, what communion hath light with darkness Uh you know that that's another illustration. You can't destroy light. You can't. The only way you stop the light is you cover up the source. And this is what we see in our Bottom line is this, a great shaking, a great separation is coming. It's called the day of the Lord and the final harvest. And our God knows how to care for you and I. He knows how to put your feet on real solid ground, that you can't be moved. You're not going to be really moved by the real threat that's coming. Forget stock market crash. That'll happen. I'm not worried about it. My God's got this. Health concerns, glory, hallelujah. To be absent of the bodies to be present with the Lord. It ain't that bad. Car wreck, boy, take me out quick. That'd be nice. You name it We really ought not to fear death as a believer, because we've been placed in a far greater, far more secure place. You know, all that happens here and now works to reprove the world of sin, of righteousness, and of judgment. And so we're simply being conformed to his image one step at a time. A great shaking. A great shaking. I like the illustration of the rub being shaken. That's an enduring one for you. All right, we'll close it out there. Would you mind closing this in prayer, brother? Thank you Gracious Father, Lord, we thank you that you're controlling all of this. Lord, as our brother has said, Lord, that we don't fear these things Father, we thank you, Lord, that you are the Alpha and the Omega. You know the end from the beginning. And Lord, we look at our one uh second of time and our concern with so many things. But Lord, we thank you that uh our God sitteth in the heavens, whether you you rule in the affairs of man. And Lord indeed, uh you did shake this earth to its core in revealing your son. And Lord, you will indeed shake it again. Um as was already mentioned, that you will create a new heaven and a new earth, wherein dwelleth righteousness. And we thank you for these things. Father bless us this day. May you open our ears to hear thy word, open our understanding to receive it. And Lord, may we uh be profited by the study and the consideration of thy truth. In Jesus' name. Amen. Amen.