Turn in your Bibles with me, please, this morning to the 22nd Psalm, Psalm 22 We read for our responsive reading from Isaiah 53 and then looked to Psalm 22 for our scripture reading this morning. These two passages together have brought great conviction to many children of Abraham in the flesh. Who through these glorious prophecies have found themselves to be children of Abraham by faith as well. And they stand as a rebuke to Israel that rejected their Messiah. Psalm 22, and I'll read the entire Psalm My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me? Why art thou so far from helping me and from the words of my roaring? O my God, I cry in the daytime. But thou hearest not, and in the night seasons and am not silent. But thou art holy, O thou that inhabitest the praises of Israel Our fathers trusted in thee. They trusted, and thou didst deliver them. They cried unto thee and were delivered. They trusted in thee and were not confounded. But I am a worm and no man, a reproach of men, and despised of the people. All they that see me laugh me to scorn, they shoot out the lip, they shake the head, saying He trusted on the Lord that he would deliver him. Let him deliver him, seeing he delighted in him. But thou art he that took me out of the womb. Thou didst make me to hope when I was upon my mother's breast. I was cast upon thee from the womb, for thou art my God, from my mother's belly. Be not far from me For trouble is near, for there is none to help. Many bulls have compassed me about, strong bulls of Bashan have beset me round about. They gaped upon me with their mouth as raving and roar as a raving and a roaring lion. I am poured out like water. All my bones are out of joint. My heart is like wax. It is melted in the midst of my Bowels. My strength is dried up like a pot shirt, and my tongue cleaveth to my jaws, and thou hast brought me into the dust of death. For dogs have compassed the sun me, the assembly of the wicked have enclosed me, they pierced my hands and my feet. I may tell all my bones, they look and stare upon me. They parted my garments among them, and cast lots upon my vesture. Be not thou far from me, O Lord, O my strength, haste thee to help me. Deliver my soul from the sword and my darling from the power of the dog. Save me from the lion's mouth. For thou hast heard me from the horns of the unicorn. I will declare thy name unto my brethren. In the midst of the congregation will I praise thee. Ye that fear the Lord, praise him All ye that seek Jacob, glorify him, and fear him, all ye seed of Israel. For he hath not despised nor abhorred the affliction of the afflicted, neither hath he hid his face from him. But when he cried unto him, he heard, My praise shall be of thee in the great congregation. I will pay my vows before them that fear him The meek shall eat and be satisfied. They shall praise thee the Lord that seek him. Your heart shall live forever. All the ends of the earth shall remember and return unto the Lord And all the kindred of the nations shall worship before him. For the kingdom is the Lord's, and he is the governor among the nations. All they that be fat upon the earth shall eat and worship All they that go down to the dust shall bow before him, and none can keep alive his own soul. A seed shall serve him. It shall be a counter to the Lord for a generation. They shall come and shall declare his righteousness unto a people that shall be born, that he hath done this. Let us bow for prayer. Great God and our Heavenly Father, as we approach your word today, and then approach the table of the Lord. Father, we pray that you would open our understanding to your word, enrich us, edify us, bless us by thy word. May we be convicted of our own sin and seek genuine repentance before thy throne. And then, Lord, as we partake of the Lord's table, may we do so in purity of heart. May we do so in remembrance of Christ. May we do so, Lord, as an example to our young people. May they understand And Lord, may their eyes be turned to the great Redeemer and Messiah that we remember in this Lord's Supper. And Father, we pray these things in Jesus' name. Amen. When we come to the suffering of Christ And the remembrance of the Lord's table, and it is a joy to partake of the Lord's table today. It's the first time together in a new congregation. But as we partake of the Lord's table, we do this in remembrance of Christ and we think of his sacrifice. But this morning I would like to take a little bit of a different approach or different view of the sacrifice of Christ. And it's one that uh until recent weeks I had never really contemplated. Myself, and I'm just beginning in my own study to examine this consideration. But I would like us to consider the sacrifice of Christ. From the father's perspective. And we find in this passage, first of all, the birth of a son And if you look down the verses 9 and 10, there David, but prophetically Jesus Christ, our Messiah, declares, but thou art he that took And thou didst make me to hope when I was upon my mother's breast. I was cast upon thee from the womb. Thou art my God from my mother's belly. Many of us here have had the joy of welcoming a child into the world. And some of us have had the joy of welcoming a son into the world, and I believe there are some here who hope for that joy someday. The birth of a child is a joyous event And here Christ is prophetically saying that it was Jehovah that delivered him. It was Jehovah that took him out of his mother's womb. womb and as an infant, as a child he rejoiced in his Savior. We think of Christ at twelve years old in the temple when he's disputing with the doctors, but he was the son of God the moment he was born, because he was the son of God the moment he said, Let there be light, and there was light. He is the eternal son. And yet, when we find Christ born, God declares in Hebrews, and let all the angels of God worship him, bow down before him. And the angels declared at his birth, glory to God in the highest, and on earth peace, goodwill toward men. Here, Jehovah is bringing to birth on earth his own son. It was not the beginning of his son, his son also Always was. He is eternally God. And yet, here Mary is holding in her arms the very Son of God, and God the Father says, Worship him. Bow down before him. He is my son. And we know the pride of a father in his son. The joy that a father has when a son is born. God has blessed me with three And I remember when my first son was born, I was in Jamaica and I called my mother and I said, Mom, I have a son Mm-hmm. And I kinda emphasized sun and she said, that was pretty important to you that was a sun, wasn't it? I said, Yeah, it is. I I delight In my son. It's the light of my daughter, too. But this is the delight of the Father and the Son. God so loved the world. that he came his son. And so we find first of all that Christ is the Son of God. Without controversy, great is the mystery of God than this God was manifest in the flesh. But we also find that Christ is the flesh. Father's darling. Jehovah delivered Christ, took him from the womb. But then he is called his darling. Look with me at verse 20. Psalm twenty-two Deliver my soul from the sword, my darling from the power of the Dog. Now, many translations don't translate this word as darling. They translate it as his precious life. But if we look comparing scripture with scripture at this word that Psalm twenty-two 220 has as darling, the word actually means only my precious one. My only one. Let me give you a few other references. In Genesis 22, verse 2, God tells Abraham Take thy son, thine only son. That only is the same word darling. It's not talking about his life, it's talking about the individual. And so many translations try to make this his precious life. Protect my precious life from the doll. No, in Genesis Genesis 22. 2, it is his son. Genesis 22, 12. Again God tells Abraham, take thy only son, same word. In Judges 11, 34, where um Jephthah makes his foolish vow, Jephthah says to God, if you will deliver the children of Israel from From the Ammonites, whatever first comes out of my house, that will be an offering to you. And it says that the first to come out of his house was his only daughter, but it's the same way Only. In Proverbs 4, verse 3, for I was my father's son, tender and only beloved. And there are there are several more, and I won't go through all of them. I can give them to you later if you would like to have them. But here in Psalm 22, verse 20. When Christ prophetically through the voice of David cries, protect my darling from the power of the dog. It is the same word in the Septuagint that we find in John 3. 16, for God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten son. In the Septuagint preceded the birth of Christ by 200 to 300 years. And so the KJV's got it right here. This darling is referring to Christ himself. Now, why have I spent the last three or four minutes focusing in on that? Because Jesus Christ was his father's darling. He loved the Son dearly. We don't often think about that when we think about the crucifixion. We think about Christ offering himself, but here God has sent his darling. He has sent the one that he dearly loved to be the sacrifice for sin. And so again the Septuagint, the Greek Old Testament, uses the same word here. in Psalm 22, 20 that we find in John 3. 16. He was this father's darling. But also we find We find in this psalm that Jesus Christ, who is the offering for sin, was the Father's delight. Look at verse 8. Here the mockers say of Christ in Psalm twenty-two eight He trusted on Jehovah, or he trusted on the Lord, that he would deliver him. Let him deliver him, seeing he He delighteth in him. The mockers say, Oh, yeah, you say Jehovah your father delights in you. Where is your daddy now? We've all heard of situations where someone has had a very powerful father And the Father has protected the Son, and people were afraid to touch the Son lest they anger the Father. But then the Father dies and well where's your father now? And that is basically what the Jews were saying to the Messiah. Where's your father now? But Jesus Christ was the one in In whom the Father delighted. In Proverbs 8, we find Christ speaking in the voice of wisdom, and he says, I was daily my father's. Delight. I will declare the decree, thou hast said unto me, Thou art my son, this day have I begotten thee. And lo, a voice from heaven saying, This is my beloved son. in whom I am well pleased. I've mentioned several times the delight we take in our children. But unfortunately, I don't think any of us can ever say that we are always pleased with our children. Because our children do things that displease us. And yet Christ always pleased the Father. And so we see, first of all, in this great psalm, that God the Father delivered his son. His son was his darling. He had great delight in Christ. Oh, what sacrifice. God the Father made on behalf of his children that he would love us so much. That he would send his son, not to come in as a conquering king to deliver us, but rather to come as A suffering savior. Rather to come to shed his own blood to be the final sacrifice. So we consider the father's sorrow. The father's only son was rejected by Man. It was the creation. It was man who God created to reject The only son of God. And again, how it hurts a father's heart when his earthly son is rejected Here David in the voice of Christ, or Christ in the voice of David, is saying, I'm a worm and no man. Verse 6, despise the people. Verse 7, they laugh me to scorn. They shoot out the lips Look at this one. Ah, he is worthless. He says he's the son of God. He says that he is the conquering king. And look at him hanging on the cross with Jesus, the King of the Jews, written over his head. Who is this one? And how How such blasphemy grieves the heart of the Father. How such blasphemy must bring anger within And yet, how many men today still make the same mockery? We will not have this joy one to rule over us. We want not this Jesus. No one is the ruler of me. I can do what I want to do. I can live my life, my life, the way I want to live it. And it's a mockery against the sacrifice of Christ. They shoot out the lip. And such great sacrifice as was made by our Savior. He is despised and rejected of men, we read. He came into his own, we read in John 1, and his own received him not. This is the condemnation that light is come into the world and men love darkness rather than light. Oh the great sorrow, the great sorrow slash wrath of God the Father upon us The wicked, upon those who will not receive Him, upon those that shake their fist in the face of God But oh what a wonder. What a wonder that God so loved the world, men of all nations, men of all races, men of all tongues, that he gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth. And by God's eternal love, I am a whosoever. In God's great mercy Though his wrath is poured out on those that shake their head and say he trusted in God. Let God deliver him now. Get his mercy. Given to those who believe. Ah, what grace! But what sorrow. Against the Father. And the Psalm goes on. Look at verse 12. Many bulls have compassed me around Strong bulls of Bashan have beset me roundabout. In other words, the mighty of this world, the Herods and the Pilots, and the chief priests and the Pharisees raised against him strong bulls of Bashan. Bashan was an area of lush grass where the bulls grew strong and mighty. And they raged against him. They gaped upon me with their mouths as a raving and roaring lion who walks about seeking. I am poured out like water, the last vestige of human strength is taken from his son when your son is sick. Oh, how our heart And anybody who has a sick child has known the agony of heart when your heart says, I would rather it be me sick than the child. And yet here we find the very Son of God poured out like water, dried up like a pot shirt, like a broken piece of dried out pottery for we It says there in verse 15 that thou hast brought me into the dust of death. Isn't that an amazing phrase? Man came from dust. Here the Son of God is brought into the dust of death. Sit the serpent because of his his temptation of Eve was cursed to eat of the dust. He was growing his belly all his days. And here the Messiah says, I'm brought in to the dust. The dust of death. Look at verse 29. All they that be fat upon the earth shall eat and worship. All they that go down to the dust shall bow before him Ah, Christ, our Messiah, was taken into the dust of death. Every one of us will go to the dust. Some will go to dust in death, both physical and spiritual. Spiritual. Others will go to death in physical, but are crucified with Christ. And so I died with him. And though this body may go to dust, My soul is his because of that which he was doing for me. And so Christ was brought into the dust of death, but he would not see corruption. Verse 16 says, For the dogs have compassed me about, the assembly of the wicked have enclosed me round about. Verse seventeen, I may tell all my bones, they look and stare upon me Think about that verse. And sitting down we read in Matthew, they watched it there. They look upon Christ But what is his state when they stare upon him? They stare upon him with indignation and mockery. Oh, look what we've done to the miracle worker. And if I be lifted up, I will draw all men unto me. That very staring upon him was their own rebuke. For that lifting up was the comparison to the serpent of Moses. As Moses lifted up the serpent in the wilderness, so must the Son of Man be lifted up. And so they sat there and stared at him on the cross. But we look to him on the cross and live. We look to him on the cross with great joy. Looking on the Jesus, the author and the finisher of our faith. So we look to him. A part of his garments. In Matthew twenty one We have what is referred to as the parable, the householder. And there the householder planted a vineyard and he hedged it round about and he digg a wine press for it. And when the time of the harvest came, he sent his servants to bring to him the harvest. And they took the servants and they beat one, and they killed another, and they stoned another. And last of all, we find there in Matthew 21 that the householder sends his own son, and he says, surely, surely they will reverence the son. But when the husband saw the son, they said among themselves, This is the heir. Come, let us kill him, and let us seize his inheritance. And they caught him and cast him out of the vineyard and slew him. Matthew twenty-one verse forty. When the Lord therefore the vineyard cometh, what will he do unto those husbandmen? Ah, so Christ, Christ is the Son. God the Father is the husbandman. What wrath, what wrath must be upon them. But not only do we find the father witnessing the rejection of his son But wonder of wonders, we find the father turned his own back on his son. What would it take For me to no longer love my son? What would it take to turn away from my son? Oh, our children disappoint us and they may anger us, but they're still Still our children. But here we find God the Father turning his back on the Son. My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me? David, when he uttered those words in his own frustration, uttered them in confusion. Why do I not see God in my troubles. But Christ, when he utters that statement, is not asking God the Father a question. My God, my God, what Why hast thou forsaken me? But rather he is, and this isn't from the Greek, this is just my own perception of the verse, but rather he's declaring, why is it? Well, It is because of my sin. Christ knew exactly is the point I'm trying to make, if you understand me, Christ knew exactly why the Father was turning his back. He was not asking a question for My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me? Because of the sins of these people. Because of those for whom Christ was dying. Verse nineteen Be not far thou far from me, O Lord, my uh O Lord, my strength. Haste to help me, deliver my soul from the sword, and my garling from the power of the dog, or the power of the Jew. Save me from the lion's mouth, for thou hast heard me from the horn of the unicorn. And the unicorn there is most likely a rhinoceros. You picture someone running across the savannah of Africa with a rhinoceros and a horn two inches from his back about to be speared and trampled. But Christ says, deliver me from the horn of the unicorn. But then we come finally to the sacrifice. And here I'd like us to turn back to Genesis 22. I alluded to the same word being used in Psalm 22 for only that is used in Genesis Genesis 22. But look with me at Genesis 22 and let me read a few selected verses from Genesis 22 as we go. Consider the Father's sacrifice. Genesis 22:1, and it came to pass after those things that God did tempt Abraham and said unto him, Abraham, and he said, Behold, here I am And he said, Take now thy son, thine only son, whom thou lovest, and get thee into the land of Moriah, and offer him there for a burnt offering upon one of the mountains Which I will tell thee of. Then go down to verse 10. And Abraham stretched forth his hand and took the knife to slay his son. And the angel of the Lord called him out of heaven and said, Abraham, Abraham! And he said, Here I am. And he said, Lay not thine hand upon the lad. Neither do thou anything unto him. For now I know that thou fearest God, seeing thou hast not withheld thy son, thine only son, from me. Verse fifteen. And the angel of the Lord called unto Abraham out of heaven the second time, and said, By myself have I sworn, saith the Lord, for because thou hast done this thing, and hast not withheld thy son, thine only son. That in blessing I will bless thee, and in multiplying I will multiply thee. Thy seed shall be as the stars of heaven, and as the sand which is upon the seashore, and all thy se Seashore, and thy seed shall possess the gates of his enemies, and in thy seed shall all the nations of the earth be blessed, because thou hast obeyed My voice. And so we have in Genesis twenty-two God telling Abraham to sacrifice his only son, and that only Son again is the same word darling that we have there in Psalm 22. And yet what is the difference in the two sons? Abraham's son was spared. Jehovah's son was not For Abraham's son, there was a substitute, but Jehovah's son was the substitute. And so Abraham, in great faith, but I believe in great sorrow climbed the mountain. And willingly bound his son and put his own son on the altar and drew back the knife and was ready to plunge the knife into his own son, and God said, not stop. You've showed your faith. And that Christ in the garden. Leads before the Father. If it be possible, let this clock pass from me. If there be another substitute, yet not as I will, but thy will be done Oh, we think of the sacrifice that Jesus made. But what of the sacrifice that the Father made For God so loved the world that He gave His only begotten son, that same word darling from Psalm 22 in the Septuagint. He gave His only begotten son. Whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life. Romans eight thirty-two He that spared not his own son He spared Abraham's son, but he spared not his own son. And then we see sorrow in the father over his son Yet, we dare not rest the scriptures by ignoring what we read in Isaiah 53. And yet it pleased the Lord to bruise him. He, that's the Father, hath put him to open shame Ah, it would not have pleased Abraham to give his son. It did not please David when Absalom died. It did not please David when his infant son died. And yet we find that it pleased the Lord. The Lord took pleasure in the sacrifice. Jehovah took pleasure. In sacrificing his son. That word please means to determine to do it. It means that it is done by the eternal counsel of God It means that God the Father took delight in it. He was glorified by it, and it affected our salvation. We see how the father was grieved at the rebuke of his son. He was grieved at the bulls of Hashan that came against Christ. And how the Father's heart must have yearned for the Son, who was always his delight. And yet it Pleased him to bruise him. It pleased God the Father to give his son for us. Oh, what wrath there must be. Oh, what condemnation is upon the world The man that says I'm not so bad. I'm a pretty good person. I'm kind. I'm honest. I'm generous How could a loving God send me to hell? A loving God sends you to hell because he loves his son and because he hates sin. To reject Christ is to shoot out the lip and to say he trusted in God. Let him deliver him now. And so it pleased the Lord to bruise our Messiah. Christ prayed in the garden. If it be possible, let's This cup passed from me. In Matthew 26, verse 27, it says, And he took the cup and gave thanks and gave it to them, saying, Drink ye all of it, for this is my blood of the New Testament. Which is shed for many for the remission of sins. And in John 8. 18, then Jesus said unto Peter, Put up thy so sword into its sheath The cup which my father hath given me shall I not drink of it. And then in Matthew 26, 39 And he went a little further and fell on his face and prayed, saying, O my Father, if it be possible, let this cup pass from me. Nevertheless, not as I will, but thou will thy will be done And then in Psalm 116, verses 12 to 13, but what shall we render unto the Lord for all of his benefits toward me? I will take the cup. Of salvation and call upon the name of the Lord. Today we're going to partake of the cup. And we're going to partake of the bread. We do this in remembrance of Jesus Christ. We sh do this and show his death till he comes. God so loved the world, Jehovah so loved the world that he spared not his own son. He gave his only begotten son. And today we gather here as the children of God because of that sacrifice. But oh dear friends How shall we escape if we neglect so great salvation? Let us stand for prayer