Well, it is a special privilege for me this morning to introduce to you the man who will bring the Word of God to us. Pastor Maggie Scott, uh Welfred Scott, but we all always have known him as Maggie for many years. I met Brother Maggie in 1982 when I was a senior in high school and he was a young man driving a uh public bus there on the island of Jamaica. And we became friends then, and then in God's providence, a few years later, uh after I'd completed college and was married We had the privilege of serving together in Jamaica through many years of summer camps and vacation Bible schools and youth rallies and concerts. We have stood on many stages together, have stood side by side for the cause of the gospel, have had wondrous times of fellowship in prayer. Dear brother, and so we're glad to have Pastor Maggie with us today and his wife Barbara, their two children, Shalil and Sunil. And uh Pastor Maggie is pastoring two churches now in Jamaica. One of the great crises we always have in the church in Jamaica is a lack of men. A lot of children, a lot of ladies, many of them very earnest and very godly, but a lack of men. Uh th Fern when uh Brother Watts, a godly man who served well up into his eighties, became incapacitated, could no longer uh get out of bed. And a young man stepped forward and stepped into the pulpit and became the pastor there. And that young man is the godly man before us today. And so we're glad to have Pastor Maggie with us, Pastor of the Fern Evangelical Methodist Church and the Smithfield Evangelical Methodist Church. He's pastoring two churches currently. Brother Maggie, come bring us the word. We thank the Lord this morning. Thank you the Lord Young. I'm supposed to be here today and we are appreciate your help. We are thankful for everything that you have said and don't you forget to mention that you was my best man at my wedding And you were the first one who took me to Kingston to get my first meet of nineteen ninety. A lot of things there's a lot of things that Pastor Joe McKnight has done for us Alright, let's turn our Bible to 2 Corinthians 5, reading from verse 1 to 21. Alright, I'm gonna be reading. For we know that if our heartly house of this tabernacle were dissolved We have a building of God and house not made with hands, eternal in the heavens. For in this we groan earnestly design to be clothed upon with our host which is from heaven. If so be that being clothed we shall not be found naked. For we that are, for we that are in this tabernacle do groan, because burden then Not all, not for that we would be unclothed, but clothed upon that mortality might be swallowed up of life. Now he that had wrought us for the selfsame thing is God, who also had given unto us the earnest of the Spirit. Therefore, we are always confident, knowing that whilst we are at home in the body, we are absent from the Lord. For we walked not by faith. Nor by sight. For we walk not by faith. For we walk by faith, sorry. For we walk by faith, not by sight. We are confident, I say, and willing rather to be absent from the body and to be present with the Lord. Wherefore we labor that whether present or absent, we may be accepted of Him. For we must all appear before the judgment seat of Christ. that everyone may receive the things done in his body according so that to that he had done, whether it be good or bad. Knowing therefore the terror of the Lord, we persuade men, but we are made manifest unto God. And I trust also are made manifest in your conscience. For we commend not ourselves again unto you. But give you occasion to glory on our behalf, that ye may have somewhat to answer them which glory in appearance and not in heart. For whether we beside ourselves, it is to God. Or whether we be sober, it is for our cause. For the love of Christ constrained us, because we thus judge that if one died for all, then we're all dead. And that he died for all, that they which live should not henceforth live unto themselves, but unto him which died for them and rose again. Wherefore elsewhere know we no man after the flesh. Yea, though we have known Christ after the flesh, yet now elsewhere know we him no more. Therefore, if any man be in Christ, he is a new creature. All things are passed away, behold all things are become new. And all things are of God, who are reconciled us to Himself by Jesus Christ, and are given to us the ministry of reconciliation. To wit but that God was in Christ reconciling the world unto himself, not imputing their chespaces unto them and had committed unto us the word of reconciliation. Now then we are ambassadors for Christ, as though God did beseech you by us. We pray you in Christ's stead, be ye reconciled to God. Verse 21, for he had made him to be sin for us. who knew no sin, that we might be made the righteousness of God in him. Let us pray. Heavenly Father, we pray that you will guide the words today Lord, they are not my words. I'm only a number of servants standing before you. Lord, we pray that the words will go forth. That everybody in this building will learn and be blessed. We thank you, Lord. Amen. I want to bring to you a message of the apostle's motivation. My key verse this morning is verse 14, 5, 14. For the love of Christ constraineth us Because we that thus judge that if one died for all, then we're all dead. I'm going to be asking some questions, but we all need to answer it ourselves to God Pastor Joe just mentioned the time that we have spent in Jamaica, a lot of times. And so it it is Time for God. Now if me a minta could be designed to measure your zeal for Christ, would you submit to its evaluation? Or would you resist? Now you know the answer. Do you live for Christ or do you live to achieve mere earthly goals? Man-made. Man-made definition of success is is your life lived for yourself or for God? What motivates you? The topic today is the apostle's motivation. Now in Jamaica there are some guys that do I don't know if you know about scamming and they will attack the the older folks up here And they will tell you that you win some lottery or some money and you have to send money to clear it. And when you send that money They took it and they buy cars and they build houses and they said that they are stepping up in life. Is that the way for one to step in life? Does that that motivates them? But it is sin because it's a lie they are telling. And so, you know, I'm working so hard that I couldn't buy a car. While they two minutes they can make a lot of money. Today what motivates you while you are in this building, the house of God. Maybe some of you are here because you want to hear me. That's fine. That's fine. But we are motivated by the love of Christ. I am spending now thirty nine forty-nine years since I accepted the Lord. It was in 1974 I gave my heart to God. I was just 16. I knew nothing. But then I asked myself, what are you living for? And at a Bible camp, I gave my heart to God. I was baptized in 1975, the 19th of November. There are some people who said, All right, I'm giving you two weeks. In a minute? Two weeks? No, I am doing what? Forty-nine years. Now we can't guide that is motivation. I am now doing thirty-nine years in the ministry. I remember I started preaching at a very young age, but I remember it was in The the fourteenth of July nineteen um eighty-four. My m m b memory does not work so well. But anyhow, you know, what motivates us? What motivates Pastor Joe and uh uh Miss Penny? It must be something more than money. They came to Jamaica and they did a wonderful job. They encourage me, that's why I'm here today. It's because of the love of Christ which constrained them. And so you can testify today that, you know, you have been, you know, motivated by God Look, you are in such a nice building. Wonderful building. Give God thanks. Because when when John the Baptist started to preach, he didn't have a building in the wilderness. And there you he got so many souls. Also, when Isaiah started to preach, he was naked. What motivated such people? It must be the constraint of God, the love of God. The Apostle Paul suffered many persecution, ultimately martyndom as we do. Yet their zeal never fails. For confess that he suffered the loss of all things for Christ. I'm testify, for to me to live is Christ and to die again. Philippians 1 verse 21 In 2 Corinthians 4, he mentioned his suffering, which is further reported. Let's turn our Bible now to 2 Corinthians. 11. We're going to see all the things that Paul testifies that he went through. And yet Paul he was motivated. Second Corinthians chapter Walking around Europe. Eleven eleven twenty four twenty two Alright, this is what Paul declared that he had to face as a soldier of Christ. He said in verse 22, are they Hebrews? So am I. Are they Israelites? So am I. Are they the seed of Hebron? So am I. Are they ministers of Christ? I speak as a fool. That's what you say. I speak as a fool. I am more in labor, more abundant in strengths. Above measures in prison, more frequent in death often. Have the Jews? Five times received by forty stribes. See what? You can see where the motivation comes. Trice was I beaten. Three times was I beaten with rods Once was I stoned, thrice I suffered shipwreck, a night and a day I have been in the deep In journeys, often in perils, of waters in perils, of rubbers in perils by my own countrymen in perils, by the Eden in perils, in the city, in perils, in the wilderness, in perils, in the sea, in perils, among false brethren. In weariness and painfulness, in watching often in hunger and thirst In fasting often in cold and nakedness. Besides those things that are without, that which cometh upon me daily. But I have the care of all the churches. Paul wasn't doing it for himself. He says, I love the churches. I care for the churches. And so I undergo all this affliction because of the Lord and the churches. Who is weak? And I am not weak. Who is offended and I burnt not? If I must needs glory, I will glory of the things which concerning infirmities The God and the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, which is blessed forevermore, know that I lie not. In Damascus the governor and uh the king kept the city of the Damascene with a garrison desirous to apprehend me. And what they did, he says verse 32, 33. And through a window, in a basket was I let down by the wall and escaped his hand. There was around 40 men who said to quote, they said we're gonna stay by the gate and as soon as he comes through we're gonna kill him And they were his friends. They were his friends. No, because God met him on the way. And his life was changed. Now they become his enemies. When does your friends become your enemy when you turn to God? When you turn to God. And so they took hold. But as you heard, he was he escaped to a window by a cord. My friend, it is for the sake of God. It is for the sake of God. We don't go to church because of church sake. I remember when Pastor Joe leaved Jamaica, he was in charge of Cimitfield. And he we had that bus there that I used to drive. But since they took that bus from me and they sold it, I have no form of transportation. The church was locked up. I went to conference in 2017 and I said, I knew the church. The people loves me. Help me to open the church. How could they help me? Just assist me financially. They decided they're going to give me $100 for one month. I use I took taxi. I didn't have a car. We took taxi my family and I we went there four Sundays a month. Two morning, two evening. And so it must be something special. It must be something special. I would not go to Smithfield, which is around two hours' drive from where I lived. Unless I did not love God. It is the constraint of God. It's the love of Christ. Christ controls us. Oh, mine. And we have such love for one another. The times when we walk off to go to Smithfield and the only thing we had was a little gas in the car. We have no other form of finance. And we take that car and we go to Cemetery and we extend the gospel to them because we know they need the gospel. And so we preach to them and we come back home. Sometimes we are hungry, but it doesn't matter. We are motivated. We are motivated. Paul describing it, the experience that he has been through. He has appearing about in the body the dying of the Lord Jesus Christ. But verse 4 and verse 10. He said, he did not despair, nor was he downcast. It what he was motivated. So what motivates such endurance and zeal? It's not money, because Paul wasn't getting much money. And even though, you know, Paul, God said, I'm gonna put uh uh something on you because of what you have done to me. A tone in your flesh. That means Paul could receive far. He was near sighted. Yet for all he had a seed for God. He was stoned at one place, yet for all the next morning he went back to another place. What motivates such persons? Shouldn't that we have such motivation? There are some people right now that are turning away from God. They don't even go to church. We had so many young people They are demotivated. They are now in the world seeking the things of the world. And so what motivates us as Christians here, it is the love of God. It is the love of God. He acts of zeal and should not that motivate each of us today in self-service for Christ. What Paul has been through, as we have just read, what Paul has been through should motivate us as Christians. Because none of us I would not continue. If it was me, if somebody stoned me uh today and tomorrow I go on back to another place, I wouldn't do it. How many of us would do that? How many of us would suffer? But Paul says, I do this again. So was for the Lord. In chapter 5, Paul cited three motivating forces. First, though, the body is destroyed by suffering for Christ. We have a building. Amen. We have a building of God and else not made with hands eternal in heaven. And the Lord said, and if I go and prepare a place for you, I will come again and receive you unto myself, that where I am, there he may be also. There are times we get despondent and discouraged. When we look around, but there's something that keeps saying, go on. There's better on before. I tell people, I say to people, some people say, Well, there is no God. I said, Let us serve Him that at the day when it's judgment time, if there's no God, we have nothing to lose. But if there's a God, we ought all to lose. So we need to serve God. And so he said the body is destroyed by suffering for Christ. We have a building of a house of God, not made with hands, eternal in heaven. And if I go and prepare a place so you will come again and receive you unto myself, that where I am. They may be also. What a wonderful time it will be when we all get there. Amen. What a wonderful sign. Second, we must all appear before the judgment seat of Christ. That everyone may receive the things done in his body. I always say to folks when I have funerals. I I said to them that God knows something. There's something that God does not know. And they looked at me puzzled. And maybe you are. What is it that God does not know and is all knowing God? Let me tell you. God does not know of no one who will escape his judgment. For every knee shall bow and every tongue shall confess that Jesus Christ is Lord. Verse 10. The third one is the love of Christ is my favorite verse. The love of Christ constrained or controls us. Verse 14 God's love, Christ's love for his people is an often repeated theme in the New Testament. And it is cited as a reason for selfless devotion to God. He said, I am crucified with Christ. Nevertheless, I live, yet not I, but Christ liveth in me, and the life which I now live in the flesh. I live by the faith of the Son of God who loved me and gave himself for me. Praise the Lord. Galatians 2 verse 20. None, nobody should be able to separate God's people from the love of Christ. Nothing. Romans 8 verse 33, 35 says, It is the love of Christ which passeth knowledge unto us. Shall tribulation Shall tribulation separate us? Shall distress separate us? Shall persecution separate us? Or famine, or nakedness, or peril, or smoke, nothing should be able to separate us from Christ. Amen. Now the Innis identified Paul's motivation when he wrote were the war realms of nation mind that were a present far too small. Love so amazing, so divine, demands my soul, my life, and my own. Paul, all good things will come to an end on earth, but it can't be things in heaven. It begins in heaven. Paul went through all his persecution as I read in Corinthians 11. But his time has come. This will come a time when all of us will depart this world. Most happily we shall be in heaven with the Lord. No wonder white chance, so come quickly, Lord Jesus. When I listen to these words, I remember what Penny says. Mm-hmm. Her father loved God and wanted to go with God. So I I I just relate the the the the words of John. So come quickly, oh Jesus. I I tell people that I want to go to heaven and rest. Well I said I don't want to die. I said I want to be like Enoch. And Elijah wants to call something to me, Christ, in the hill. And so all of us would like to be that. Sure. All of us. But we have to die. When Jesus was in the garden he prayed and said, God, let this cup be pass from me. I don't want to face this debt, but by thy will, let it be done. We can't afford to fight against debt because that is man's appointment. For his appointed unto man to die. But then comes the judgment. Amen. We shall all stand before God. So Paul was not ready to die. Oh many of us in here already to die. I said, not me. There's so much work on her left that I want to do. But when God calls us, we have to respond to him. We cannot say no to God because he has things other is controlled. God said, I, for I am not ready to be offered. And the time of my departure is at hand. He said, I have fought a good fight. I have finished my course. I have kept the faith. Henceforth, the laid up for me a crown of righteousness. Which the Lord the righteous judge shall give me at that day. And not to me only, but to all them that love is appearing. What a wonderful testimony, final testimony. How many of us are ready to die? The question is if death comes now, are you ready? What are your motivations? What are your decisions for Christ? So many people have elapsed. So many people have turned from God and turned on to foolishness. But God wants to remind us. He said, Behold, I stand at the door and knock. If anyone hear my voice and open the door, I will come in and stop with you. It's a pleasure for us to be here with you this morning. Now I'm going to give you um I'm going to tell you this when you decide to follow Christ, you must have to expect anything. Anything he then was a righteous man And even during his death, he said, Lord forgive them. Lord forgive them. Steve Moon's forgiven. Yet for all they stone him to death. So he was the first martyr. Mark was killed by the sword. They were all ambassadors for Christ They were all motivated, yet for they die for Christ's sake. Happily it's those who die for Christ. As I quoted, for to be to live is Christ. Anti's game. I give myself, I don't know what. But I know someday I shall be with God. And many of us can attest to that. That someday we shall be with the Lord. So shall we ever be. Luke was hung on a holy tree, herbate. Paul, you know, was beheaded. Peter was crucified upside down. He said, Lord, he said, don't crucify me like my Lord. Put me upside down. That's how we died. Well you know Judas hung himself. Cruel man. James, the sword was pushed through him. And he died. Andrew was crucified. But the worst one that caught me so much was a man called Simeon. You know how they killed him? They took a saw and cut him in two. How could you do a human being like that? How could you cut a human being? Just take the saw. I don't know if it was for a crowd there those days. Or whatever saw their hands. But they just cut him in two when he died. What horrible death that was. Bartholomew, Bartholomew crucified upside and then they cut off his head. These are all for Christ's sake. They didn't do anything wrong. For Christ's sake. Matthew was killed by the sword. Philip was crucified upside down. John Mark was dragged on the road until his life went out of him. The only one I knew that escaped such horrible death was John. I don't know if it was first John, second John, I didn't check it out, but third John, but I know he was the only one. But all the apostles suffer martyrdom because of their motivation for Christ. They didn't do anything wrong. So must be prepared for such things. We must prepare for Christians. We must suffer with Christ. We must suffer hardest. Paul didn't say, we must suffer hardest as a soldier. Are you ready to die? Are you motivated this morning? I can see that you are here. But what about next week's Sunday? Everybody will be here. I pray that you will keep your hand for the prize is before us. The Bible says, fear them not. Who can kill the body? They kill the body they can kill also. I was at a funeral sometime A certain man uh we it was a church of God pastor, they kill him. Remember that Sunday night he washes my feet and I washes his Well the next pastor went today, Morgue, and he says, he says, I see it is heart But I didn't see his soul. I didn't see his soul. His soul is resting with God. And so fear them not who can kill the body. Yes, our bodies can be destroyed. But fear the one who can destroy both body and soul into heaven is God Almighty. Is God Almighty? Do you fear Him today? Do you love Him today? Are you motivated to serve God constantly, not giving a break? But constantly serving God. The more we love Him, the more we serve Him, the sweeter we grow. Somebody says, as we sing in Jamaica, he's sweeter than the day before. And so if you have not yet sought yourself out, see God today. He has the answer. I found him. I was just 16 years of age. I didn't know anything about things of the world. Even though I grew in church, I did not know. But I said, God, what do you have me to do? Gave my heart to God and it's now 49 years. And I feel like pressing on. I feel like going on. It's no it doesn't make sense for us to stop now Pastor Joe, continue to serve God. My brother, continue to serve God. Someday we shall reap if we feed not. Lord bless the Father, we thank you for today. We thank you for the words. We thank you for those who hear the words. And we pray that it may be an impact in every lives today. That we are motivated, not by money nor popularity, but we are motivated by your word. For your word is a lamp to our feet and a light unto our path. We thank the Lord with the bless the name. We worship Jesus. Amen.