Turn with me in your Bible this morning to the book of Exodus and chapter 1, the first chapter of Exodus, and I'll be reading verses 15 through 22. Exodus chapter 1, and we begin with verse 15. And the king of Egypt spake to the Hebrew midwives. Of which the name of one was Shra, and the name of the other Pua. And he said, When ye do the office of a midwife to the Hebrew women, And ye see them upon the stools. If it be a son, then ye shall kill him But if it be a daughter, then she shall live. But the midwives feared God. And did not as the king of Egypt commanded them, but they saved the men and children alive. And the king of Egypt called for the midwives and said unto them Why have ye not done this thing and have saved the men children alive And the midwives said unto Pharaoh, because the Hebrew women are not as the Egyptian women, for they are lively, and are delivered ere the midwives come in unto them Therefore, God dealt well with the midwives, and the people multiplied and waxed very mighty. And it came to pass, because the midwives feared God, that he made them houses And Pharaoh charged all his people, saying, Every son that is born ye shall cast into the river, and every daughter ye shall save alive. Let us bow for prayer as we begin to look at God's holy word this morning. Great God and our Heavenly Father, we thank you for your word We thank you, Lord, for your truth. We thank you, Father, for this testimony of these godly midwives who feared the Lord and disobeyed the king's command. Father, we thank you that you bless them for that. Lord, we thank you for the godly ladies among us. Lord, we thank you for godly mothers who feared you and taught us from early childhood to know and love the Lord. Father, we thank you that you are our God, that you are greater than the kings of this earth And your word stands above the commands of the kings of this earth. And the Lord is, well, see in your word, it is better to obey God than man. And so, Father, today we pray that you would open your word to our hearts by your Spirit. Father, bless us from the sacred page. And Lord, we pray this now in Jesus' name. Amen. The king of Egypt, Pharaoh, has made a decree. He has told the midwives, every male child that is born, snuff it out. Kill it. The daughters may live, but the male children are to be put to death The only place we find these Hebrew midwives mentioned in Scripture is in these few verses here in the first chapter of Exodus 1. And yet, what a great testimony they have left for us, and what a great heritage they have, for they are mentioned by name in the very inspired Word of God that is preserved forever. These midwives feared God We read for our responsive reading this morning the last portion of Proverbs 31, and one verse there I bring to your attention, the 30th verse. Favor is deceitful, and beauty is vain, but a woman that feareth the Lord, she shall be. Praised. And oh, these women who feared the Lord, how well that promise is fulfilled How well they are praised, for they feared the Lord. The name Shafara means fair And the name Pua means splendid. And it's interesting that this verse here in Proverbs 31 says that Favor is vain. Oh, the beauty of a young lady, of a young woman. She is gorgeous and she gets more and more beautiful as she ages in the eyes of those that love her. But we all know that Time takes its toll on all of us. My hair used to be much darker than it is. And I'm sure all of us that have begin to begin to age, can testify that the vigor of youth and the beauty of a young lady, it it deteriorates with time. It does not retain all that beauty. But a woman that feareth the Lord, she shall be praised. Ah, you see, vi the beauty, it is vain, it is Fleeting it is here for a time and it vanisheth away. But the woman, the godly lady who fears the Lord She shall be praised, and that praise shall continue, just as we find with these two Hebrew midwives that are mentioned in Scripture. Peter instructed that the godly women are to have that inner beauty In 1 Peter in chapter 3, he speaks of them whose adorning is not that of the outward adorning of plaiting of hair and wearing of gold and putting on of apparel, but let it be the hidden man of the heart. in that which is not corruptible, even the ornament of a meek and quiet spirit, which is in the sight of God of great price. For after this manner, in old time, the holy women also trusted in God and adorned themselves. Peter speaks of that godly woman with the inner beauty. Now in uh Peter's instruction there, he speaks of them being meek. And we must always remember that meekness is not weakness. These Hebrew midwives, they were meek, they were gentle, we don't find them railing against Pharaoh but they were certainly not weak. They were women who took a stand for truth and for righteousness and for the people of God at the peril of their own lives. They indeed Fear the Lord. The contrast to the godly woman is also given to us in Proverbs in chapter 11 as a jewel in a swine's snout So is a fair woman without discretion. But here we find Pharaoh's command Pharaoh tells these godly, god-fearing Hebrew midwives, when you go to attend one of the Hebrew women, if it is a boy, kill it. Snuff it out. Don't let it live. A girl is okay. But kill all the baby boys. Why would Pharaoh make such a gruesome and horrible decree? Well, uh we don't know from scripture exactly what his thinking was, we can surmise, but a first century uh Jewish rabbi, and I'll try not to murder his name here, uh Jonathan bin uh And first century rabbi gives us an extra-biblical account. And let me emphasize that it's extra-biblical. This is not found in the Word of God, but it is found in Jewish tradition. He records that Pharaoh supposedly had a dream. And in Pharaoh's dream he saw all the land of Egypt on a balanced scale. Egypt on one side and on the other side of the balance scale was a lamb. And yet in this supposed dream of Pharaoh, the lamb way, way outweighed all the land of Egypt. And in this legend, Janus and Jambores, the wise men were called. They are recorded for us in 2 Timothy Uh but in this this dream, supposedly, Pharaoh calls for them, and they warn Pharaoh that the Hebrews would rise up against him, and there would be a great leader among them who would destroy Egypt And so they, according to legend, advise Pharaoh, kill all the baby boys Now we don't know that it happened. That is what tradition tells us. And yet we can imagine that it was something of that nature. We do read that Pharaoh sees that the children of Israel are multiplying and becoming stronger and stronger, and whether or not he had a dream is in question, but it's unquestionable that Pharaoh begins to fear. the people of God. God is blessing them. God is prospering them. God is multiplying them. Just as he had promised Abraham. Remember he told Abraham that your seed will be as the stars of the heaven for number and as the sands. on the seashore. God's promises are sure. And so Pharaoh makes a cold-hearted Murderous declaration, kill all the baby boys. In the New Testament In both Romans and in 2 Timothy, Paul talks about those who are without natural affections. And certainly that would apply to Pharaoh here. We love children. And if if you see a child in danger, if you're walking down the street and here's a child and he's crying, we would stop. What's wrong? Are you lost? Are you hurt? There is a natural instinct within the human race placed there by God to care for children. But here we find Pharaoh without natural affections kill them, murder them, snuff them out, take them at their first breath. But the midwives feared God and did not as the king of Egypt commanded them. but saved the men, children alive. In Proverbs 16 and verse 6, we find that by mercy and truth Iniquity is purged. And by the fear of the Lord, men depart from evil Ah, do you want to live in righteousness? Do you want to depart from evil? Well the fear of the Lord is the pathway Wherewithal shall a young man cleanse his way by taking heed thereto according to thy word. Where do we find the fear of the Lord? In the word of God In Acts 5, we find Peter and John threatened not to preach anymore in the name of Jesus of Nazareth. And they said we ought to obey God rather than men. Now we we spoke a few weeks ago from Romans 13 on our responsibility to civil authority. And it is the responsibility of the believer to obey the civil authority. And yet The law of God stands above the civil authority. And that is what we find here. These God-fearing midwives obeyed the law of God. Which was above the law of Pharaoh. These midwives give us an amazing testimony and an amazing history. I'd like us to consider from the Word of God what the Bible says about children. And we begin in Psalm 127, which says, children are inherited to the Lord, and the fruit of the womb is his reward. In other words, where do children come from? That's a great question, isn't it? Where do babies come from? So I can tell you the answer to that ultimately is they come from God. Children are in heritage of the Lord. And the psalmist said, David said in Psalm 135, Thine eyes did see my substance, yet being unperfect, and in thy book all my members were written, which in continuance were fashioned, when is yet There was none of them. David says, I was written in your book, my substance, my members being yet unperfect. They were known to God. And of course, God assured Jeremiah, before I formed thee the belly, I knew thee. Before thou cameest forth out of the womb, I sanctified thee and ordained thee a prophet to the nations. God formed Jeremiah. Jeremiah was formed by God. God knew Jeremiah before he was formed in the womb. Before I formed thee in the belly, I knew thee. Jeremiah did not begin at birth. And Jeremiah did not begin at conception. This is a big discussion today. Where does life begin? And some try to say, well, it begins at birth, and now they're even murdering babies after they're born. Well and others will say, Well, no, life begins at conception. No, life began in the mind of God before the world You see, I know that as a believer, as a child of God, I was chosen in Jesus Christ. before the foundation of the world. I did not begin at conception. I was in the mind of God before Conception took place. And so before Jeremiah was born, he was known of God. Before God formed him in the womb. He was known of God. Before he was formed in the womb, God had a special destiny, a special purpose for Jeremiah. God had ordained him to be a prophet unto the nations. And so it follows that God would tell Ezekiel, behold, all souls are mine As the soul of the Father, so also is the soul of the Son. The soul of the Son is mine, and the soul that sinneth, it shall die. God declares to Ezekiel, I own all souls. Now, that makes sense. Where did the soul come from? God created it. God made it. When did that soul, when was that soul known to God? Well, before the foundation of the world. And so Ezekiel, under inspiration, would later report the sins of Israel. And this is in Ezekiel 23 in verse 37 and verse 39. That they have committed adultery, that is Israel, they have committed adultery, and blood is in their hands, and with their idols have they committed adultery and have also caused their sons, whom they bear to me, to pass through the fire, to devour them For when they had slain their children to their idols, they were sacrificing their children to idols. Now I would submit to you today, my friends, on the authority of the Word of God, that in our own nation, in America, we are sacrificing the unborn to idols. Today we sacrifice the unbought-born to the idol of myself I can't have this baby. This baby will ruin my future. I have all kinds of plans and all these things I want to accomplish. And now I'm I have this baby coming and this baby is going to ruin everything. It's my body, it's my choice. No, no, it is not You see, the souls of men were known to God before the foundation of the world, before conception God had a plan for Jeremiah. Before the cells began to come together that made up his body, God knew Jeremiah. All souls are mine, God declares in Ezekiel, and God condemned Israel because they sacrificed their babies unto idols. And today We sacrifice babies under the idol of self. I don't want this. I can't have this. It's my body. It's my choice. No, it's not your choice. The law of man does not negate the law of God. God's law is above men. Idolatry is not against man's law, but it's certainly against God's law. Adultery is not against man's law. But it's certainly against God's law. Homosexuality is not against man's law, but it's certainly against God's law. We could go on and on of examples of godliness that are found in the Word of God and commands of the Word of God that are broken daily Man's law does not supersede the law of God. Just because man says it's okay doesn't make it okay. But everybody's doing it Well, no, not everybody. The children of God, those that fear God, just as these two godly midwives They are not doing what the world does. And so it is instructed to note That the king's command continued to get worse. First, the king told the midwives, When the babies are born, then you kill them. But we come to the end of the chapter in verse 22, and Pharaoh charged all these people, saying, Every son that is born, ye shall cast it into the river. and every daughter ye shall save alive. And so first Pharaoh tells the midwives, you kill the babies, and when the midwives don't do it, then he tells the people, Well then all the people, you kill the baby boys. And sadly, in the account we find in Stephen's sermon in Acts chapter 7, we find, so that they cast out their children to the end that they might not live. There were some of the Hebrews, some whom God was preparing to deliver, some who had the very blood of Abraham in their veins. who obeyed the king's command and cast their own children into the river. Children are inherited to the Lord. God blessed and honored these midwives who feared God more than men Who put the law of God above their own needs. You see, these midwives were hazarding their very lives By sparing these children. Oh, it's my life. I can't have this child. No. No. Fear the Lord. And so in verse 18, we find that Pharaoh calls these midwives to account. And we must. assume that these midwives probably came in with a great degree of fear. If Pharaoh could order the death of hundreds of thousands of baby boys, certainly he could kill two disobedient Rebellious in his view, midwives. And so in verse 18, the king of Egypt called for the midwives and said unto them, Why have ye done this? And has saved the men, children, alive, and I doubt he said it in a very pleasant tone. You see, a pharaoh was someone who was used to being obeyed. He's not someone who was accustomed to having his commands ignored. They were called to give account before Pharaoh who could kill him. This is not the only illustration we have of people who obeyed God in the face of death. Remember Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego? Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego, at the time you hear the music, you bow down to the golden image that I've made. For I've heard that you didn't bow last time, and if you don't bow down, I'm throwing you in the furnace of the fire. And who is that golden? God that can deliver out of my hand. Shadrach, Meshach and Abednego's answer was very simple. We are not careful to answer thee in this matter, O king. If God be willing, He'll spare us. But if we perish, we perish. And Esker gives us the same testimony When Esther was called by Mordecai in Esther chapter 4. And uh we read in Esther 4 verse 15, then Esther bade Then return to Mordecai this answer Go, gather together all the Jews that are present in Shushan and fast ye for me, and neither eat nor drink three days Three days, night or day, I also and my maidens will fast likewise, so will I go into the king which is not according to the law And if I perish, I perish. Esther says, if this is what's necessary to spare the children of Israel the judgment, the death that is combat that has been uh Prophesy, the death that has been commanded against him. I will go in against the king's command, and if I perish, I perish. And so Esther gives us a very similar Testimony. In verse 19, we find that the midwives give answer to Pharaoh. And the midwives said unto Pharaoh, Because the Hebrew women are not as the Egyptian women, for they are lively and are delivered ere the midwives come in unto them. Well let's clear up something right from the beginning. This was not a lie. There are people that say, oh, the midwives lied. the midwives didn't tell the truth here and they'll try to make aspersion against the word of God. This is not a lie. Studies have shown that women who exercise uh regularly during pregnancy have much shorter delivery. Women who are in good, strong physical condition Their delivery is much quicker. Doesn't necessarily mean it's less painful, but typically their la their time of labor is far shorter. And uh I'm sure we've all heard accounts of of people at different times years ago or or or what have you that well she worked all day and then she had a baby in the afternoon and she's back at work the next morning. Well Uh I think that would have been the case with these Hebrew women. These Hebrew mothers were slaves. These Hebrew mothers would have been involved in daily physical labor. Look up to verses 13 and 14 of our chapter, Exodus chapter 1. We did not read these verses earlier, but in verse 13 of chapter 1 of Exodus And the Egyptians made the children of Israel to serve with rigor, and they made their lives bitter with hard bondage. in mortar and in bricks, and in all manner of service in the field, all their service wherewith they made them serve was with rigor And so these Hebrew mothers would have been fit and strong. And so for these midwives to say, well, you know, the children are born before we arrive, before we get there, it's not a lie. It is truth. It is spoken in honesty. The men wise preserved their integrity before the King of Heaven. They did not lie. They did not uh bear false witness before the king, but rather they spoke truth. In Job 31, Job says, Let me be weighed in an even balance. that God may know my integrity. And so these midwives were ladies of integrity integrity. In verse 20 We find that God rewards the midwives. And I tell you, my friends, God will reward us in an evil day When we stand for truth, when we stand for righteousness, when we follow God's law. Verse 20 Therefore God dealt well with the midwives And the people multiplied and waxed very mighty. First of all, we find that God blessed the midwives themselves. God dealt well with them. In Deuteronomy read We read, Ye shall walk in the ways which the Lord your God hath commanded you, that ye may live, and that it may be well with you. But not only did God bless the midwives, because the midwives took a stand for truth and righteousness, God blessed all his people in Egypt. We find that the people multiplied. Therefore God dealt well with the midwives, and the people multiplied. Isn't that fascinating? What was they were trying to prevent The people multiplying. What had God promised Abraham? The people would multiply. And so these faithful, midwives, obeyed God, and God blessed them, and as a result, the people multiplied. But I would show you, my friends, also That through the faithfulness of these midwives, we are blessed today. How is that? Well One of the babies that would be spared during this time would be a young boy, a baby named Moses. God would give Moses the law on the mountain. The promises of Abraham were preserved because of the obedience of the midwives, and even the lineage of Jesus Christ Himself was preserved. through the faithfulness of these midwives. Because they obeyed, the promise was fulfilled. Now that is not to say that God is dependent on man for anything. If these midwives had rebelled, God would have spared his people by some other way. Just as uh Esther said herself, or Mortecai said to Esther that if if you do not come to the forefront because God has placed you in this position, God will raise up salvation from some other place. God does not depend on man to do his will. And yet God blesses the man, and God blesses the woman that does his will. Because these midwives were faithful, God blessed them. God blessed Israel in Egypt, and God is still blessing us today because we have the law that came through Moses, and we have the great Savior that came through Israel. We find further blessing on these midwives in verse 21. And it came to pass, because the midwives feared God that he made them houses. Because they feared God, he made them houses. We referred earlier to Proverbs 31. I'd like to take us back there again. Proverbs 31 says, Favor is deceitful, and beauty is vain, but a woman that feareth the Lord, she shall be praised. Give her of the fruit of her hands. May she be rewarded for her faithfulness May she be rewarded for her obedience. May she be rewarded in her fear of the Lord. And that's what we find here. For these he these Hebrew midwives, God made them houses. And this doesn't simply mean that God built them a brick and mortar house with a roof on it Uh these midwives already had dwellings. They weren't homeless. They weren't sleeping out under the stars. Besides, any dwelling they had there in Egypt would only be theirs for a number of years, they would pass away, or God would deliver them. Eighty years later, we find uh the deliverance from Egypt But when it says that God gave them houses, what it really means is God gave them households. God gave them a lineage. And remember back at the beginning of our message today, we saw that children are in heritage of the Lord. Their posterity was given to them. They had children And children's children and children's children children. And very possibly today there are even their own descendants remaining on this earth. God gave them households That verse I mentioned there, children are heritage to the Lord, is in Psalm 127, verse 3. But verse 1 says, Except the Lord build the house, they labor in vain that build it Children are an heritage of the Lord. And so God gave them houses. Lay not up yourself treasures on earth where malt and rust are corrupt, and where thieves break through and steal. But lay up for yourselves treasures in heaven, where neither malt nor rust doth corrupt, and where thieves do not break through and steal, for where your treasure is There will your heart be also. God established a progenity for these faithful ladies because they obeyed him. And so Pharaoh charged all the people, saying, Every son that is born ye shall cast into the river, and every daughter ye shall save alive. We as the people of God are to obey the law. We're to submit ourselves to every ordinance of men, whether it be the kings as supreme. We find that in 1 Peter 2. We're to be subject to the higher powers, and if it be possible, we're to live peaceably with all men. But as we close today, I would like to point out one more time when we find the people of God disobeying the command of the authorities. And that would be in Acts chapter 4 and Acts chapter 5. In Acts chapter 4, Peter and John were forbidden to preach in the name of Jesus. This is Acts 4, verse 18 through 20. And they called them and commanded them not to speak at all, nor to teach in the name of Jesus. But Peter and John answered and said unto them, Whether it be right in the sight of God to hearken unto you more than to God, judge ye For we cannot but speak the things which we have seen and heard. And they were let loose. And in chapter 5 we find them again before the council. In chapter 5 and verse 28 Did we not straightly command you that ye should not teach in this name? And behold, ye have filled Jerusalem with your doctrine, and intend to bring this man, that's Jesus, this man's blood, upon us. Then Peter and the other apostles answered and said, We ought to obey God rather than man. As we celebrate Mother's Day again this year, we are thankful for godly mothers. We are thankful those of us who had mothers who trained us up in the way we should go and read the Bible to us and Bible stories to us as we fell asleep, who taught us in Sunday school, godly grandmothers who we can remember Hearing them pray as very small children, God has blessed us with that heritage. But here we find this morning two women placed in a very dangerous position. where they were given a command from the civil authority which was in violation of God's command, God's law. They were women of faith. They were women who feared God, and because they feared God, they obeyed God rather than men. I would charge our young ladies, be that kind of a woman. Be like a Ruth or like an Esther or like a Naomi or like a Rebecca Be like those women that took stands for truth and righteousness. To our godly old older ladies We thank God for you. For you have been to us an amazing testimony and instructors in truth. To all of us, the day may come when we have to take a stand for truth at the peril of our lives. May God give us grace to fear him rather than man. Let us pray.