Turn with me in your Bibles this morning, please, to the second chapter of Luke. Luke chapter 2. And we're going to take our scripture reading from verses 25 through 35. And then our text from verses 34 and 35. Luke, the second chapter. My wife was commenting. this morning on the in the car on the way here, how marvelous this book of Luke is. And so much in these first two chapters that brings us great joy. And by the way, I proposed to my wife thirty-eight years ago today. Christmas Day in 84. If you have your place now in Luke chapter 2, I'll begin our scripture reading with verse 25 and read down through verse 35. And behold, there was a man in Jerusalem whose name was Simeon. And the same man was just and devout. waiting for the consolation of Israel, and the Holy Ghost was upon him. And it was revealed unto him by the Holy Ghost that he should not see death before he had seen the Lord's Christ. And he came by the Spirit into the temple. And when the parents brought in the child Jesus to do for him after the custom of the law, Then took he him up in his arms and blessed God and said, Lord, now lest thou thy servant depart in peace according to thy word. For mine eyes have seen thy salvation, which thou hast prepared before the face of all people, a light to the Gentiles, and the glory of thy people Israel. And Joseph and his mother marveled at those things which were spoken of him. And Simeon blessed them. and said unto Mary, his mother, Behold, this child is set for the fall and rising again of many in Israel and for a sign which shall be spoken against. Yea, a sword shall pierce through thine own soul also, that the thoughts of many hearts may be revealed. Let us pause for prayer as we look into God's Word this morning. Gracious Father, we thank you, Lord, that again that all the words of the Lord are pure words. Father, this marvelous passage has so much to teach us. It is such a gospel message in a very brief format. Blessed to our hearts this morning. May we be convicted of our sin. May we be amazed at the glories of Christ. May we be encouraged to live for thee. Father, may thy word bring great glory to thy name and great blessing to thy saints this day. In Jesus' name. Amen. We find there in verse thirty four that dear devout elderly Simeon who has been waiting for Christ. He's been waiting for the consolation of Israel. He is a man filled with the Holy Ghost and he comes to the temple at the very precise time by the leading of the Holy Ghost. And when he sees Joseph and Mary come in with the child, he knows by the leading of the Holy Ghost who this child is. And he takes him up in his arms and he blesses them. And it was quite natural that Simeon would bless Mary and Joseph. The children of Israel were instructed all the way back in the Old Testament that they were to bless one another. And we have in the Old Testament forms of blessing. The Lord bless thee and keep thee. The Lord make his face to shine upon thee and be gracious unto thee. The Lord lift up the light of his countenance upon thee and give thee peace. And we find these blessings in the New Testament as well. Now the God of hope, fill you with all joy and peace in believing that you may be abound in hope. The very God of peace sanctify you holy, and I pray your whole spirit and body be preserved blameless to the coming of the Lord Jesus Christ. And so we're familiar in Scripture with these blessings. It was a common thing for the people of God to convey blessing upon one another, and we do that as well. We say to one another, Godspeed. I prefer to say Godspeed than God bless, because God's speed is given to us, and we're warned not to bid the unbelievers and the apostates Godspeed. But to the faithful children of God, we give we bid them God speed, which is God bless. And I wonder sometimes why atheists ever say goodbye Because our English term goodbye is actually an abbreviation for God be with ye. Was the old the m not old English, Middle English, God be with ye. in our modern English is now shortened to goodbye. Every time an atheist says goodbye to somebody, they're acknowledging the existence of God. And so we're familiar with blessings. It is common for us to say, God bless you, even when someone sneezes, which is in many ways a Mm-hmm. Taking the Lord's name in vain because it's using it for a casual rather than a reverent purpose. But this blessing That Simeon has for Joseph and Mary as they come in is not just a common goodbye or the Lord bless you. But rather, Simeon knowing who this child is is blessing them in the same way that Elizabeth, the cousin of Mary, the mother of John the Baptist, when Mary visited with Elizabeth Elizabeth said, Whence is it that the mother of my Lord has come to me? You see The godly saints, Elizabeth and Simeon and Anna, they understood the reverence, the deity of this infant born in a manger. I would say to you, my dear friends, this morning, the reverence and the blessing that we see from these godly saints is so far apart. From what quote unquote Christmas is today. This morning, how many people are truly worshiping The Savior who was born in the manger of Bethlehem. And we all know this morning that many are worshiping that new toy they got. They're worshiping their family that has kept them out of the Lord's house this morning. They're worshiping all these other things. But here we find. Simeon truly worshiping. And I would say further: when we say the Lord bless you, and we as believers confer blessings upon one another. We understand what we're saying, but when we say, my soul blessed the Lord, that's in a different category, folks. I cannot convey a blessing upon Jehovah. And when it says that Simeon bless them, I believe the blessing of them is Mary and Joseph apart from the Babe. Because we find in Hebrews without contradiction, the less is blessed by the greater. And so when we talk about us, the believers, the elect, blessing the Lord, that's a different use of the term bless the Lord than when we talk about God blessing us. When God blesses his people, he conveys his grace, his mercy, and his goodness upon them. And that is what we do when we greet one another. May God of heaven bless you. But when we bless the Lord, As we find we're instructed to do in Scripture, that's a different thing. Rather, when we bless the Lord, we are worshiping. We are praising. We are doing that which the shepherds did when they came to the manger. Let us go see this thing which has come to pass, which is made known unto us by the angels. And that which the wise men who came about two years later did when they knelt before him and opened their gifts and worshipped him with their gifts of gold and frankincense and myrrh. And so our text this morning begins with this glorious truth that Simeon is conferring a blessing on Mary and Joseph. But he can only confer homage upon this baby. And we read in our call to worship this morning there in Hebrews, Where Jehovah says, when he brought his first begotten into the world, he saith, and let all the angels of God worship him. Those angels in the field who cried, glory to God in the highest, they knew who this baby was. Simeon, by the ministry of the Holy Spirit, knew who this baby was. Do you know who he is? It's interesting also that it says that Simeon spoke to Mar to Mary. Simeon spoke to Mary. It doesn't say he spoke to Joseph. Simeon knew that Joseph was not the father of this child. He understood that this was of the Holy Ghost. And that brings us to our text this morning, looking again at the scriptures there in verses 34 and 35. And Simeon blessed them and said unto Mary Behold, this child is set for the fall and rising again of many in Israel. And that is our text this morning. This child is set for the fall and rising again of many in Israel. Did you ever have a Christmas where you didn't get what you wanted? I think most people that uh as children lusted after some gift or some toy, at some time or another were disappointed. Uh, we used to play games with our kids, still play games with our kids. Joey will tell you that he gets picked on all the time. But uh we used to play games with our kids and want kids in one year uh when we just had two sons before Elizabeth was born. We had been in the States visiting around Thanksgiving, and we managed to buy two bicycles unassembled in the boxes And of course the kids were five and seven traveling with us. And I guess Beth was born. But anyway, regardless, we managed to smuggle these biceps. to Jamaica on the plane with the kids without them knowing what they were. And then hid them in one room of the house. And Penny and I joking around the kids said, well we gotta go in there and feed that elephant today. And we had been joking for weeks about the elephant that was in the room. Well of course they weren't allowed to go in there and see what was there as their bicycles And come to find out my second son, the biologist, was a bit disappointed when he got a bicycle instead of an elephant. Because he really wanted that elephant. He loves his animals. A lot of people get disappointed because they don't get what they want. The first disappointment on Christmas came because he came unto his own and his own received him not. The most glorious, precious gift that could ever be given, the Son of God was given. And the gift was rejected. He wasn't what they wanted. He wasn't what they expected They were looking for a Messiah to make them royalty. They were looking for a Messiah to deliver them from Rome. They were looking for a restoration of the glories of Israel And Jesus Christ came to do all those things, but not at all in the way they understood them to be. They were disappointed. They did not get what they wanted. What Simeon, this godly man, this earnest servant of the Lord, he understood He got it. He knew his Old Testament scriptures. He knew Isaiah 53 that we looked at in Sunday school this morning. This child is not come to be a king, though he is. This child is set for the fall and rising again of many in Israel. Notice that he singles out this one child. This child. This one. This one right here. Remember one of the disciples of John came to Jesus and they said, Are you the Christ or are we to seek another? This one. This one. Behold the Lamb of God that taketh away the sin of the world. Neither is there salvation in any other. For there is none other name under heaven given among men whereby he must be saved. This one! And not another. Simeon's not blessing every child that walks in or just carried in. This child And Simon acknowledges, Lord, now let thy servant depart in peace, for mine eyes have seen thy salvation. I've seen the Messiah. This is the one And my friend, when you come to die, will you be able to pray, Lord, now let my soul depart in peace, because I've seen the one. I've seen the Lord's salvation. This child, this child Not a couple down the street. Not even the prophet the forerunner. This child. This child. But not only is it this child, he says this child is set. That word set, you know, the glorious thing about scripture is there's no unimportant words. That word set is a very important word. This word set means appointed. This word set means established. This word set is also translated in our New Testament as laid. And my friend, when we read in Matthew chapter 3 and verse 10, now also the axe is laid under the root of the trees. Therefore every tree which bringeth not forth good fruit is hewn down and cast into the fire. That word laid is the same word as this child is set For the fall again. What happens to a tree when you chop it down? It falls. And will that tree rise again? Not without a miracle. Not without a miracle. You see, Jesus Christ was set. He was appointed for the fall and rising again of many in Israel. And we go further in our scriptures, and we find in Matthew 5 and verse 14, ye are the light of the world. A city that is set on a hill cannot be hid. And it's that same word. The children of God, the church of God is set on a hill. It's established. We are appointed to be a light to the world. And then again, in Luke chapter 2 and verse 16, they came with haste and found Mary and Joseph and the babe lying in a manger. And that word lying in a manger that Luke uses in chapter 2 is the same word we find. in chapter 1 from Simeon. You see, Jesus was lying in the manger. It wasn't a coincidence. It wasn't because there was an overbooking at the hotels of Bethlehem No, he was set there. He was established there. He was appointed to be there. And that's why the sign to the shepherds, ye shall find a babe lying in a manger. And it's the same word said again He's appointed to be there. God the Father has appointed his son to be there. See, that's why it's important that there's not another. That's why it's important that this child is set. This child is established. Your works won't do it. Buddha or Confucius or Timbuk, whoever, won't do it. This child is set for the fall. For no other foundation can any man lay than that which is set, that which is laid, that which is appointed, that which is established That word laid there in 1 Corinthians 3. 11 is that same word set. It's laid there. He's set for the fall and rising again. But my friends, think back to the Old Testament Why do the heathen rage and the people imagine the vain things? The kings of the earth set themselves. They are set. They are established. They are arrayed against Christ. And again, remember in Acts chapter 4, verse 27, or 26 and following, the kings of the earth stood up, and the rulers were gathered together against the Lord, against his Christ. For of a truth against the holy child whom thou hast anointed, both Herod and Pontius Pilate, with the Gentiles and the people of Israel, were gathered together for to do whatsoever thy hand and thy counsel determined before what God's hand set before a statue Before. This baby, Mary, that you have in your arms, this child alone is set for the fall and rising again of many in Israel. Don't you think That today the message would be, oh, this child's come that you're gonna have joy, you're gonna be happy. This child has come for your prosperity. This child has come for your good health. This child has come to bring joy. This child has come, you think about all the things that surround man's concept of Christmas Oh, that's not what Simeon says. You talk about not getting what you wanted. He's come to knock you down. He's come for the fall. He's come to knock down your self-righteousness. He's come to knock down your working salvation. He's come to knock down all the many things that you might do to try to impress God. You see, except ye repent Shall all likewise perish. He's come for their fall. He's come for the fall of many. Isaiah 8 And he shall be for a sanctuary, but for a stone of stumbling and a rock of offense to both the house of Israel, for a jinn and for a snare to the inhabitants of Jerusalem. And many of them shall stumble and fall, and be broken, and be snared, and be taken And again, Peter in 2nd Peter, 1 Peter 2 and verse 8, and a stone of stumbling, a rock of offense. For they stumbled into the stumbling stone whereunto they were appointed. He's come for the fall of many. But notice again the wording of the text there. It says in verse 34, Behold, this child is set for the fall and rising again of many in Israel. And in our English understanding, We tend to link things together. If it is true of one, it is true of the other. But that's not the form in Hebrew here. Or sorry, in Greek here. We would look at it and say, okay, everyone that falls rises again. Okay? But that's not what it says. It says that they're all going to fall. But many are going to rise. Doesn't say all. Doesn't say set for the fall of all, and then all rise. It says that he is set. Let's get it right. Verse 34. This child is set for the fall and rising again of many You see, not everyone that falls is going to rise again. There's a separation there. It doesn't apply to both And so all fall. All die in Adam. But not all are made alive And of course we have first Corinthians fifteen twenty two, as in Adam all died, even so in Christ shall all be made alive. And that's the glor perfect illustration of what this verse is actually saying. Because we know that not everyone that falls in Adam rises in the second Adam. And so he is set, this child is set for the fall of all, but the rising of many. So we preach Christ to the Jews a stumbling stone of love. But oh hallelujah, it's not all bad, folks. Hallelujah. There is peace on earth and joy because this child that is set for the fall. Of all, because God declares if I had not come and spoken to them, they would have an excuse, but now they have no cloak for their sin. This child has come for the rising again of many. And folks, gloriously, this word rising again is translated rising again one time. And the rest of the time it's translated resurrection. He this child is set for the fall. and for the resurrection of many. It's the only time it's written it's uh translated. Actually it's translated uh thirty-nine times out of the total forty-two is found in Scripture is resurrection Jesus said unto them, I am the resurrection and the life. And it's the exact same Greek word as fall, as rise again here. Acts chapters twenty-six Moses is being quoted, and in verse twenty-three that Christ should suffer, and that he should be the first to rise from the dead. He should be the first fruits of the resurrection. He should be the first one resurrected. This child is set. He's established. He's determined. Not any child, but this child is set for the fall of men, for the fall of the Jews, for the fall of Israel, for the fall of the chief priests, for the fall of the Pharisees. But he's also set for the resurrection of many, of many Jesus Christ was set for the fall of Satan. For in the first Christmas verse of Scripture, in Genesis 3 and verse 15, it shall bruise thy head, and thou shalt bruise his heel. Jesus Christ came for the fall of Satan, the downfall of his kingdom The destruction of his rule. The bands of Satan are broken for those that rise again. And so if you then be risen with Christ, seek those things which are above. He's set for the fall and the rising again of men. You would think that that message would be widely received. You would think that all Israel would have rushed to the Messiah. Herod tried to kill him and in the process killed all the baby boys two years and under. Moses, Mary, and Joseph fled to preserve the life of the child. Satan tried to kill him numerous times. The Jews sought to stone him. You would think they would rush after him, but our text continues, behold, this child is set for a sign. I'm taking the piece from verse 34 into verse 35. Quoting from verse 35, for a sign which shall be spoken against. So read the verse exactly. It says in verse 35. Yea, a sword shall pierce through thine own soul, that the hearts, that the thoughts of many hearts may be revealed. He is a sign which shall be spoken apart against. Therefore the Lord himself shall give us a sign, we find in Isaiah chapter 7. But in Isaiah 7, God tells Ahaz to ask a sign, and Ahaz will not ask for a sign And so God says, therefore, because you won't ask, I'm going to give you a sign. Behold, a virgin shall conceive and bear a son But we come to the New Testament, and when the virgin is conceived and borne a son, that sign that was prophesied in Isaiah 7 is spoken against. He came into his own, and his own received him not. Jesus was a sign that would be spoken against Remember when the Pharisees and Sadducees came to Jesus and they said, Show us a sign? And he says, The wicked and adulterous generation seeketh a sign, there shall no sign be given you but the sign of Jonas. As Jonas was three days and three nights in the earth, in the belly of the well, so shall the Son of Man be in the heart of the earth. But then what do they do when they're trying to get Pilate to crucify him? This man said he would destroy the temple and rebuild it in three days. That was the sign! That was the sign of Jonas. Three days and three nights in the belly of Wale, three days and three nights in the heart of the earth. Destroy this temple. And I'll rebuild it But the Jews use the very sign as an excuse to crucify him. Simeon's prophecy. was fulfilled. He was a sign that was spoken against. You know what people still speak against the sign today? I'm not a prophet in the sense of the Old Testament. But I am a prophet in the sense that I read the prophetic word of God, right? And faith cometh by hearing, and hearing by the word of God. But oh, do people hate the word of God? Can't have that on the walls of our courthouse. Can't have that in our schools. The very thing which is the sign for today, because this is all the sign you're getting, folks. The word of God is the only sign that we have today. God doesn't write the scriptures in the clouds. Mary doesn't appear on a piece of toast. Faith cometh by hearing, and hearing by the word of God. This is the sign. But men continue to speak against this sign today. And it's interesting the structure there in verse 35, where it says, yea, the parentheses begin first, yea, a sword. shall pierce through thine own soul, that the thoughts of many hearts may be revealed. And several of the commentaries suggest that actually to understand it we need to flip the two phrases and read it this way. That the thoughts of many hearts may be revealed, a sword shall pierce through thy own soul also. In other words, the crucifixion of Christ. is the evidence of the thoughts of their hearts. The thoughts of their hearts were only wicked and evil continually And my friend, Christ came for the fall of many because his birth, life, death, and resurrection reveal the hearts of men. We will not have this one to rule over us. Away with him, away with him, crucify him, crucify him, give us Barabbas, but not him. Anyone but him will take Jim Jones, will take Muhammad, will take whoever you want to bring up, any false prophet. Or TV evangelists will get a great following. But not him. Not him. He is the sign that is spoken against and out of the abundance of the heart, the mouth speaketh For the word of the Lord is quick and powerful and sharper than any two-edged sword, even to the piercing asunder of soul and spirit of the joints and marrow, and is a discerner of the thoughts and the intents. Why did the Pharisees, why did the chief priests and the Sadducees rile up the people of Jerusalem to crucify Christ? Because it was the revelation of the thoughts of their hearts. It was the revelation of what was truly in their soul. Oh, but Pastor, I'd never cry crucify him. No, no, Pastor, I I I wouldn't go along with that. I'm pretty good. I'm not doing too bad. You either believe on the Lord Jesus Christ and be saved, or you Fall or you fall. Because he's set for the fall and also for the rising again of many. And so they revealed the hearts of the Jews. The chief priests and scribes sought to kill him, for they feared the Jews, Luke 22, 2. John eight five eighteen, therefore the Jews sought the more to kill him because not only had he broken the Sabbath, but also uh said that he was God that God was his father, making him equal with God, away with him, away with him The hearts of the Jews were revealed, the hearts of the Gentiles were revealed. In John 15, verse 18, if the world hates you, know that they hated me before they hated you. Verse 22, if they have s uh if I had not come and spoken unto them, they had not known sin, but now they have no cloak for their soul. I paraphrase that verse early. The hearts of the Gentiles were revealed. The hearts of the uh Satan's and Satan and his legion was revealed. It was shown who they were. But you know, the heart that is most revealed by this sign that is spoken against is the heart of the elect Mm-hmm. Remember when Christ said to the disciples, Will you also go away? Will ye also go away? Will you be among the crucifiers or will you be nailed to the cross for the crucified? Will you be among those that call for the crucifixion of Christ? Or will you be those among those that rise with him in his resurrection? Resurrection. This piercing through the heart of Mary, this death of Jesus Christ, reveals the heart of the elect And to continue and finish that verse in John 6, 67 through 69, then Jesus said unto them, Will ye also go away? Then Simon Peter answered him, Lord, to whom shall we go? Thou hast the words of eternal life. And we believe and are sure that thou art the Christ, the Son of the Living God. This child was set. Not another one, this child. He was set for the fall. But also So for the rising again of many. Are you fallen? All men are. Are you risen? Without Christ, to whom we go. Let's stand for prayer. Father, on this Christmas day, we thank you that the Word was made flesh and dwelt among us. We thank you that by faith we have beheld his beauty, the glory of the only begotten Son of God, full of grace and truth. Father, we thank you that this message of Christmas, this message of Christ, this sign which has spoken against. is a discerner of the thoughts, a revealer of the thoughts of men's hearts. Father, we thank you that we know you by faith, and Lord we pray for those that know you not, those that are still lost sheep wandering from the shepherd. May they be returned to the shepherd and the full. And Lord, we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen