Looking at Samuel chapter fourteen this morning, Pick up where we left off where the woman had been sent by Joab with a deceptive plan To work on the heart of David, make him moldable, and uh willing to bring Absalom, his son, back from a foreign country. And so we uh pick up as she is continuing to speak to him, and she's about one today with her her conversation in chapter 14 of 2 Samuel, being at verse 15. And we'll read that through verse 24. She speaks, and she says, Now therefore that I am come to speak of this thing unto my Lord the King, it is because the people have made me afraid. And thy handmaid said, I will now speak on the king. It may be that the king will perform the request of his handmaid. For the king will hear to deliver his handmaid out of the hand of the man that would destroy me and my son, together out of the inheritance of God. So I might lose my son's life, my life, and of course we'll lose the inheritance of my husband I'm really afraid of the people out there, what's going on. Verse 17. Then my handmaid said, The word of my Lord the King shall now be comforting. Or comfortable, but comforting to me, for as an angel of God, so is my Lord the King to discern good and bad. And therefore the Lord thy God will be with thee. And then the king answered and said unto the woman, This is King David, Hide not from me, I pray thee, the thing that I shall ask thee. And the woman said, Let my lord the king now speak. And the king said, Is not the hand of Joab with thee in all this? And the woman answered and said, As thy soul liveth, my lord the king, none can turn to the right hand or to the left from aught that my lord the king has Spoken. He said, You're dead on. You're not even half right or a little off to the left of the right, you're dead on. For thy servant Joab, he bade me, and he put all these words in my mouth of thine handmaid Or commanded me, she might say, to fetch about this form of speech, hath thy servant Joab done this thing. And my Lord is wise, according to the wisdom of an angel of God, to know all things that are in the earth. And the king said unto Joab, He must have been standing there when she came to his presence. Behold, now I have done this thing, that is, I made this decision about her son, but also go therefore and bring the young man Absalon again. You made your point, David says. Absalom can come home. And Joab fell the ground on his face and bowed himself and thanked the king. And Joab said Today thy servant, as Joab, knoweth, that I have found grace in thy sight, my Lord, O King, and that the king hath fulfilled the request of his servant. And then Joab arose, and he went to Gesher, and brought Absalom to Jerusalem. And the king said, Let him turn to his own house, and let him not see my face And so Absalom returned to his own house and saw not the king's face. This woman, as we were introduced to her last week, has been saying some really glowing nice things about King David. She comes to this point here. She said, I've come to speak on the Lord. My king is the Lord, my king, for the king will hear, for as an angel of God, she says, she refers to him as an angel of God is my Lord again, the king, and he can discern good and bad and it's It's just piling it on, piling it on, how how wonderful King David is. How many here can discern when a compliment is nothing but Flattery. When someone's just setting you up for something, it just oozes out of it. It's just so sugary, sweet, the otterbees probably wouldn't want to touch it As an angel of God is my Lord, the King, wise according to the wisdom of an angel of God, she says in verse 20. You've got to be aware when somebody approaches you with such a sugary-coated Proverbs tells us, deliver thee from the stranger which flattereth with words, Proverbs 2 and 16. Meddle not with him that flattereth with his lips, Proverbs 20. and twenty. A flattering mouth worketh ruin. Proverbs 26 and 28. I remember walking through Christiana Mall. a year or two go and uh this young woman came up to me selling I don't know men's perfume or cologne or something and she grabbed both my hands and she held them up to her and she told me that this would make me smell so good and make me irresistible and and what an attractive young person I was and I and she was going on and on and I finally said oh I said I don't want this stuff and I said you know What is with this flattery? What is with it can't be just the sale of the perfume or cologne or whatever it was. And she's grabbed my hands and pulled them back and said, look deep into my eyes. Oh no, sir, you and and she was a Pakistani But anyway, she was just she was just going on and on. And finally I I pushed her away again. I said, I don't want any of this stuff. And I began to look around for Joab. And he was there. He was her backup. And when she really had my attention, I suspect my wallet was going to disappear. Be aware of flattering lips. This woman believed that all she said If she really believed all that she said, you know, she's acting like she believes it all. It's really in her heart, she's being very, very, you know, confident. But if she really believed all that she said, that that he knows everything, that David He's like an angel of God and that that he just knows everything. She should have believed that he would expect something was going on here. That David would have some discernment, that Joab might be involved. And yet she talks this way about oh you you you you're you're just so you're like a you have the wisdom of an angel. Well then he's gonna see right through you The king is able to discern good and bad, verse 17. Well, he saw right through her. The flattering words, the flattering lips, the flattering mouth. I mean we've all heard this when our our daughter or son comes And and they say, Oh Dad, you were so nice. I just I tell all the girls at school you're the greatest daddy every ever had, and you say, What do you want? You know. Huh? I mean, yeah, we recognize it You have the wisdom of an angel. There's a scripture that tells in 1 Corinthians 12 and 10 about the gifts that God gives us through His. Holy Spirit. And what is the gift of discernment? I can't tell you how many people have told me they have the gift of discernment. Somebody told me one time they had the gift of things. And I said, Well, I've got the gift of discernment. And they went Oh. Well it's kinda like tongues. It's amazing how many Christians think they have the gift of discernment. It's it's it's appalling how many people think that once they get saved they've got to get the discernment recorded in 1 Corinthians 12 10 that they would recognize the flattering lips And they have seen right through this woman. And yet they they cannot see through every vision that someone relates to them. They cannot see through everyone who claims to have a tongue or everyone has a testimony of something they've seen or something God has done in their life. I mean they just accept it all. Where's their discernment? Someone's got a vision, they believe it. Someone's got a tongue, they believe it. Someone's got a testimony that they're saved, and the testimony seems weak or troublesome or problematic, they believe it. Where's their discernment? Many a Christian out there claiming to be a mature Christian says they have this discernment. And yet they believe every preacher that comes down the pipe, every preacher that comes down the pipe, and every Pope and every politician, and they vote for them. I eight years ago could not vote for Barack Obama because I knew how he stood and how he voted on abortion. And I would share that with people. Oh no, no, you you're a racist. I said, no, I'm a Christian. I say, use some discernment here. It doesn't seem to be there. And down through the years I could run through the whole name of and I've done Oral Roberts, who saw the 90-foot-high Jesus and was told of God, if he didn't raise up $9 million by the month of March, that God would kill him He got the money. God killed him anyway, it was about two years later. I mean, if you believe the stuff that oral robbery, I mean the name oral to tell us something right there And then there's Peter Riphoff, or I'll say Popoff. Peter Popoff. And how he'd walked out and claimed he had discernment like this woman she should have had here with David. He he walked around the stage and he said, Oh, there's a lady out there named Maria Castro. Maria Castro in the in the third row. How did he know that? Because his wife had been in the third row about twenty minutes earlier, and he had a little earpiece in his ear. And the television caught it and picked up on it, and you could hear his wife talking to him, and then when they played all that, he left the ministry for a couple years, but he's back now. And he's selling miracle water if you want some This is not it. Maybe I need that. Just to keep my voice from going hoarse. But I mean what is with people who claim to have this discernment and Benny Hinn He doesn't believe in the triumph Godhead. He believes the triumph the Godhead is name about seven different gods or deities. And that's bizarre. People don't see through that either Wow, and I could go on and on. Jimmy Jimmy swagged, remember him? How he swaggered around, carrying his Bible. And then he had a Meeting with a prostitute every week on Tuesday or Thursday. I forget the time, but but he remembered the time. Believe not every spirit, friend We read that 1 John 4 and verse 1. Had somebody come me one time and they said I've had the devil in my house and the dishes are flying around breaking against the walls, the silver is falling on the floor, I don't know what to do. So finally my wife and I we prayed, we prayed, and the the devil fled. If we just call on Jesus and we call on the blood of Jesus and Jesus showed up, I said, In your house, yep, he was right there. I said, Oh, come on I got a picture of him. Really? And I can see this picture. He says, yes, you can say, I'll show it to you. You don't believe it, do you? I said, I'm having a problem with this. He showed me the picture It looked like a sheet hanging off a chandelier. You know, it's kind of glowy and foggy and he said that was Jesus. I don't have much patience for this stuff And and so I said and you know something? It really looks more like Barnabas, you know, or or doubting Thomas. I just don't think it's Jesus. It's Jesus. It really is. Sure it's not Samuel or an angel of light Well that kind of hurt a relationship a little bit, but moving on, we had the same thing. It was all over the news down in Clearwater, Florida. There was an appearance of the Virgin Mary. And she was on this this big glass window, I think it was a bank. Oh my daughter was going to college at Clearwater, so we said, Well let's let's go down and investigate. We we go down there anyway a couple times a year. She's in college, so we went down and we said, Show us this this image of the Virgin Mary on the window. And we talked it, we talked the people down and we found out what happened was that the water sprays The electric water spray came out every day about four o'clock in the evening of a spray up in the water would hit the window. And the minerals from the water were collecting on the window, and eventually the minerals on the window produced this image That they were saying it was a Virgin Mary. Now you you I don't we looked at this image. We sat down in the chairs that were provided because they had chairs everywhere, they had candles lit, there were flowers There were people bowing, praying, crawling up to the image. So we had quite a time to restudy it. And we looked at it and I would say to people, because I don't have much patience with this stuff. You know. I would say to people who were gathering and sitting there and praying and and they were handing out mass cards and there were nuns there and priests there and and charismatics there and and Bible Presbyterian was there. I step out of my nice guy suit, you know, and I would say these people sitting there, uh Virgin Mary says, Yeah, yeah, yeah. I said, It really looks more like Martha or Mary, don't you think? In a burqa, actually? That's what it looked like. We drove around the building because that that water sprayed up on other windows as well. And we found I think it was E. T. And we found Donald Duck. I mean they all had something. If you looked at it good enough, you could see something else in it as well. I mean, where's it the sermon of God's people today? I mean, if you've really got the discernment of the Lord, if you've really got the gifts of the of the discernment in 1 Corinthians 12, 10, then then how about when you have this discernment? When does your what? button kick in instead of your oh wow button every time. I mean what's going on here? David had the discernment, didn't he? He saw through this woman. They were trying to bring his prodigal son back. And I often say to people, they say, Oh, I've got a prodigal son. I've got a prodigal daughter. I said, Well, you better hope they are, because in the Bible the prodigal son came home So we we got David hoping that his son is he's he's prodigal, which means he's he's a wretched rascal, he's no good, but we always think of a prodigal son as some minute returns. And David is hoping that his prodigal son returns It can be brought back or returned. And this woman's come up with a scheme and he had discernment. He sees through it. Well, if he sees through it, why does he allow Absalom back? Because the parents' reaction kicked. In the emotions kick in. He wants the son back. He loves his son. He loves the son too much. He loves his son more than he loves. Loves the word of God. Verses 18 and 19. The king said, Is not the hand of Joab in this with all of these things? And the woman said, Joab, put all these words in my mouth. And so he she had been trying to deceive David and had initially deceived David, and I would ask you this morning, are you deceiving somebody? Are you deceiving your parents? I'm not just talking to the young people here. The old people have parents still too Are we deceiving our boss at work? Are we deceiving our neighbors? Our neighbors, I don't deceive my neighbor. Really? Your neighbor doesn't know you're a Christian. You're deceiving your neighbor. Your coworker doesn't know you're a Christian. You're deceiving your neighbor. Your co-worker. If you're deceiving somebody, it's going to come out If you're deceiving people, it will come out. You're deceiving you know there are people out there that you may be deceiving the co-worker or the neighbor. I'll tell you who you can't deceive. You can't deceive your spouse She knows. You can't deceive your mother. Oh man. She's got eyes in the back of her head. She knows. And for what I read today, you can't deceive Google or NSA. They know. Okay. They don't. So who you read deceiving? You're deceiving yourself more than anybody. But if you think you're deceiving people, it's going to come out Somebody's gonna see through you. Even the Lord is gonna see through you. Do you think he doesn't know? Well, Scripture says David, knowing of Jacob's involvement He didn't consult the scriptures. That's what the scripture shares with here. Scripture, Proverbs 123, says, I will pour out my spirit on you. I will make known my words onto you. But David didn't go back to the scriptures. He should have gone back to the scriptures because they would make known his the Spirit of God would make known what David should do. He might also have sought the wisdom of Nathan the prophet who had gone to David before. David wasn't without, you know, in the multitude of counsel there are there is great safety or wisdom. David had opportunity. He could have gone to the scriptures that Joab And this lady, very sharp, very clever, you almost got me, but I'm gonna look at the scriptures and see what they say. Better yet, I'm gonna go and talk to the prophet Nathan And see what he said. He might have a verse that will clarify all this. Or how about the prophet Gad? Gad is also mentioned as one of the contemporaries of David. You look at uh 2 Samuel 12 and 25 and you find Nathan mentioned 2 Samuel 24 and you find Gad is mentioned. I mean he had a multitude of options. And you do this morning also before you make a decision Don't just make it on the gut feeling, oh my gut feeling says, or well I've been here before, or that's what Susie did and it seemed to work out okay for her. Well maybe if you ask Susie again, she'd tell you it didn't work out so good for her I mean we there there's not much that God throws in our path that we don't have some time to pray about and to think about And to go in the Word of God and pray over. David had that time. I mean, Absalom's all the way up in Gesher. He's got some time before he said, send anyone. He's been there for a couple of years. Where's the rush? But David didn't go to Gad, he didn't go to Nathan, he didn't go to the Word of God. He just let that parental ushy-gushy feeling kick in to bring him home And I know some of you say, well, in the multitude of counsels there is safety, there is wisdom. Yeah, there is, but I like the council with the ones that wrote the scriptures. It says an old time, and David could think about an old time, holy men of God's fakers and removed by the Holy Ghost. Second Peter 121, but Peter's talking about an old time and the old testament. So David could have gone there and he didn't When people generally when people s people seek advice, they don't forget there's a Nathan, they don't forget there's a Gad, they don't forget about the scriptures, but what they do remember is this. I got a friend that I know he'll agree with me. I'm gonna go and ask him what And if he doesn't agree with him, he says, Well, I got another friend I know will agree with me. And they pick and choose the people I want to talk to about their situation And then they get two or three that agree with them and one maybe one that doesn't, and so they go with the majority, they go with the flow. And we know the majority's always right, right? Crucify him, crucify him. Well, they were wrong with that one But that's what people do. They pick and choose who they want to go for counsel with. That's just looking for the answer that they want. Want. And if you look for others to agree with you, is that what you're doing, Chip Pilgrim? Are you looking for others to agree with you? Or are you looking for the truth? I've said to people sometime when they've made a mistake Why didn't you call me? Well, because I knew what you would say. Okay. Well next time call me, I'll just give you a Bible verse. Yeah, I'm not doing that either. I know what the Bible says So people pick and choose. But they do have multitude of counselors, don't they? So hence the king here says unto Job in verse 21, bring Absalom again. It's all working out the way David wanted it. Anyway, it says it's his feelings to bring his son home. Now this was so contrary to scripture. And I let me give the scripture, Genesis nine six Whoso sheddeth man's blood, by man shall his blood be shed. This wasn't an accidental manslaughter where man's chopping wood and the axe head flies off and hits somebody and kills them And the man can flee to the city of refuge. This is a premeditated, pre-planned murder of his brother. That's out-and-out cold-blooded murder, much like what David did with Uriah. It's cold-blooded murder. And there is nothing he can do outside of repentance. He is to be executed. And Absalom hasn't repented. And he has the scripture here of David says that if man sheds blood, by man shall his blood be shed. So what is David doing? He thinks Absalom should come home, may maybe maybe because well he he's living in an ungodly sexual or an ungodly world, an ungodly country, and it it might affect him at idolatry and heirs of a heathen if he remains outside of Israel. He'll never repent, so let me bring them home. But that's contrary to the scripture, that he should be put to death Maybe he wants to bring Absalm home. But it was contrary to also Numbers chapter 35 and verses 30 and 31. A murderer shall surely be put to death. But maybe David dream that if I just go the extra mile, it'll touch his heart and he'll repent So he wants to bring Absalom home, but it's also contrary to Scripture in the New Testament. I know a lot of people, uh Christians, who I feel do not who like to show They believe that capital of punishment is wrong. Capital punishment should never be done. The Bible speaks against capital punishment. You quote these verses in the Old Testament, and they say, Oh, that's the Old Testament. They are the New Testament Christians. You ever run to them? They only believe within the New Testament. Wow, they're losing out on a lot of prophecies. Prophecies that haven't even been fulfilled yet. I mean, you lose the whole meaning of the New Testament if you just eradicate and throw the Old Testament aside. The Old Testament teaches capital punishment. Well, that's the Old Testament. New Testament teaches it too. Romans 13:1. The powers to be ordained of God, and they have the right to execute judgment, to use the sword, it says. And when the Lord Jesus Christ was put to death on the cross, refresh my memory, if I will, isn't that capital punishment Wasn't Christ put to death by the Roman government for capital punishment? Doesn't Paul later on say in Romans thirteen, the government to be is ordained to God and they have the right to wield the sword? They have the right to decapitate? That was the main form of execution Governments have that right. If it's a capital offense. Now we would agree that Christ did not commit a capital offense, but he's accused of committing a capital offense Tell him they have no God but Caesar was a capital offense, of course, and then tell him not to pay uh taxes. That was a capital offense. There was lots of things that he was accused of None of them were true. But the Lord Jesus Christ never said, Excuse me, uh Caiaphas, Ananias, Bible teachers. Teaches, we're in the New Testament now. Mercy, grace, no capital point. Christ doesn't do that. And what does the Apostle Paul say? Apostle Paul has been captured. He's got the Romans. They're taking them off in cups and chains. And Paul says uh in uh in Romans Uh I'm sorry, in Acts 25, if I've committed anything worthy of death, I refuse not to die. That's the Apostle Paul. That's New Testament. Capital punishment is has been in state has been put in place by God. For thousands of years. But David is persuaded that let's skip all the verses in the Old Testament about a man being put to death if he's a cold-blooded murderer. Because maybe given enough time my son will believe and repent. Maybe if he I'd better bring back to Israel, maybe right in the city of Jerusalem, you know, that that the believers that are there, it will rub off on Absalom. And he'll realize he was wrong, and he'll repent. Yeah, that might work. People think that way today too. I know you're not living with a murderer. I know you're not living with someone that's that has done some horrendous deed that where he should put to death like uh someone who's committed treason against their country. You know, you're not living with somebody like that. Well Bill Clinton is, but other than that, uh you know, I I mean we're not but you know what we do think it's gonna rub off on people if we if we strong enough people, we think that if we marry the unsaved guy that our Christianity I could ask for a show of hands here and I won't. But that doesn't work out that way very often, does it? But if David brings Absalom back, maybe living in Jerusalem among the Christians and rub off on Absalom. I don't think David thought that at all. I think he just wanted his son back. David knew that if you bring the bel he's unsaved back into the flock, it's not going to rub off. David was a shepherd boy. When the bear came into the flock, did the sheep's white fuzzy wool rub off on the bear? Or the wolf, or the goats, or the lion. He knows that the nature of the beast is that it's not going to change. It's miraculous if it ever does. David didn't think that. David is an example for us not to let what we think Guide our decisions, not to let what we dream guide our decisions, not to let what others persuade us to do to guide our decisions. We need none of this should trump Scripture None of this should trump scripture. It is scripture that should guide us. And Paul makes it very clear in Acts 17 and 2. When Paul said, I reason with them for three days out of the scriptures. That's where we go, folks. Folks, we go to the scripture and you say, well, I can't find a scripture that that directs that directs me right to my situation, what I'm going through. Then you need to read it a little more. Or call some other Christians that you know. But people don't want to do that because they'll find that scripture verse that tells them not to marry that unsaved girl or guy. That's in Corinthians, by the way. Be not unequal. With unbelievers. Bringing Absal on to Jerusalem. It was ignoring him his sin problem. He had an anger problem. An anger problem that anger management wasn't going to take care of. He needed the Holy Spirit He needed to be converted. He need to be regenerated. He needed to be born again. I mean he's got a real problem here. And bringing her back to Jerusalem to be around other saved people, around the Levites, the Pharisees, and so forth, that's not going to change him. One iota. When you bring someone back and you ignore his sin problem and you bring him back into the fold, it just nourishes his sin problem. It encourages him to sin more because he got away with it the first time. Ecclesiastes 8. 11, I quoted a couple weeks ago. Because sentence against evil work is not executed speedily, the heart of the sons of men is full of fully set in them to do evil again. Sin not addressed encourages sin to spread in the heart. It encourages sin to spread in the church. Because after all, if he can live with that guy or other or or that that's That works today too, doesn't it? If he can live with that guy or or or she can live with uh that guy, you know, then why can't I? The pastor's not saying anything, uh nothing's being done, there's n There's there's no discipline going on here. I mean it just encourages others. Well maybe it's not all that bad. I guess it's okay now. Things have changed. Sin address encourages sin to spread in the church and in the community So do the words of Christ direct your heart, or is it your inordinate affections for your loved ones? What directs your heart to call evil evil? Sin, sin. The inordinate love or the inordinate affections of Colossians 3. 5. We can have inordinate love for our children. In ordinary love for our loved ones, in ordinary love for our pets, for a political party, for our country, apple pies, Chevrolet, wherever you want to go. There's things that people just love beyond the Lord Jesus Christ God's laws were uh Matthew Henry said this, I liked it. He said, God's laws are not like a spider's cobweb. If you ever spend any time around a spider's cobweb, Gabriel, you might like this. The little flies come flying in and they come in pretty fast and they'll hit that web and that web will go and they'll stick to it But a big horse fly comes flying through it and he gets to bust the hole through and he keeps on and going, doesn't he? That cobweb has never been designed to catch the big ones. Spider doesn't need a big one, he just needs the little ones. God's law is not designed like a cobweb. There's nobody so big that they're above the law. There's nobody so powerful that they're above the law. God's law is not like a cobweb. It is meant to catch, incriminate. And deal with every sin and every sinner. Nobody gets a pass. Unfortunately, the laws of this land Sometimes you're too big to fail. We had banks like that. And sometimes you're a sinner and you're too big to be prosecuted. We've got people like that. Where they get a slap on the hand because they're too big to prosecute God's laws were not designed like cobwebs. No creature is above the law. David will pay dearly for setting the law aside for his son. Let me put it this way. David will period will pay dearly for setting the law aside for royalty because that's what his son is. He's royalty, he's of the royal family of David, he's of the royal family of King David, he's royalty, And royalty gets a pass You see that over in England, the things that go on over in the family in England, and they get a pass, don't they? You see that in America, someone's pulled over and they're drunk driving, maybe they even assault the police officer, but they belong to the House of Congress, they belong to the Senate, royalty, they get a pass, don't they? General Pateeus, he wasn't royalty. He got fined $100,000, lost his clearance, he's out of the army. A man of great heroics gave his life for his country for many years. He's got a chest of ribbons and recovered Adam and Eve in the garden. But our Secretary of State, who does far, far more. And in case you haven't heard, some of the emails that the FDI was able to find They were uh were that were supposed to be about yoga and they were supposed to be about her her daughter's uh baby shower. Turns out they they they carried the names of top secret information of covert operatives over in Iraq, their names. Undercover culvert operators, the names are on those letters that she misplaced or thought that was a part of her yoga system. And one of those men was executed Wow. Oh, but what does it matter? FBI Director Company knew that. But you see, our content Constitution's a cobweb. It doesn't catch the big ones. But in the Old Testament, God's law caught the big ones When Athelay went out and killed the seed royal, the children of the seed royal. Absalom killed one of the seed royal. He killed Amnon. When Athelia did and was killing all the children of the seed royal, God took care of her. And she was executed. Jezebel, when she went out and she was killing the prophets of God, God took care of her, and Jezebel was executed. When you look at the different people of the scriptures, King Herod in the New Testament When he thought he was reading something special and he killed James, the disciple of Christ, God took care of him, and the worms ate him and devoured him. We read about that as as well in Acts chapter twelve. I mean God's law is not a cobweb. It's gonna kill catch all of us if we don't repent. None of us are going to get through. We're all going to have to explain ourselves. And boy, the first word had better be repentant, had better come before we're in the net. It's no good that once you're in the net just crying, I repent, I repent, too late. No king, no ruler, no court, no judge, no congress has a right to dispense with God's laws that have stood for nearly six thousand years. The gumption, the gall, the pride of a man that can just set aside marriage in this country. And call it something that it's not. Or describe abortion as just fetal tissue or placenta tissue and not the killing and the taking of life. No man has the right to overwrite and change the sovereign God's words that were written in stone. Shall not kill. You think anything that's come down for a Supreme Court is written in stone? It is not. You want to see God's word written in stone go out to the cemeteries. You see his word written in stone Stone everywhere. Go down to Washington, D. C. The words of God are written in stone on all the buildings down there. Department of Transportation, know the truth, the truth that sets you free from John 8. Go down to the Department of Agriculture. It says talks about sowing and reaping. Go down to the Library of Congress. There must be 20 Bible verses. Written. Well, that's they're actually written in gold in the Library of Congress. But the writings of the Supreme Court and their rulings are not written in gold, and they're not written in stone. By a sovereign God, they are not written either. The book of the law, Joshua 1. 8. The book of the law, observe to do according to all that is written therein. America, are you listening? For then thou shalt make thy way prosperous and have good success. America, are you listening? You want to be great again? You want to be great like we once were? Donald Trump hasn't got it either. If America wants to be great again, they've got to be holy again. They've got to be God-centered again. That's what will make America great. You want to prosper again? Spiritually at least Donald Trump, we might prosper under Donald Trump. But I remind you, in the end times, what does it say? In the end times Everybody's giving and selling and buying and marrying. It's a great time. It's a time of prosperity when Christ returns God keeps the books. And those that set themselves against the Lord and his anointed, we read that in Psalm 2. And the anointed is the creature the Christ. Those who set themselves against Christ, the Lord shall God shall vex them. Then God shall torment them. That's what the word vexed means And God shall torment them in his sore displeasure or in his stinging displeasure. Another translation reads. And Job had a part in all of this. Of setting the law of God aside, and Job could care less. Is that the kind of friends you have? The word of God, they could just care less. And Joab, verse 22, fell to the ground on his face. And he thanked the king and said, Thy servant knoweth that I found grace in thy sight. Oh Lord, my king! It would have been better if Job had found grace in the sight of the Lord, wouldn't it? I mean, that's what Noah found grace in the sight of the Lord. This idea of finding grace in the sight of the Lord, it goes all the way back to the book of Genesis There's not seven or eight different dispensations and different ways to get saved. It's always been we must find grace in the sight of the Lord. Have you found grace? Have you found mercy in the sight of the Lord? That has always been the key to eternal survival And he's just happy that he's found grace in the sight of the king. Wow. So much like people with aid. They just want the approval of man They just want the approval of royalty. They just want the approval of somebody in high authority, with low morals, preferably. And they get it Joab then arose and he brought Absalom to Jerusalem, just what he planned on, just what he wanted to do. Joab is doing what is best for not Absalom. Joab is doing what is best for Not David. Joe is doing what is best for the country? No. Joe is doing what is best for Joab. It's not what's best for Absalom. It's not what's best for the The king, the country, the kin, or God's glory. It's what's best for Joab. That's what Joab is doing. This attitude is carried over today. That people just want to do what's best for them. And we got the same thing in the pulpits. Preachers doing the same thing. They're preaching things that that will fill the pews, fill the collection plate. And so repentance is not a hot topic today Rather, the theme is how to lower the bar of God's holy standard so that more people can come in and feel comfortable and not leave. We have the standard so low now that there's little need for repentance. And so we have what's called gospel light. And I've said this before, but let me run it by again, gospel light. Thou shalt not take the Lord name and the Lord's name in vain. And what do they do? They call it the Tourette syndrome tick. And you hear him out there, taking Christ's name in vain in vain? I never hear him take Buddha, Allah, Krishna, but Jehovah and Christ? Oh yes, those names. Why is that the tick of the Turet syndrome person And you can go over into Europe where there's plenty of Muslims and nobody with Tourette syndrome takes Allah's name in vain or Muhammad's name in vain. They're not that dumb I'm not a thief. I don't steal. I'm a kleptomaniac. I'm not a drunkard. They go to hell. I'm an alcoholic. I've got that disease. I don't murder. I just pro-choice. She's not really a baby anyway. Adultery? I'm I'm not committing adultery. She was under eighteen. She's not an adult yet. I've heard people say that that. Or how about the gays who are living together and clavitating? Isn't that adultery? Does it I mean whether it's a man with a man or a man with a woman, it's adultery if you're not married, right? Always got a little wiggle room. That's lowering the standard, the bar, the holiness bar of God. We've lowered it to the point where there's what's left to repent of. We might as well get together and sing kumbaya. Huh. Look up that song Kumbaya someday, would you? That is the most shallow, repetitious, talk about 7-Elevent song. I mean, coo but everybody gets together. The Boy Scouts sing it, the Girl Scouts sing it, the United Presbyterians sing it. Everybody sings Kumbaya. How about getting together and singing, Come thou fountain of every blessing? Kumbaya, how about saying come thou Almighty King? What's this kumbaya stuff? It's gospel light, that's what it is Gospel light. The Israelites in the wilderness, they loathed a light bread called manna. Remember that? It was light and they loathed it. Numbers 21 and 5. There's going to come a day when they won't even like gospel light. Do you know that? They loathe the light bread. And today's society takes the living bread, which is Christ And his words, and they take them lightly, don't they? His words like, except you repent, you shall perish. Luke 13, 3. And again, except you repent, you shall all perish, Luke 13 and verse 5. What's happening here that David sends Absalom out from him? I don't want to see his face. David must have heard of Absalom's attitude. As Joab was bringing them back and brought a report to David of the attitude of Absalom, he said, That's it We got him back in Jerusalem. I don't want to see his face. Get him out of my face. I don't want to see him at all. Let him turn to his own house and let him not see my face. It was as if King David was saying, I never knew you. Depart from me. Matthew 7. 23 says something similar to that. Is there anybody here that thinks right now where they sit that that's what God God would say to them, because you haven't repented, you're not saved, you're not regenerated, you're not born again? Do you are you sitting right now saying, I think I might hear from the King of Kings, depart from me, I Never do you pilgrim, pilgrim. Prodigal prodigal if that addresses you Repentance can fix that. Repentance will fix that. Let's pray. Oh Lord, we look to you today as we think about the prodigal son. Absalom certainly fit that category, and as we see it's not going well, we don't see him coming back and bowing before his father and saying, I've sinned against heaven and against you, Lord, against my King, against my Father. Oh God put it in our hearts today, whether we're young children or somebody's uh elderly sitting here today if you've not repented, there's still time. And oh if you'll repent. What a message you'll hear. Someone might die in a moment after repenting and the message will be, well done. Good and faithful servant. Oh Lord, may that be the words that every ear in this sanctuary will hear on the other side. Well done. Though it be from the cross on your deathbed. Well done. And we ask this in the name of our great God and Savior, our Redeemer. Jesus Christ.