On chapter three. I don't really think you have trouble hearing me, but we are recording, and so for the sake of the recording, we do need the microphone. 1 John chapter 3. And I'm going to read the first 10 verses. We'll be considering as the Lord gives us opportunity from verses 4 through verse 10. But I'm going to read all of the first ten verses so we have a good view of the context of the scripture. 1 John chapter 3, verse 1. Behold what manner of love the Father hath bestowed upon us That we should be called the sons of God. Therefore, the world knoweth us not because it knew him not. Beloved, now are we the sons of God, and it doth not yet appear what we shall be, but we know that when he shall appear, we shall be like him, for we shall see him as he is. Every man that hath this hope in him purifieth himself even as he is pure. Whosoever committeth sin transgresseth also the law, for sin is the transgression of the law. And ye know that he was manifest to take away our sin, and in him is no sin. Whosoever abideth in him sinneth not. Whosoever sinneth hath not seen him, neither known him. Little children, let no man deceive you. He that doeth righteousness is righteous, even as he is righteous He that committeth sin is of the devil. For the devil sinneth from the beginning. For this purpose was the Son of God, the Son of God was manifested that he might destroy the works of the devil. Whosoever is born of God doth not commit sin, for his seed remaineth in him, and he cannot sin because he is born of God. In this the children of God are manifest, and the children of the devil. Whosoever doeth not righteousness is not of God, neither he that loveth not his brother. Let us bow for prayer this morning before we begin to look into God's Word, committing ourselves to the hearing of God's Word. Pleading that the Holy Spirit would open his word to our hearts. Let us pray. Our gracious Father, we are so blessed to have the Word of God before us. We are so blessed that you have protected and preserved and kept your word. Men have railed against it. Men have tried to destroy it. Men have tried to deny it. Men have tried to pollute it. But Father, you have preserved your word, and we are grateful for that. For the entrance thy word giveth light. Father, we thank you. That in this word is contained all things that are necessary for doctrine, for reproof, for correction, for instruction and righteousness. These things are given to us that the man of God may be perfect, thoroughly furnished unto all good works. And so, Father, this morning, as we come before you and come to look into your word, there is no failing in the word of God. There is no error here. There is no lacking here. And so, Father, if there be any failing this morning or any lacking, it must be in us, for it is not in the word we preach. It is not in the word we have before us. And so, Father, today we pray that you would open our blind eyes, open our deaf ears, soften our hard hearts, that we might receive thy word. Father, I pray that you would grant that your Spirit might have free course and be glorified, that your Spirit, through the Word, might speak to our hearts, that the Word of God may have free course and be glorified. And Father, that you might show us truth. Father, may we not consider your word according to that which man says or thinks about your word. But Lord, may we faithfully compare Scripture with Scripture. Lord, may we let the scriptures speak for themselves. May our exposition upon your word be always secondary to that which your spirit would teach us from the word. Father, may we as your people, may we as pilgrims gathered in this place, profit today from the Word of God. May we not go out of these doors as we came in But Lord, this day, may your Spirit do its work in our hearts. May we be today refined. May we be this day purified. May we this day be made more and more and more like Christ. May you continue your work today of purifying yourself a glorious church without spot and without wrinkle. Lord, we are that church. But we confess that as long as we live in this life, we're filled with spots and wrinkles. May you continue your work today of cleansing away the vestiges of the old man that we might be made more like. Christ. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. We begin with verse four of our text this morning. Whosoever committeth sin transgress also the law, for sin is the transgression of the law. That's a pretty good definition, isn't it? I didn't come up with that one. It's right here in the Word of God. It defines for us what is sin. Sin is the transgression of the law. Sin is the breaking of God's holy commandment. Sin is lawless rebellion against the commandments of God. Sin is transgression. In Deuteronomy 12, verse 32, God told us, What things soever I command you, observe to do it. Thou shalt not add thereto. And thou shalt not take away. Thou shalt not diminish from it. God's law has been given to us. Now, men typically think of God's law as ten commandments, and that's it. And if it's not there, I don't have to obey it. We understand that the Ten Commandments are the summary of God's law. And that summary of God's law was further summarized in the New Testament as we see two commandments as it's referred to by Christ. The law of God, which is perfect, converting the soul, is far more than just ten little rules that you have to keep and check off the boxes. But rather it encompasses the entire truth of God. It encompasses, except to you repent, you shall all likewise perish. It encompasses all these commands. And to summarize it, it is obedience to the commands of God, lock, stock, and barrel. What is sin? It's the transgression against the law of God. And so we have two very fascinating words here in this verse. We have sin, and we have transgression, or transgress. The word sin, there is the word in the original, Armatia. And when I was taking Greek in college, we always tried to have uh Memory cues to help you remember things. And the memory cue for that one was we'd kind of make it sound Italian. Ah, Mattia. Lord, I've sinned. It's sin. It is sin. Sin. This word amateyah means to miss the mark. It means to fall short. It means to wander from the commandments of God. And the one verse that sums up this word, sin better than any other is: all have sinned. And come short of the glory of God. What is sin? It is missing the mark Sin is failing of the righteousness of God, any failing before God's holiness and before God's righteousness. Any want Of righteousness is sin. Now, what happened in the garden when Adam and Eve sinned? They lost their imputed righteousness They lost that righteousness of God which is imputed in them. And so, as in Adam, all died, even so in Christ shall all be made alive. Adam, our first father, was made in the pure image of God. He was made sinless. But when Adam sinned, when Adam failed before the righteousness of God, Adam's sinned passed upon all men, for they all have sinned. And so David said, In sin did my mother conceive me. And so this first word, sin, means the fall short. It is the lack of holiness before God. But then It is further expanded. Sin is the transgression of the law. And actually, that phrase, transgression of the law, is actually one You don't find law as a separate word in this verse, but rather it is transgression, and the law is obviously if you're going to transgress before God, it's transgression. of his holy law. And so it's what we have as multiple words in our translation is one word in the original. It is the word anomai. It is transgression of God's holy law. This word, anomai, means to be without law. It is willful disobedience. Now, what do we mean when we talk about an outlaw? Well, an outlaw is someone who law exists, but doesn't exist for them. Because they had no relationship with it. We've all heard the phrase, if you outlaw guns, only outlaws will have guns. Well, what do I mean by that? Honest people will keep the law. Dishonest people, they don't care what the law says, they're not going to obey it anyway. It has no relevance for them. We've also heard the phrase that locks are for honest people, because there's never been a lock made that can't be broken in some way or another. Every bank vault can be penetrated at giving it enough time. And so locks are for honest people. But here we find that sin is the transgression of the law. In other words, the sinner says there is no law. When I sin, I am making myself an outlaw You see, men know there's a God. Men know they're responsible to God, but men ignore God. Men reject the truth they know. The sinner is an outlaw against God. And so sin is lawlessness Sin is the rejection of God's holy law. What did Satan do when he fell? He rejected God's rule over him. He wanted to be like God. He made himself God. What did Adam and Eve do when they sinned in the garden? They broke the one law that was given to them They became a law to themselves. They became outlaws. But interestingly enough This word that is translated as transgression of the law here is the same word in your New Testament as the word translated iniquity. And as with so many words, and we begin to look how that same word is used in other verses It expands our understanding and shows us so much more about this word. Let me show you a few other places this word is used. Christ used this word, transgression of the law, again in Matthew 7, verses 22 and 23. Where he said, Many will say to me in that day, Lord, Lord, have not we prophesied in thy name, and in thy name cast out devils, and in thy name done many wonderful works And then will I profess unto them, I never knew you. Depart from me, ye that work iniquity. Lord, look at all the good I've done. Look at all these things. And he's God says, Christ says, depart from me because you're lawless, because you're outlaws. Because you reject the holy law of God. You are a law unto yourselves. And then again, Jesus uses this word in the parable of the wheat and the tares in Matthew 13, verse 40-41. The Son of Man shall send forth his angels, and they shall gather out of his kingdom all things that offend, and them which do iniquity. In other words, Christ will send out his angels, and his angels will gather out of his kingdom the lawless, the transgressors of the law, them which do iniquity. And then Christ uses the same word again in his condemnation of the scribes and Pharisees in Matthew 23. Even so, ye also outwardly appear righteous unto men, but inwardly are full of hypocrisy and iniquity. And that iniquity there again. It's the same word. Christ says, You have all this outward, scribes and Pharisees. You wash the cups. You stand in the corners and pray. The previous verse is the verse where he says, your white as sepulchres full of dead men's bones. Christ says, you're lawless. And so sin is falling short of God's law. It is failure to meet up to the righteous law of God, and all sin is ultimately the transgression of the law. And so it's not just that we don't meet up to God's holy standards. We say there are no standards Nobody's going to tell me what I'm going to do with my body. No one's going to tell me who I should love. No one's going to tell me how I should live. No one's going to tell me how I should speak. I'm the boss of me. No, you're not. It is appointed under man once to die, and after this The judgment. For we must all appear before the judgment seat of Christ that we may give account of the things done in the body, whether they be good or whether they be evil. And so we find in our text here that whosoever Committeth sin, whosoever falls short of the glory of God, transgresseth also the law, says there is no law Is a law unto themselves, is an outlaw. For sin falling short of God's holy law His transgression of that law is outlawship, outlawness, however you want to put it, against the law of God. Now, consider the context of this verse, and here this is why I read verses 1 through 3. Because in verse 2 we have that glorious promise, now are we the sons of God? And in verse 3 we have the warning: every man that hath this hope in himself purifieth himself, even as he is pure. You see, if the Son of God is truly living within your heart, if you have this blessed hope, There will be within you that constant purification, not that I can make myself holy, but I day by day submit myself to the holiness of God I day by day am sensitive to the voice of the Spirit. When the Spirit of God says, know that sin, stay away from it. I don't test it to find out. I don't dabble with it. I don't play around with sin. Now, if you notice the title that we give in the message today, it's the seriousness of sin. The seriousness of sin. Sin is not to be trifled with. Sin is not to be kept in a closet to pull out when you feel like you want some. And we know that he was manifest, verse five. He was manifest. To take away our sin. And in him is no sin. When John saw Christ's coming, he gave us that glorious declaration. Behold the Lamb of God, which taketh away the sin of the world. He was manifested. That word manifested means revealed. When you get a package, there will often be with what we call a shipping manifest. It reveals everything that's in the package. Years ago when we moved back from Jamaica, we had a Like a nine-page list, extensive list of everything that was in our shipping container, because we had to prove this is what it is. We manifested everything that was there We revealed it. Nothing was hidden. Christ was manifested, first of all, to take away our sin. And so my friend, if you were living in sin today, it hasn't been taken away If you are continuing in sin, are you in Him? For our text clearly says That he was manifested to take away our sin. And in him that is in Christ is no sin. And so the question ultimately is: is there sin in your life? And are you in him? For there is no sin in him Paul told us in Colossians 2 verse 14 that Christ came blotting out the handwriting of the ordinance which was against us. And took it out of the way, nailing it to his own cross. What is it that Christ did with the handwriting, the accusation of sin against me? He took it out of the way and he nailed it to his cross. He was manifested to take away our sins. And Paul gave his own testimony that Jesus Christ came into the world. And why did Paul say he came? He came into the world to save sinners, of whom I am chief. What did Christ do to Saul? Jesus Christ arrested Saul on the road to Damascus, and he took away his sin. He changed him. He made him a new creature. Jesus Christ arrested Saul on the road to Damascus and made him into something he had never been before and something he could never be on his own. Has that happened to you? Have you been arrested? Maybe not as Dramatically as Saul, and yet every bit as dramatically Are you a new creature? Are you an old creature with a new set of clothes? If any man being Christ, he is a new creature. And so Jesus Christ was manifested, he was revealed in the flesh. He was sent by the Father, and the purpose was that He might take away our sins. Jesus gave Himself for us that He might redeem us from all iniquity and purify to Himself A glorious people, a glorious church without spot and without wrinkle. And you've often heard me pray before, I think I think I may have this morning. Lord, remove the spots and wrinkles Because yes, we live in this world of sin. And yes, we we fall short of God's glory every day in our daily walk. But may God continue this purifying work of making us a glorious church, a glorious people without spot and without wrinkle. 4 verse 6. Whosoever abides in him sinneth not. Whosoever sinneth hath not seen him, neither knoweth him. Oh, hold on a second. Slow down. What that verse say, Whosoever abides in him sinneth not. Now That's that's a bit confusing, isn't it? Because I I believe most of us here would say, yes, I know I'm a child of God, and everyone here that's not lying, which lying is a sin, would say, yeah I'm not perfect. Ah, yeah, this week I know that I've sinned. I know that I have come short of the glory of God. I have failed. And so what is this verse teaching us? Well, the glorious thing about the scripture is it doesn't leave us to wonder, does it? We find a lot of passages in scripture that can be a bit confusing when we first look at them, but when we compare scripture with scripture and allow the scripture to be the interpreter of the scripture. It all becomes plain, doesn't it? It explains itself. Let me summarize, and then I want us to go back very briefly to the passage we read for our responsive reading, and that was very deliberate this morning. The true child of God will not live in sin. We saw in Romans 6 in our responsive reading: Shall we continue in sin that grace may abound? God forbid. The true child of God will not live in sin. In other words, if you are truly a child God's child and you sin, you'll know about it. You'll know about it. Because the Spirit of God will convict you And you will find yourself praying with David, Cleanse thou me from secret faults. In other words, Lord, if there's something I've done that is wrong and it has not yet been revealed to me that it's wrong, Lord, even that, forgive me. For I did not intend to be an outlaw. I did not intend to live outside of the law of God because the law of the Lord is perfect, converting the soul. The law of the Lord gives me great delight. These Ten Commandments are not a cage that holds me in. Rather, these Ten Commandments are my liberation. For I'm saved by grace and not by keeping them, and I can never keep them, but you've kept them on my behalf, and I rejoice in the law of God because it's right, it's true, it's just And I find great joy and delight in living within the protection of the law of God. I am not an outlaw. Rather, I flee from the world to find refuge in the law of God. It rejoices my soul. It brings me great pleasure You see, my friend, if you can live in immorality, if you can live in sin If instead of hiding God's word in your heart, you hide your iniquity in your heart. Whosoever abideth in him sinneth not. You're not abiding in Christ if you're abiding in sin. If you are truly a child of God, the Spirit of God will give you no peace until you repent. But if you're not a child of God, You can keep your little sin and walk into this building on Sunday and put a coat of varnish over that sin. And go home feeling pretty good because your works, your attendance in church Your baptism, your membership, you feed stray dogs, whatever it is, makes you feel pretty good But my friend, that is not saving grace. We saw earlier When we were talking about that word outlaw, which Christ uses in many passages and also translated as iniquity. Lord, Lord, have not we done many wonderful works? Depart from me, ye that are outlaws. Have not we prophesied thy name? Depart from me, ye that are outlaws. You see the dichotomy. You see what this verse is teaching us. And so the true child of God will not live in sin. Every man that hath this hope in himself purifies himself, even as he is pure. The one who we read there in verse 6, whosoever abideth in him sinneth not. Whosoever sinneth hath not seen him, neither known him. That's not a child of God. He hasn't seen him, doesn't know him. Now, flip over with me briefly, and I promise you we won't spend a lot of time on this, but I want to highlight some of the verses that we read in our responsive reading this morning in Romans chapter 6. So flip back there with me briefly. And I've already mentioned the first verse, Romans 6. 1, shall we continue in sin that grace may abound? God forbid. You see the difference there between A child of God who sins and is instantly or soon thereafter repentant of that sin as the Holy Spirit brings conviction to our heart, and the person who just continues in sin until the grace of God will forgive me. The grace of God will forgive me. No, it's okay. I can do this. See the difference there God forbid, how shall they that are dead to sin live any longer therein? Know you not that it means we're baptized into Christ, we're baptized into his death. Verse 4. Even so we should walk, last part of verse 4, in what Say it with me. Newness of life. Not in the old sin we were before. You know what? When Saul got off his knees on the road to Damascus, he never beat another Christian. He never jailed another Christian. Now, you think about some of the things that happened to Paul among Christians, and maybe he wanted to beat him. Look at the book of Corinthians, how some Christians treated him, and he probably wanted to sock him in the mouth. But he was restrained by the grace of God. You see, he was a new creature. God had made him over again. God had made him into something he was not before. He was a new creature in Christ. Verse 6, knowing this that our old man is crucified with him, that the body of sin might be destroyed. The man who claims to be a believer and yet lives in open sin. That body of sin has not been destroyed. It's not been destroyed. And we're going to see later on in our same context here in 1 John 3 that Christ was manifested first of all to take away our sin, and then later on he was manifested to destroy the works of the of Satan. Christ came that the body of sin might be destroyed. Verse 11, likewise reckon yourselves to be dead. Verse 12, let not sin reign in your mortal bodies Okay, here it is again, this principle, that the child of God will not continue in sin. He will not live in sin because there's been a transformation. That's what it's saying In 1 John 3, 6, when it says, He that abideth in him sinneth not. I abide in Christ. Some people talk about losing their temper. I tell you, my brother, I've never lost my temper. It's always been right here with me. How I would love to lose it. But I've never lost it. It's always here. I've just failed to control it. I have failed to render my temper to grace. My temper has been a kind has become an outlaw against God. But I can't live in that anger. The Bible says, let not the sun go down upon thy wrath. And I have broken that commandment more than a few times. But as the child of God, he brings that to my heart, he brings it to my mind, and though my flesh wants to lash out at people, the Spirit of God says, no. You're forgiven for Christ's sake. The Spirit of God says, no. That is not conformity to the law of God. And the next verse there in Romans 6: neither yield your members as instruments of unrighteousness. How quickly we can yield our members as instruments to unrighteousness. Rather than yielding ourselves to God. Verse 14: for sin shall not have dominion over you. In other words, you're not going to be ruled with it. What is transgression? It's to be an outlaw. To the law of God. You see, when sin has dominion over me, I am following a different law. Rather than following the law of God, I am following the law of flesh. And so sin shall not have dominion over you. Verse 7, but God be seventeen, but God be thanks that as ye were the servants of sin For you were the servants of sin, but have obeyed from the heart that form of doctrine which is delivered unto you. Okay. I spent a lot more time there than we probably should have. Let's go back to first John three. 1 John 3 and verse 7. Little children, let no man deceive you. He that doeth righteousness is righteous, even as he is righteous. You see, as a child of God, I'm not to yield myself to sin. I'm not to live in continual sin, because if I live in continual sin, if I can sin without the voice of the Holy Spirit I demonstrate that I don't know God, I haven't seen God. But instead, little children, and remember we said back in our introduction to this book, um A couple months ago now, this phrase little children comes up again and again. It's a very tender term. It's a loving, fatherly name that Paul that John uses for his hearers. Little children Don't be deceived. Do you ever say something like that to your kids? They come home and say, oh, so-and-so says this and so-and-so. Don't No, that's nonsense. Don't believe that. They're pulling your leg. They're giving you nonsense. Little children, don't be deceived. He that doeth righteousness is righteous, even as he is righteous. And again we use the example of Paul. There had been a change in his life. He was not the man he used to be. I told you before, our our our beloved children, young people in Jamaica used to sing, The things I used to do, don't do them anymore. There's been a great change. since I've been born again. The man who truly lives in righteousness before God is righteous. Even as he is righteous. Why is that? Because every man that had this hope in himself purified himself. And how did he purify himself? What is the measure? What is the standard? Every man that hath this hope in himself purifieth himself even as he is pure. You see, for the child of God, there is a daily, continual conformity to the law of Christ. To the image of Christ. There is not the varnishing over of my sin, but the repentance of my sin before the holiness of my Savior. My Lord and my God, I have failed you. This day I have come far short of your glory. But O Lord, I plead that the grace of Jesus Christ by which I am saved shall wash me and cleanse me again. Conform me more and more to the image of Christ. For, O wretched man that I am, who shall deliver me from the body of this death? O Lord, the good that I would I do not, the things that I would not, that I do I see another law in my members. Bring me into captivity. Lord, make me what I ought to be. And so verse eight, he that commits sin is of the devil. You know, I think if we came together And read those first few words of verse 8, and just sat in silence for an hour and thought about it, we'd go home edified He that commits sin is of the devil. The man who lives in open sin, he is not of God the Father. He is not the brother of Jesus Christ the Son. Ye are of your Father, the devil. And what was the evidence Christ gave of that statement? And the lust of your father ye will do. He was a liar from the beginning and the father of it. Little little children, let no man deceive you. He that doeth righteousness is righteous, even as he is righteous. He that committeth sin is of the devil, for the devil sinneth from the beginning. For this purpose was the Son of God manifested. Remember, I said earlier we find that word twice in our context First of all, he was manifested to take away our sins. For this purpose was the Son of God manifested that he might damage the works of the devil. If your Bible says that, throw your Bible away. But he might destroy the works of the devil. And we saw that in Romans 6 as well. To destroy the works of the devil. Now, it says the devil sinneth from the beginning. We know that Satan was created as an angel of light. But the first record we have of Satan in the scripture is that of sin. And that phrase that he sinned from the beginning. Essentially means he sinners continually. He's always sinning. Everything we know about him in the past, he was sinning. From the time of creation, he was sinning. And today, he is sinning. Satan is an outlaw. Against God. And when we sin, we transgress the law, and we too become outlaws against the truth of God. And so we're not to continue in sin. It says he sinneth from the beginning. He that committeth sin is of the devil. But Christ was manifested to destroy the works of the devil. And therefore, my friend, if the works of the devil were not destroyed in you You're your father, the devil. There's no two ways about it. If you can comfortably live in sin, you are not a child of God. The adulterers and adulteresses, know ye not that friendship with the world is enmity with God? Therefore, whosoever shall be the friend of the world. Is the enemy of God. Verse nine Whosoever is born of God doth not commit sin. Now that phrase in isolation is difficult to understand because we all know that we all commit sin, and yet we know that we are born of God by faith. Remember our context. Whosoever is born of God doth not commit sin, for his seed remaineth in him, and he cannot sin. Because he is born of God. Now the reference to sin again can be a bit confusing until we begin to compare it scripture with scripture and see what else the scripture says about this matter of sin. The best application that I can find by comparing Scripture with Scripture is that this seed is again a reference to the two natures which dwell within men. I have the seed of the new birth in me. I also have the seed of Adam. I was born in trespasses and sins. I was born a rebel against the law of God's word. I have two seeds within me. I have two natures within me. And so in Ephesians 5, verses 9 and 10, for the fruit of the Spirit is Sorry, for the fruit of the Spirit is in all goodness and righteousness and truth, proving things acceptable in the sight of God. What is my fruit? Remember, Christ said, by their fruit she shall know them when he spoke of the false prophets. I have within me two natures. I have the nature I received by birth from Adam. I received it of Adam's seed. I had the nature I received by Christ when I was born a second time. I have another seed. The seed of sin remains in me, but the seed of righteousness should grow into the fruits of the Spirit. And so, whosoever is born of God doth not commit sin, for his seed remaineth in him, and he cannot sin, for he is born of God. A fountain cannot bring forth good fruit and evil fruit, just as a plant cannot bring forth good fruit and evil fruit. A fountain cannot bring forth good water and foul Water at the end of the way. same place. And so, as the child of God, day by day, that seed of sin, that seed of the old man, that old fallen nature was within me, is more and more defeated and I am made more and more like Christ. My father used to tell a little story, I'm sure it's not true, it's just an illustration, but They say an old man had two dogs, a white dog and a black dog, and the two dogs were always fighting and always at each other. And someone asked him one day, well, which dog wins, the white dog or the black dog? And he said, the one that I feed the most Well, you see, you have two natures within you, O wretched man that I am, the good that I would that I do not, the evil that I would not that I do. You have two natures within you. Which one wins? The one you feed the most. Sow into the flesh, and if you flesh, you reap corruption. So under the Spirit, and of the Spirit you reap life everlasting. Verse 10, I believe, brings us to a good conclusion of this section we're considering this morning. In this the children of God are manifested, and the children of the devil. You see how the whole idea of not sinning that's referred to here at all comes down to conclusion in verse 10. In this the children of God are manifested, and the children of the devil, whosoever doeth righteousness is not of God. Those whose lives have not been transformed, as was Paul's. Those whose lives are not so totally different from what they used to be. And I struggle with this, I'll tell you, because I grew up in a Christian home. And uh As a young adult, I looked back at my life and I said, you know what, most of the sins that I've committed have been since I profess faith in Christ. How can this be? And brethren, I don't hold myself up as an example, but simply tell you that I can look back through my life and I can see things I used to do, I don't do them anymore. And I can see how times I stumbled and fell and found such a heavy weight of burden and guilt. But I had to cry out to God and say, Lord, forgive me. That's not what I wanted to do. That's not who I want to be. But my friend, if you do not have that, I plead with you. Seek the Lord while he may be found. Call ye upon him while he is near. Let the wicked forsake his way and the unrighteous man his thoughts. My friend, we don't give altar calls here. We don't try to make people make uh come down the aisle and and and pray some little form prayer. Rather we set the gospel of Jesus Christ before you And plead that the Holy Spirit would take that gospel and bring you to such conviction that you will seek the Lord. My friend, if you ever need to talk about your soul, I am always available. Every one of you have my cell number. If you ever have a need in your soul, Pastor Keith is available. Elder Tim is available. Or find a godly man in this congregation or a godly lady if you're one of our ladies. There are many here who would love to pray with you and pray for you and share God's truth with you. Seek the Lord while it may be found. For in this the children of God are manifested, and the children of the devil. Whosoever doeth not righteousness is not of God. Let us stand for prayer. Father, we thank you for your truth. We thank you for your word. We thank you that Christ was manifested to take away our sins. And he was manifested to destroy the works of the devil. May the works of the devil be destroyed in us. Lord, we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.