Turn in your Bibles, please, to those two Psalms that we read for a responsive reading. And our actual text this morning will be the third verse of Psalm 128. But we will be referring to both of these psalms as we consider God's word together. You probably have the place fairly quickly since we Just read them for our responsive reading, Psalm 127 and Psalm 128. And I'm not going to reread them. But I'd like you to look with me at the 128th Psalm and notice that the first verse begins with that declaration, Blessed is everyone that feareth the Lord. Let us bow for prayer as we approach God's Word this morning. Gracious Father, now we earnestly pray before the throne of heaven. That you would open your word to our understanding and open our hearts to receive thy word in Jesus' name. Amen. The first verse declares that blessed is everyone that fears the Lord, and then it begins an exposition of five blessings, and there's actually two more that are kind of based on those five in verses five and six. But if you look at verse two, it begins to Enumerate the blessings. Number one, thou shalt eat the labor of thy hands. Number two, happy shalt thou be Number three, it shall be well with thee. The fourth blessing, thy wife shall be as a fruitful vine by the sides of thine house. And the fifth blessing, thy children like olive plants around thy table. And I'd like us this morning to take just that third verse Which declares that thy wife shall be as a fruitful vine, and thy children like olive plants around thy table. This is Mother's Day Mother's Day is not a Bible-based holiday. We do not find Mother's Day in the Word of God. And yet we do find in Scripture that we are to honor our father and our mother. The principle is laid out for us in the Word of God that our parents are to receive that honor and respect. And so in light of that, I would like us to consider this morning the blessed family. And our outline will be taken just from this third verse, which gives us the elements of a blessed family. And the first one is this: there is a wife. in the blessed family. It says, thy wife shall be as a fruitful vine by the sides of thy house. This verse establishes for us the structure and the roles that exist within the family that is blessed by God. Look at the thighs in the passage. It says, thy wife. thine house, thy children, thy table. Four times in this short verse we have a possessive. Thy wife, thine house, thy children, thy table. God has ordained a structure for the family. The structure for the family that God has ordained is that the husband is the leader. He is the head, just as Christ is the head of the church That does not in any way relegate the wife to a second-place citizenship. It does not in any way demean the wife. But rather, God has established this order within the family. And in 1 Corinthians, Paul said that man is not of the woman, but woman is of the man. Uh but he goes on to say, nevertheless, neither is the man without the woman, neither is the woman without the man. For as the woman is of man, even so the man is by the woman also, but all things are of God. God ordained a husband and a wife. I hope you were here with us in Sunday school or listening in Sunday school. Brother Vince covered this very well. God uh The Lord said, It is not good that man should be alone. I will make him a help meet for him God ordained the husband and the wife. And in Proverbs 5, we find these words Let thy fountain be blessed. Proverbs 5. 18, if you're scribbling down references, let thy fountain be blessed and rejoice with the wife of thy youth Let her be as a loving hind and a pleasant roe. Let her breast satisfy thee at all times, and be thou ravished always with her love. There's not room for three there. There's not room for he there. Nor is there room for she, she there. But rather, God is very explicitly describing a male and a female And that is the structure that God has ordained for the family. And so we find that it is number one male, number two, female, and there is no number three. Nor is there a three through sixty-seven, or how many it is that they're claiming today. There is number one, male, number two, female, number three, with a circle through it in the Does the no slash because it doesn't exist. There are only two So God created man in his own image, and the image of God created he them, male and female created he them. And so we find in Scripture that the husband is always a male. And the wife is always a female. There is no crossover. There is no confusion. But further, we find that God determined male and female before creation. Did you ever contemplate that when God created man, he created Adam as a male? And he created Adam as a biological male. He created Adam with the ability to reproduce. But he did not provide a vessel for the reproduction. Adam was male. He was not an it. Adam was not created sexless or without gender. He was created with the biological ability to reproduce But there was no mate found for him. The animals march by, and he names all the animals before there is a female for him The rooster and the hen come by. And that's when God said it's not good for man not to have a female. You see how important, as Brother Vince very clearly pointed out in Sunday, how fundamental and foundational this is to everything. God created Adam. as a male before there was a female. And so the male and female were distinguished before creation, before God made man. The old question, which came first, the chicken or the egg? It's irrelevant. The question is, is there a rooster and a hen? Because there'll never be an egg. Well that's wrong. There will be an egg, but there'll never be a fertilized egg. You understand what I'm saying. There will not be a reproduction without a rooster and a hen. And so God determined male and female before creation, but then we find very clearly in Scripture, God determines male and female before conception. Consider this. Samson is to be born. And the angel of the Lord appeared unto the woman and said unto her, Behold, now thou art barren. You can't have children. You're barren. Thou art barren and bearest naught, but thou shalt conceive and bear a son. You see Samson's mother is barren. She cannot bear. And God doesn't just say you're going to have a child, you're going to have a son. Before conception. And then again, John the Baptist, and the angel of the Lord said to him, Fear not, Zacharaz, for thy prayer is heard, and thy wife Elizabeth shall bear thee a son God determined before conception that John the Baptist would be a male. And therefore a male can't decide somewhere along the line, oh well I'm not really a male, I'm a female. And a female can't determine somewhere along the line, well, no, I'm really a male. Because God determined it before creation, and God determined it before conception. And of course, our Savior, thou shalt conceive in thy womb and bear a son, and shall call his name Jesus. This is true of all men, for the psalmist said in Psalm 139, 16: Thine eyes did see my substance, yet being unperfect. And in thy book all my members were written. Which in continuance were fashioned, when as yet there was none of them My members were determined when as yet there was none of them. God doesn't need a sonogram I have a grandson to soon be born. It was determined by a sonogram. But God knew the sex of that child before conception. And so God determines male and female before creation, and God determines male and female before creation. God has ordained that there be a husband and a wife. God has ordained that the husband be male and the wife be female, and God has ordained that the husband remain male and the wife remain female. There is no changing of God's order. And so the first blessing of the blessed home, the first characteristic of the blessed home, is there is a wife. The roles are established, and the children are not confused as to who is who. There's a book written, Johnny has two fathers, or something like that. No A husband and a wife. But then the second characteristic of the blessed home is there is fruitfulness in the blessed home. Look again at verse 3 of Psalm 128. Thy wife shall be as a fruitful vine. Do you realize that the command to be fruitful and multiply Came before the command not to eat of the tree of good the knowledge of good and evil. It was the first instruction that God gave to man before any other Before the Ten Commandments, and before God said, don't eat of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil, God said, be fruitful and multiply. It was the first commandment, the first instruction that God gave to mankind. God blessed them and said, Be fruitful and multiply. And then, after because of man's sin, God has wiped out all of mankind except for one family. What is the instruction God gives to that one family? Be fruitful and multiply. God repeats again that first instruction, that first commandment, and it is before the giving of the Ten Commandments. And then I I Classify it as an instruction rather than a commandment because Christ is very clear the first commandment is thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, soul, mind, and strength. The greatest commandment. But this is indeed, this is indeed the first instruction, the first commandment that God gives. A fruitful union is a blessing of the Lord. Many times blessings create an awful lot of work. One of the things, oh we we can't have a dozen kids, it's too much work. We can't we we can't do that, it's just too much work. You realize the blessings often Create work. Remember the rich man? He's he's a foolish rich man But he said, you know, well let me read it to you. It's in Luke 6, Luke 12, the ground of a certain rich man brought forth plentifully And he thought within himself saying, what shall I do? Because I have no room to bestow all my fruits. You see, his ground brought forth plentifully, and it was a problem. He didn't have enough room. And of course his foolishness was he didn't trust in the Lord. He said, Well, this I'm going to do, I'm going to do it on my own But folks, a packed house can be a blessing. It can be a lot of work. It can be a lot of dirty diapers and a lot of dishes and a lot of everything else. But fruitfulness is a blessing, even though fruitfulness may produce a lot of work. That is contrary to the way that a lot of people look at families today. Oh my, you can't have that many Well, God said, be fruitful and multiply. A fruitful union is a blessing of the Lord. Look at our text in verse chapter Psalm 27, the previous Psalm, starting in verse 3. Lo, children are in heritage of the Lord. And the fruit of the womb is his reward. See, a lot of children are inherited to the Lord. It's a reward from God. It is not a burden. And then verse 27, verse 4 of chapter 2127. As arrows in the hand of a mighty man, so are children of the youth. Happy is the man that hath his quiver full of them. They, that's the children. It's not him. They shall not be ashamed. They shall speak with the enemies in the gates. Who speaks with the enemies in the gates? The children of the righteous. What are the gates? Well, the gates of hell shall not prevail against the church. And the next generation of believers are the arrows in the hand of the mighty man. The arrows in the hand of the church, the arrows in the hand of Christ that stand against the evil of the day are the children of the righteous that are not ashamed of the gospel of Christ They shall not be ashamed. But they shall speak with the enemies. They shall stand against the lies of the devil. And where shall they do it? In the gates, because the gates of hell shall never prevail. Against the church. And so indeed, children and lots of them are an heritage of the Lord. Happy, blessed is the man that hath his quiver full of them. Now the quiver is interesting as well. The Hebrew quiver held, or sorry, the Gentile quiver held seven arrows. The Hebrew quiver held twelve. Hm. And that's not saying that you have to have twelve kids to be a godly family. I'm not saying that at all. But God determines how many children we have. have. And children are a blessing of the Lord. Upon this rock will I build my church, and the gates of hell shall not prevail against it. And part of the reason the gates of hell don't prevail against it is because there's an awful lot of arrows. That have been trained up in the nurture and admonition of the Lord. And they're not ashamed to speak with the enemy at the gates. And so a fruitful union is a blessing of the Lord, but conversely we find that a fruitless union is a mark of judgment. A fruitless union is a mark of judgment. Remember when Abraham lied to Abimelech and said that Sarah was his sister, denying that Sarah was his wife. And as a result of Abraham's lie, God shut up the wombs. Of Abimelech. I read there in Genesis 20, 18, for the Lord had fast closed up all the wombs of the house of Abimelech because of Sarah, Abraham's wife. A fruitless union is often a mark of God's judgment on a people And so we find, first of all, that the blessed home is blessed because it is a wife. Secondly, the blessed home is blessed because it's fruitful. But thirdly, if you look again there at verse 3 of 120, Psalm 128 Thy wife shall be as a fruitful vine by the sides of thine house, thy children like olive plants roundabout. thy table. Now when we read that phrase, a fruitful vine, by the sides of thy house, our English understanding gives us a different impression of what the verse is saying than the original. I have things beside my house. I have some beautiful plants beside my house. My wife would say I have a lot of junk beside my house. We think of things being beside the house and we think of the porch which is around back, it's beside the house. But that's not at all what this verse is saying Let me give you two other passages which illustrate what this verse is actually saying. The first is the account of David when David is hiding from Saul in 1 Samuel 24, verse 3. And he came to the sheepcoats by the way, where was a cave. And Saul went in to cover his feet, and David and his men remained in the sides of the cave. Well, David and his men weren't outside the cave. They were inside the cave. But that phrase is the exact same phrase that our English translates as beside or by the side of the house. David was by the side of the cave, but he was not outside the cave. He was inside the cave, but he was at the side. And then again in Jonah 1, verse 5. But Jonah was going down into the sides of the ship. And he lay and was fast asleep. Well, Jonah wasn't wet yet. He was going to be wet soon. But Jonah was by the sides of the ship. Now take those two passages which are the exact same Hebrew phrase and take that back to Psalm 13 28 verse 3 and let me read it the way that the the passage indicates thy wife shall be as a fruitful vine inside thine house Okay. The blessed family is a family where the wife is a keeper at home. Where she is by the sides of the house. Now it does not mean that she's idle. We know better than that. And it does not mean that she's not com to uh contributing to the economic welfare of the home But ideally, she's able to do that in the sides of the hells. The Proverbs 31 woman makes garments and delivers them to the merchants The Proverbs 31, woman considers a field and buys it. She perceives that her merchandise is good. She's very busy, but ideally, God has ordained for the wife to be by the sides of the house. to be inside the home. I'm not condemning situations where the wife is out working. My wife works outside the home, okay? So understand. But the primary responsibility of the wife within the blessed family that's laid out here for in Scripture is she's by the sides of the house. She's very busy. She's contributing to the home. But God has allowed her to remain within that area, just as David was in the cave and Jonah was in the ship. She's by the sides of the house. And so the instruction in Titus is that the older women are to teach the younger to be discreet, chaste, keepers at home. good, obedient to their own husbands, that the word of God be not blasphemed. And so uh there are situations, unfortunately, in the age we live where where the wife has to be out of the home. But the ideal setting for the blessed home is that the wife is there, she's a home. Number four. The fourth Characteristic and blessing of this home is that the children are like olive plants. Look with me again at verse three of Psalm 128. Thy wife shall be as a fruitful vine by the sides of thy house. Thy children, like olive plants, round about thy table. Olive plants are very, very useful. They're also very productive. A good olive tree will just be full of olives. It's useful and it's productive Olive is used for anointing oil. It was used for sacrificial oil. It was used for food oil, for cooking oil It was used for medicine. It was used for lamp oil. And the wood of the olive tree was used for furniture We find all of those six elements within Scripture very, very useful, very productive, all doing different things When you think about a blessed family where the children, you've got one over here as a doctor, and one over here is a teacher, and one over here is a lawyer, and you you've got this one that's that's a construction, and a family where the children All have these different talents, all very useful, but all indeed products of the olive tree. Thy children have like olive plants around thy table. What a blessing. What a blessing where a family has been able to produce a crop of godly believers. And oh maybe even a prophet among them. How glorious it is. What a blessing. But not only Are olive trees, olive plants, very, very useful. Olive plants in Scripture are a symbol of blessing. Olive plants in Scripture are a symbol of blessing, a symbol of peace, a symbol of beauty, and a symbol of prosperity. Those are all seen as you study the olive plant through Scripture. But you know what else we find about olive trees? They take a lot of cultivation. The wild olive tree does not produce. Oh, maybe a little here, maybe a little there. But the wall the untended olive tree will not be productive. Children will be like olive trees around They're tended. They're shepherded. They're pruned and taken care of. But you know the other thing about an olive tree? It takes a long time to mature. There's some plants that you plant them in the first season, you'll get a good harvest. The olive is not that way. The olive tree takes a few years to mature before it starts bearing any fruit. And the olive tree will become more and more fruitful as time goes on. But it doesn't happen overnight. And so, indeed, we read here of this blessed family, thy children shall be like olive plants around thy table. A glorious picture of God's blessing upon them. In Psalm 52 and verse 8, the psalmist says, But I am like a green olive tree in the house of the Lord. Oh, what more can we pray for our children? Oh God, may my sons be green olive trees in the house of the Lord. May they be productive for the glory of the Lord. The Psalm goes on to say, But I am like a green olive tree in the house of the Lord. I trust in the mercy of God for ever and ever. Psalm fifty-eight verse two Hosea fourteen, verse six, his branches shall spread, and his beauty shall be as the olive tree, and his smell as of Lebanon. We read in Romans 11, verse 24, of the church. For if thou wert cut out of the olive tree which is wild by nature, is unproductive by nature, is not good by nature. If thou wert cut out of the olive tree which is wild by nature, and wert grafted contrary to nature into a good olive tree. How much more shall these which are the natural branches be grafted into their own olive tree? Talking of the bringing of the Gentiles and the Jews together into one new structure. church bringing bringing in to the household of God. When I was young I worked in the orchard. You don't take a the good and graft it into the bad But rather you graft the good branch, the the wild branch into the good rootstock. And so it is with the church And so we find that the olive trees around the table are the fourth blessing. But what is the fifth? When we look at this blessed family in this third verse, we find thy wife shall be as a fruitful vine. By the sides of thine house, thy children like olive tree plants, around about thy table. You know what the fifth blessing is? There's a table. There's a table for the blessed family. They're there together They're round about the table. And this word table is the exact same one in Psalm 23. Thou preparest a table before me in the presence of my enemies. What is a table? Well, it's a place of provision. It's a place of blessing. It's also the exact same table as we find in the table of showbread in the tabernacle. It's a table. This word table that's used here is not the only word table. There are other words translated table in our scriptures. But this one. is a table of blessing and is frequently frequently the table of the king. Remember when Moshe Meshef ate always at David's table. It was the king's table. It was not McDonald's hamburgers. It was a place of great and bountiful provision. Here we find at this blessed family there's a wife. There's fruitfulness. The wife is there in the home. There are children like olive plants, and they meet around the place of the God's provision and blessing. Oh, what a glorious home this is. And so, this Mother's Day, may we pray that God would give us blessing. For we find in uh In Psalm 78, 19, that the children of Israel were rebuked because their question was, can God provide us a table in the wilderness? Can God meet our needs? And the answer Of course, was yes. And so may God give us blessed families. May God give us grace to train up our children in the way they should go. For as we've already seen, they're the ones. That will stand in the gate against the enemy. Let us stand for prayer. Father, we thank you for our families. We thank you for godly mothers. We thank you, Lord, for our children. Father, may you save our children, everyone. May you call back the prodigals to thyself. Lord, may you use us to raise up the next generation of godly men that will stand in the gap and make up the hedge, that will stand in the gate and speak boldly against the enemy. Amen.