If you would this morning, please turn to the book of Revelation. Go to the very end, and we will be in the 21st chapter The 21st chapter of the Book of Revelation today. Throughout our time this morning, I will be reviewing various portions of Revelation, so you'll want to have it handy. If you have the book version, it'll be uh most helpful because you can flip a page or two quickly But the focus this morning is going to be on verses 9 through 11, and so I direct your attention to Revelation 21 and verses 9 to 11. Hear now the word of the Lord. And there came unto me one of the seven angels, which had the seven vials full of the seven last plagues, and talked with me, saying Come hither. I will show thee the bride, the lamb's wife. And he carried me away in the spirit to a great and high mountain, and showed me that great city, the holy Jerusalem descending out of heaven from God, having the glory of God, and her light was like unto a stone, most precious Even like a jasper stone, clear as crystal. Bow your head with me for prayer. Oh Lord God, please you be the exegete of the word this morning. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. Anyway, imagine you're you inherited a good pile of money. You're kind of tired of your old house And you've got a good sum. And you'd like to go about and find an architect who could build you a spectacular house. What would it look like? You know, I just pulled out several examples from the internet. I don't know if you can see this, but some might have this spectacular overhang over a cliff or uh this just bold jutting out uh uh lots of uh windows Uh you might have something that uh is very Frank Lloyd Wrightish in its architecture or uh uh something that has a bold overhang and or just something that's a a little tiny house. But what is it that they all have in common? A lot of window space to let in a lot of light. You know It's considered a pretty boring architectural design to have lots of bricks and tiny windows. It's not very exciting. You don't get much light in. Light is a desirable feature In a house, in the structure. You know, the theme for this message, however, has to do with a bride and her wedding. Now we'll circle back to that theme, that idea of light as well. But let's for the moment consider 9 through 11. We're going to see that there is the bride's coordinator. We're going to see the bride's ceremony And then we're going to see the bride's point. The bride's complexion. The coordinator, the ceremony, and her complexion. You know, in verse 9 we read that there came unto me one of the seven angels. One of the seven angels. Every wedding has to have a coordinator. At least it's a wise thing to do. Especially the day of coordinator, because you know weddings don't happen often and every wedding has a custom schedule, and so you need somebody to coordinate the events. So The people who are participants know where they're supposed to be at that time, and things run smoothly. Here, our bride has a coordinator. Who happens to be the seventh angel with an empty bowl from one of the seventh last plagues? We encountered this angel back in Revelation 16 And if you'll turn there briefly, you'll see this angel in Revelation 16, verse 1, where it says, I heard a great voice out of the temple. Saying to the seven angels, Go your ways and pour out the vials of the wrath of God upon the earth. This is a mighty angel. This is a powerful spiritual being, dispatched by God, and now he's been brought to the Apostle John. He just came back from destroying the earth. He's not panting. He doesn't seem to be exhausted from it. He's done his job. Like he just went to swept the foyer, taken care of, what's next. It wasn't hard for him And then in chapter 17, this same angel took John to the wilderness, where he went to view a very ugly city harlot named Babylon. In Revelation 17, 1 we read this: there came one of the savan angels, which had the seven vials, and talked with me, saying unto me, Come hither, I will show unto thee the judgment of the great whore that sitteth upon many waters. Oh my Now, in our 21st chapter, he's brought John to a high mountain to view a lovely city bride called the New Jerusalem, or the contrast couldn't be sharper. We went from looking at this ugly, nasty garbage can of a city called Babylon to this glorious, beautiful Lovely city bride named the new Jerusalem. What a sharp contrast and saints. There's no neutral ground with God You live in one of two cities. You're in the filth bucket called Babylon, or you're in the glories of the New Jerusalem There is no middle street. There's no easy sesame lane where it's nice and intermediate. There's no intermediate ground. There's one of two cities. Where do you live? There's a sharp contrast that's presented here. And then we find in the opening part of Revelation 21, look back at the opening chapters here. It says, I saw a new heaven and a new earth. For the first heaven and the first earth were passed away, and there was no more city. And I, John, saw, this is a vision now, I saw the holy city. New Jerusalem, coming down from God out of heaven, prepared as a bride adorned for her husband. Observe That the bride here depicts the church triumphant at the close of time. I believe you understand that. This is her consummation, her ultimate union to Christ at the end. And who else but a faithful herald of the King of Kings, one of the angels who stands before his throne, is sent to coordinate? Her arrival. This is the beginning of the ceremony. The angel, no less, is used to coordinate this. But oh wait, it only gets better Next, we have the bride ceremony. You say vent ceremony, I don't see a ceremony. Well, if you carefully compare verses 9 and 10, With verse 2, you will find some interesting but subtle differences and similarities. For instance, in verse 2 it says a bride. But in verses 9 and 10, it speaks of the bride. There's only one bride at the end of time. I it talks in verse two, there's a holy city, but now it's called a great city, a megacity, the city of all cities It mentions coming down and descending. Both are out of heaven. It mentions in verse 2 the new Jerusalem, verse 9, the Holy Jerusalem. In verse 7, it was referencing her husband, and now that husband has an identity. In verses 9 and 10, it's the Lamb. We now know who that husband is. And in verse 8, it's as a bride, and 9 and 10, the lamb's wife. And that's the key difference. She went from being a bride to being a wife. What's the difference? Well a bride is awaiting The marriage ceremony. She's got to go through the ceremony. There's got to be an actual joining. If you can receive it, I believe this is intimated when the Lord Jesus told Mary, Touch me not, I am not yet ascended to my Father. For it's good for a man not to touch a woman. She wasn't allowed at that point. So what's the difference? It's the status. The change of status of a woman before and after marriage. So when did she get married? Where was the ceremony? I think if you look closely at what happened between verse 2, she's a bride And now, 9 and 10, where she's the lamb's wife, the bride, we might in fact conclude the following. You see a marriage message in verses 3 and 4 He says, I heard a great voice out of heaven saying, Behold, the tabernacle of God is with men. And he will dwell with them, and they shall be his people, and God himself shall be with them and be their God. And God shall wipe away all tears from their eyes, and there shall be no more death, neither sorrow, nor crying, neither shall there be any more pain, for the former things are passed away. Now this may be a stretch, but I think it's a good stretch to call this a ceremony, a message, because this message reminds us of God's covenant, covenant promises And they're now, right here, as John sees this vision, their fulfillment. You know, Jeremiah said, This shall be the covenant that I will make with the house of Israel after those days, saith the Lord. I will put my law in their inward parts and write it in their hearts, and I will be their God, and they shall be my people. Here it's a declaration that this has become reality. Now, so we don't try to limit God's covenant to the Hebrews. We have the Apostle Paul's exhortation to the Gentile church at Corinth. Reminding them of this same covenant. In 2 Corinthians 6. 16, he says, What agreement at the temple of God with idols? For ye, ye Corinthian Gentiles, and by extension, you church. Ye are the temple of the living God, as God hath said, I will dwell in them and walk in them. I will be their God, they shall be my people. That middle wall of partition is broken down. There's neither Greek nor barbarian, Jew nor Scythian. All are free. They're all in Christ. Next, we find ourselves in God's courtroom. I don't know if you caught that, but look now at Revelation 21, 5. Here it says, and he that sat upon the throne said, Behold, I make all things new. And he said unto me, Write, for these words are true and faithful. This is a declaration of a judge in a courtroom. This is, may I assert, your marriage license? I believe it is. It's a declaration of the king. This is faithful. This is true. This is a done deal. The bride now becomes the wife. Verse 6, he said unto me, It is done. It's done. He's done these things. She's down. She's joined. Here it is. This is your marriage license, as it were. Put it in writing. It's written This is a legitimate deal. This is not an adulterous union. And then you have The marriage a reminder of the tribulation promises and their fulfillment After the bride has become the wife, he's declared it is done. He then goes on in Revelation 21, 6 and 7, I am Alpha Omega, the beginning and end. I will give unto him that is a thirst, of the fountain of the water of life freely. He that overcometh shall inherit all things. And I will be his God, and he shall be my son. Notice that phrase, he that overcometh. That was used all throughout the church as it endured great tribulation. It was written to the churches, the seven churches, that were listed in the opening chapters of Revelation and 2 and 3. I'll just review some of them for you He said, for instance, in Revelation 2. 7, these promises to help the young bride to endure all of the mess that she's going to encounter down here He that hath an ear, let him hear what the Spirit saith in the churches. To him that overcometh will I give to eat of the tree of life, which is in the midst of the paradise of God. That was a promise that she could hang on to, to endure. In Revelation 2. 11, he that overcometh shall not be hurt of the second death, a veiled reference to eternal damnation itself. And later in verse 17, to him that overcometh, will I give to eat of the hidden manna, and will give him a white stone, and in the stone a new name written, which no man knowing saveth he that receiveth it That name is Jesus Christ. That stone is the Cephas. It's a voting stone. It's a stone used to cast a vote. God's voted for you. And he says, this one, this one is mine. He goes on in verse 26, He that overcometh and keepeth my works unto the end, to him will I give power over the nations. And he shall rule them with a rod of iron. As the vessels of a potter shall they be broken to shivers. And I will give him the morning star. In the third chapter, the last two churches, they receive these promises Him that overcometh will I make a pillar in the temple of my God, and he shall go out no more. I will write upon him the name of my God, there's the name, and the name of the city of my God, which is New Jerusalem. Which cometh down out of heaven from God, and I will write upon him my new name. Yes, we are named by that worthy of all names, the name of the Lord Jesus Himself. Lastly, to him that overcometh will I grant to sit with me in my throne, even also as I overcame and am set down with my Father in his throne. This is what we have between the announcement of the bride and the declaration of the bride's wife. And there's one last thing. The gifts. What gift does this gracious God give? It's the parting of the old, and we find that back in Revelation 21. 8. You know, selecting a gift for a bride is a difficult thing. That's why the smart brides make it easy for us. They send out a registry. And if they got their act together, they send out the registry with the invitation. So it's all in one postage step And it's helpful because if you do it right, when you move into your new home, it's fully furnished. You got all the plates, you got all the dishes, you got all the kitchen stuff, you got all the bedroom stuff, and glory be to God, it all matches. You don't have a bunch of off-color things that don't match anything. What gift can you give to this bride? I mean, she has everything from her Lord. There's nothing more she could want. Ah, it's the most glorious gift you could possibly imagine. Read with me verse 8 of Revelation 21. But the fearful. When God comes, there's going to be a lot of fearful people. They don't want to have anything to do with Him. And the unbelieving. Have you ever encountered an unbeliever in this world? Scabs them. Unbelieving They can't be convinced. Nothing you say will convince me. I'll believe in something as stupid as evolution, though I know it's impossible because it's a better alternative than your God. They're an unbeliever And the abominable. You run into any abominable people in this world? Abominable. Homosexuality? Abominable. Being effeminate? Abominable. And the murderers. You know, there are some people that really have no qualms about killing other people. And it's nothing to them to kill a Christian. At a government level, at a personal level, plenty of murderers. Voice of the Martyrs puts out an annual list of the most hostile places to Christians. You ought to look it up on their webpage and maybe pray for these people. Nigeria, typically Islamic countries, but also in uh the regions of India. The some Hindus are extremely violent against Christians, murderers Horemongers. Sorcerers. Sadly, when we drive to the only memory care facility, we pass by a sorcerer's house. She's got her sorcery Listed her sorcery services for sale right there on the side of the street. Palm reader, come in here. Nonsense. Sorcerers. Idolaters. You know covetousness is idolatry. There's lots of idol worshippers here. What's an idolater? Somebody who looks at something other than Jesus Christ and says, this is my chief joy and delight. I take more delight in this. You want to see if you live near idolaters? Go out to somebody's car and tap it until the alarm goes off. You watch how fast they come out and how upset they get. They like hitting I'd rather go tap a hornet's nest. Idolaters. And all liars. All liars. Five-year-old liars and fifty-five-year-old liars and a hundred and five-year-old liars, all liars, shall have their part in the lake which burneth with fire and brimstone. This is the second death. What a beautiful gift to the bride. Honey, I'm going to clean house for you. I'm going to get rid of all the filth. Would you like that? Never again will you have any more trash to deal with. Nothing to pervert your mind. Nothing to move your conscience. Nothing to bother you. No vital thing to look at. I'm going to do a little Not house renovation. I'm going to do a little earth renovation. Because what you've been dwelling in is oh too filthy for you. Let's flush the toilet And get rid of all of them. Now that's the wedding gift. What a wonderful gift. Take all this that is vile away. And that's what he does. Nothing will ever bother Jesus' wife again. Her conscience will be clear, her vision will be pure, everything she looks at thereafter is gold and glorious But it keeps getting better. It keeps getting better. Because now we get to the part that I really want to share with you. That is the bride's complexion. Every bride is concerned about her complexion on her wedding day. It's her big day. I remember standing at the uh altar waiting for my dear bride to come. And the thing the minister told me is, well Vince, it's Ten minutes after three and we have no bride. Thanks, pal. But she'll come. I'm not worried And arrived she did, and it was a glorious thing. Marvelous thing to see. Every bride has her own glorious complexion when she arrives. All brides look glorious, they're absolutely radiant. And the thing I like at weddings is just to see how the little children uh act around this bride. All the little girls want to be with her, they want to be there, and they want to be around her, they want to be attendant to her because she is the attraction. She's the centerpiece. It's such a happy event. I like that. But here, what is this bride's complexion? Do we have some pimples to work over? Do we have some some some mascara runs that just are happening at a bad time? Do we have a bad hair day? Oh no Oh no. It says here, she has the glory of God. Verse 2, she's adorned. And in verse 11, she has, or rather, she is light. She's light. Why is she described as light, clear as a jasper? You know we say, oh she just looks so radiant. And I know what they mean by that, but this is literally radiant. She is white. Why is she described as such? Well, in meditating upon this, I reflected upon the fact that our God is also called light. For instance, in the book of Exodus, in the twenty-fourth chapter at Mount Sinai, in verses nine and ten it says, Then went up Moses, Aaron, Nadab, and Abaihu. seventy of the elders of Israel, and they saw the God of Israel, and there was under his feet, as it were, a paved work of a sapphire stone, as it were, the body of heaven. in its clearness in a veiled form. They described seeing God and it was just very clear, very transparent. In the New Testament, in Matthew 17, in another mountain Jesus took Peter, James, and John, his brother, and brought them to a high mountain apart, and was transfigured before them. The scripture records, his face did shine as the sun, and his raiment was white as the light. He just changed. His face was was shining like the sun. There was an intense radiation coming out from the godman. Even his clothing Was shining. He was a shining one. It was a stunning event. The Apostle John, who was there, later wrote and is considered the last apostle, excuse me, the last gospel account written In the New Testament. In John 1, he writes, in him, in Christ was life, and the life was the light of men. And the light shineth in darkness, and the darkness comprehended it not. Verse 9, that was the true light, which lighteth every man that cometh into the world. Yes, he saw this light, but he understood that there's a deeper light that's going on. But here he's talking about in Revelation, there's this radiance that she has. Jesus said in John 8. 12, I am the light of the world. And so, if God is light And we are being conformed to his image. It ought not to be a stretch to say that the bride likewise is made light. And I think we begin to get an insight of that in the New Testament. We read, for instance, Philippians 3 and verse 20 For our conversation, our conduct is in heaven, from whence also we look for the Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ, who shall change our vile body that it may be likened unto his glorious body. It's going to be likened, it's going to be made. Like his glorious body. Jesus said in John 12, he said, the verse 36, while you have the light, believe in the light, that ye may be the children of light. He refers to us as children of light. That's interesting. And in 1 John 1. 7, he says, if we walk in the light as he is in the light We have fellowship one with another, and the blood of Jesus Christ, his son, cleanses us from all sins. Two chapters later in 1 John 3. 2, he says, Beloved, now are we the sons of God. It does not yet appear what we shall be. But we know that when he shall appear, we shall be like him. He's life. He was on that mount. He was transfigured. He was radiant. We shall be like him, for we shall see him as he is. There's not going to be difference The groom is light and the bride is light. Ephesians 5, the apostle says, Ye were sometimes darkness, but now are ye light in the Lord. Walk as Children of the light. Again, that phrase keeps coming up again. Ye are all the children of light, 1 Thessalonians 5, and the children of the day, we are not of the night. nor of the darkness. And my point in is this is is is if God is light and we're being conformed to that image, it stands for reason we're going to be like him. Even in that In our complexion. Perhaps this is more fully explained by what the Apostle Paul meant when he wrote in Romans 8, moreover, whom he did predestinate, them he also called. Whom he called, them he also justified. And whom he justified, them he also glorified. Jesus said, Father, glorify me in heaven with the glory with which I had when I was with you. I just get the sense that there was an awful lot of light up there. And we'll be like that. What does that mean to us? And this is the part that is, I think, just very powerful for the moment. It seems to me almost unimaginable. But consider the ramifications of this metaphor that were light. And I love meditating on this and just thinking it through. The first, I've got five. The first is this, our bodies are going to undergo a radical change. Yes, your body will raise from the dead. Job says, mine eye shall behold and not another. God will raise that body up, but it's going to change. It'll still be your body, but there's going to be a change. And I cannot help but to wonder if there is an additional dimension to what the Apostle Paul says concerning the resurrection in 1 Corinthians 15. Do you remember some of that language when he talks about stars? He says in verse 35, some men will say, How are the dead raised up? And with what body do they come? And as he goes through and gives a description He says in verse 41, there's one glory of the sun, another glory of the moon, another glory of the stars. For one star differeth from another star in glory. So also is the resurrection of the dead. As we have borne the image of the earthy, we shall also bear the image of the heavenly. You know, in his dream, Jacob dreamed that the sun, the moon, and the and the stars all bowed down to him. And old Jacob understood that to mean, well, does that mean that you're going to be that that that your father and your mother and your brethren are going to bow down to you. Joseph's dream about stars bowing down was a picture of believers. There's something to that, that we're like the stars. And the second thing I contemplate as to what that might mean, if we're transformed into light as he is light That means there's zero darkness. There's no darkness. You know darkness is a metaphor in scripture for wickedness, evil. There's a complete transparency in our relationship with nothing to distort or to blur. You know, I recently got new glasses because I need a new prescription, but I also set it down a lot of times on the front. You get a scratch right where you need to see, you know. And you look through it and you're always bobbing your head up and down like a bobblehead because your glasses are messed up. There's no distortion. The apostle writes in 1 Corinthians 13, he says, We see through a glass, this is the glass, darkly. But then, face to face, we're going to see him as he is. There's pure light, there's no darkness This is the message we've heard of him and declaring to you that God is light and in him is no darkness at all. If there's no darkness in him, it's not going to be a darkness in you. You're radiant, you're light. Third point. Light has some interesting properties. I'm a physicist by training geophysics, but it's part of the electromagnetic spectrum. There's one thing that's interesting about light is you can't destroy it. I can't reach out there. You can't destroy light. Light stops when you snuff out the source, but once it's out there, it's light and it's going. You can't destroy light. Fourth point, light is brightest nearer the source, but it disperses when it's further away. Likewise, you shine the brightest when you're closest to Jesus. And the further away you get from the fellowship of the saints, you're a little dispersed, your light is just a little dimmer, a little weaker. But then we're right there with the source. We're radiant, very radiant. And my last point in this meditation about light, I'm just really fascinated by this concept, is that intense light destroys everything. Except itself. You know, there are very fascinating improvements that have been made in the field of lasers over the past 40 to 50 years. One of them is called an eczema laser. It's used in surgery, it's used in etching because it Most lasers, if they're powerful enough, blue lasers, which you can purchase on the internet, I wouldn't recommend that. Don't ever look at one. You'll fry your eyes out in a heartbeat. But The light can be so collimated and powerful, all the beams going in the same direction, which is what a laser is, that you can carve metal. An eczema laser is what they use for these neat little wood trinkets you see where it seems like they've carved very intricate detail into a block of wood, but it's down to a certain depth. And that's what you can do with that type of laser. It carves to a certain depth and it stops. You can do very fascinating things with lasers. You can just blast through all kinds of metals. There's nothing that can really withstand that. Light is very intense. Intense light is unstoppable. And our scripture says our God is a consuming fire. Who can stand before Him? He's brighter than the sun. You will wish that you were just vaporized. You would wish it. But they will be formed into a body which can endure everlasting suffering. Psalm 149 gives a joyful, joyful encouragement to the saints when it says Let the saints be joyful in glory. Let them sing aloud upon their beds, their sick beds, wherever they're at. Let the high praises of God be in their mouth. and a two edged sword in their hand, to execute vengeance upon the heathen and punishments upon the people, to bind their kings with chains, their nobles with fetters of iron, to execute upon them the judgment written, this honor. This glory, this light, have all his saints praise you. So Christian, be encouraged. You literally have a very bright and glorious future ahead of you. Rise for prayer. Lord God, thank you for giving us such exceeding great and precious promises. We thank you, Lord, for this last book of scriptures you've given to us where Like a mystery novel, we can jump to the end to see how it all finishes. And Lord, we rejoice to find these closing chapters It ends up well, very well, for thy people. Encourage us all, Father, with these promises and these truths, that we would not lose hope, that we would not cast it away That they we would not shirk from our duties, Lord, but evermore press on to that day. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen