Continue our trek through this book. First Samuel sixteen verses one through thirteen. I think the Bolton might say one through twelve. Beginning in verse 1 of chapter 16. And the Lord said unto Samuel, How long wilt thou mourn for Saul? Seeing I have rejected him from reigning over Israel. Fill thine horn with oil, and go, and I will send thee to Jesse the Bethlehemite. For I provided me a king Among his sons. And Samuel said, How can I go? If Saul hear it, he'll kill me. And the Lord said, Take a heifer with thee, and say, I am come to sacrifice to the Lord. And call Jesse to the sacrifice, and I will show thee what thou shalt do. And thou shalt anoint unto me him whom I name unto thee. And Samuel did that which the Lord spake, and he came to Bethlehem, and the elders of the town rejoiced No, so they trembled at his coming and said, Comest thou peaceably? And he said, Peaceably I am come. To sacrifice on the Lord. Sanctify yourselves, and come with me to the sacrifice. And he sanctified Jesse and his sons and called them to the sacrifice. And it came to pass when they were come, they looked on Iliab, and he said, Surely the Lord's anointed is before him. But the Lord said unto Samuel, look not on his countenance, or on the height of his stature, because I've refused him. For the Lord seeth not as man seeth, for man looketh on the outward appearance, but the Lord looketh on the heart. And then Jesse called Abinadab. And made him pass before Samuel. And he said, Neither hath the Lord chosen this, or this one. And then Jesse made Shamah to pass by. And he said, Neither hath the Lord chosen this one. And again Jesse made seven of his sons to pass before Samuel. And Samuel said unto Jesse, The Lord hath not chosen these. And Samuel said unto Jesse, are here all thy children? And he said, There remaineth yet the youngest, and behold, he keepeth the sheep. And Samuel said unto Jesse, send and fetch him, for we will not sit down, let us sit down to eat, till he come hither. And he sent and he brought him in. Now he was ruddy, and with all of a beautiful countenance, and goodie to look to. And the Lord said, Arise and anoint him, for this is he And then Samuel took the horn of oil and anointed him in the midst of his brethren. And the spirit of the Lord came upon David from that day forward. And Samuel rose up and he went back to Rama. We find here this morning that the Lord comes to Samuel. Samuel's been mourning over the fact that King Saul is being removed at some date. We don't know yet when, but he's being removed. And Samuel is is mourning over this man for being deposed, mourning over this man's soul, praying that he might get saved. And the Lord said unto Samuel, How long will I mourn for Saul? Seeing I rejected him from reigning over Israel. Heartache. And Samuel had an aching heart this day. Heartache will not bypass those who love the Lord. We're all in store for some heartache in this life. The firstborn in Egypt will surely die was a message that the Israelites heard. The firstborn of Egypt will surely die. And how frightening that must have been until they got the rest of the message. But then they found that joy cometh in the morning. We read that in Psalm 30 and verse 5. David or Psalmist writes that joy cometh in the morning. And so the firstborn in Egypt did die, but not those who put the blood on the lintel of the lamb Representing Jesus Christ, the Lamb of God, that shed his blood for us. And so, although the first words were, the firstborn in Egypt shall die, joy cometh in the morning when Pharaoh finally says that he would let their people go. And then there was a day in Hezekiah was king when Jerusalem was surrounded by 185,000 Assyrians. And they defeated every city along throughout Israel. They finally come to Jerusalem. And there just seemed to be no hope that things would be any different here. And the prophet Isaiah came to Hezekiah and he said, Not one arrow will fly over the wall of Jerusalem this night, and joy cometh in the morning And that night the angels came and struck down and killed 185,000 Assyrians. And as the sun rose that day, and they looked out over the walls of Jerusalem, the enemy was dead. Joy cometh in the morning. We're not promised, there will not be any heartaches, but we are also finding that there is joy that cometh in the morning. Joseph and Mary arrived in Bethlehem, and there's no room in the inn. And she's pregnant with child, heavy with child, going into labor, and there's no room in the end. But we know that story and how the angels came and appeared and rejoiced. And there was joy that cometh in the morning. Lazarus has been dead for four days when Christ finally arrived early that day, and there was joy that cometh in the morning. Christ has been in the tomb now for three days. Christ in the tomb for three days. But on that third day, joy cometh in the morning. Heartache will not bypass us But I would say this morning, are you mourning today or have you mourned of late? There is a better mourning coming for those who believe. And now Samuel hears that he's just stopped his mourning. Fill thy horn in verses 1 and 2. Fill thy horn with oil and go to Jesse the Bethlehemite, or go to Bethlehem where Jesse lives. For I provided me a king among his sons. And Samuel said, How can I go? Saul, hear it. You'll kill me. Can you imagine you're mourning over a man for his soul to be saved? And yet you know this is a man that would kill you if he had an opportunity. Sometimes we are What we're weeping over and mourning over it almost doesn't make sense. He's mourning over the man that would kill Samuel, the prophet of God. And he said if I go there and he sees me going down the bay, he'll kill me It was a tough time for Samuel. Samuel's sons we read in chapter eight, probably previously in this book. Had taken bribes and they'd perverted judgment. We know about Eli's sons, the high priests, how that had gone as well. Israel's people had rejected God, we read in Samuel 8 and verse 7 And now Sam was told he must travel from his home in Rama to Jesse's home in Bethlehem. If we had a map up here on the board, we could show it to you. If you're living up here in Ramah and you're going to go down here through to Bethlehem, you go right through Gibeah, where King Saul lives. It's the only route to go. You were going to pass right through the city. And everyone knew who Samuel was, and they feared sometimes when Samuel came. Have you come peacefully? They trembled at his presence. It wouldn't take long for Saul to know that Samuel, who he hadn't seen in years, was now traveling through his city of Gibeah. Gilgoth to Bethlehem, he went through King Saul's hometown where he lived. And so we discover that not only was he going to be going through the town of King Saul, but that King Saul's heart had grown wicked, so wicked that it would kill Samuel, the prophet of God. Life in Israel for believer couldn't have been worse at this time. We had Eli's sons lying with the women in the temple or the tabernacle door outside the tabernacle door. We have Samuel's sons who should show who should we would hope have a a a new a burn born-again experience and would would lead the people religiously and they had not That they are out perverting judgment. We find the people were profane, they had rejected God, the clergy was carnal and perverted, and the king governed it without a conscience. He just couldn't have had things any worse A government without a conscience, clergy that were carnal, and the people were profane. It sounds so much like today And then, in the worst of times, God says to Samuel that unexpectedly and graciously he was going to intervene. And give him a king that God had discovered was a man after his own heart. Pilgrims, maybe it's time for us to go to our knees and see what Christ will do in this country. Have you thought of that? Can it get any worse? When we look at the church today, when we look at the people today, we look at the government, those who govern us today, can it be any worse? Maybe it's time for us like Samuel to go to our knees and see what the Lord Jesus Christ will do for this country. Or are you waiting for it to get worse? Isaiah 51 says, the Lord's hand is not shortened That he cannot save. I want you to hold on to that. The Lord's hand is not short, that he cannot save your niece, he cannot save your nephew, or he cannot save this nation. God's hand is not short that he cannot save. And just as in Samuel's day, we find as we read through this, there was one who would make a difference. His name was David. There was one that would make a difference. And although Samuel's a man of God, he's a prophet of God, and he's endowed with many, many great gifts Even Samuel is not aware of who this one might be. In fact, Samuel is not aware that he hoped it would be one of his sons, but that wasn't true. He'd hope to be one of Eli's sons, that wasn't true. He'd hoped to be King Saul, that wasn't true. And so at this time and at this point in time, Samuel is not aware of a one. In the nation of Israel, model one that could make a difference. And God said, Samuel, there is one He comes out of Bethlehem. I'm here to tell you this morning there's still one. The Lord Jesus Christ who was born in Bethlehem, who came out of Bethlehem. out of Bethlehem, there is still hope. Because there is one. And we only need one. And so Samuel is sent there. For there is one that will make a difference. Although he did not know the man by name or who he might be, God was about to reveal him to Samuel. And when you read through this, you realize that What that though he anoints David here, it does not reveal why he's being anointed. And no one understands what is happening here. No one understands that David is the one at that point. You'll see as we read through this And so the Lord said to him, take a heifer as you go through Gibeah, where Saul lives, take a heifer with you. And if anyone says to you, just say, come to sacrifice to the Lord. And then called Jesse the sacrifice and anoint unto me him whom I name unto thee. And in verse 4, Samuel came to Bethlehem, and the elders of the town trembled at his coming. Do people tremble at your coming? Or sometimes they don't even invite you to come. Isn't that kind of the way it works? We don't want those Christians coming to this park. Yes, we're having a family reunion, but we don't want them there. Oh my goodness, so we're quoting the Bible. And you know, and then when you do go, you don't quote the Bible, and you but they're still just uncomfortable And uh and my wife often says to me it's time to leave. I say, Why? I don't know enjoy myself. I said, but they're not. They're not. They'll feel a lot better when we're gone. And so we we generally leave a little early and everybody's, bye, good to see you. They hadn't been that excited when we came, but they're very excited to say bye to us And so it says they trembled. Oh, do I wish that there were God-fearing people today that the ungodly trembled At their presence. There's not many that cause people to tremble. But here they did. And what were they afraid of? It's this old prophet, maybe he's got a stick in his hand, and he's walking down to Bethlehem. He's got this heifer with a leash on. Bring him You know, he doesn't look very imposing. He doesn't look very threatening. But he knows God. He knows the word of God. He serves the God of the universe, the creator of all heaven and earth. And he serves him well. And no one dares touch God's anointed. As he comes the town, it says they trembled. Why would they fear this old man? Because if you were here with us last week, this old man hewed King Agag in pieces, remember? Cut him up as only Samuel the prophet would know how. Samuel knew how to sacrifice a bullet and how to divide a bullock in half, and how to cut him limb from limb and spread him out over the altar to be burned. He hews him to pieces. They'd never seen that side of Samuel before, and they didn't want to see it again at all. Why has he come down here after all this time? Have you come peacefully? And it wasn't just what he'd done to King Agad, but as we recorded in Hebrews in the New Testament, his words were quick. and powerful and sharper than any two-edged sword when Samuel spake, his words piercing and dividing asunder soul and spirit and joints and marrow, and yet it was a discerner of the thoughts and the intent of the heart of man and they knew when he spoke that he was talking right to their hearts. They felt as though he could read their hearts. They felt he could open up their chest and look in their hearts. And he could see the filth of their hearts. And they trembled that he would expose them and curse them. And yeah, he might hack a few of them too. And they tremble at this old man that probably any one of them could physically take on in an arm wrestling match, but they dare not. Samuel's presence made them conscious of the consequences of their unrepentance. sin. And that's sometimes why you're not so welcome in places you go. He said, I went in there, I didn't have them attract, I wasn't carrying my Bible, I wasn't quoting scripture, but they just didn't like me being there. I could tell I wasn't welcomed at the Christmas company party or whatever. I knew they'd be feeling a lot better after we were gone. And it's because you make them, if you're a born-again Christian, people know you love the Lord. They know you love the Word of God. They know you go to church, so they know you're a praying person, a God-fearing man or woman. If they know that, you make them conscious of their sin. And the consequences of sin. And they don't like to be reminded of that. You say, I wish I could get along better with this group over here, that group over there. You will never get along with them if they're not saved. In fact, you'll find that if the Bible says, come out from among them, be separate. You will find that more often than not, they'll separate from you a whole lot sooner than you'll separate from them. His presence made them conscious of the consequences of their unrepentant sin. Have you, pilgrim, this morning, considered the consequences of your sins? If you're saved, I know you have. But there are some here that are not saved. You say, how do I know that? I don't think there's a church in America that hasn't got somebody in it who's not saved. And so I asked you this morning, pilgrim, and I trust you are a pilgrim or will be a pilgrim someday, have you considered the consequences of Your sin. May that consideration drive us to our knees With pleas, of please, Lord, forgive me. Save me, touch me, choose me, elect me, call me, bless me Forgive me. So Samuel comes. And they're not ready to fall to their knees and plead and pray. They just want to know if he's come peacefully. And Samuel says in verse 5, peaceably I am come to sacrifice unto the Lord. And he sanctified Jesse. and his sons. And he called them to the sacrifice. And verse 6, and when they were come, he looked on Eliab and he said, Surely Anointed. I mean, what's with Samuel? All of Israel looked on King Saul, and he was so tall, so statuous and so broad of shoulder and narrow at the hip and loaded sixty tons of what do you get and all that. I mean he was just he was just all of that. And we realized that he was not the man of God. And now Samuel sees Elab, Eliab, coming in. He's oh here's another guy. He's big and he's statically strong. This has got to be the one Samuel, what if you learn Samuel? But stop looking on the outward side of man Surely this is the one that the Lord's anointed, but the Lord said in verse 7 under Samuel, man looketh on the outward appearance, but the Lord looketh on the heart. God looks on the heart. All right, we got about fifty, sixty hearts in here. You know, God doesn't have to go one by one, he can just look at all the hearts. One time. God looketh on the heart. Pilgrim, what's he see? When he looks in your heart Does he see this vast emptiness? The Holy Spirit's not there. Does he see the Lord tucked away in a little corner somewhere that you can pick out, you know, one hour out of one day of the week and come and worship him? You set aside a little parking spot for Jesus. Or can he not look into your heart? Because you know what the Bible says? God cannot look upon sin. So some may be here and God can't look into your heart because it's so full of sin and God cannot look upon sin. God doesn't look at the outward side of man or outward appearance of man. He says, the Lord looketh on the heart The world, on the other hand, they look at the outside. The world is fascinated, captivated, enthralled with appearances, right? What's the world want to lead them or to f who they want to follow? They look for youth and they look for strength. They look for Botox and hair extensions and collagen and implants and lipostructures and steroids and tennis salons and facelifts and Joan Rivers. She's been dead now for a couple of weeks. Do you know what happens to the body when it's been dead for a couple of weeks? Do you know what someday they go up with a coffin of Joan Rivers? Maybe a couple months in an hour, a couple years an hour, or and they're gonna see dust and ashes and bones. And a face that hasn't changed in 200 years still just looks the same. But that's the outwards. She'll still look alive, I guess. That's looking on the outward appearance. God looks on the heart. And what does your heart reveal to Christ? What does your heart reveal to your parents, to your loved ones? Is one thing. But what does your heart reveal to the Lord Jesus Christ, who can read our hearts He knows what's in our hearts. He knows what's been in our hearts. He knows what should be in our hearts. What is in our hearts? I hear people on the TV, they interview them, they say, uh, so what's going on today? Oh, I'm all for the ravens, you cut me, I bleed purple. That's what's in his heart, ravens, you know I mean, I mean it open somebody's heart and say Orioles, Ravens, you know, whatever. Hey, I like sports too. But I don't bleed purple. What's in your heart, friends? If Christ is in your heart. If you were looking for if you're looking for a friend, are you looking for a friend? Or are you looking for a spouse, a life mate? That choice will be so different depending on whether you're just looking on the outward appearance or if you're looking on the heart of each and every one you're considering to be your spouse or your life. Oh, what a different choice some of us would have made if we looked closer at the heart So here's Samuel, and he's looking at the outward appearance initially, and God says, Don't do that, Samuel. We don't God doesn't look at the outward appearance, God looks at the heart, and you need to do the same thing. Look for the heart. And so he Jesse calls the Benadab. Jesse's probably calling them in the order of their birth, you know, the elders first and secondborn. He calls the Benadab and that that wasn't it. And he calls Sheman, and that wasn't it. And finally he calls all seven of the sons that are present to pass before Samuel. And Samuel says unto Jesse, The Lord hath not chosen these. Now they didn't know chosen these for what, but they knew that whatever Samuel had come for, they weren't chosen for it. The Lord has not chosen these. Wherever you are today, God has chosen for you to be where you are. I don't know how it makes you feel, but doesn't tell you that the Lord Jesus Christ chooses your destiny? Because these boys here, God's choosing their destiny. They're not going to be the king. David's going to be the king. God chooses our destiny. Does that bother you that God chooses our destiny? Some people don't like that. There's seven brothers here that aren't gonna like that. God chooses our destiny. You look at 1 Timothy 5. 21, you know what you find out about the angels in heaven? That God has elect angels. God's angels are chosen, it will never fall from heaven, never rebel against God. God has chosen some of those angels. They are elect, they are chosen, their destiny is locked in, they will never fail or fall from God And those that are not chosen rebelled with Satan and fell from heaven and we call them demons today or devils. Does it body that God elects and chooses some angels and doesn't choose other angels? I've never found anybody say that doesn't bother me. Hey, Dr. Newton wants those angels. That's all right with me. Right? Does it bother you if God doesn't choose and elect animals to heaven? Or for salvation? Well, they're just animals. I mean cricket and the chipmunk and I don't care about it. There's a body of God destined human beings. That bothers me. But God does. It says He chooses the destiny. Your seven sons, Jesse, pray not. The Lord hath not chosen these. And then Samuel says in verse 11 unto Jesse, are here all thy children? Are all your children here? And he says, Well, there remaineth the youngest. And he's out keeping the sheep. When he Samuel says, I'm coming to Bethem, I'm coming for a sacrifice, call everybody in for the sacrifice. And that Jesse, especially you, I want to sanctify you and your sons. You're all coming in for this religious service, for the sacrifice that Samuel is going to initiate and perform. Bring them all in. And you know, they could have sent a servant out to watch those sheep and got David there too. But the father didn't think much of David. Just leave him out with a sheep. You know, this is a this is a spiritual important thing. Samuel's in town and he's sanctified me and wants to sanctify my sons and yeah David. We don't need David here. Leave him out of the sheep. Servant could have been sent, but David doesn't need to come. David is. David is insignificant. In his father's eyes. Sometimes there's a child like that. They're just insignificant. I've seen that in our family. A child insignificant in the father, the mother's eyes. Samuel needn't trouble himself with a shepherd boy. He's a a sheepwatcher. He's out there gazing at the flowers and he's got this little swing he plays all the time trying to chop off the dandelion heads from a hundred feet away. He's at the kid. He doesn't have to be here David isn't s significant in his father's eyes, but Samuel thought it was significant. He saw in David's youth and in David's occupation, at least God saw it and Samuel Shirley did too, that it would qualify him. To be king, one who looked after lambs and sheep and a flock. There were qualifications in there that could make him a good king King. We know in 1 Samuel 17 and 28 that it wasn't just the father's attitude towards David, but it was a his brothers' attitude. His brothers had no love for him You you read uh what his father said to David, David, I want you to take some bread out of your brothers, they're out on the battlefield, they're up there, they're fighting the Philistines, and I want you to go up to the front lines and find your brothers and give them this bread, and so David gets the bread and and uh that's Seem like a more important job than watching the sheep. And he goes running out there to find his brothers. He comes up on his brothers. He said, Hi guys. And he said, What are you doing here? Oh, the pride of life has brought you up around it No, he's a no, he's a death. Yeah, you were the naughty. We know the naughtiness of your heart. And the brothers just are railing on him. Not only does Father find him insignificant. But his brothers had little love for him. Do you know what the name David means in Hebrew? Beloved. Well, but he wasn't by man, but he was by God You know, there are people today that may some godly people running for office, and they're going to lose And they may mourn over their loss in the political realm, but if God loves you, what does it matter if man doesn't? Sometimes one's overlooked in the family. And sometimes that child was painfully aware of the fact that He has but a small portion of his mother's heart or his father's heart. Just a small portion tucked off in a corner God realizes how small a portion of your heart loves him too. We're to love all our hearts. Right? All our soul, all our might, and all our strength. Not just as a little portion. No one wants to be loved with a little portion, do they? It's a painful trial when you're not beloved of your mother. Or father. Scripture. David would write in the Psalms, Oh, your mother and your father forsake you, yea, I will never forsake you. It's not an unusual trial, but it's a painful trial. And that trial will often sour one's soul towards life, or it'll make them stronger. Spiritually stronger and more godly, because they have a Father in heaven who says, Christ the everlasting Father says, I will never leave you or forget you Now that's the father I want to have. So too, David's life was a lonely life. Not to come rod with the brothers, not to love with the father. Mother's never mentioned her at all. She may have been uh perished by then. Painfully aware of all this that he's going through this trial. It's a lonely life as a shepherd, but it prompted some precious habits in his life. If you're living a lonely life, maybe you're not married, uh uh maybe you don't have a brother and a sister, you're the only sibling in the home. You know, maybe your mom and dad are both passed away and you feel like a loner or you feel like an orphan. If you are living alone, there is an opportunity there. As David was out lonely, life was a shepherd boy. It prompted some precious habits in his life. You see, when you have extra time and you don't have brothers and sisters to bother with and to care for, you know, and when you don't have much of a family, you know, if you're an orphan, you have more time for the things of God. That's why the Paul said he wasn't married. It would take away from his time in the missionary field. He'd have to take care of a wife. And he implies that because the other disciples have sisters and wives, that they didn't have the ability to do the traveling that he had to do And so the lonely life of the shepherd, it prompted some precious habits and he writes about them in the very first Psalm in chapter in verse 2. In his law does he meditate day and night. I'm a shepherd boy without a friend, but I'm out here with these sheep, and I am able to meditate on the Word of God day and night And by meditating, he says he develops a taste for the word. You know, when I first had pizza, I didn't like it. When I first had sauerkraut, I didn't like it And I'm sure there's something you've ever eaten before. I never used to like chocolate ice cream. You develop a taste for some things after a while, and you really like them. And initially you don't. And he says here that as he meditated on the Word of God day and night, we we read here as he as he's writing these different Psalms As he meditated the word day and night, he says in Psalm 1191, how sweet are thy words unto my taste That's what happens when you meditate on the Word of God day and night. When someone says, oh, that dusty old book, yeah, I can't get into all that stuff, they haven't meditated on it People say, I've read the Bible. You read the whole book? I read the whole Bible. Even the book of Hezekiah, yeah, I read the book of Hezekiah. There is no book of Hezekiah Oh. They haven't read the Bible when they don't like it, when they find it's dusty and old and boring. You know what? It's not dusty and old and boring. The fact is it may be old. It may be a little dusty, but when they say boring, it isn't boring. In fact, it bores them with an accountability towards their sin life. They don't like being bored or gored at the Word of God. It pierces them. Sweeter than honey to my mouth, David says. Hundred and nineteen Psalm verse one oh three. Is God's word sweet to your taste, pilgrim? Would you rather read that than the funny papers? Would you rather read that than the Wall Street Journal or the Stock Report? Is God's word sweet to your taste? Is Christ's name dear to you? Oh, that's an important question. What think ye of Christ? I never really think about him. Whoops. What think ye of Christ? Christ's name dear. Do you love holiness? Do you love those are who are striving to be holy people. Do you swim against the current of the world or you just go with the flow? Because I'll tell you something. If you find the Word of God sweet to your taste, if you find Christ's name dear to you, if you love holiness, if you swim against the current of the world, those are sure signs of salvation. And signs that are not so sure of salvation are those who love to pray in public like the Pharisees, or sing in the sanctuary, or preach in a pulpit like Judas. But those aren't signs of salvation. It's if God's word is sweet to your taste and Christ's name is dear to you and you love holiness. I didn't say you're perfect. I didn't say you're sinless, but I just said, do you love holiness? Samuel wished to see the shepherd boy, and he said, We're not going to sit down and eat until they do. And so verse 11 to 13, Jesse fetched him and he brought him in. Now he was of a beautiful countenance, but that's the outside appearance. And the Lord said, Rise and anoint him, for this is he. God had looked in the heart, he looked past that countenance. And the Lord said, Rise and anoint him, for this is he. And Samuel took the horn of oil and he anointed him in the midst of his brethren. This is the final act, the final solemn act that Samuel will ever perform. The anointing of David the shepherd boy. And as you read through this, not a word of the purpose of the anointing is spoken. David's family are left to wonder, what was this all about? What is the destiny of David that Samuel has come and anointed him? He's not a Levite, they can't be making him a priest. He he he's no prophet, that's for sure. I mean the only the only thing they know in Israel are prophets, priests, and king. He's no king, he's a shepherd boy. What is what is going on? What is this What is little David's destiny? And no doubt their hearts were filled with envy. Whatever it was, we didn't get it. And then we read in verse 13, 13, the Spirit of the Lord came upon David from that day forward. David is now conscious of a new spirit stirring within him. And with that spirit, he goes out and back to the sheep and the flock. And we read shortly thereafter, a lion and a bear come in and grab one of the lambs of the flock. And we would probably say, Well, at least he didn't grab me. He got the lamb and he's gone and I just had to maybe move the flock a couple miles down the road somewhere and you know that's But not David. He is filled with the Spirit of God and he runs out, and it says he smote the lion, and he smote the bear, and he took the lamb out of the mouth. And as he was taking the lamb out of the mouth, that says they rose up, and David says, He struck them and smote him and killed them I mean this one just hit him with a rock with a sling and then boop the drop dead he walks over, gets the lamb, walks away. It just stunned the bear or the lion, and as he's taken the lamb out of the mouth of the lion that has stunned and lying there The lion comes up out of it and comes up against David. And David says, I grabbed him by his beard and I killed him. That's being filled with the Spirit of God. And David from that day forth was filled with the Spirit of God. And he wasn't afraid of anything. And shortly thereafter, the killing of the lion, the bear, he faces Goliath. Pilgrim, are you saved this morning? Are you beloved of God? These things are written. That's what John says. These things are written that you may know your turn. So, how can you know if you have eternal life? You've got to read them. These things are written so that you can read them, so that you can know you have eternal life. You've got to read them to know. To know for sure. You have a boring life this morning? Does your life seem seemingly insignificant? That was David's life. If you're living a boring life, a seemingly insignificant life, God may be preparing you to fulfill a higher purpose for Christ. You're in the preparation stage. Wait patiently. Endure the trivia of life. For joy cometh. in the morning? It does. It will. For the beloved. For the saved. Let's pray. Father, we thank you this day. As we look through the scriptures and look upon the life of Samuel, now we are introduced to David, an insignificant little shepherd boy. Didn't have what we find to be a great education, didn't have a great prompting and encouragement from his family or his brothers, but he had the Lord. The Lord's word was sweet to his taste. Oh Father, may that be the case here today. May all of us find your word sweet, sweeter than honey, to our mouths. In Christ's name we pray, the great King of Kings of Israel. Amen