Father, we thank you this morning for your marvelous mercy and grace whereby we're saved. Father, we acknowledge before you that we are indeed sinful men. And there I know that in me, that is in my flesh, dwelleth no good thing. And yet, Father, your word speaks of the good man. And Father, we are viewed by thee as being Good men, because we are viewed by thee through the lens of the blood of Christ. We are new creatures in Christ. We are crucified with Christ. And so your command is: let not sin therefore reign in your mortal bodies that you should obey it in the lust thereof. And so, Lord, we come before you this morning in great thanksgiving and rejoicing that you have saved us from our sin. That you have transformed us from what we are, and that we are become new in thee. So Father, this morning we endeavor to worship and to praise you. We endeavor to worship you aright. We gather, O Lord, to hear from thy word, to examine thy truth, to hide thy word in our hearts. And so, Father, we pray that in our time together, you would drive Satan from our midst. For Lord, he's described there in the parable the sower as the bird of the air that would steal away the seed that is sown. And so, Lord, may by thy spirit that bird of the air be driven from our hearts, that thy word may find great root. That it may be planted, that immortal seed planted within us, and may it spring up and bring forth ten, a hundred, and a thousandfold, we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. Good morning everyone. Good morning. Good to see you all today. We grab our blue song book. Number 502, rejoice, you pure in heart. From our blue song book. I trust you're familiar with this song. Clearing your throats, you ready for the high parts? Number 502. A lovely song. We're gonna sing all six stanzas. Rejoice your joy in things. Your best over me. We join, we joy. We join spirit thanks and why you dance no problem. Strong men and maiden sweet Praise God, your free exalting sound praises. We join, we join, we joy a face. With all the angels, with all the same solders For us the strains of joy and bliss, give pressure noise, rejoice. Joy, Joyce give thy sanction. Yes, all through life song. Still chanting as he go from you to wait by night and day In quietness and voice, rejoice, joy, joy, joys, great, joy, skip, thank, bad. The pilgrims find their father's house, Jerusalem. Rejoice, rejoice. We choice give thanks to your glorious battery The cross of Christ joy joy, joy, joy, rejoice, rejoice, give thy satisfaction. Amen. Amen. The Christian has many reasons to sing. That's a good introduction for the day. Please be seated as we turn to our time of confessional reading and explanation. Good morning. Good morning. Please turn to the back of your bulletin. This morning we read from the twenty-ninth article of the Belgic Confession. This is the fourth and last part of this portion regarding the marks of the true church and wherein she differs from the false church. Christian, and what do you believe? As for the false church, she ascribes more power and authority to herself and her ordinances than to the Word of God. And will not submit herself to the yoke of Christ. Neither does she administer the sacraments as appointed by Christ in his word. But as to intakes from them, as she thinks proper, she relieth more upon men than upon Christ. And persecutes those who live holily according to the Word of God, and rebuke her for her errors, covetousness, and idolatry. These two churches are easily known and distinguished from each other. In the previous weeks we looked at the marks of a true or a faithful church as well as the marks of true believers. This morning we look at what a false church is The marks are things that distinguish a false church. That's one that's walking in error. That's one that the confession describes as not under the yoke of Christ. Note that false churches still call themselves churches. They still call themselves followers of Christ, but there's something there that's missing. There's something there where they've gone astray from the Lord. And really the confession points to, I think, what could be summed up in two main marks. The first one is that the false church is carnally minded. Rather than minded on being minded on the things of the scriptures, being on being minded on the things of walking in the spirit, they're carnally minded. There's some things where they look more so to the flesh than to the Lord. And one of those things the confession points out is that they ascribe power to themselves rather than to God or His Word. And we do see that with many false churches. Rather than uh looking to what the Scripture says, how it may be obedient to the Scriptures instead They will come up with their own teachings, their own traditions, and they won't want to sway from it But also many like to hold power in themselves even in swaying the things of politics or swaying the the decisions that nations make, even for what's helpful to themselves. And and you see this historically with the Roman Catholic Church and how it's uh ruled in the affairs of many nations Well, many of these false churches hold to traditions, and you know they'll actually dissuade you from reading your Bible. They'll try to convince you that it's not that important to look at the scriptures They'll say, well, you can't understand the Bible unless one of our leaders explains it to you. You can never get anything from it of your own. You have to have our teaching. Don't go out anywhere else. It has to be one of us, otherwise you might go astray. Well, you know, that kind of kills all of your motivation to personally seek the Lord, to personally take up the scripture and read it. If what you're being taught is there's no use in reading the scriptures on your own. You won't profit from it. You just have to hear one of our teachers explain it. But it's interesting from the scriptures we read of what the psalmist writes. He says, I have more understanding than all my teachers, for thy testimonies are my meditation. I understand more than the ancients because I keep thy precepts. So the psalmist admitted that he's actually Blessed so much that he knows more than what his teachers could teach him because he's been meditating and focusing on God's word. There's much blessing to it And of course, false churches might also encourage individuals to just focus on certain portions of the scripture and leave others out. They might have pre-selected Bible studies, but somehow they never come across the hard sayings of the Lord. They never will come across something that might turn against their denomination or what their church holds to, they'll just avoid those scriptures. They just hold on to what's comfortable to them. Or somehow they'll water it down. They'll say, oh well of course scripture says such and such, but it doesn't really mean that. You know, and there's there's many applications you can make there And honestly, that's the way to keep people in the dark. You hide them from the light of the scripture. You keep them away from reading their Bible and just say, we as a church have our own authority. Don't look to scriptures, look to us. And you keep many individuals in the dark. They'll just look at the person speaking up at the front, and they'll never read the word for themselves. That's the mark of a false church. But also a false church will stand together with the world against God. They'll go and actively persecute faithful believers. They're not simply neutral, but they're often antagonistic to the true church. And we know from the scriptures that the world is generally against God. Brought forth in our sin and we're in rebellion against the Lord. So much that Psalm two says, Why do the heathen rage and the people imagine a vain thing? The kings of the earth set themselves, and the rulers take counsel together against the Lord, and against his anointed, saying, Let us break their bands asunder and cast away their cords from us. This is the world's position. They're against God. They don't like it. The world wants to break free from the bondage of God's law. They don't like it when their crimes, their sins are exposed by the Word of God, so they'd rather put it down. They'd rather hush up or kill any voice that's speaking out against them through the Word of God. And of course the false church joins with them. They don't like being accused of their errors either. And so they'll join together with the church to stop the voice of the individual bringing forth the actual word of God, the the true teaching of God And this has been going on since the beginning of time. You know, Cain with his false religion was envious and bitter against Abel so much that he killed Abel. And the mock there were many mockers in Noah's day that doubted what God said regarding the flood to come. And there was a slew of false prophets that were always countering the faithful And we even saw the Jews joining together with the Romans in Christ's day to persecute and to crucify Christ Himself. If you remember the account, it was the Pharisees and the high priest working together with the Romans to go ahead and have Christ put to death So the false church joins together with the world to go ahead and take a stand against God, against his people. And Stephen gives a good description of unbelieving Jews, but this also applies to all false churches. When Stephen was taken and shortly before he was put to death, he gave this uh evaluation of those that were taking him. He said, ye stiff-necked and uncircumcised in heart and ears, ye do always resist the Holy Ghost. As your fathers did, so do ye Which of the prophets have not your fathers persecuted? And they have slain them which showed before of the coming of the just one, of whom ye have been now the betrayers and murderers. Indeed, all false church leaders are stiff-necked and they're uncircumcised. They're unregenerate. They don't truly bear the Spirit of God upon them and they resist the Holy Ghost. They resist that which God would do. They go against his efforts. And indeed, I love the question that Stephen asked. Uh which of the prophets have your fathers not persecuted? Whenever there's the true church, the false prophets are always out there to try to dampen the voice and kill it, cut it off any way that it's possible. Mm-hmm. Even today in the large churches, uh, there's many that are those that are uh against those that truly believe their Bible, they'll say, Well, you don't really believe that book from Genesis to Revelation This is seen in churches. Yeah, we believe there's some things in there we're followers of Christ, but we have to take all things into consideration We have to see that there may have been some errors in your Bible. They'll cause the church, they'll cause people to doubt their Bibles. And of course the false church joins with the world to mock radical Christians that believe their Bible and share the gospel. There's always going to be a dampening. They'll stand with the world, which is a sad thing to see But what's the point here with all of this? The point with these past several weeks of reviewing these differences between the true and the false church? It's the hope that you yourself have discerned that you yourself will be able to evaluate things and not team up with other false churches which are under the rule of Satan. Thank you. Thank you, brother. Uh God is the creator. He created all things. Satan is a manufacturer. A manufacturer takes existing elements and puts them together to not create, but to make a product. Religion is the product of Satan. Truth was created by God. Thank you, brother. Well, let us go to prayer together this morning. Gracious Father, Lord, we thank you. We thank you for thy truth. We thank you for opening our eyes to see thy truth. And Father, thy truth is revealed in the Word of God. And Lord, we pray that our faith and our practice may always be measured by the Word of God. In fact, the when we refer to the 66 books, they are the canon. They have been measured and found to be true. And Lord, we thank you for this. Father, we marvel at the power and might of our God. Last week when we came to prayer, our hearts were very heavily burdened for our dear sister in Wisconsin. Very concerned, O Lord. And Father, we have seen this week a marvelous answer to those prayers And Lord, we are careful, as the one healed leper out of ten, we are careful to return and give glory to God and to give our thanks. Lord, we praise you for what you've done And pray, Lord, that you would continue to strengthen and that you would continue to protect from rejection and from infection on our sister's behalf. We also pray for our dear brother who will be traveling. Be away from us for the holidays. Lord, watch over him and bless. Father, we see this morning, as we often see, empty seats. And Father, we know our dear pastor emeritus is again suffering greatly in the body. And Lord, we pray your grace upon he and his wife. Father, we pray your strengthening. We pray, Lord, that this condition he's dealing with would be uh pushed down again, that it would return to remission. And Lord, we so rejoice that our sister was with us a few weeks ago and pray, Lord, that you might restore them to health, that they could be with us. And then, Lord, their oft-traveling companions are not with us again this week as well. Be with our dear sister, Father, who deals with a multitude of ailments And our brother is well, Lord, strengthen them and raise them up, we pray. Lord, grant them health and strength to be here And then Lord again, another of our brethren is not with us today, oft in infirmity, oft in overwhelming weakness of the body. Lord, struggling long and hard with these ailments, Father. Lord, we pray your blessing upon him. We pray your strengthening Father. Lord, we know that all of these, their earnest desire is to be here. We thank you that they are with us online. But Father, we pray that they would be in sufficient health, Lord, to struggle through and to be here, Father, for indeed they are a blessing to us by their very presence. And Father, they are a testimony to your grace by their very presence. And Father, we pray that we might be an encouragement and a blessing to them as well. Lord, show us. Help us, Father. Lord, to know how that we can minister to them in their infirmities, that we can bear one another's burdens. And Father, we we pray for others, Lord. We see some empty seats this morning. And know there are others that have not been able to make their way down to be with us here, Father. We pray for them. And Lord, pray Marvelous healing, Father. Lord, there is nothing too hard for thee. Lord, the doctors' prognosis are just a guess. But our God knows exactly what is taking place in our bodies. Lord, we know of others this week that are having various tests and procedures. We cast all these things upon you, for you care for us. Father, we pray this morning for the long list of friends, family members, children, parents, brothers and sisters on our list that are unsaved. And Father, we thank you for opportunities to share thy gospel. Lord, we thank you that faith cometh by hearing and hearing by the Word of God. And so, Father, we pray that you would open deaf ears, that you would open blind eyes, that you would transform stony hearts Lord, that these for whom we pray earnestly with tears, O Lord, that they might hear the gospel, that they might arise from death as certainly as Lazarus was called out of the grave O Father, may they be called from death to sin to life in Jesus Christ. Father, we pray especially for the children that are dearly on our heart, those that are able to be present with us Those that are scattered far abroad across the United States, Lord, our grandchildren and children, these young lives, Father, may your glorious gospel reach their hearts. May they be indeed among thine own elect, chosen in Christ before the foundation of the world. Father, we pray This morning for our brethren in Jamaica. Lord, we see the pictures and we hear of their great suffering. Father, I pray that you would provide for them. Lord, I I see of curfews. I hear of relief trucks being looted of bandits stopping vehicles on the road because they believe that they might have a few cans of food. Father, help and bless. Protect your people, protect the church as we pray. Lord, enable us to be able to greatly send, as we find in the New Testament, send to the need once and again. Father, I pray for my dear brethren whom I've known from college, Lord, there in Lebanon, who also is suffering great need. Father, may you provide for him Lord, we pray for our brother Burves in the Philippines. Lord, we thank you that it seems that his region was spared the most recent typhoon. But Father, we pray that you would help us to be a blessing to Him. Lord, we thank you for the thanks offering. Oh Lord, what a great privilege it is. to give unto the Lord, to give that we might have that which to send forth, Lord, to these abroad. to be able to help support the ministry of teaching the word here in the United States. Father, Lord, it is more blessed to give than to receive. And Lord, we thank you that that Mission Bible Church has never had a want. Lord, we thank you that you have provided for our needs And Lord, we thank you that you enable us, Lord, to be able to share abroad. Father, continue to bless and use this church, this congregation, for the glory of Jesus Christ. for the exaltation of his name, for the furtherance of thy kingdom. Lord, we pray for the needs within our congregation. Father, they are known to thee and have been mentioned in prayer again and again. O Lord, like the one whose friend arrived at midnight. And he knocked upon the door of his sleeping neighbor. So, O Lord, we cry with importunity that you would bless our business. persons within this congregation. Lord, they seek not the wealth of this world. They seek not to lay up for themselves treasures on earth. But Lord, they do seek to provide for their families. They do seek to provide for their employees. And they do seek, O Lord, above all, to have to give unto the work of the Lord And so, Father, may you provide for them the business circumstances they need. Father, I I pray, thank you, Lord, that the government is open again. Lord, we have prayed with great urgency over those of our congregation that are our government employees that have been greatly affected by the shutdown. Lord, watch over them. Lord, provide for them the things which are needful. Lord, we thank you for the employment that many in the congregation have, and yet, Lord, there is a need for better employment. And so, Father, give us this day our daily bread. Father, we thank you for thy word. But I pray today that thy Spirit would mightily speak thy truth to the hearts of thy people. Lord, it is the great burden of my heart. As I've mentioned to my brother, as soon as I finish one message, my heart begins to think, Lord, what will I preach the next week? And Father, I thank you that you do lead and direct. Father, I pray, Lord, that thy Spirit would lead thy servant, Lord, greatly in thy word. Father, that the needs of thy people may be met. Lord, we endeavor to bear one another's burdens. But the greatest bearing of the burdens of thy people is found in the exposition of thy word And so Father, may that which you bring forth, Father, be exactly that which is needful to the hearts, to the lives. To the spiritual edification, to the spiritual comfort of thy people, we pray. Lord, we pray these things in Jesus' name. Amen. Please turn to Psalm one hundred thirty-six for our responsive reading. Once you locate Psalm one thirty-six in your Bible, please rise. We'll responsibly read all 26 verses of Psalm 136. O give thanks unto the Lord, for he is good, for his mercy endureth forever. O give thanks unto the God of gods, for his mercy endureth forever. O give thanks to the Lord of Lords, for his mercy endureth forever. To him who alone doeth great wonders, for his mercy endureth forever. To him that by wisdom made the heavens, for his mercy endureth forever. To him that stretched out the earth above the waters, for his mercy endureth forever To him that made great light, for his mercy endureth forever. For his mercy endureth forever. The moon and stars to rule by night, for his mercy endureth forever. To him that smote Egypt in their firstborn, for his mercy endureth forever. And brought out Israel from among them, for his mercy endureth forever. With a strong hand, with a stretched out arm, for his mercy endureth forever To him which divided the Red Sea into parts, for his mercy endureth forever. And made Israel to pass through the midst of it, for his mercy endureth forever. But overthrew Pharaoh and his host in the Red Sea, for his mercy endureth forever. To him which led his people through the wilderness, for his mercy endureth forever. To him which smote great kings, for his mercy endureth forever. And slew famous kings, for his mercy endureth forever. Sion, king of the Amorites, for his mercy endureth forever. And Og, the king of Shawn, for his mercy endureth forever. And gave their lands for an inheritage For his mercy endureth forever. Even in Harry and Israel, his servant, for his mercy endureth forever. Who remembered us in our low estate, for his mercy endureth forever. And hath redeemed us from our enemies, for his mercy endureth forever. O give thanks unto the God of heaven For his mercy endureth forever. May the Lord add a rich blessing to the reading and hearing of his Holy Word. Amen. A wonderfully unique psalm, isn't it? It's really a tremendous reminder. And speaking of psalm, we have our red psalm books in our hands, the Psalter that we turn to today, number 92C. 92 C. An adaptation of Psalm 92 to the tune of Darwal's 148. It's the one you know as Rejoice, the Lord is King. So 92 say and we uh 92 C and we sing the whole five stanzas plus the amen. It is good to thank the Lord, to praise your name most high, to show your love and all your faithful. Oh joy in what you done How great your doors more, how deep your thoughts need small food The most dinners grow like weeks, the new earth lost no day, where to be destroyed to more extra You'll raise my cross my wall more pressure on my head. You'll make me see. So where did I Lord shall in your season? When all they still care fruit and twelve stress and green and while crossway. Amen, amen. Thank you, Miss Penny and Marissa, for the accompliment today. My old choir director would never have allowed us to sing that without some vocal exercises first to warm up the voices. Turn with me in your Bibles, please. Wasn't that a glorious song? I I used to sing that with a men's ensemble, singing s ensemble, singing an a cappello, uh but it's up in the higher ranges, isn't it? Turn with me in your Bibles this morning to the book of Nahum. That's a book that we don't turn to frequently Jonah, Micah, Nahum, Habak Hagi, Zechariah, Malachi. Zephani is in there too. But uh the book of Nahum, the easiest way to find it, if you have trouble in your Printed Bible is to go to Matthew, and then you'll turn back about a dozen pages, and you'll be in the minor prophets, and you'll find the book of Nahum. And I'm going to be reading from the first chapter. Verse 7 is going to be our key verse this morning. But I'm going to start our scripture reading with the first verse of the first chapter of the book of Nahum. This book is unique in that in its introduction it calls itself a book. You do not find that in most of the books of the Bible. Nahum chapter 1 and verse 1. The burden of Nineveh, the book of the vision of Nahum, the Elkishite. Good or God is jealous, and the Lord revengeth. The Lord revengeth and is furious And the Lord will take vengeance on his adversaries, and he reserveth wrath for his enemies. The Lord is slow to anger, and great in power, and will not acquit the wicked. The Lord hath his way in the whirlwind and in the storm, and the clouds are the dust of his feet. He rebuketh the sea, and maketh it dry, and drieth up all the rivers. But Shan languisheth, and Carmel and the flower of Lebanon languisheth. The mountains quake at him, and the hills melt, and the earth is burned at his presence, yea, the world and all that dwelleth therein Who can stand before his indignation? And who can abide the fierceness of his anger? His fury is poured out like fire. And the rocks are thrown down by him. The Lord is good A stronghold in the day of trouble, and he knoweth them that trust in him. But with an overrunning flood, he will make an utter end to the place thereof. And darkness shall pursue his enemies. Wow. Let us pray. Great God of heaven, we thank you for thy word. We thank you for thy truth. We thank you, Lord, for these Old Testament accounts that give us such New Testament encouragement. Father, bless thy word to us, we pray, in Jesus' name. Amen. Our key verse is going to be that seventh verse: the Lord is good, a stronghold in the day of trouble, and he knoweth them that trust in him What is the background to this book of Nahum? Well, Nahum here declares that this is a vision. God showed him these things, and it is a vision of Nineveh. Where have you heard of Nineveh before? Well, remember the true account, not parable, not children's story alone, that we teach it to our children, the account of Jonah God told Jonah to go to the wicked city of Nineveh and cry out about it. Or cry out about against their wickedness. What else do we know about Nineveh? Well, Nineveh was the capital of Assyria And the Assyrians were the arch enemies of Israel. The Assyrians were the oppressors of Israel. The people of Israel didn't much like the Assyrians And so when God told Jonah to go to Nineveh and cry out about against their sin, Jonah didn't want to tell them that God would judge them because Jonah wanted God to judge them. A silly illustration would just be to say that the bridge is out and your worst enemy is driving towards the bridge in the fog and can't see the bridges out. And your old fallen nature wants to say, let him go, let him go, let him go. But your new man in Christ says, no, I need to warn him. Well that's where Jonah was. God said, I'm going to destroy Nineveh, but I want you to go and preach the gospel to them. And Jonah said, I don't want to tell them that. So Jonah ran the other way, and of course we know that God re-educated Jonah in the belly of a whale. But Jonah entered into the city of Nineveh. And he preached in Nineveh yet forty days and Nineveh shall be destroyed. And the response of the people of Nineveh by God's mercy was to repent from the king to the servant. From the top to the bottom they repented, and God was gracious and he spared Nineveh. We don't know the exact timing, but it appears it was about 150 years, give or take, between the ministry of Jonah and Nineveh. And in the prophecy of Nahum against Nineveh. That teaches a very valuable lesson. Repentance is a first generation thing. You cannot repent for your children. You cannot repent for your grandchildren. And how often we have seen the grandchildren of mighty preachers that have turned from the truth. And even the children of preachers that have turned from the truth. And here we find God sending Jonah to preach against The sin of Nineveh, and Nineveh repents, but just a few generations later, God gives a vision to his prophet Nahum, but Nahum is never told to go to Nineveh Nahum never visited Nineveh, and Nineveh never read Nahum's letter. Nahum's book. This book of Nahum, though it is the vision of Nineveh, is not a book to Nineveh. Rather, this book of Nahom is sent to Judah, to the southern nation of Israel, to the faithful line of David And this is the book of the judgment of Nineveh, but it is a book written to God's people to encourage them. And to remind them that God is slow to anger. God's judgment on the iniquity of the enemies of his people may seem to slumber long, but it is surely coming. And in the middle of this chapter, the last verses speak about how beautiful on the mountains it is for those that bring good tidings of peace, which is what Isaiah would say later on. I'm sorry, I've got that wrong. Isaiah was before Nahum. So Nahum is possibly referring back to Isaiah, but God is reminding his people, yeah, I know it's bad. But God is good. And it seems like we've been hitting that theme a lot in the last two, three months. God is good. And that is what we find in this chapter of judgment, in this three-chapter book of judgment, we find this glorious seventh verse. Which is a verse that speaks to us about God, about who He is, and what He is, and how He is This letter is to a people that are being under the heel of their enemy, being greatly oppressed. We find that in the midst of that The Lord is good. And so the first thing I want us to see from this seventh verse this morning is: what is God? What is the very essence and nature of God? The Lord is good. Now that verse says nothing about circumstances, does it? Circumstances are not good. It says nothing about oppression. Compression was heavy. It says nothing about finances. Everything these people earned The Assyrians took. We find that throughout Scripture, where the Philistines or the Assyrians or others would come in and take away their crops. That was the problem that Gideon had. He was hiding his crops from the Midianites. It says nothing about them living in nice, comfortable houses. It says nothing about circumstances, but it says everything about God. First Chronicles chapter 16, verse 34, says this: O give thanks unto the Lord, for he is good. For his mercy endureth forever. And you know how I love scripture verses that are repeated That's 1 Chronicles 1634. Listen to Psalm 106, verse 1. Praise ye the Lord, O give thanks unto the Lord, for he is good, for his mercy endureth forever. And Psalm 107, verse 1, O give thanks unto the Lord, for he is good, for his mercy endureth forever. And Psalm 118, verse 1, O give thanks unto the Lord, for he is good, because his mercy enduring. endureth forever. Folks should think God doesn't mean it. But folks, how often we have to be reminded of it. It's repeated again and again. What is God in his very nature? God is good. Now the psalmist said in Psalm 27, 13, I had fainted unless I had believed to see the goodness of the Lord in the land of the living. I had fainted. If you like fainting, folks, oh, I do. I'm worn out. I hurt. I read scripture some days and I think, Lord, just turn the light on, please. I'm in such distress and in such darkness. And Lord, I'm reading your word, I'm praying, and still I seem to be struggling with all these problems around me. Lord If I had not believed to see the goodness of the Lord, not in heaven, but in the land of the living, if I had not believed to see your goodness right here and now, Lord, I'd quit. I don't understand suicide, but I do understand suicide. Because the unbeliever he has no hope. He just has to get out. But God is good. And again, remember the context. I spent some time on that because it's important. This verse, declaring that God is good, was the people whose lives were not good. Whose lies were not pleasant, they were surrounded by problems. But I had fainted unless I had believed To see the goodness of the Lord in the land of the living. And then in Psalm 107, verse 8, I read the first verse, which is the one of those, oh give thanks to the Lord verse, but Psalm 107, verse 8, oh that man would praise the Lord for his goodness. And for his wonderful works unto the children of men. How often we sit around complaining about what's wrong instead of simply praising the Lord for his goodness, for what is good. Psalm 105, for the Lord is good. His mercy is everlasting, and his truth endureth to all generations. Psalm 100, verse 5. And so the Lord is good in his very being. In his very nature, he is goodness. And by that we mean, first of all, that he is without sin. You see, sin's the problem. The economy is not the problem. The sickness of our body is not the problem. The turmoil in the world is not the problem. Sin's the problem. You see, all these things that we call problems, Adam and Eve didn't worry about the economy before the fall, folks. All these things that we call problems, they come about because of sin But God is sinless. The Lord is good In Job 34, verse 10, we find this glorious verse. Therefore, hearken unto me, ye men of understanding. Far be it from God that he should do wickedness. And from the Almighty, that he should commit iniquity. Folks, God is good. He is righteous. What is there righteous and good beside God? And you see, when our lives are channeled by the goodness of God, all these other things don't matter as much, do they? Who cares about the Assyrians? God is good. Who cares about these problems? Habakkuk 1 13, thou art of purer eyes than to behold evil and canst not look on iniquity Deuteronomy 32, verse 4. He is the rock, his work is perfect, all his ways are judgment, a God of truth, and without iniquity, just and right is he Adam was created in perfect righteousness and he didn't have a single problem. We look to the righteous God who says, casting all your care upon me, for I care for you. And so to these suffering people, they could say, God is good, even though these men of Judah Really weren't feeling it, as we say today. All their circumstances were bad, but their God was good. But not only is God good in his very nature, but he is wholly righteous, God is good in his dealing with his people. We look at society today and we say, that's a good father. Look at the way he cares for his children. I'm blessed to have a son-in-law. He's an amazing father to my grandchildren. Children. We watch the way a good father deals with his children and trains his children and provides for his children and sacrifices of himself for his children. Folks, that's the way God deals with his children. Satan's not a good father. And Christ said, ye are of your father the devil, and the works of your father ye will do. You see, a good father sees a crying child And his heart yearns for the child. And he takes the child up in his arms and cares for them. A good father sees his hungry child and he feeds them. A good father is up all night with a sick child caring for them. Folks, God is good in his very nature, in his very essence. He is good is in that he is holy and righteous, but God is good in the way he deals with his children. Like as a father pitieth his children, so the Lord pitieth them that fear him, for he knoweth our frame. He remembereth that we are dust. In Psalm 73, verse 1, truly God is good to Israel. Remember Joseph's testimony to his brothers? Joseph said, ye meant this to me for evil, but God meant it for good. What did God mean for good in Joseph's life? Being sold to the Midianites. Being put through the prison. He suffered many things But oh, God was good. And this has demonstrated in the New Testament as well. For we know that all things work together for good. To them that love God, to them that are the called according to his purpose. Folks, I got some bad stuff going on in my life right now. And I know that a lot of you have some bad stuff going on in your life right now. But I can testify to you and I can tell you assuredly from years of experience, I'm getting old. That some of the worst quote-unquote experiences of my life have turned out to be some of the best things that ever happened to me. Because when I was in the midst of all this trouble and all this problem, and I was would have fainted if I had not believed to see the goodness of the Lord in the land of the living God was working a perfect plan that I could not imagine. And it was good. And I would not trade the pain of those times for the pleasure that followed for anything You know, the old old trick they would play with children. You know, do do do you want a dollar or do you want a nickel a day for a month? And the kid will grab the dollar because he sees the immediate. I just want that. Not realizing that a little bit of patience and a little bit of time will yield so much more blessing. Folks, God is good in his very nature And God is good in the way that he deals with his children. And so that's our first point. What is God? God is good. But secondly, from this verse we find what is the Lord to his people? What is the relationship that he did in which he works with his people? And we have seen how God is our Father. We've talked about that. But look with me again at the verse. The Lord is good A stronghold in the day of trouble. Folks, these people of Judah were in trouble. We can't understand. We don't have a soldier at our door. We don't have, we're not a captive nation. We are a free people But the people to whom Nahom was writing this lesson, hang in there, guys, because God is going to judge Nineveh. They were a truly oppressed and a captive people. I mentioned already Gideon, who was hiding to thresh his wheat, because every time he threshed his wheat, the Midianites came and took it away Well that was the state of the people of Judah. But God is a stronghold. He's a hiding place. He is a protector. There was a soldier at the door, but it wasn't the Assyrians. It was like Christ when he was standing as a soldier at the wall of Jericho. The angel of the Lord encatheth round about them that fear him to deliver them. In Zechariah 9, verse 12 Turn you to the stronghold, ye prisoners of hope. Even today do I declare that I will render unto thee double for thy sins. In 2 Samuel 22, and in Psalm 18, we find David's testimony of the same event. The title to Psalm 18 reads like this: A Psalm of David. The servant of the Lord, who spake unto the Lord the words of this song in the day that the Lord delivered him from the hand of all his enemies and from the hand of Saul. So these next two verses I'm going to read are David's testimony in the day that God delivered him, not just from a few, but from all of his enemies and from the hand of Saul. In 2 Samuel 22 and verse 3 it reads this God, uh the God of my rock, in him will I trust, he is my shield. And the horn of my salvation, my high tower, and my refuge, my savior, thou savest me from violence. And again in Psalm 18, verse 1 and 2, I will love thee, O Lord, my strength. The Lord is my rock and my fortress and my deliverer, my God, my strength in whom I will trust, my buckler, and the horn of my salvation, and my high tower. All those things speak of defense, don't they? All those things speak of finding protection Finding a shelter, finding a stronghold, a fortress that cannot be invaded. Folks, what is God? He's good. What is the Lord to his people? He's a stronghold. He's an impregnable fortress. He is a shelter that though Satan and man may try to oppress They cannot break through. Psalm 61. Hear my cry, O God, attend unto my prayer. From the ends of the earth will I cry unto thee, when my heart is overwhelmed, lead me to the rock that is higher than I. For thou hast been a shelter for me and a strong tower from the enemy. I will abide in thy tabernacle forever I will trust in the covert of thy wings. God is good. God is a stronghold. But the third thing I'd have us to see from this verse. is when is the Lord a stronghold to his people? The Lord is good A stronghold in the day of trouble. Did you ever have a neighbor show up to help you do something? Just when you finish. I think most of us have had that. And uh I think sometimes with my kids and I know one of them's here, so I'm not talking about him. But I know sometimes with my kids it seems like just when you finish something they say, hey, can I help you out? Like, well, ten minutes ago. Post God's a stronghold in the time of trouble. He's never late with his help. I remember a good friend of mine was unloading a shipping container, and I showed up ten minutes after he finished. I didn't mean to. I really went there to help him out. But I pulled in and I've got my gloves and I've got my steel toed boots and I'm all ready to go and he's done. He's finished. Help that comes too late is not help at all. God's a stronghold in the day of trouble. He's not early. He's not late. He's just on time. He's a stronghold in the day of trouble. God is our refuge and our strength of very present help in trouble. Call upon me, this is Psalm 50 verse 15, and call upon me in the day of trouble. I will deliver thee and thou shalt glorify me. Psalm 59, verse 16. But I will sing of thy power, yea, I will sing aloud of thy mercy in the morning, for thou hast been my defense and my refuge in the day of trouble. Daniel Ch chapter three And these three men, Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego, and I prefer to use their Hebrew names, not the pagan names, Hananiah, Azariah, and Mishel. And these three men, Hananiah, Azariah, and Mishel, fell down bound into the midst of the burning fiery furnace. Then Nebuchadnezzar the king was astonished, and rose up in haste, and spake, and said unto his counselors, Did not we cast three men bound into the midst of the fire? Then answered they answered and said unto the king, True, O king. And he, that's Nebuchadnezzar, answered and said, Lo, I see four men. Loose walking in the midst of the fire, and they have no hurt. And the form of the fourth was like the Son of God. Could God have come along and stopped Hanani, Azarai, and Meshael from being thrown in the fire? Yes, he could have. But these three men fell down to the fire. But there was a fourth. And there was no harm to them from the fire. You see, God is a very present help in the time of trouble. He's never late. He's there in the time of trouble. Folks, that is very important. Because we are very impatient people, and I am more impatient than most. But God's help is timely. It's not on our schedule. It doesn't work by our date book. But God is a help in trouble. He is there when we need him, a stronghold in the day of trouble. And so he's seeing what God is. God is good. God is in his nature, he's good. What he is to his people, he's a stronghold. When he's there in the day of trouble. But this is very important To whom is he a good and present stronghold? Look again at the verse. The Lord is good. A stronghold in the day of trouble, and he knoweth them that trust in him. He knoweth them that trust in him. And folks, they did not begin to trust in him in the day of trouble. They have trusted in him all along. You know how often we find someone that's suddenly in trouble and they begin to call the pastor. Someone who has some great disaster in their life and suddenly they want to find their way to church. Someone who has some great trial and now they need help and they say, Where is God and all my problems? Well, where were you before you had a problem? You see, he is a good God. And a stronghold in the day of trouble to them that trust in him. So you better trust in him before you have trouble. You see, he's not there simply to be a fire escape from the fires that you started yourself. But rather, he is there to be a good God to protect you from the fires of hell. And yea, even to protect you from the fires you would start For if it were not for the restraining hand of God, there is no sin that any of us would not be committing right now. But he is a stronghold to them that put their trust in him. Again, Psalm 18, verse 30, as for God, his way is perfect, the word of the Lord is tried, he is a buckler. to all those that trust in him. Psalm forty-three verse, or sorry, Psalm 34, verse 22 The Lord redeemeth the soul of his servants, and none of them that trust in him shall be desolate. Isn't that a great verse? I mean, read it again The Lord redeemeth the soul of his servants, and none of them that trust in him shall be desolate. I've been young and now bold. Yet have never seen the righteous forsaken Or his seed, baking bread. We may have needs, but we're not going to be desolate. That's God's promise. Psalm 34, or so I keep getting the wrong numbers here, sorry. Psalm 37, verse 40 And the Lord shall help them and deliver them. He shall deliver them from the wicked and save them because they trust in him. This is a personal God we're talking about. This is my God. He delivers those that trust in him. Deuteronomy 32, verse 31 is an amazing verse. It is it is talking about the goodness of God and his protection of his people. And it says this, for their rock, that's the rock of the wicked, for their rock. small R is not as our rock, capital R, even our enemies themselves being judged. Even when the wicked look at at Jehovah, they say, Wow, my gods of this world are not like their gods. And we find this with the Philistines when the Ark of the Lord came into the camp. And the Philistines said, What's going on? What's happening? What's happening? And they said, Oh my, the mighty God. that opened the Red Sea and defeated Jericho, now he's among Israel. We're in trouble. He is a stronghold to those that trust in him. The Lord is good. A stronghold in the day of trouble. But number five, and finally, what is the great encouragement of the people of God? The Lord is good. He's a stronghold in the day of trouble. He's a stronghold to them that trust in him. But there's just a little phrase in there that I skipped by initially that we're going back to. And he knoweth them that trust in him. Look at the last part of the verse. The Lord is good, a stronghold in the day of trouble, and he knoweth them. That trust in him. Do you ever feel all alone? Overwhelmed? The Lord knows me. It doesn't just mean he knows about me. Remember Christ's words to the or the words of God the Father that Christ expounds in the New Testament Depart from me, you workers from iniquity. I never knew you. When God declares that he never knew them, it doesn't mean he didn't know about them. He created them It doesn't mean he didn't know their sin. It doesn't mean he didn't know their circumstances. He never knew them in saving grace. Folks, God knows me. That was known my uprising and my downsetting. Before I formed thee in the belly, I knew thee. Thou didst see my substance as yet being imperfect. Such knowledge is too wonderful for me. I cannot attain to it. Whither shall I go from thy spirit, or whither shall I from thy presence, or whither shall I flee from thy spirit? Folks, the great encouragement of the people of God is God knows me. God knows my circumstances, God knows my sorrows, God knows my sicknesses. God knows what no doctor can know. God knows what no financial advisor could ever dream of. God knows the things that we don't share with our closest friends. Lord, thou hast known me. And so, what comfort have those that trust in the Lord? He knows me. Nevertheless, 2 Timothy 2. 19, nevertheless the foundation of God standeth sure having this seal, the Lord knoweth them that are his. John 10 verse 14, I am the good shepherd, and I know my sheep, and am known of mine. John 10 27, My sheep hear my voice, and I know them, and they follow me. First Corinthians 8, verse 3. But if any man love God The same is known of him. Folks, Nahom is writing not to Nineveh Nineveh's time of grace is gone. But rather he is writing to the oppressed people who are now surrounded by the Assyrians. And he's saying, hang in there guys. Because the Lord is good. The Lord is a stronghold in your day of trouble if you trust in him. And the Lord knows all about you. And so may God encourage our hearts. Because with the psalmist I had fainted, unless I believed, to see the goodness of the Lord right here today in the land of the less Let us stand for prayer. Father, we thank you for your truth. Lord, we thank you, Lord, for these little diamonds in your word. That give us such encouragement, Father. Ye fearful saints, much courage take. Lord, may we take courage in thy word. May we not faint in the day of adversity, for we find in thy word also that if we faint in the day of adversity, our strength is small, our strength is in ourselves. But Father, may we find great peace and comfort and strength. May we flee to our stronghold. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. We close our Afternoon out here with number 501. Guide me, O thou great Jehovah. 501 in our blue songbook. Guide me, O thou great Jehovah. Indeed, our Jehovah is great. Five hundred and one. All three stances Why am we but thou What no more we can Open how the crystal mountain when slightly stream not flow Let the Leave me all my journey through Strong deliverer, strong deliverer, be thou still my strength. And she thou still my strength and skill Where I spread on my Jordan with my anxious girls of So the praises calls the praises high level Forget to be I will have been to the Amen. Amen. Please be seated.