From the dead in Christ. Just as certainly as Jesus Christ was raised, it became the first fruits of them that slept. And Father, we thank you that if any man be in Christ, he is a new creature. Old things are passed away. Old things are become dead. And all things have become new. Lord, we could not have accomplished this on our own. We could not have have paid the price for our sins. We could not have been the propitiation for our sins. We were condemned before thee. But we gather this morning because Jesus Christ has risen from the dead. We gather this morning because you have called us from death to life as certainly as Lazarus was called out of the grave. So Lord, this morning we endeavor to worship you aright. We endeavor to sing praises to thy name. We are eager, O Lord, to hear the exposition of thy word. So, Father, we thank you for the promise that you are meeting here with us today. And we pray that you would create the fruit of our lips, that you would bring about within your people worship that is is acceptable in thy sight. We pray this morning that you would uh reinvigorate us for the work of the gospel. And Lord, we pray these things in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Good morning, everyone. Turn to our opening song in your blue hung uh songbook number 559. Blue songbook 559. Uh for the beauty of the earth and it's not five fifty nine, which one is it really? Oh, because I've got the Trinity hymnal. Could somebody give me the hymnal we're actually singing out of? It's always nice to have the right hymnal. Sorry, Penny. They're both blue. They're both blue Should have had a purple hymnal. Five fifty nine. Why yes, there it is for beauty of the earth. Okay. Changed all the hymnals out except for the one in the pulpit. That's kind of the crucial mistake five fifty nine. For the beauty of the earth, all four sins. For the music of me, for the glory of the sky, for the love with Prana. This idea for praise for the wonders of each other. Oh God, day and all God and tail and tree and flower. Star and Moon and Sword of Light, Lord of all beauty we raise With our grateful praise for the joy of human life. Progress is the parent child, grand honors and friend of all. World and all could be a praise. There's nothing on wait for praise for the For that great, great love of my son. Another glory of the Lord of all filter we raise. Thank you. At this time, we uh have our continuation through the Belgian confession for our uh instruction today. Uh brother Anton will come and give that to us in a Good morning. Good morning. Please turn to the back of your bulletin. This morning we begin a new article of the Belgic Confession. This is the 30th article regarding the government of and the offices in the church. Christian, in what do you believe? We believe that this true church must be governed by the spiritual policy which our Lord has taught us in his word. namely, that there must be ministers or pastors to preach the Word of God and to administer the sacraments. Also, elders and deacons, who together with the pastors form the council of the church That by these means the true religion may be preserved, and the true doctrine everywhere propagated. Likewise transgressors punished and restrained by spiritual means, also that the poor and distressed may be relieved and comforted according to their necessities. By these means, everything will be carried on in the church with good order and decency. When faithful men are chosen according to the rule prescribed by Saint Paul in his epistle to Timothy. Did you know that God commanded for there to be government over the church? That's what he ordained. He's called pastors, he's called leaders over his church. And of course, there's many people that don't like the idea of an organized church. They much more prefer the Personal seeking, personal spirituality that doesn't have to do with any kind of gathering, any kind of formal leadership But truly the to refuse even attempting to bind uh or gathering with a faithful church is against God's will. He would have his people to be together. He would have his people to gather and also for there to be uh godly qualified leaders in their midst God's the one who's commanded, even in his word, for there to be elders and deacons and pastors. And there's they are to minister to the church. There's people that are to gather, to listen, to be under the government of these qualified leaders. In Titus chapter 1 we read of the Apostle Paul telling Titus, For this cause left I thee in Crete that thou shouldest set in order the things that are wanting, and ordain elders in every city. As I had appointed thee. God found this as an important thing, for there are to be elders that are ordained, that are noted in the midst of the gatherings that people could go to God has commanded qualified men to oversee his church for several purposes, and they're outlined here in the confessional reading, to preach his word, to administer the sacraments, to practice church discipline. And as well as uh distributing to the needy. That's of course that role of the deacons. We read how they were uh selected or appointed even in the book of Acts. Of course, churches will go astray when they don't select leaders according to biblical standards But did you know that God actually gave uh requirements or qualifications that are necessary for bishops, or another word for bishop as an overseer of the church, and elders and deacons God has actually given qualifications in the Bible. It's not up to us to guess what what should these elders, what should these leaders be like How can we select them? We shouldn't select leaders based on their speaking ability or solely based on their kindness or solely based on their wisdom. There's actually more that goes into it. The leaders of God's church are tasked with feeding and tending to the sheep. It is a very high calling. And of course, when you select an unqualified leader, they can lead the sheep astray. If you select a leader that's more concerned with their prosperity or their fame, Then they will abuse the sheep, and they'll make them go off the path. They become blind men, leading the blind, which both fall into a ditch In 1 Timothy chapter 3, as well as Titus chapter 1, we actually get the qualifications that are necessary for bishops and for deacons. And uh it's interesting that the uh the first requirements that are listed isn't necessarily that the individual needs to be able to teach. That is in there, but there's actually other requirements that are first there Noting something about the individual's character itself. Listen to this language from 1 Timothy 3, verse 2. A bishop then must be blameless. The husband of one wife, vigilant, sober, of good behavior, given to hospitality, and apt to teach. And there are several other qualifications in there as well. I encourage you to read them. But as you have noted there, the app to teach was at the end of several other qualifications there, all pointing to the individual's character. Just because somebody teaches well doesn't mean that they're necessarily going to rule well or that they're going to necessarily care for the state of the flock. And so we go through some of those qualifications, so they have to be blameless. They can't have a major record of of public sin. They must have their house in order. They have to be the husband of one wife and they have to have their children in subjection. They have to have uh a sober and good behavior. They have to be vigilant. They have to actually care for the spiritual things of God and be reliable. But also it does mention that they do need to be able to teach the Word of God. Once you got the character in check, they you have to know that they can teach and expound the scriptures. Titus 1 9 says that they need to be holding fast the faithful word, as he hath been taught, that he may be able by sound doctrine both to exhort and to convince the gainsayers. The individual that's teaching you the Word of God must actually know what sound doctrine is. You know, new converts often have much zeal. They want to get into ministry very quickly They want to get into the role of they want to get into the pulpit. They want to be active very soon. And it's a good thing to desire to serve the Lord. It is good. But we have to be careful to not try to take a leadership position right away without having everything down first. You have to have a uh a track record of both knowing what sound doctrine is and holding to it. So there would be some reliability to you. Of course, fallen churches support unqualified leaders to their own detriment. And that's a fearful thing when uh congregations dispose of faithful leaders, and instead they seek out ones that will itch their scratching ears. They look instead for those that will please them, please the flesh, rather than will be faithful to the scriptures. And that's how you end up having these congregations that uh support and even uh bring about excuses for unfaithful leaders that get involved in fornication and child abuse and all these sorts of uh grievous things. But God is serious about having faithful government over his church. And I'll leave you with this reading from Acts twenty, I believe it's actually in our uh sermon reading for this morning, but it's a good verse for us to consider God's seriousness And even Paul's address to the elders at Ephesus. In Acts 20, verse 28 it says, Take heed therefore unto yourselves and to all the flock over the which the Holy Ghost hath made you overseers. to feed the church of God, which he has purchased with his own blood. Thank you. Thank you, brother. Um the leadership of the church is not a popularity context. And where a congregation falls into that Trapped they very quickly fall into all manner of of confusion. Well, we have a lot of praises. There's some empty seats here this morning, but I've heard good reports on several that are suffering physically. They're not yet able to be with us but there is improvement and we always need to be thankful to the Lord for that and to remember that. Uh we've also uh heard some good reports in some of the uh business endeavors of some of our members and we'll let them share those things with you later as they will. But um we have a God that answers prayer, folks. We're not we're not praying to the sheetrock in the in the shingles. We're praying to the God of heaven. And uh what a great privilege that is. Uh you know The the wicked, when something goes wrong in their life, they say, oh, where's God and all my problems? But um the bigger question was where was your opinion of God before you had the problems? But our God has told us to cast all of our care upon him for he care for us. And so it's a great privilege to join our hearts together in prayer. If any two of you shall agree is touching these things. And so that is exactly what we do in our public prayer. Let us pray together. Gracious Heavenly Father, we do thank you and praise you, Lord, for good reports that I've heard this week in the last three days. I've heard four different good reports. from folks that we've been praying for. And we thank you for that and rejoice in it. And Father, we continue to pray. Lord, we lift up before you both the short-term immediate needs for restoration of health for several that are struggling with various ailments that come and go from time to time in their walk with thee And Lord, we continue to pray for several that have endured very long-standing illnesses. Lord, things that continue to plague their flesh And Father, we pray in these things, O Lord, pray in faith believing that you would relieve their suffering, that you would restore them to the measure of health that you would ordain. And Father, that you would give them many more years of service for the great God of heaven, our King. Father, we uh pray that you will be with several that either are or We'll be traveling over the holidays, Father, that you would give them safety, that you would give them good speed to their definite destinations. And Father, that you would give them good fellowship with their dear ones that we love. Father, we pray for the the uh remote part of our congregation, those that are scattered far from us, Lord. We often think of the old hymn, those sundered far by faith we meet around one common mercy seat. And Lord, we do pray for the needs of those that are scattered abroad. Father, we thank you for answers to prayer we've seen on their behalf And Lord, we continue to pray for their health, for their strengthening, for their fellowship, for the salvation of their loved ones. And Father, we pray that the word of the Lord will be rich to their hearts, Father. Bless them. Encourage them, we pray Father, we pray for the folks in Jamaica. Lord, we rejoice that you have enabled us to give. Lord, it is more blessed to give than to receive. And Father, we rejoice that though we are a small congregation and few in number, Lord, we rejoice that we're not making a mortgage payment on a building that we don't need. We rejoice that we're not paying for janitarial services on a on a building, that we're not saving to replace a roof, O Father. But rather you've placed us in a position where we meet comfortably in a warm location, but we're able to give more. And we thank you for that. And Father, we pray that the uh funds that we've been able to send to Jamaica so far will be multiplied by thy hand for the restoration of houses and the replacing of windows and doors in church buildings, Father. for the meeting of the physical needs. Father, and we know the heart of those to whom we've been able to send. Lord, that they are not greedy nor selfish. And Lord, if if they have, they will give. And so, Father, we pray that our giving would help to meet some of the food and water needs, even in the communities where where our dear ones there dwell. Father, we pray for your protection, Lord, as we've we've heard of of very vicious bacteria that is going through the communities. And uh the report I heard yesterday is that six have died as as a result of uh illnesses that are coming about because of uh sanitary conditions, father, as as um the septic systems and and The ability to safely store food where flies and roaches and rats cannot get to it, Lord, are causing the spread of disease. Protect those that we love. Father, we pray, Lord, that your gospel would go forth, Father. I remember after Hurricane Gilbert sent people saying, oh, everyone will turn to Christ now But Lord, that is sadly not the case. When men go through great tragedies, they often will think about Christ for a moment. But then when their homes are restored and their lives are reordered, they forget all about God. But Father, we pray that you would bless and protect your saints And Lord, we pray that you would reach your lost sheep in that nation with the glorious gospel of Jesus Christ. Father, we thank you, Lord, that you own the cattle on a hill thousand hills. Lord, that you supply all of our needs And Lord, you give us our daily bread. You supply for us just in the time that it is needed. Just as the children of Israel went out each morning to gather the manna. And there was not manna for two days, except for the day of the Sabbath. And Lord, so it is in your provision for us. Lord, we would like to see uh fat retirement accounts and Lots of business coming through the doors and uh Lord there's a we we would be very comfortable with those things. But Lord we know that that when riches increase we're not to set our heart on them And we know from your word that that riches take wings and fly. And so, Father, we we have been taught by thy Spirit again and again that it is far better to have our daily bread than our weekly bread. And so, Father, I thank you and rejoice for reports I've heard from within our congregation, which are direct answers to prayer. Lord, that you are providing the daily bread of your people, that you are sending what is needed just in that time. And Lord, in these things we rejoice and thank you. Father, we pray for our poor nation. Father, you told us in your word to trust not in kings and k in princes, and to put not our confidence in rulers or kings. And Father, we realise that the leaders of our nation are not righteous men. By and large, they are wicked men But Father, we also find in thy word that the heart of the king is in the hand of the Lord. And we find in your word that you use wicked kings for the blessing of your righteous people. And so, Father, we pray that you would give wisdom to our leaders. Father, the fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom. Lord, place your fear in them, we pray And Father, we pray that for the sake of your own elect that you would spare us judgment, Lord, though we know that judgment often is the garden of truth and of thy people. And so, Father, we pray for our nation. We pray that our nation would not take innocent life. We pray that our nation would not be the bullies of the world. But Father, may our leaders have wisdom to lead aright. And Father, we pray for true revival. For the hope of this nation is not found in the right politics, but it's found in repentance. Father bless us, we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. Please turn to Psalm 96. It's our responsive reading. Once you found Psalm 96 in your Bibles, please rise I just want to note a mistake I made in my confessional reading. I said I'd be reading a passage from the sermon reading, but the sermon is Acts 26, and my passage was from Acts 20, so I just want to note that. We'll be reading all thirteen verses of Psalm 96 responsibly, starting from the beginning. O sing unto the Lord a new song. Sing unto the Lord all the earth. Sing unto the Lord. Bless his name. Show forth his salvation from day to day. Declare his glory among the heathen, his wonders among all people. For the Lord is great and greatly to be praised. He is to be feared above all gods. For all the gods of the nations are idols. But the Lord made the heavens. Honor and majesty are before him. Strength and beauty are in his sanctuary. Give unto the Lord, O ye kindred of the people, give unto the Lord glory and strength. Give unto the Lord the glory due unto his name. Bring an offering and come unto his courts. O worship the Lord in the beauty of holiness Fear before him, all the earth. Say among the heathen that the Lord reigneth, the world also shall be established, that it shall not be moved. He shall judge the people righteously. Let the heavens rejoice, and let the earth be glad. Let the sea roar in the fullness thereof. Let the field be joyful, and all that is therein. Then shall all the trees of the wood rejoice before the Lord For he cometh to judge the earth. He shall judge the world in righteousness and the people in his truth. May the Lord add a rich blessing to the reading and hearing of his holy word. That last verse in the psalm ties in very nicely with the Sunday school lesson we looked at today. All the trees of the wood shall rejoice, because he comes to judge the earth. He'll judge the world with righteousness and his people with the truth. He'll exonerate them. He will exonerate them. He will be the one that declares, no, you have touched my people. Our sermon psalm is in your red songbook, number 9a Adaptation of Psalm chapter 9 to the tune of Sankey, which you know as hiding in thee. Psalm 9A in your red book. We sing the five stanzas and close with the Amen. She praised the Lord who is high too. The spirit will make hold of it will be left and so all day they climb and pray. To your name will I sing oh most high When I were my clothes work, they stumble and nervous speak. Cause you were there for your judgment and cause who is right. You try the commission destroy The nation The whole lift concern is constantly raised. Number four Thor will be turn always sick on his room as taken for his job. What bid the postal lag meteorite? The Lord is a strong hold and strong God for all the rest in their time. Forsaken will stay in your face all Thank you, thank you. You may be seated. Well, this song leader is a note to himself. Practice the hymn before you get to church. Thank you. Turn in your Bibles with me to the 26th chapter of Acts, the history book of the early church, the 26th chapter. I heard of a fellow that said I s can't sing pretty but I sure sing loud. Well it's pretty bad when you sing loud and you get the wrong verse. And um you know, my brother and I kind of tag team on the hymn some. And I'm singing away, thinking Vince is on the wrong thing. And I see him glance over, so I'm ready to show him my hymn book to show him where we're supposed to be And oh to my shame. I kinda liked it actually. Well we'll go with that for a while. Yeah, that that hymn was written by by Ira Sankey and that is the name of that hymn, that tune. And in in Jamaica there was a phrase, go sing a Sankey. Uh meant to you know go go sing a a hymn. Okay, if you had your place in the twenty-sixth chapter of the book of Acts. I'm going to begin reading in verse number one and read through the 29th verse for our scripture reading this morning. Acts 26 and verse 1. Then Agrippa said unto Paul, Thou art permitted to speak for thyself. Then Paul stretched forth his hand and answered for himself, I think myself happy, King Agrippa. Because I shall answer for myself this day before thee, touching all the things whereof I am accused of the Jews. Especially, because I know thee to be expert in all the customs and questions which are among the Jews. Wherefore I beseech thee to hear me patiently. My manner of life from my youth, which was at first among mine own nation at Jerusalem, know all the Jews. which knew me from the beginning if they would testify that after the most strictest sect of our nation, I lived a Pharisee And now I stand and am judged of thee for the hope of the promise made of God unto our fathers. Under which promise our twelve tribes, instantly serving God day and night, hope to come. For which hope's sake, King Agrippa, I am accused of the Jews. Why should it be thought a thing incredible with you that God should raise the dead? I verily thought with myself that I ought to do many things contrary to the name of Jesus of Nazareth. Which things I also did in Jerusalem. And many of the saints did I shut up in prison, having received authority from the chief priest And when they were put to death, I gave my voice against them. And I punished them off in every synagogue and compelled them to blaspheme. and being exceedingly mad against them I persecuted them even under strange cities. Whereupon, as I went to Damascus with authority and commission from the chief priest, At midday, O king, I saw in the way a light from heaven above, the brightness of the sun, shining round about me, and them that journeyed with me And we, when we were all fallen to the earth, I heard a voice speaking unto me and saying in the Hebrew tongue, Saul! Saul, why persecutest thou me? It is hard for thee to kick against the bricks And I said, Who art thou, Lord? And he said, I am Jesus, whom thou persecutest. But arise and stand upon thy feet, for I have appeared unto thee for this purpose, to make thee a minister and a witness. Both of those things which thou hast seen, and of those things in the which I will appear unto thee, delivering thee from the people and from the Gentiles unto whom I now send thee. To open their eyes, to turn them from darkness to light, and from the power of Satan unto God, that they may receive forgiveness of sins. and inheritance among them which are sanctified by faith that is in me. Whereupon, O King Agrippa I was not disobedient unto the heavenly vision, but showed first to them of Damascus. And at Jerusalem, and throughout all the coast of Judea, and all then to the Gentiles. And they that they should repent and turn to God and do works meet for repentance. For these causes the Jews caught me in the temple and went about to kill me Having therefore obtained help from God, I continue unto this day, witnessing both the small and the gr and great, saying that none other things than that which the prophets and Moses did say should come That Christ should suffer, and that he should be the first that should rise from the dead, and should show light unto the people and to the Gentiles. And as he thus spake for himself, Festus said with a loud voice, Paul, thou art beside thyself. Much learning hath made thee mad. But he said, I am not mad, most noble Festus, but speak forth the words of truth and soberness. For the king knoweth of these things, before whom also I speak freely. For I am persuaded that none of these things are hidden from thee, from him, for this thing was not done in a corner. King Agrippa, believest thou the prophets? I know that thou believest. Then Agrippa said unto Paul, almost thou persuadest me to be a Christian. And Paul said, I would to God that not only thou, but also all that hear me this day were both almost and altogether such as I am, accept my bonds. Let us pray. Father, we thank you for thy word. Lord, the entrance to thy word giveth light. Lord, may we by thy spirit enter into thy truth today. May we receive light from thee. In Jesus' name. Amen. I love the span of history and the various characters we find in scripture. Back probably a dozen years ago, I did a a personal study on the Herods, because we find Herod showing up so many times in Scripture, and yet there's actually six of them That go by this name Herod. The king Agrippa, before whom Paul is testifying, is Herod Agrippa II. Herod Agrippa II was the grandson of Herod the Great. Herod the Great was the king at the time of the birth of Jesus Christ. Herod the Great was the king that killed all the infant boys under two years old. He was the king that feared greatly when he heard that the Jewish, the him that should be king of the Jews, was born. So this is his grandson that Paul is testifying before. This Herod Agrippa II is the son of Herod Agrippa I. It was Herod Agrippa I that had Peter in prison and was going to kill Peter the next day, and yet Peter was delivered by the angel. It was Herod the Griffith I that stood before a multitude and spoke greatly, and the people said, the gods are come down. And he was intimately smitten with worms and consumed. That was the father of this Herod Agrippa This Herod Agrippa, King of Agrippa before Paul is, uh, would live a long life. He lived till almost A. D. ninety, somewhere in there. We don't know exactly when he died. But his reign ended when the J Romans came in and totally destroyed Jerusalem. And he no longer had a place. Herod Agrippa was the Jewish puppet king. When the Romans would come in, they would set up uh their own government, uh sort of like the Vichy French. You know, the the the Germans came in and deposed the German the French government and set up their own public government. Well that's the position that Herod Agrippa II is holding. Festus, on the other hand, is the Roman governor. Festus is the real ruler in the room. And so that is why we find Herod Agrippa saying to Festus, hey, you know, what what should we do here? I don't want to send this man on to be judged of Caesar without the proper accusations against him. So that's the historical context. Coming to the Apostle Paul, the first thing that we find is that the old man Saul was a very religious man. And Paul mentions that here, that if the Jews were honest with you, they would tell you of my labors in the Jewish religion when I was Saul. Paul, under inspiration, said in 2 Corinthians chapter 5 and verse 17 Therefore, if any man be in Christ, he is a new creature. Old things are passed away. Behold, all things are become new. You know, folks, your your testimony is just that. It's what you have experienced. Well, Paul's words there are his testimony. Because we know that Paul was very religious. In Acts 22 and verse 3, Paul says, I verily am a man which was born a Jew Born in Tarshus, the city of Cilicia, yet brought up in this city at the feet of Gamalia, and taught according to the perfect manner of the law of my father, zealous toward God as ye are all the same. So Paul says, look, I had the best religious education. I some people say, oh boy, I went to Sunday school from a child. Well that would be Paul. He was he grew up at the synagogue. He sat under the feet of Gamele. He was taught the law when it came to religious Education. He had it. He probably used the King James Bible. No, not really. But you understand what I'm saying? This was a guy that if you want to check off religious boxes He can he can check 'em all. He's he's doing pretty good. Paul uh in in Philippians three he said, though I might have c also confidence in the flesh, or sorry Though I might also have confidence in the flesh, if any man think that he hath whereof to trust in the flesh, I the more circumcised the eighth day, of the stock of Israel, of the tribe of Benjamin, and Hebrew of the Hebrews, as touching the law of Pharisee. Paul also said that he profited much in the Jewish religion. Now, why is this significant to the testimony of Paul? Well, you'll you'll notice that we have a dual title in the bullet, at least I hope it is. That's what I sent in, but uh sometimes I don't communicate well. But this is the testimony of Paul, the model of an evangelist You see, one of the first things we have to realize when we are witnessing to our friends and to our family and to our neighbors is that men are, by their fallen nature, very religious. And a lot of the people that Paul confronted with the gospel, and I guarantee you a lot of the people that you will someday confront with the gospel will begin by telling you what church they go to. And I always ask them what's color what color is the carpet? Because sometimes they honestly don't know. They don't remember because it's been so long since they've been there. But people will begin to rattle off all their Oh yeah, I learned that in Sunday school years ago. Yeah, I've got that Bible somewhere that my grandmother gave me. And they'll begin to tell you all their religious qualifications. Folks, Paul had all the religious qualifications. I mean, he had Sunday school pens to his knee. The old man's stall was very religious. And not only was he very religious, but he had great zeal in his religion. He was not a Thanksgiving and Christmas Christian He didn't just go on the holidays. He was always in the synagogue. And he's going to other cities to carry out his religious activity. He said there in Philippians 3 verse 6, concerning zeal persecuting the church, as touching the righteousness which is of the law, blameless. And we know that he was going to Damascus for the purpose of imprisoning the Christians. When Stephen was stoned by the mob, what do we find? Well, they laid down their coats at the feet of a young man named Saul. And in our scripture reading, he said that when the Christians were killed, he gave his voice against them. He was an eyewitness to testify against them. But Paul would also say this is a faithful saying, and worthy of all acceptance. Acceptation. That Jesus Christ came into the world to save sinners, of whom I am she And so he's very religious. He is very active in working on his religion. But not only that, he thought he was doing the right thing. We find uh in our passage, verse 9, verily I thought with myself that I ought to do many things contrary to the name of Jesus of Nazareth. Verse 10, which things I also did in Jerusalem, and many of the saints did I shut up in prison, having received authority from the Pope. Um not the Pope, having received authority from the chief priests You see, this man Saul was very religious. He was very intent on working out his religion, and he was doing it all on religious authority. The chief priest, and I, you know, I said pope there deliberately, the chief priest had given him authority to do these things. The TV evangelists said, Hey Saul, you're doing pretty good. You sent in some money this month, you're on track. You see, when we evangelize We're dealing with people that are very religious. Some will be very earnest in their religion. And most will have some false prophet that they're following in their religion. And so when Paul begins his testimony, this is what he sets out. He says, Hey, Agrippa and Felix, I know that you understand the religion of the Jews. Herod Agrippa II was himself a Jew. I know that you understand the Jews. I know you understand our religion. And I did all the things That these chief priests that are accusing me said that we ought to be doing, except there's one difference. And so the first thing we find about the Apostle Paul is that he was, or sorry, about the old man Saul is that he was a very religious man But the second thing we find in his testimony is that the new man, Paul, was miraculously saved. Something has happened here, folks. He's changed uniforms He's fighting for a different army. The things he used to say were good, now he says are bad. And the things he used to say were bad, now he says are good. The people that he used to go to kill, now he's going to preach to. The things that he used to tell people, don't believe that. Now those are the very things that he's telling them to believe. Something has happened here. We understand the concept of a traitor. When we find out that someone in our government has been working for our enemies. Ah, we hate 'em. Boy, we oh that that's the worst person ever was. Well that's exactly what has happened here with this man who was Saul who was brought up at the feet of Gamelia But now he's going by a new name. He's going by a different name, the Apostle Paul. So he is miraculously saved. Turn with me to the book of Acts in chapter 9. And I want to look a little bit closer. We read there in chapter 26 of Paul's brief account of his conversion, but I want to go to chapter 9 and look more in depth at it. And there we find starting in verse 3, and as he journeyed, he came near Damascus, and suddenly there shined around about him a light from heaven. And he fell to the earth and answered and heard a voice saying unto him, Saul, Saul, why persecutest thou me And he said, Who art thou, Lord? And the Lord said, I am Jesus whom thou persecutest. It is hard for thee to kick against the pricks. And that word, take that term, kick against the pricks, actually comes from an ox that is pulling a cart. And sometimes the ox would kick back at the cart and you know there's a soft part there between the dew claws. on the back of a on a bovine hoof and he would would kick against and it was painful, but the ox is stubborn. And if he didn't like where they were going, he would kick against the pricks. In other words, there's something here that's bothering him. But every time you try to do something about it, you just make things worse. And you see, I believe that the kicking against the pricks, which Saul, the old man, had experienced was standing to keep the coats when Stephen is stoned, and seeing Stephen's faithful testimony. And dragging fathers away from their wives and children to imprison them, and finding the father saying to the ch wife and children, It'll be okay, and finding the wife saying, Yes, the Lord will take care of us while you're away. And we find that he compelled them to blaspheme. Well, what does that mean? Well, to blaspheme would be for them to deny Christ, is what he's trying to compel them to do. And he's compelling them to do it with rods. They are being beaten and told, just just just deny Christ, and the beating ends. Just, just Agree with me, and it'll all be okay. And yet they could not deny Christ, and so they patiently endured, and all that has been grinding at the conscience Of the old man Saul, who is now the new man Paul. Saul, Saul, it is hard for thee to kick against the bricks. And folks, that tells us in our witnessing that we must be faithful and patient. Because the man that spits in your face, or members spitting in your face. The man that throws the track on the ground will remember throwing the crack track on the ground. And the man that said, Paul, thou art mad, you're an idiot. Who remember saying, Paul, thou art mad. And so we find here that even though these Christians were suffering under the hand of Saul, those very sufferings were part of what is leading him to this miraculous conviction. That testimony of believers who were faithful witnesses even unto death. was used by God for the salvation, the miraculous salvation of the Apostle Paul. Be not weary of well-doing, for in due time ye shall reap if ye faint not. And folks, it is not unusual to be mocked in evangelism. And it is more common to be rejected in evangelism than to be accepted. But those very witnesses are part of God's pricks. in the heart and soul of his own elect. And so dropping down to verse 10 of Acts chapter 9. And there were certain disciples at Damascus. There was a certain disciple at Damascus named Ananias. And to him the Lord said in a vision, Ananias, and he said, Behold, I am here. And the Lord said, Arise and go to the street which is called street. and inquire in the house of Judas for of one called Saul of Tarshus, for behold, he prayeth, and has seen a vision of a man named Ananias coming in and putting his hand on him, that he may receive his sight. And Ananias answered, Lord, I have heard many things of this man. How much evil he hath done to thy saints at Jerusalem And here he hath authority from the chief priest to bind all them that call upon thy name. But the Lord said unto him, Go thy way, for he is a chosen vessel unto me to bear my name before the Gentiles and kings and the children of Israel For I will show him how great things he must suffer for my name's sake. Ananias had some interfere. You want me to go talk to him? God says, go. And I said, get up and go. Arise and go. But but this is going to be uncomfortable. But but this could be dangerous. But but this is him? I've heard a lot about him. He's as wicked and as evil as they are. You want me to go talk to him? God said, yeah, yeah. He is a chosen vessel. Folks, this is a miraculous transformation. Because Saul of Tarsus had the authority to arrest Ananias and take him to prison. But Paul had a message of blessing and hope to share with God's people. He is a chosen vessel unto me. And so down down to verse twenty of chapter nine, and straightway he preached Christ, that is Paul, preached Christ in the synagogue, that he is the Son of God. But all that heard him were amazed and said, Is not this he that destroyed them which call on the name uh of this name in Jerusalem, and came hither for the intent that he might bring them bound to the chief priest. And so what are we seeing so far? First of all, we find that there's no sinner that's too wicked for God to save. If God could save us all, he can save anyone. Secondly, we find that there's no one too good that doesn't need to be saved. You see, Saul had all the religious box checked, but he needed to be saved. All his self-righteousness was of no effect. And we find also that all that man tries to do to find favor with God is wrong. Everything Saul was doing, it was wrong. He was convinced he was right. But he was as wrong as he could be. But Saul was saved when none of the persecuted Christians could save him. Saul, Saul, why persecutest thou the Christians? It's not what it says. Saul, Saul, why persecutest thou me? Who are you, Lord? I'm Jesus. And so, folks, there is a miraculous truth here that it doesn't matter how religious they are and what religious qualifications they can give you. It does not matter how bad they are and what sins you may see in them, and it doesn't matter how hard they try, they cannot save themselves, but we know the one that can. We could be an Ananias to go to that one that's kicking against the pricks and say, receive thy sight. Just like, and I'm not talking literally, you know, someone's blind, you understand me, but receive your spiritual sight. I know him whom to know aright is life eternal. And so we find that Saul was miraculously saved by the grace of God. And so the old man Saul was religious and wicked. The new man Saul was miraculously saved. But then we find that this new man Saul lived a life of sacrifice. And this again is an example and a testimony to us in our work of evangelism, in our modeling ourselves after Jesus Christ, for the Son of Man hath not where to lay his head. But we find in Philippians chapter 3 that in verse 7 Paul said, but what things were gained to me, those I count loss for Christ. Yea, doubtless I count all things for loss, for the excellency of the knowledge of Christ Jesus my Lord, for whom I suffer the loss of all things, and do count them but dung, that I may win Christ, and be found in him Not having mine own righteousness, which is of the law, but the righteousness which is of Christ by faith, the righteousness which is of God, that I may know him. and the power of his resurrection, and the fellowship of his suffering being made conformable unto his death. We read earlier that Paul was a Pharisee. What do we know about Pharisees? Well, they love the readings in the marketplace. They love to stand on the street corners and pray. When a Pharisee was coming down the street, you might as well put a backwards collar on him because you recognized him Ah, here comes a holy man. Here comes a righteous man. Good morning, Mr. Saul. It is good to see you. How are you? But now Paul is being chased unto death. Paul gets let down over the wall of Damascus in a basket because he has to run from the Jews. He lost his reputation. He lost his self-righteousness, all the things that he held on to. He lost his position We find that he lost the comforts of this world. He said, The Jews received thy five forty strikes five times, I was beaten with rods and journings often, and perils, and weirdness, and painfulness, and watchings. You know, he lost his comforts. He no longer was concerned about the wealth of the Pharisees were wealthy. Yeah, they were they were grifters. Remember remember the sons of Eli when they were supposed to take the little bits from the sacrifice for their meat and instead they made a hook that they could dig it in there and get the best meat for themselves? Well that was the Pharisees. They were grifters They were religious charlatans. They were raising money for homeless children and buying mansions instead. And that was the wealth that this man had. But when he became a new creature in Christ, he said, you know what? What shall profit a man if he gained the whole world and lose his own soul? Having food and raiment be with therewith be content. I don't need I I I don't need the latest Lexus and in the if you drive a Lexus, I'm sorry, I don't want to try not to pick one of you, but what I'm saying is is He had said I had learned whatever state I'm in therewith to be content. I don't need to lay up all these things in this world. I need to be a witness for Jesus Christ. Now We need a place to live, we need a car to drive, we need clothes to wear, we need food. Those things obviously. We're not saying that we're supposed to, you know, give away all of our our stuff and live in a tent But his whole life was transformed, and he lived a life of sacrifice. He realized that it was better to be out on a missionary journey than to be laying up treasures for himself. He realized that it was better to be a testimony for Christ than to have a great reputation before man. He realized that that uh He didn't need people to say, oh, righteous Saul the Pharisee. It was much better for people to say, Saul, what does God say about this? Or Paul, what is called, to be a true spiritual example and witness was far better than to be respected in the marketplace. He lived a life of sacrifice. He held nothing of this life dear that he might live for Christ. But not only that, we find that the new man, Paul, delighted, delighted to share his testimony You ever meet a new Christian? And they they they they there's bubbling over with evangelism. Then a lot of times you meet somebody that's known the Lord for years and the that fire's just kinda gotten cold That burning desire for the lost has has grown cold. Look back with me at the passage there in Acts 26. And in the first verse, he says, Then Agrippa said unto Paul, Thou art permitted to speak for thyself Then Paul stretched forth his hands and answered for himself, I think myself happy, King Agrippa. Because I shall answer for myself this day before thee, touching all the things whereof I am accused of the Jews. What was he accused of the Jews of? Believing in Jesus. He says, King Agrippa, I'm happy. I am delighted to be here. I am happy to have this opportunity, King Agrippa. Governor, I am happy to be able to tell you why these people that used to love me now hate me. It's all about Jesus Christ. Now Paul says I think myself happy, and it says he stretched forth his hands. We don't know this for sure, but we can assume that they took off the handcuffs so he could stretch forth his hands. Because Paul is not here freely, folks. He is happy to be there, but he's not there freely. And he doesn't have the option to leave. You've probably seen somewhere, you know, am I under arrest? No, you're free to go. Paul, you're not free to go. You're here as a prisoner. We're going to give you the opportunity to speak And at the end of the passage, he says, I wish that not not only that you were almost, but fully persuaded as I am, except for my bonds, except for the fact that I'm not a free man anymore. I have given up my freedom. You see, the old man Saul could only blaspheme Christ. But the new man Saul delighted to tell people about. Jesus Christ. That is the model of the evangelist. He's a man who is not concerned about the le the comforts and pleasures of this world. But he's a man who is concerned to share the gospel of Jesus Christ. And verse 8, I believe, is the key to the whole passage. It's a verse I read for our call to worship, and the verse that I would like to look at again, why should it be thought a thing incredible with you? That God should raise the dead. See, it was the resurrection of Jesus Christ that the Jews hated most. They had paid big money to the soldiers to claim that Christ's body was stolen away rather than he rose. See, the resurrection of Jesus Christ is what destroyed the Jewish religion. It wiped it out. When Lazarus was raised from the dead by Christ, they wanted to kill him again. When Christ was raised from the dead by the power of his father, they wanted to deny it. And here Paul boils it all down to this one thing that King Agrippa II, who was a Jew, who Paul says you know the Jewish religion. You know the tradition of the fathers. You know that script, the Old Testament, that Moses and the prophets said that Christ must suffer and rise from the dead the same day. Why does this surprise you? Mm-hmm. And folks, that's the same in our evangelism, isn't it, isn't it? What? All I have to do is believe to be saved? Why does this surprise you What if any man be in Christ is a new creature? Why does this surprise you? Why should it seem a thing so incredible that the dead should rise? It is a thing as basic and as simple and as believable as the ground you stand on. Why shouldn't Stephen say so incredible? And folks, that's the gospel. We don't need to apologize for the gospel. We don't need to try to make it more palatable. We don't try to make, folks, Jesus Christ has risen from the dead, and you too can rise from the dead. That's all it is. It's as simple as that I wish that you were not just almost persuaded, my friend. But I wish that you were fully persuaded as I am. The old man that used to persecute the church, but now has been transformed by the power of God, who has realized that this world means nothing and that Christ means everything, why should it seem a thing? That God should raise the dead. In First Thessalonians chapter two Verses 7 to 9, we find Paul's earnest desire. He says there in 1 Thessalonians 2, starting in verse 7, But what but we were gentile sorry, but we were gentle among you even as a nurse cherisheth her child. So being affectionately desire of you, we were willing to have imparted to you not the gospel only but also our own souls, because ye were dear unto us. For ye remember, brethren, our labor and travail. For laboring night and day, because we would not be chargeable unto you, we preached unto you the gospel of God. Paul says to the believers in Thessalonica, just like a mother that nurses her child, she protects the child, she makes sure the child is warm and comfortable, she feeds the child. She does everything she can for the child because she loves the child. She pours out her heart and life into that infant child. So Paul says that was how we were among you. We gave of ourselves that you might be saved. We poured out our lives, setting aside our own will and comforts for your spiritual edification and good. Folks, that's the model of the evangelist. It's not always easy. It's not always comfortable. It requires self-sacrifice. You will have to extend yourself outside of what we call our comfort zone. But if we truly have a love for the lost and for our lost family members, that is the example that Paul showed. And so Just to review briefly, the old man Saul was very religious. The new man Paul was miraculously saved. The new man Paul lived a life of sacrifice. The new man Paul delighted to share the gospel that the new man Paul gave of himself for the gospel. But finally we find the new man Paul was faithful unto death. His head was removed from his body. And yet Paul said, For I am now ready to be offered. We living here in the United States have never known persecution. We hear on the news of Nigerian believers that are being put to the sword. Paul had put believers to death. for not repenting or not turning from their belief in Christ, not a not blasphemy, is that where I'm looking for. And the day may come when we too must be faithful unto death. I'm now ready to be offered. The time of my departure is at hand. Lord, if if today is the day that I will be with thee in glory, then Today is the day. Berlin Vince was mentioning in prayer meeting the testimony of missionaries that could have escaped the invasion of the Japanese. But they said, No, God's put us here. This is where we need to be. We need to continue in the ministry. Paul said, I've fought a good fight. I have finished my course. I have kept the faith. Well, wouldn't you love to have that written on your tombstone Would not that be a great epithet? Here is a man who was faithful to the Lord. He never forsook his Lord He fought a good fight, he finished his course, he kept the faith. Henceforth there is laid up for me a crown of righteousness, which the Lord the righteous judge shall give unto me at that day. And not to me only. But also unto all them that love him at his appearance. There's no man too wicked to be saved. There's no man so righteous he doesn't need to be saved. All that men try to do to save themselves will fail. But God has chosen vessels unto him to bear his name unto the Jews and the Gentiles. And today we are those chosen vessels. May God give us grace to follow the testimony and the example of Paul. Stand with me as we pray. Father, we thank you for thy word. Lord, we thank you that this book is indeed the owner's manual of the soul. This book is indeed the instructions that we need. Your word is profitable in all. We are not left to wonder or to wander, but we're given the precious word of God. Blessed to our hearts this day In Jesus' name, amen. Amen. Turn to your uh blue song book, Joyce Hymnal, not the Trinity. Your blue songbook, the number 557. Now thank we all are God A short lovely hymn as we contemplate uh one of my most favorite holidays in the year, Thanksgiving, uniquely a Christian and American holiday. Now thank we all are God. Five fifty seven. Well wake me all call with our time and voice to our Christ. Things have done it from his world with voice for my Lord. At first on our way with help message. I still miss our made this thou can throw all our life in here. And less it be stood and keep us in his grace and guide us when No, she succeeded.