Turn in your Bibles with me this morning, please, to the book of Zechariah, and chapter number three. As you may remember, may recall I set out to preach from the first few verses of Zechariah 3 several weeks ago, and uh could not get past Hagi because it is the introduction and as a Contemporary book to Zechariah. And this morning I really would love to jump into chapter one of Zechariah, but I know we wouldn't get to chapter three if we did. And that's a good thing. We will be looking at selected verses from chapter 1. But isn't God's Word wonderful? And isn't it amazing that when you begin to study God's Word, The Spirit just seems to open up so many avenues of blessings. Anybody ever pick up a nickel off the street? I think most of us sometime have reached down and picked up a nickel or a quarter. What would happen if you reach? down to get that nickel and suddenly you realize the ground was just covered with gold pieces. Well isn't that the way it is in the bo in the Word of God? We we we see one little verse and oh that that's a and suddenly it the l it just opens up with with wealth of blessings. God is good. Zechariah chapter three, I'll read all ten verses as we begin this morning. And he showed me Joshua the high priest Standing before the angel of the Lord, and Satan standing at his right hand to resist him. And the Lord said unto Satan, the Lord rebuke thee, O Satan. Even the Lord that hath chosen Jerusalem rebuke thee. Is not this a brand plant? Flocked out of the fire, and Joshua was clothed with filthy garments and stood before the angel. And he answered and spake unto those that stood before him, saying, Take away the filthy garments from him And up and unto him he said, Behold, I have caused thine iniquity to pass from thee, and I will clothe thee with a change of raiment. And I said, Let them set a fair mitre upon his head. So they set a fair mitre. Upon his head and clothed him with garments. And the angel of the Lord stood by. And the angel of the Lord protested unto Joshua, saying, Thus saith the Lord of host, if thou wilt walk in my ways, and if thou wilt keep my charge, then thou shalt also judge my house, and shalt also keep my courts, and I will give thee places To walk among these that stand by. Hear now, O Joshua the High Priest, thou and thy fellows that that sit before thee, for they are men wondered at. For behold, I will bring forth my servant the branch. For behold the stone that I have Laid before Joshua shall be one stone upon one stone shall be seven eyes. Behold, I will engrave the graving thereof, saith the Lord of hosts. and I will remove the iniquity of the land in one day. In that day, saith the Lord of hosts, shall ye call every man his neighbor under the vine and under the fig tree. Let's pray. Oh Lord, what a glorious passage this is. What an amazing vision you gave to Zechariah. O Lord, open your word today to our hearts. Bless us, your people, through thy word we pray But O Lord, even more than the opening of your words, it is necessary that you open our hearts. For your word will not return void, but Lord, our hearts are cold and hard. And so, Father, may your spirit break up our fallow ground. Today, may you bring rich feeding to your people in the Word of God, we pray. And Lord, bring great glory to your Son. Thereby. In Jesus' name. Amen. I have been blessed to have been preaching the Word of God since I was fifteen years old. How do you preach such a marvelous chapter? How? To expand, expound on such glorious words. The only thing I can say about preaching is that I'm not very good at it. But it is the Spirit of God, that is actually the preacher to the hearts of the people of God. God has chosen the foolishness of preaching to save them that believe, and God has chosen foolish preachers to be those that expound the Word of God. But ultimately, if there is any food for the souls of God's people today, it must come not from my lips, but from the Spirit of God. And so may the Spirit of God be the exegete. May the Spirit of God be the preacher here this morning. I will endeavor to comment on the Word of God and show you some of its unity and bring in other passages comparing scripture with Scripture. But may the Spirit of God Preach these truths to our heart this morning. And he showed me Joshua the high priest standing before the angel of Jehovah and Satan standing at his angel. His right hand to resist him. Who is the heat that we find here in chapter three and verse one? Well throughout this vision that Zechariah has We find that there is an angel that is accompanying him. An angel simply is a messenger of the Lord. It is one who comes bearing a message, a message of truth from Jehovah. Throughout this Book we find the angel of the Lord. If we flip over to chapter one and verse nine, then I said, O Lord, what are these? And the angel that talked with me said unto me, I will show you. And in chapter one, verses thirteen and fourteen. 14 And the angel answered the angel that talked with me. And then in verse 14, so the angel communed with me, so the angel that communed with me said unto me, Cry thou, saying, Thus saith the Lord of hosts, I am jealous of you. for Jerusalem and for Zion. He's also found in verse 19 of chapter 1, and in verse 2 of chapter 2, and then again here in chapter 3. And if you read through this book of Zechariah, this Angel appears over and over again. Now, this angel that is speaking to Zechariah has a purpose. This angel is interpreting the vision. This angel is answering the questions. This angel is the guide through the vision that shows what is taking place. We also find here the angel of the Lord, capital L, capital O, capital R, capital. Capital D, and that is not this angel. This angel we find here in verse 1 of chapter 3 is a common angel, one of God's created beings. Where we find the angel of the Lord or the angel of Jehovah, that's That is not a created angel, but rather the angel of Jehovah is Jesus Christ, the pre incarnate Christ, who is the Word of God. What is a word? It is a message. And so the term angel simpl uh simply tells us this is a messenger. And so this angel is speaking with Zechariah, and the angel is the interpreter of what Zechariah is saying, and the angel points out the messenger of the Lord, the angel. Of Jehovah Christ. Now today we do not need an angel here to be our interpreter. Why is that? We have the Holy Spirit. You see, when Zechariah was receiving this message, the Holy Spirit was not poured out upon his people as he is today. In the Old Testament, the Holy Spirit was upon people at times, and we read Of King Saul that the Spirit was taken from him. But we have the promise in the New Testament that God's Spirit comes in to dwell within the believer and remains upon the believer. And what is the purpose? Well, turn over to John 15 with me and verse 26, and then we're going to look at John 16 as well. In John 15 and verse 26, but when the comforter has come, whom I will send unto you from the Father, even the Spirit of truth, which proceedeth from the Father, he shall testify of me. We do not need an angel here today to testify of Christ, because we have the Holy Spirit and the Holy Spirit testifies of me. He testifies of Christ, just as the angel that is speaking to Zechariah in this vision is testifying and interpreting and explaining What the angel of the Lord is doing. And then flip over to John 16 and verses 13 and 14. John 16, 13, howbeit, when the Spirit of truth has come, he will guide you into all truth. What is the angel in Zachary? Zachariah doing? He's guiding Zechariah into truth. He's explaining the vision. He will guide you into all truth, for he shall not speak of himself. The angel in Zechariah doesn't speak his own message, he speaks the message of Jehovah. But what's Whosoever he shall hear, that shall he speak, and he shall show you things to come. Then verse 14, he that is the Holy Spirit shall glorify me, and he sh for he shall receive of mine and show it unto you. And so throughout this vision that Zachariah has, he is instructed and taught and guided By this angel. We hear a lot of talk about angels today. We have the Holy Spirit. We do not need an angel to interpret the Word of God. The Holy Spirit is our interpreter. And yes, the angel of the Lord encamped around about them that fear him. We have that presence with us, but that angel also is embodied in the messenger of the Lord. It is the Holy Spirit that camps around the believer and who is is the interpreter of the Word of God, who is the one who shows us Christ in the Word. And so I know it's been a bit of time on the angel, but I really felt like that's something we need to to clarify, that the Holy Spirit is all we need. But then we have a second character here. And he showed me Joshua the high priest. Now we won't spend a lot of time here because we've talked about this Joshua in the two previous weeks. This is not the Joshua Who was the assistant to Moses who led in the conquest of Canaan? This is not that Joshua. It is the same name, Yeshua, which is the New Testament name in Greek, is Jesus. But this is Joshua. High priest. This is a descendant of Aaron of the tribe of Levi, and he is the high priest in the restored temple. Now, uh, this is taking place somewhere around 530 to 520 years before Christ. And we find this Joshua in Nehemiah 7. And in Nehemiah 7, he is listed among those who were the first to return for the rebuilding of the walls. Okay, so when they the first one came back with the rubbable to rebuild the walls of Jerusalem, this same Joshua the high priest came back. We saw him in the book of Haggai and in Ezra chapter 5 and verse 2, we find him among those that are rebuilding the temple. So this was an actual man. This was an actual man that Zachariah knew when he saw this vision of Zechariah. The significance of Joshua the Hunter. High priest who we find clothed in filthy garments is this is the re-establishment of the worship. They've been in Babylon. The temple has lain waste. The priesthood has been abandoned. The sacrifice Has ceased. But now the people are returning. As we saw last week, there's a true revival taking place. And now the worship is to begin again. But there's a problem. All has sinned and come short of the glory of God There is not a one among us who is worthy of the presence of God as we are. We're polluted. We are filthy. And so we find Joshua, the high priest, standing before the angel of the Lord. What is significant of the fact that he is referred to as standing before the angel of the Lord? Obviously it means literally he's standing there, but it means far more than just that. He dwells always in the presence of the Lord. He is before the Lord. The Lord knows him better than he knows himself. The Lord knows his every thought The Lord sees him when no one else sees. He dwells in the presence of the Lord. For the eyes of the Lord are in every place, beholding the evil and the good. The eyes of the Lord go to and fro throughout all the earth to show himself strong on behalf of those that are perfect toward him. And if you look down further in our chapter at verses 8 and 9 of Zechariah 3, hear now, O Joshua the high priest Thou and thy fellows that sit before thee, for they are men wondered at. For behold, I will bring forth my servant the branch. And you'll notice that branches all capitalized there. This is the servant of Jehovah. He is called the branch. He is the branch of the root of the tribe of Judah. This is Jesus Christ. He is not yet born in a manger. He has not yet received his body. Sacrifice and offerings, thou wouldest not, Hebrews, but a body thou has prepared me. They are uh He will bring forth with his servant the branch, but then verse nine is the verse I was heading towards. For behold, the stone that I have laid before Joshua upon one stone shall be seven eyes. Behold, I will grave the graving thereof, saith the Lord of hosts, and I will remove the iniquity of the land in one day. God says there is a stone that's laid. What was the context? What were they doing? They were rebuilding the temple. They were laying stones. And God is basically saying your stones mean nothing. Your stones are but brick and mortar, but I will lay a stone Ah, the stone which the builders refused has become the head of the corner. I will lay a stone And upon that stone will be seven eyes. Have you ever seen a stone with an eye on it? Well, uh last week My wife said, Did you know that there's a crocodile in our pond? I have a little rock sitting on top of the filter so the filter doesn't float and if you look at it from just the right angle, it looks like the head of a crocodile sticking up out of the water. And you can see the eyes on it. And I've driven down the road and I've seen a rock with an eye painted on it. But this stone is different. You see, the eyes that are on the crocodile in my pond are just imaginary. The eyes that someone painted on a rock going down the road is just paint. But this is a living stone. This is a stone not laid by man, and this is a stone that has seven literal actual eyes. Oh, it's not a stone of granite. It's not a stone of marble It is not a stone of any stone of the earth, but rather it is a stone that is beyond our comprehension, because God, in order to make us stupid human beings, understand his glorious truth. has to use pictures and symbols and emblems that we s understand and we're as dumb as rocks when it comes to understanding spiritual truth unless Christ gets our attention. And makes it clear. But brethren, this stone laid by Jehovah After all the labor they have done to build the temple, God says, I'm going to lay one stone, and my stone has seven eyes. This rock is Jesus. Yes, he's the one. This rock is Jesus, the only one. Be very sure. Be very sure. Your anchor holds and grips the solid rock. This rock is Jesus. And this rock is illuminated for us and is shown to us by this angel. Just as we saw there in John 15 and John 16, that the word And the Holy Spirit does not speak in tongues of himself or do all these things, nonsense, that's ascribe to the Holy Spirit. But the Holy Spirit's job is to point men to Jesus Christ. And the Holy Spirit The Holy Spirit will never bring glory to himself. He will always bring glory to Christ. And what greater comfort could there be to the child of God than to know that Jesus loves me? And that's all I need. That settles everything. But here we find Joshua, the high priest, and he's standing in the presence of Jesus who has seven eyes. Now what does that tell us? Well, seven is the number of perfection. He sees everything. He sees everything perfectly. Now we see through a glass and darkly. Now we see through failing eyes. And our eyes can deceive us just as Penny looked at the rock in the fountain, and it looked very much from one angle like a crocodile or an alligator. But it was just a rock. The eyes of Jehovah, the eyes of the Lord are in every place. They run to and fro throughout the earth to show themselves strong on behalf of them that fear him. Look over to chapter 4 and verse 10. For who hath despised the day of small things? For they shall rejoice and shall see the plunge. In the hand of Zerubb Zerubbul with those seven, they are the eyes of Jehovah, the eyes of the Lord, which run to and fro. throughout the whole earth. And what do we find in Revelation chapter 5 and verse 6, the lamb as it had been slain, having seven horns and seven eyes. The reference is Revelation 5. 6, if you want to make notes. Christ with seven eyes. Oh, brethren, how Can a foolish preacher expound on such glory and such wonder that Christ is depicted with seven eyes that run through all the earth? Here is Joshua, the high priest. Priest! He is indeed the high priest! He is indeed a man of flesh! He is indeed a son of Aaron! Not Directly son of the descendant of Aaron. He is of the tribe of Levi, and he is clothed in filth. He is standing before the Lord. Christ, the angel of the Lord, is standing beside him on one side, and Satan is on the other side to resist him. The glorious picture. Isn't it amazing what we find in this great passage? And we find in our text that Satan is standing on the right hand. He's standing on the right hand of Joshua the high priest. Is that insignificant? No. Is that just an extra word that happened to be put in there because somebody messed up a manuscript? No. No. The fact that he is standing on the right hand is of marvelous significance, and that fact, that truth, has been preserved to us through the manuscripts. Because God wanted us to understand That the right hand is always in Scripture the hand of action. The right hand of the Lord is depicted as defeating his enemies. The right hand is the hand of action. of activity. And here Satan is on the right hand to resist. Satan is not sitting back waiting for us to fall. But rather, he is a roaring lion walking about seeking whom he may devour. He is active. He is on the right hand. Look out, saints! Be on guard. Be careful. Here, Joshua the high priest was among the first ones who came back from Babylon with derubbable, and he has labored to rebuild the walls. Now he has labored. To rebuild the temple. Now they're all ready to begin the worship. We saw how the Spirit of God stirred the heart of Zerebbul and stirred the heart of Joshua the high priest and stirred the heart of all the remnants. That's what we saw in Hagai Lath. Week. He's all ready to go. He's rearing for the battle, and Satan's right there to try to stop him. Satan is right beside him on his right hand, and the purpose of Satan has. is to resist, is to trip, is to cause the fall, is to stop, is to hinder anything that Satan can do to stop the worship of the Lord. Lord. That's his purpose. He's there on the right hand. He's standing to resist him Now I wanted to go to Zechariah chapter one by way of introduction this morning. I I knew we just could not it would just be Too much to bite off. So let me summarize very quickly. In Zechariah chapter one, we find the messenger of the Lord going throughout the earth. They are all around, they are travelling. I will share with you a few verses there Uh look down to um oh I'm getting ahead of myself. Let's let's stay back here. Um Satan standing to resist. I would love to go to Job and have you turn, but I'm just going to let me read to you Job. Remember when Job appears before the Lord, and we find that the angels of the Lord, I'll read it to you get it right. Job chapter 1, verse 6. Now there was a day when the sons of God came to present themselves before the Lord, and Satan came also among them. Okay, so there in Job we have the sons of God, the messengers of God who have been all through the earth, the angels of God. If you read Zechariah chapter one, you find The messengers of God all through the earth. And here Satan comes up among them. Remember, we talked about the seven eyes of God They all sing. The angels of God, the messengers of God, God's eyes through all the earth, and Satan comes along as well. And in verse seven of Job one, and the Lord said unto Satan, Whence comest thou? Then Satan answered the Lord and said, From going to and fro in the earth and from walking up and down it And the Lord said unto Satan, Hast thou considered my servant Job? And God said and and Satan says, You put a hedge about him, I can't touch him. Amen. Satan says to God, He doesn't serve you for naught. You put a hedge about him and I can't touch him. Now That's what we find here. And I know I've just condensed probably three sermons into about two minutes and confused you. But here we find Joshua the high priest. He's clothed in his sin. He's standing before Christ. Satan is standing on the right hand, and he's saying, Look at him. Look how dirty he is. Look at the filth of his garment. He is unworthy to be the high priest. Priest. He is unworthy to be in your presence. Look at him. Look at him. Look at him. In the book of Revelation we find Christ described as the accuser, the accuser of the brethren. Let's go to Zechariah chapter 3 verse 2. Our time is really just about done for this morning and we we're about 10% into the passage. Verse 2. And the Lord said unto Satan, notice the Lord, capital L, capital O, capital R, capital D, Jehovah said unto Satan The Lord Jehovah, rebuke thee, O Satan. Can I rebuke Satan? Now even the angel Michael, the archangel, in disputing over the body of Moses, durst not bring railing accusation, but said the The Lord rebuke thee, O Satan. Satan is here for the purpose of resisting Joshua, who is clothed in filthy garments And God says, Shut up. Hush. The Lord rebuked thee, O Satan, even the Lord that hath Chosen Jerusalem, rebuke thee. Is not this a brand plucked out of the fire? Jerusalem is chosen. Is Jerusalem one man or many? Many. Jerusalem here is not simply the city around which they've rebuilt walls of man's stones. But rather, Jerusalem here is the people of God throughout all ages. Joshua the high priest, a man, clothed in filthy garments, and Satan standing to resist him, just as we find Satan standing to resist resists job and God says I rebuke thee. Even I, Jehovah, rebuke thee. This is the one I've chosen and I have taken this one out for the fire. For myself. And the Lord said unto Satan, The Lord rebuke thee, O Satan, even the Lord that has chosen Jerusalem, rebuke thee. Is not this a brand plucked out of the fire? You notice Jehovah's name. is three times in that verse. We have a Trinity of the reference of the name of God. God's people are plucked as a brand out of the fire. Look at verse 12 of chapter 1. Back over to chapter 1 and verse 12. And the angel of the Lord, that is Jesus Christ, the angel of the Lord, answered and said, O Lord of hosts, that is Jehovah God. This is an amazing verse here, chapter 1, verse 12. We have a conversation between Jesus and his father. Then the angel of the Lord answered and said, Said, O Lord of hosts, how long wilt thou not have mercy on Jerusalem and the cities of Judah? Christ is saying to the Father, How long is the wrath going to rest on them? How long will you not have mercy? Christ here is pleading for me. Christ here is pleading for me, just as he pled for me in the garden, when he said, If it be possible, let this cup pass from me, yet not as I will, but thy will be done. Here, Christ is pleading for his bride. Then the angel of the Lord answered and said, O Lord of hosts, how long wilt thou not have mercy on Jerusalem and on the cities of Judah against which against wit against which thou hast had indignation? nation three score and ten years. For seventy years the people of God had suffered in bondage for their sin. And Christ says, how long, O Father? O my Father, Jehovah God, how long will you not have mercy on these that I love? You see why we find such wrath from Christ against Satan? The Lord rebuke thee. The Lord rebuke thee, O Satan. I can't speak those words. There are people there are people that will try to rebuke Satan. I cannot rebuke Satan. If the archangel Couldn't rebuke Satan. But said the Lord rebuke thee. How dare I try to rebuke Satan? You'll hear that when you turn on your TV and you watch some of these churches and you I rebuke thee, oh Satan. What blasphemy? What blasphemy. You're you're trifling with things you do not understand and you cannot comprehend. But here we see the great love of Christ for the church. And what a glorious passage. This is in chapter 1, verse 12, this glorious conversation between our Lord Jesus Christ and his Father. And Christ is crying out to the Father, How long? How much longer will your indignation be? Be on these that I love, on these for whom I will give my life Verse Go down to verse 14 of chapter 1. So the angel that communed with me said unto me, Cry thou saying, Thus saith the Lord of hosts. This is God the Father speaking. I am jealous for Jerusalem and for Zion with a great jealousy. God says I'm jealous for them. I love them. I'm jealous for them. Verse 15, and I am sore, this is in chapter one still, and I am sore displeased with the heathen that are at ease. For I was a bit but a little God had used Babylon for the judgment of his people for seventy years, and yet God says they're in trouble. Because I was just a little bit displeased, and they have carried it far beyond my own wrath Who shall lay anything to the charge of God's elect? Okay, it's after 12 o'clock. Let's go to verse 3 and 4, and we'll have to pick up with this again next week. Verse 3. Now Joshua was clothed with filthy garments and stood before the angel. He stood before the angel clothed in filthy garments. And he answered, let me read verse 3 again. Now Joshua was clothed with filthy garments and stood before the angel. And he answered and spake unto those that stood by, saying, Take away the filthy garments from him. And he said, And unto him he said, Behold, I have caused thine iniquity to pass from thee, and I will clothe thee with a change of raiment. Remember the prodigal son, Father, I have sinned against thee And against heaven, and am no longer worthy to be called thy son, make me as one of thy hired servants. And the father said, Bring the best robe and put it on him. Put a ring on his finger. And kill the fatted calf. For this my son was lost and is found. Is not this a brand plucked out of the fire? Does God not have mercy on Jerusalem and Zion, his church, whom he has chosen? Are not we in Christ a royal priesthood? Not after the priesthood of Aaron, but after the priesthood of Christ. And yet we stand before God clothed in the robes of our sin and iniquity. And Christ stands on one side, and Satan stands to resist us. And Christ says to his messengers, take away the filthy robes, because he has cleansed his people. Let's stop there because we can't rush through this message. And may God give us grace to pick up again next week and really examine what it means that these filthy garments are removed. Move from Joshua the high priest, and a fair mitre is placed on his head. Let us pray.