Turn with me in your Bibles this morning to the book of 1 Corinthians and chapter 15, the 15th chapter of 1 Corinthians. This is the chapter which we call the Great Resurrection Chapter. We're going to consider this morning the gospel as presented to us by the Apostle Paul in 1 Corinthians 15. If you have your place now, I'll begin reading with the first verse of 1 Corinthians chapter 15. Moreover, brethren, I declare unto you the gospel, which I preached unto you, which also ye have received, and wherein ye stand. by which also ye are saved, if ye keep in memory what I have preached unto you, unless ye have believed in vain. For I delivered unto you first of all that which also I received, how that Christ died for our sins, according to the Scriptures, and that He was buried, and that He rose again the third day according to the Scriptures. And that he was seen of Cephas, then of the twelve, after that he was seen of above five hundred brethren at once, of whom the greater part remain under this present. But some are fallen asleep And after that he was seen of James, then of all the apostles, and last of all, he was seen of me as one born out of due time. For I am the least of the apostles that am not meet to be called an apostle because I persecuted the church of God. But by the grace of God I am what I am. And his grace, which was bestowed upon me, was not in vain But I labor more abundantly than they all, yet not I, but the grace of God which is with me. Therefore, whether it were I or they, so we preached, and so ye believed. Now, if Christ be preached that he rose from the dead, how say some among you that there is no resurrection of the dead? Let us bow for prayer as we approach God's holy word this morning. Heavenly Father, Lord, I pray today now that as we look into thy word That you would free our hearts and minds from all the cares of this life and from the distractions around us. Father, I pray that all that would hinder the preaching of the gospel of Christ would be removed from us. Father, we thank you as the Holy Spirit has been given to us to be our guide in the Word of God to testify of Christ. O Lord, may the Holy Spirit lead us into your truth today. Father, we remember that the Puritans spoke of that certain aid, that divine help in the preaching of Christ. And Father, may we know that today. May your Spirit lead and direct my thoughts and my lips. Lord, that the thoughts and hearts of your people might be turned to Christ. May we behold Him, the crucified one. May we behold him who is risen from the dead. And Lord, may our hearts be challenged and convicted and stirred. To love him, to live for him, and to serve Jesus Christ our Lord. Father, bless our time in the Word today, we pray. And Lord, we pray this in the name of Jesus Christ, the risen Lord. Amen. We're going to focus our attention on the gospel as presented here by Paul specifically in verses 3 and 4. But let me read again verses 1 and 2 as we begin this morning. Paul says, Moreover, brethren, I declare unto you the gospel which I preached unto you, which also you have received, and wherein ye stand by which also ye are saved if ye keep in memory what I preached unto you, unless ye have believed in vain. Paul addresses them as brethren. He is not here addressing people that have never heard of the gospel of Jesus Christ. He's not sending a letter to people who are totally unreached by the gospel, but rather he addresses them as brethren. as those who have received and believed this truth and who stand in the truth by which they're saved. It's interesting there in verse 2 that he adds that little qualifier at the end of the verse by which ye are saved if ye keep in memory what I preached unto you, unless ye have believed in vain. And in our scripture reading this morning, there in uh uh verse ten or eleven he says that the gospel he received was not in vain, but he labored all the more. And further in the chapter in verse seventeen, Christ says uh he says if Christ be Be not raised from the dead, your faith is vain, and you're still in your sin. So three times he touches on this idea of faith or belief that is in vain. It's important that this message of the gospel is preached to the brethren because there are people that are among the brethren whose faith is in vain. There are those who have all the good theology and they can quote a lot of good scripture and they believe all the truth about God But they'd never been saved through genuine spirit-wrought repentance of sin and faith in Jesus Christ, just as in the parable the sower. Some of the soil received the seed and it was received with joy and it sprang up, but it very quickly withered And so Paul addresses the gospel here, not to the heathen, not to the unreached not to some savage tribe in the middle of Africa that has never heard the gospel of Christ before, but rather He addresses brethren. He declares unto them the good news of Jesus Christ. And so it is meat for us to ask at the very outset Do you know Jesus Christ or do you simply know about him? Have you believed in Jesus Christ, or have you simply believed the historical record of that which we know about Jesus Christ? Paul declares unto them the gospel. And he says there, it is the gospel which you have received. Remember when Peter was preaching? Well the day of Pentecost, there in the second chapter of Acts. And we read there in Acts chapter 2 They that gladly received the word were baptized. And the same day there were added 3,000 souls. I'm sure there were more than 3,000 people present. On the day of Pentecost, people had come from all over there to worship. But 3,000 received the word. They received it gladly, and they were baptized. But we contrast that with Acts chapter 17, where we find Paul preaching on Mars Hill. And as Paul preached there in Acts 17 and verse 32, he preached of the resurrection from the dead. And it says, some mocked. Another said, We'll hear thee again of this matter. They didn't receive it. Some nonsense. Dead rise No, can't be. They mocked the very idea. Others said, well, yeah, that's interesting. We'll listen to you again some other time about that matter. But here, Paul declares in the gospel which also ye have received. To receive the gospel is more than just to hear it. To receive the gospel is more than just to acknowledge it exists, but it is to take it into your very heart. He says the gospel which we have received, and there again in verse 1, and wherein ye stand. And that word stand means to be established. It means to be firmly rooted and planted in the gospel of Jesus Christ. The foolish man built his house upon the sand. But the wise man built his house on the rock. He was established. And my friend, it is well for us who call ourselves brethren to ask the question, am I established in this truth? Am I established in the gospel of Jesus Christ? Do I stand in it or do I stand beside it? Do I believe that Jesus Christ is the Son of God who gave his life, a ransom for my soul? Or do I simply believe this mythical idea of some great God who sent his son just to be a good example or to be a prophet? They will stand in this truth And then Paul says it is not only the gospel which we have received and wherein they stand, but it is the gospel by which we are saved. And that word saved there is a very interesting word. The Jewish understanding of this word saved means to be protected from danger. And uh when remember last week we considered the triumphal entry of Christ into Jerusalem and The people cried Hosanna, which means saved now, saved now. They believed this word saved to mean to be saved from the penalties of the Messiah's judgment. And they were welcoming a Messiah who was going to come in and judge Rome on their behalf, and they would be saved from Rome, and they would be saved from the judgment that was needed on Rome And so they said saved. They would be saved, saved now. But we understand saved, indeed, to be saved from the judgment Messiah brings for the same Messiah that came to seek and to save that which is lost. will bring judgment to those that do not repent. Except ye repent, ye shall all likewise perish. And so, Paul In his introduction here to this chapter, says he's going to preach the gospel which they received, in which they stand, and by which they are saved. But then again he adds that qualifier, which I've alluded to already, but it's well to point it out a second time there in verse 10 or verse 2. by which ye are saved, if ye keep in memory what I have preached unto you, unless ye have believed in vain. And so it is uh meat to consider there the fifth, the twelfth through seventeenth verses, which we did not read entirely. I read verse twelve in the introduction But there in verse uh twelve again of chapter fifteen of First Corinthians, now if Christ be preached that he rose from the dead, how say some among you that there is no resurrection of the dead You see, this idea of the resurrection of dead, not idea, this truth, of the resurrection of the dead, was being questioned in Paul's day. It was being questioned among the Corinthians And oh how it is questioned in our own day. Do men really believe that Jesus Christ rose from the dead, or is Easter just a holiday we have to give out candy? Do men truly believe that Jesus Christ has risen from the dead, or do they say, well, you know, uh he he just fell asleep there, he didn't really die? And uh he passed out for a couple days and then came out of the tomb. Do men believe the lies of the chief priests that that say, well, the disciples came and stole him away You see, there is a resurrection of the dead. And we will all give account of the things done in the body. We must all appear before the judgment seat of Jesus Christ. And so, to those that are risen with Christ, their sins are washed away. Paul points out there again that there are some who have believed in vain. And he goes on there in verse 13 of the chapter. But if there be is no but if there be no resurrection of the dead, then is Christ not risen. And if Christ be not risen, then our preaching is vain. There's that word again, and your faith is vain Ye are found false we ye yea, we are found false witnesses of God, because we have testified that God raised up Christ, whom he raised not if the dead rise not For if the dead rise not, then is Christ not risen, and if Christ be not risen, your faith is vain, and ye are yet in your sins. Now is Paul here casting doubt? Is he saying, well, there's a possibility that it's not true? No, no, no, not at all. But what Paul is saying here is that there are those who they believe the concepts and they have a head knowledge. But they've never received the truth. They don't stand in them, and their faith, their belief, is in vain. They do not keep in mind the things which have been preached Now at this point I want to, with that foundation as our introduction, go into the three elements of the gospel that Paul expounds here for us in verses 3 and 4. Jesus Christ died for our sins. Jesus Christ was buried, and Jesus Christ rose from the dead. Verse three, for I delivered unto you first of all that which I also received, how that Christ Died for our sins according to the scriptures. Who is Jesus Christ? Who is Paul talking about here? It's not an idle question. The world has many opinions as to who this Jesus was. Well, he was a historical figure. Well, he was a good example. He was a prophet. There are some that say, well, this whole idea of Jesus and God is part of our psychological evolution. As we have evolved, we have come up with the concept of God. Well, this question of who Jesus really is is the most important question. of all history. If you're going to understand history, you have to understand who Jesus Christ is. If you're going to understand our current environment, what is taking place today You must know who Jesus Christ is. And if you're going to have any concept of what is to come, what is the future, you must know who Jesus is. And so Jesus Christ asked the disciples this exact question, and it is instructive for us to find our answer in the answer they gave. Turn with me to Matthew chapter 16 in the Gospels, the 16th chapter of Matthew, and I'm going to read verses 13 through 17 of Matthew chapter 16 which is which will teach us what or who Jesus is by the question that Christ himself asked. Matthew chapter 16 and verse 13 When Jesus came to the coast of Caesarea Philippi, he asked his disciples, saying, Whom do men say that I, the Son of Man, am? And they said, Some say thou art John the Baptist, some Elias, and others Jeremiah, or one of the prophets. He saith unto them, But whom do ye say that I am? Or whom say ye that I am? And Simon Peter answered and said, Thou art the Christ, the Son of the living God. And Jesus answered and said unto him, Blessed art thou, Simon, Bar Jonah, for flesh and blood hath not revealed this unto thee, but my Father, which is in heaven. Okay, let's break this passage down and consider it. First of all, Christ says, Who do men say that I, the Son of Man, am? Who do men say that the Son of Man is? Well, they say, well, some say that the Son of Man is Jeremiah, or Elias, or one of the prophets, or John the Baptist. All of those prophets that are mentioned there are sons of men John the Baptist, well we know Zacharias was his father. Elijah, Jeremiah, the prophets, they were all sons of men. And so Jesus first of all asked the disciples, who do men say that I, the Son of Man, am? And the answer is, well, men say that the Son of Man is John the Baptist come back to life, or is Jeremiah come back, or is Elias come back, or another one of the prophets But then Christ asks the question a little bit differently. Who do you say that I, the Son of Man, am? Who do you say that I am? And Peter answers, Thou art the Christ, the Son of the Living God. You notice the difference there? Men say he's the son of a prophet, or he's Jeremiah, or he's John the Baptist. They say he's the Son of Man, but the believer says he is the Son of the Living God. Yes, he is the son of Joseph because he was the son of Mary, and Joseph was his adoptive father, but there was no blood relationship to Joseph. And so, yes, he is born in flesh because he is the second Adam, but he's not the son of man, he's the son of God And notice how Christ responds to him in verse 17. Jesus answered and said unto him, Blessed art thou, Simon, son of Jonas For flesh and blood, Son of Man, Son of God, flesh and blood hath not revealed this unto thee. But my Father, Son of God, my Father, which is in heaven. And so it's a valid question that we need to answer. Who is this Jesus Christ? And look even closer at Peter's answer there in Matthew 16 and verse 16. Simon answered, Thou art the Christ the son of the living God. Let's break that down into its components. Christ and Son of the Living God. What does Christ mean? Well, I think some people actually think of Jesus Christ almost as if Christ was his last name, Jesus Christ. But that term Christ is not really his name. It is his title. Jesus Messiah. Jesus Christ. That word Christ means the Messiah. It means the deliverer We go all the way back to the Garden of Eden, where God promised that the seed of the woman would bruise the serpent's head. This is the promised Messiah. This is the one who was to come Jesus Christ. Jesus, Jehovah is salvation. Jesus the Christ And so this one Jesus, first of all, he is the Christ, he is the Messiah, he is the deliverer, but then Peter says he is the Son of the living God. We're talking about the resurrection, are we? We're talking about one who was dead and who is now alive again. Why is Jesus Christ alive again? because his father would not leave his soul in the grave, would not leave his soul in hell. He would not suffer his holy one to see corruption. And we'll look there at uh Psalm 16 verse 10 a little bit later on. But This one, he is the Son of the living God. God sent his only begotten Son into the world. that we might live through him. But the sonship of Jesus Christ is under attack, and it always has been. Remember the temptation of Jesus? When he was tempted of Satan, and Satan said, If thou be the son of God, turn these stones into bread And when Christ was there on the cross, the chief priests come by and they say, if thou be the Son of God, come down from the cross. This sonship of Jesus Christ is under attack, but it is the very heart of the gospel. It is that which we must believe. It's glorious there at the crucifixion. That we find the centurion when he sees the earthquake, his response is, surely this man was the son of God. We must believe that Jesus Christ is the Son of God. We must believe. And so we've considered who this Jesus is. He is the Christ, the Son of God. But what is it that he did? Well, he died. That seems very basic, doesn't it? And yet it is a vital part of the gospel. All have sinned and come short of the glory of God, except you repent, ye shall all likewise perish, because the wages of sin is death But the gift of God is eternal life through Jesus Christ our Lord. Jesus Christ died. And why did he die? Well, he died for our sins. He was wounded for our transgressions. He was bruised for our iniquity. The chastisement of our peace was upon him and with his stripes. we are healed. This is the gospel. This is the central truth. Jesus Christ died. He died for our sins. This is not some fairy tale. This is not some ancient legend. This is not some tradition. This is the truth that Jesus Christ died. He died for our sins. And then the second element that of this gospel that Paul Points out to us not only that Jesus Christ died, but he was buried. Look again at verses three and four of First Corinthians. You can turn back there now. We've been over in Matthew 16, but turn back to 1 Corinthians Chapter fifteen, verses three and four. He says, For I delivered unto you first that which also I received, how that Christ died for our sins according to the Scriptures and that he was buried. This again is not an insignificant truth. Jesus Christ was buried. Why is that important? Well Remember that Christ was crucified by the Romans. Roman crucifixion was not a quick, speedy death. It often took the condemned many days or even a week or more to die. The bodies of the condemned, the the the crucified, would hang there on the cross for days and weeks until the bodies literally rotted away or were eaten by by birds or dogs or or whatever else came along. A Roman soldier, it's recorded i historically was actually punished for allowing a body to be removed from a cross. The bodies were to stay there. You see the the Romans used the crucifixion as a t a as a a means of terror, basically to keep their conquered people in line and as you walked past and saw a body of someone that had been crucified a week ago was a very gruesome thing and a constant reminder. I better stay in line. I better I better toe the rope, they're toe the line of what the Romans desire. The the Romans also understood that Jewish law demanded that a body could not remain uh uh on a on a cross or being hung over scriptures. It was the fulfillment of scripture that Christ was to be buried Uh in Deuteronomy twenty-one verse twenty-three is the verse I made brief allusion to there. It says, His body, speaking of the condemned, his body shall not remain on the tree all night But it shall in any wise be buried that day, for he that is hanged is a curse of God, that thy land be not defiled which the Lord thy God giveth thee for an inheritance. And so they had to bury the body of the condemned the same day. But Roman law would have forbidden the body to be taken down. However, we find in Scripture also, interestingly, that in the case of someone particularly vile, they could be not buried as as a symbol of their vileness. In Jeremiah 22, verses 18 and 19. Let me read those verses for you. Jeremiah 22, verses 18 and 19. Therefore, thus saith the Lord concerning Jehoiakim, the son of Joash, king of Judah. They shall not lament for him, saying, Ah, my brother, or Ah sister. They shall not lament for him, saying, Ah Lord, or Ah his glory. He shall be buried with the burial of an ass. drawn and cast forth beyond the gate of Jerusalem. So there in Jeremiah, because uh Jehoiakim had been so wicked and uh vile. His body wasn't to be buried the way we bury someone in a tomb or underground, but his body was just going to be drug out and and drug out of the city and cast on the garbage heap. And that is what the Sanhedrin would have had done with Jesus. They would have had his body thrown out on Gehenna or Topit. But Joseph of Arimathea comes and he requests the body at great danger, both to the scri the chief priests and and Pharisees who would see that he was asking for the body of Jesus And to the Romans who would have to break their own regulations to allow this body to be buried. But the scripture says that he would be buried in uh Psalm sixteen verse ten, which I alluded to earlier. The psalmist says, For thou wilt not leave my soul in hell, neither wilt thou suffer thy holy one to see corruption. In other words, his body was not going to rot But it was going to be resurrected. And on the day of Pentecost, Peter applies that text there in Psalm 16, verse 10, directly to Jesus Christ. And so Jesus Christ died for our sins, and he was buried. His body was placed in the tomb. But then he rose from the dead. Jesus Christ rose from the dead. As Jonah was three days and three nights in the belly of the whale, so must the Son of Man be in the heart of the earth. But he rose from the dead. He did not stay dead. Verse 4. And that he was buried, and that he rose from the dead. according to the scriptures. My father used to say that there's more proof of the resurrection of Jesus Christ than there is that that George Washington was the first president of the United States At first glance, that that statement may seem to be, well, how could that possibly be? And yet we know that George Washington was president from history. We know that Jesus Christ rose from the dead for the very inspired Word of God. There is only one inspired history book And it's this history book that we have right in front of us. And so he rose from the dead in in verse five. He was seen of Cephas in the twelve. And in verse six, he was seen of five hundred brethren at once And in verse seven, he was seen of James and of all the apostles. In verse eight, last of all, he was seen of me also as one born out of due time And then Paul goes on to say, it was not in vain. It was not in vain. Brethren, friends, Have you believed in vain? Have you believed in vain? We find repeatedly in this chapter that concept of believing in vain. There are those that have all kinds of good theology and can quote vast portions of Scripture, but they do not know Jesus Christ. as their own risen Lord. This is the gospel. It is as familiar as it can be to most of us. And yet it is so vital that we receive it, that we stand in it, that we are established in the truth, that Jesus Christ Died for our sins, according to the Scriptures. He was buried, and he rose again the third day, according to the scriptures. Paul says there in verses 9 through 11 For I am the least of the apostles and not worthy to be called an apostle because I persecuted the church of God. But the grace of God But by the grace of God I am what I am, and his grace which was bestowed upon me was not in vain. And we drop down to the end of the chapter further chapter verse 20, but now is Christ risen from the dead and become the first fruit of them that slept. For since by man came death, by man also came the resurrection of the dead. For as in Adam all died, even so in Christ shall all be made alive. He says, By man came death. Adam sinned in the garden, and death passed upon all men. By man came the resurrection from the dead. Remember that we said that Christ said, Who do men say that I, the Son of Man, am? And Peter answered, Thou art the Christ, the Son of the living God. Ah, he was truly God. And truly man. He was the first to rise eternally from the dead. Oh, there are others that rose from the dead. Lazarus rose from the dead, but he died again Jesus Christ rose from the dead to die no more. I am risen from the dead with Christ, and though this body will die, yet I am risen eternally. And so truly, as this great chapter ends with those words, O death, where is thy sting? O grave, where is thy victory? The sting of death is sin, and the strength of the sin is the law, but thanks be to God which giveth us the victory through our Lord Jesus Christ. Do you believe that Jesus Christ died for our sins according to the scriptures? Do you believe that he was buried and that he rose again the third day, according to the scriptures? No, not you accept the historical facts But has your soul been redeemed and washed by the blood of the Lamb? Except ye repent, ye shall all likewise perish. This is the gospel of Jesus Christ Let us pray. Great God and our Heavenly Father, we thank you for your truth. We thank you for your word. Oh Lord, may you bless your word to our hearts today. May we stand in it eternally. And Lord, we pray this now. In Jesus' name. Amen.