Well, opening your Bibles with me to the gospel as recorded for us by Luke and the seventh chapter. And we're going to read from verse 36 through the end of the chapter. I enjoy preaching from the New Testament. However, as I look back across the years, I realize that I have preached from the Old Testament far more than the New. And I don't know why in particular that is, but I love these New Testament passages because they are so filled with truth And so many things that you can take word by word and contemplate the message that Christ is giving to us and that what he is teaching us through these true accounts often containing parables. And so this is a true account this morning, but Christ drops a parable right into the middle of it. If you have Your Bible now opened to chapter 7 of Luke and verse 36. And one of the Pharisees desired him that he would eat with him. And he went into the Pharisees' house and sat down to meet. And behold, a woman in the city, which was a sinner. When she knew that Jesus sat at meat in the Pharisees' house, brought an alabaster box of ointment. and stood at his feet behind him, weeping, and began to wash his feet with tears and did wipe them with the hairs of her head, and kissed his feet, and anointed them with ointment. Now when the Pharisee, which had bidden him, saw it, he spake within himself, saying, This man, if he were a prophet Would have known who and what manner of woman this is that toucheth him, for she is a sinner And Jesus answered and said unto him, Simon, I have somewhat to say unto thee. And he saith, Master, say on. There was a certain creditor which had two debtors. The one owed 500 pence and the other 50 pence. And when they had nothing to pay, he frankly forgave them both. Tell me, therefore, which of them loved him most? Simon answered and said, I suppose that he whom he forgave most, and he said unto him, Thou hast rightly judged And he turned to the woman and said unto Simon, Seest thou this woman? I entered into thine house, thou gavest me no water for my feet But she washed my feet with tears, and wiped them with the hairs of her head. Thou gavest me no kiss But this woman, since the time I came in, hath not ceased to kiss my feet. My head with oil, thou dost not anoint. But this woman hath anointed my feet with ointment. Wherefore I say unto thee, her sins, which were many, are forgiven. for she hath loved much, but to whom little is forgiven, the same loveth little And he said unto her, Thy sins are forgiven. And they that sat at meat with him began to say within themselves Who is this that forgiveth sins also? And he said to the woman, Thy faith hath saved thee. Go in peace. Let us pray. Father, now as we open thy glorious word, Lord, may thy Holy Spirit indeed be the teacher, the preacher in our midst today. May your spirit through the Word of God preach truth to the hearts of thy people. And we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. I enjoy literature. I was an English minor in college, and the English minor is largely literature. And I also enjoy plays on words. You may notice the title this morning is A Tale of Two Sinners. And if you are a lover of literature, you probably know the Dickens novel, A Tale of Two Cities A tale of two sinners. But a very important question ends this story. Who is this that forgiveth sins? Also. We find, first of all, a sinner of the Pharisees. There in verse 36. And one of the Pharisees desired him that he would eat with him. And he went into the Pharisee's house and sat down to meet. Verse 40 tells us the name of this Pharisee. His name was Simon. Now, we know that this Pharisee's name is Simon, and we do not have the woman of the city, the sinful woman, named. Some have supposed that this Simon the Pharisee is also Simon the leper who Christ healed. However, there's no definitive scripture that tells us that this is absolutely Simon the leper. May have been, but Scripture does not tell us that that is the case There are also those who will say that this woman of the city was Mary Magdalene. They can suppose that, but there's no definitive scripture. If Christ had wanted us to know exactly who this Simon was, more than the fact that he was Simon a Pharisee, he would have told us. And if Christ had have wanted us to know exactly who this woman of the city was, he would have named her. That's not the point There are certain things that Christ does not want us to understand. But what we do know is this. We have a man who's a Pharisee who thinks of himself as being very righteous. We have a sinful woman of the city who knows that she is not very righteous. You see, many of the Pharisees Followed Christ in his ministry. Some were there out of pure curiosity. Some were there out of envy because Christ was popular and people were following him. Some were there out of suspicion. How can we trap this one? There were some there that wanted to hear Christ uh ridicule the Sadducees because the Pharisees and the Sadducees were competing religious ideas. Some followed Christ out of a show of piety because I am a Pharisee, and I am a righteous man, and this man is a prophet, and so I want my name to be listed along with his Christ came not to call the righteous, but sinners to repentance. You see, these Pharisees who followed the ministry of Christ and were seeking a sign, they heard the same preaching. As those that believed. But all they heard was the sound. And in them is fulfilled the prophecy of Isaiah. They have ears, but they hear not. They have eyes, but they see not. They heard the words, but they never heard the message. They sat under his preaching. And here, this Pharisee, Simon of Capernaum, he hears Christ's preaching and he says, I want this man to come and eat him. my house. And so he invites Christ to come and eat there. This Simon would have been a leader in Capernaum. Christ said that the Pharisees loved the greetings in the market. Oh, Pharisee Simon, good morning. How are you, sir? I hope you are well. I hope your family is well. Yes, there goes Simon. Oh, what a righteous man. And scripture tells us of another Pharisee who stood and prayed, I thank God that I'm not like other men, not as this publican. But we find that these Pharisees by and large did not believe the message. of Christ. They did not believe that he was indeed the Messiah. We find that when this Pharisee has Christ over for dinner, it's not Christ alone If you look down to verse 49, the next to the last verse of the chapter, it says, and they that sat at meat with him So the Pharisee hasn't just had Jesus over for a private dinner. He's got a crowd. He's got a whole audience here to see him. But we find this Pharisee shows Jesus very little respect. When someone came to your house, you would wash their feet, or have a servant wash their feet, or at the very least give them water to wash their own feet. Christ said, You didn't even give me water. Water to wash my feet, and you did not anoint my head with oil. But standing in sharp contrast To this self-righteous Pharisee, we find this sinful woman. Look at verse 37. And behold, a woman in the city which was a sinner. How would you like that to be your resume? Here's Bob. He's a sinner. Here's a list of what he's done. Not only is Bob a sinner, Bob's a notorious sinner. Remember what the Pharisee says: if he knew who she was and what she'd done. Boy, he wouldn't let her touch him. Aren't you glad that you can stand before God and say, Lord, Amas Sinner. God be merciful to me, a sinner. Isn't that what the publican was praying when the one Pharisee was saying, I thank God that I'm not his other man? And the publican smote upon his breast and said, God, be merciful to me, a sinner. Why do you know you're a sinner? Because God has been merciful to you. Because God has been gracious to you. You see, this Pharisee is so convinced of his own righteousness that he fails to see his own. Sin. But this sinful woman, she doesn't come with any pretext. She doesn't come in here to show Christ how righteous she is. She comes to Christ because she knows she is a sinner. She was a sinful woman. She knew she was a sinful woman, and she didn't try to hide the fact. that she was a sinful woman. The Pharisee was a sinful man. The Pharisee didn't think he was a sinful man, and the Pharisee tried to stop hide what sin he was. aware of. And it's interesting that in this very chapter we find that the Pharisees rejected the message of Christ. Look back to verses 29 and 30. Verses 29 and 30 of Luke 7, Christ is commenting on the ministry of John the Baptist. And there we find in verse 29, and all the people that heard him, that's not that heard Christ, but all the people that heard John the Baptist, and all the people that heard him, and the publicans justified God being baptized with the baptism of John. Who were the publicans? The publicans were Jews that worked for Rome. They were the tax collectors And the Jews considered the publicans to be the most wicked people on earth. They were traitors to their nation. They worked for the Romans. They were wicked people. And besides that, the publicans were thieves You think the IRS is bad. The publicans were known for graft. They didn't get a salary. They lived off the extra. So if you owed a hundred bucks, they would charge you two hundred and guess where the extra hundred went. You know, it went into the Mercedes payment or whatever whatever chariot they had that day. But here we find when John was preaching that the people heard him and the publicans justify God being uh uh God being baptized with the baptism of John. Verse 30, but the Pharisees and lawyers rejected the counsel of God against themselves. You see, this Pharisee thinks he knows all about the sin of this woman. But the one that he's invited for dinner knows all about his sin. They rejected the counsel of God against themselves. I'm a Pharisee. I'm righteous. I'm not as this publican, and I'm not as this sinful, wicked woman And so this woman was a sinner, and she knew it. She made not the pretense of religion of the Pharisees. But further, this woman from all indications was a prostitute. She has fallen as low as she could. But when we consider that, and I'm not going to make justification for her, but in that day, for a woman to be a prostitute, certain things had to happen Either her father had died and she was orphaned, or she had been married and her husband had died and she had been widowed. You see, there were not any unmarried young girls. They would be married to someone. But if she her father died and there was no one to give her in marriage, and she had not found a husband had not been assigned to a husband by her uncle or by someone else, then prostitution would be the way that she would have to support herself. Or if her husband has died and there is no one to provide for her, then she would. Women in that day didn't go into prostitution willingly. They went into it because of the circumstances that have befallen them. And so I'm not making excuses for this woman's sin, and she's not making excuses for my She's not making excuse. But further, there is the very real possibility That this Pharisee, who is so judgmental of this woman of the city, may have been in part responsible for her condition. Remember Christ said the Pharisees, let me get the verse right. It's Matthew 23, verse 14, Woe unto you, scribes, Pharisees, hypocrites, for ye devour widows. Houses. You see, this Pharisee would have been one of the most wealthy of men in Capernaum. And he knew who she was, he knew what she did. What's she doing in his house? When Christ is eating this meal, he's eating in the house of the Pharisee. The Pharisee knows who she is. And no one stopped her at the door. No one said, you're not coming in here. And further, should not this wealthy Pharisee have looked at this woman who has fallen into prostitution, who probably is a widow, and said, How can I help this lady? How can I get her out of this lifestyle? What is there that I could do to assist her, but instead, oh no, she's a wicked woman. And all he wants to do is judge her because he was righteous and she was a sinner. But I would think that he would have had the financial need means to have provided for her. So she wouldn't have had to be a prostitute. And how easy it is for us to become Pharisees and to begin to think about how righteous we are and how good we are in all the good we do And to say, oh, look at that drug addict. What a terrible person that is. Look at that prostitute. You see, we so often take the role of the Pharisee rather than taking the role we should have. But this Pharisee knew who she was and knew who she did. what you did. Look at verses thirty-seven and thirty-eight. And behold a woman which is uh behold a woman in the city which was a sinner, when she knew that Jesus sat at meat in the Pharisees' house, brought an alabaster box of ointment and stood at his feet behind him, weeping, and began to wash his feet with tears, and did wipe them with the hairs of her head, and kissed his feet And anointed them with ointment. You don't see an ounce of prayer there, or pride there, do you? You don't see one that's coming to show Christ how good she is, as was the Pharisee. No. We find first of all that she brings an offering. She brings an alabaster box Now, today we don't bring an offering to be saved, but you have to remember that even though this is a New Testament passage, before the death, burial, and resurrection of Christ, we're still in the Old Testament. And that's something in Bible interpretation that gets lost because we think, okay, this is New Testament. No, actually, the New Covenant or the New Testament begins with the death, burial, and resurrection of Christ. This was still in the day when a lamb was brought for sacrifice. And throughout the Old Testament, people would bring a sin offering. When they knew they had sinned, they would bring a lamb. If they couldn't afford a lamb, they would bring a turtle dove. They would bring the best offering that they could They could as a sin offering, as acknowledgement, I have sinned. You know the old old old saying it's easy to talk, but when your pocketbook follows your words and Then you know they're genuine. Brother Vince has mentioned that you can tell a man's testimony by his checkbook. And that's not saying give, give, give. That's saying that, you know, when God works on someone's heart, they they realize I don't own anything, it's all his anyway. And so we find that she brings an offering, and she brings a very costly offering. An alabaster box was a was a vial or a bottle made of carved stone. The vial itself was very ornate and very expensive. And then in it was precious ointment, very expensive ointment. And later on Christ says, Simon, you didn't even give me oil for my head, but she brought ointment. For my feet. And there's a big difference between common oil for the anointing of the head and this ointment which she brings. But not only does she come in repentance of sin with an offering, she comes weeping. Can you imagine this Pharisee weeping over his sin? Can you imagine this Pharisee showing any remorse for the sin that he doesn't believe he has? But this this Woman. Oh, she comes and she is weeping. And I've mentioned already the publican that smote upon his breast, saying, God be merciful to me, a sinner. And remember Peter when he went out and wept bitterly. Wept bitterly That is the emblem of someone who is under deep conviction, God, I have sinned against thee and against heaven, and am no longer worthy to be called thy son. Oh Lord, I have messed up horribly. Friend, have you ever been there? Have you ever been there Go on to prayer and God had weeping, Lord. I didn't want to say that. I didn't want to do that. I didn't want to go there. I didn't want to think that. Lord, that's not what I intended, but oh God, I'm a sinner. And Lord, look at the mess I've made. Lord, look how I have offended your righteousness and offended your holiness. And the good that I would that I do not, and the evil that I would not that I do, oh wretched man that I am, who shall deliver me from the body of this death? Oh indeed a tale of two sinners, one who knows it and one who denies it. She stood behind him weepingly, weeping. 2 Corinthians 7 verse 10 tells us for godly sorrow worketh repentance to salvation. She washed his feet with her tears. To wash someone's feet was a great sign of humility. We find at the Lord's Supper the the the institution of the Lord's Supper where Christ lays aside his garment, and girds himself with a towel, and begins to wash the disciples' feet, showing before them humility of a servant He washed, she began to wash his feet. It's also a sign of her submission. But then very significantly she wipes his feet with her hair. And in some ways, I believe this is the most astounding thing in the entire account. Her hair was her distinguishing feature of womanhood. If her hair were shorn, it would be to her a shame. And what do we know about this woman? She has totally debased and defiled her womanhood. She is gone to prostitution. This woman uses the very emblem of her womanhood, which she has so stained and abused by her actions. But it is with that sign of her glory that she wipes his feet. And then she begins to dry his feet with her hair. She has totally debased herself in her actions, but now she totally abases herself. Prostrates herself before Christ. But you know what you read in Isaiah? God says to me, Well, point to them that mourn in Zion to give them beauty for ashes. Isn't that glorious? Here is the ashes of this woman's life. What a mess she's made. But God can give that Beauty, God can give beauty for ashes. And so she kisses his feet, the emblem of love She kisses his feet. But the kiss in the Oriental time was also the emblem of religious devotion. And I mentioned already the prodigal son, when he returns, his father kisses him. But remember Judas? Judas, do you betray me with a kiss? That's why that kiss of Judas was so vile, because Because Judas betrayed the Lord with a kiss. But remember the old the book of Psalms, kiss the son, lest it be angry at thee. Yeah, this woman. Literally, kissed the son. She kissed his feet. Verse 39. Now when the publican which had bidden him saw It he spake within himself, this man, if he were a prophet Would have known who and what manner of woman this is that toucheth him, for she is a sinner. He didn't believe He doesn't believe. If he were a prophet, he would know who this woman is, and he would know how wicked she is. But he doesn't believe. He doesn't believe Matthew 21, verse 31, Jesus said unto them, Verily I say unto you, that publicans and harlots shall go into the kingdom. Of God before you. Search the scriptures, for in them ye think that ye have eternal life, and there they testify of me And ye will not come to me that ye might have life. I receive not honor of men. The Pharisee despises this woman, and he despises Christ as well. Verse 40. Jesus answered him. And here is the beautiful parable. Jesus answered him and said, Simon, I have somewhat to say unto thee. And he saith, Master, say on. There was a certain creditor which had two debtors. The one owed 500 pence and the other 50. And when they had nothing to pay, he frankly forgave them both. Tell me therefore which of them loved him most. Now you if you read the commentaries, you'll find all kinds of descriptions of how much 500 pence was and how much 50 pence was. And it really does not matter except to say that five hundred pence today is not what it was a couple years ago. Because inflation has taken over the pence. But we really don't know exactly how much money this would be, and that's not the point. The point's the comparison. We do understand that $500 is a lot more than $50, if we think about it in those terms. But notice what it says there in verse 42. And when the Pharisee had plenty to pay and the woman of the city had nothing to pay. Is that what your Bible says? No. And when they had nothing to pay. You see, the righteous Pharisee had no more ability to pay for his sin than did the woman of the city Neither of them could pay for their sin. It wasn't a matter of 500 pence or 50 pence. They were both spiritual paupers. They were both absolutely spiritually broke, bankrupt. They were both absolutely spiritually unable to pay the debt of their sin. And it's interesting. So far we've said that the Pharisee was self-righteous and didn't believe in Christ, but I believe there's a chance he may have eventually been saved. Because in the parable it says, when they had nothing to pay, he frankly forgave them both. Isn't that beautiful? Simon the Pharisee has invited Jesus to his house. Simon the Pharisee has been hearing the messages, and Simon the Pharisee may be on his way to being saved. And in the parable, Christ forgives them both. Now, it is a parable. It is an illustration. It is an earthly story with a spiritual meaning. But it's interesting that here in the parable they were both forgiven, and Christ is speaking of the woman of the city and of the Pharisee. The sinful woman of the city could not pay her debt, be it great or small. Simon the Pharisee could not pay his debt, be it great or small. You cannot pay your debt Be it great or small. Simon verse 34, or forty-three, sorry. Simon verse 43 answered and said, I suppose that he to whom he forgave us most And he, that's Jesus, said unto him, Thou hast rightly judged. And he turned to the woman and said, Simon, seeest thou this woman I entered into thy house, and thou gavest me no water for my feet. But she hath washed my feet with tears, and wiped them with the hairs of her head. Thou gavest me no kiss, but this woman, since the time I came in, hath not ceased to kiss. My feet. Isn't that a beautiful verse? And I know he's talking about coming into the house. But my friend, when Christ truly comes into your heart, you'll never stop kissing his feet. Since the time I came in, she hasn't ceased to kiss my feet. If Jesus Christ has truly come into your heart, you'll prostrate yourself before him and kiss his feet constantly. Those that are forgiven much love much. My head with oil thou dost not anoint, but this woman hath anointed my feet with ointment, and there's a great difference there between Between those two words, oil and ointment. Wherefore, verse 47, I say unto thee, Her sins, which are many, are forgiven. For she loved much, but to whom little is forgiven, the same And notice what it says there. Verse 47 is addressed to Simon the Pharisee. Wherefore I say unto thee, Simon, I'm telling you, her sins are forgiven Verse 48 is addressed to the woman, and he said unto her, Thy sins are forgiven. But that brings us really to the heart of this entire story. And the most important part is in verse 49. And they that sat with him began to say within themselves Remember Simon the Pharisee when he saw this woman washing Jesus' feet, he said within himself, in in his heart, he said, uh If this man were a prophet, he wouldn't he wouldn't know who this was and what you're doing He would know who she was and what manner of woman she is. But now the rest of the crowd say within their hearts, Who is this that forgiveth sins also? This one that forgiveth sins also, Jesus is God. How do we know that he's God? Because he forgiveth sin. You want proof that Jesus Christ is God? Who else can forgive your sin? You want proof that Jesus is God? Who can forgive sin but God? Pope can't forgive sin, folks. Priests can't forgive your sin, folks. Your good works can't forgive your sin. There's only one that forgiveth sins, and that's God. Who is this that forgiveth sins also? Duh! He's God! He's God. Only God can forgive sins. I, even I, this is one of the verses we read earlier, I, even I, am he that blotteth out thy transgression for mine own sake. And I will not remember your sins. Isaiah forty-three, verse twenty-five. Jesus Who is this one that forgives sins? He is God. And you know what? Back in verse 39 Simon says, if he knew who she was and what she'd done, you know what? Jesus knew who she was. He did know who this woman was He knew who she was because before he formed her in the belly, he knew her. Before she came forth, he called her to himself. He knew who he was because she was chosen to him from the foundation of the world, Ephesians 1, verse 4. He knew who she was because I Psalm 39, 16, his eye did see her substance as yet being imperfect. He knew who she was, and he knew what she had done. What sin have you committed that God doesn't know about? What sin have you committed that is hidden from the eyes of God? God knows who you are and God knows what you are. You see, all things are naked and open to the eyes of Him with whom we have to do. He knows all about me. Who is this one that forgiveth sins also? First of all, we find that he is Jesus, God in the flesh But secondly, who is this one that forgiveth sins also? He's our creditor. You think you owe the bank money? No, you owe God for your sin The creditors of earth mean nothing before the wrath of God. I'm sure this sinful woman owed a lot of money to a lot of people. That's why she was what she was. But what she owed to man meant nothing before what she owed to God. Who is this one that forgiveth sins also? He's the creditor. He is the one to whom you owe your debt. Remember when Nathan confronted King David Over his sin with Bathsheba and the murder of Uriah. And David said, I have sinned against the Lord. And in Psalm 51, the Psalm of Repentance, he said, Against thee have I sinned, against thee only. Well, folks, he had sinned against Bathsheba. He had violated her purity, he had broken up her family, and he had murdered her husband. David had certainly sinned against Bathsheba, but he realized, no, my sin is against Bathsheba. God. And David had certainly sinned against Uriah. He had violated his wife and he'd taken his life. But David recognized that his sin was against God. Who is this one that forgiveth sins? He is God, and he's the creditor. He's the one to whom you owe the debt. But you know it's glorious. If we confess our sins, he is faithful and just To forgive us our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. You know what that word just is? It's a legal term. It's a legal term He is just. In other words, that means he has the legal right to forgive sins. I can't tell you, oh, I forgive your mortgage. Why? Because you don't owe me your mortgage. I can't forgive your sins because you don't owe me your sins. But Jesus is the creditor. He is the one who is faithful to his promise that he will justly forgive your sins. And the reason he can justly forgive your sins is he's already paid the price. He's already paid the debt, and therefore he can justly forgive your sins. He is the creditor. But not only is he God, and not only is he the creditor He's the friend of sinners. Who is this one that forgiveth sins also? He is God. He's the creditor, and he's the friend of sinners. The Pharisee wasn't the friend of the sinful woman. Those that sat at meat with him were not the friend. of the sinful woman. The disciples are not mentioned, but we find them often looking down their noses at the sinner But this one, Jesus Christ, he is the sit the friend of sinners. Wherefore I say unto thee Her sins, which are many, are forgiven. And he said unto her, Thy sins are forgiven. And he said unto the woman, Thy faith hath saved thee. Go in peace. Go in peace. Go in peace. Your debt is paid. Your shame is removed Your sins are forgiven and your peace is restored. Therefore, being justified by faith, your faith is justified Saved you. Therefore, being justified by faith, we have peace with God. What is peace with God? But the removal of all that caused You see, we were the enemies of God, but Christ is our peace And so, if you look over to chapter 5, you don't need to turn there, but I'll read it to you. In Luke chapter 5, verse 30 to 32. But the scribes and the Pharisees murmured against his disciples, saying, Why do you eat and drink with publicans and sinners? Jesus answered and said unto them, They that are whole need not a physician, but they that are sick. I came not to call the righteous, but sin. Sinners to repentance. Jesus Christ is God. Jesus Christ is the creditor. Jesus Christ is the friend of sinners. Let us stand for prayer. Father, we thank you for this glorious story. Of this sinful woman who had wrecked her life with her sin, and yet there was mercy when she came in repentance. Father, we thank you that you indeed are faithful and you are just to forgive us of our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. Bless thy word and thy truth to our hearts this day. In Jesus' name. Amen.