Just looking at one passage this morning. This is our Mother's Day service. And the reason I I like the Mother's Day service is uh looking out over this congregation, I think that everybody here has a mother. In fact you wouldn't be here if you didn't have a mother. So I think Mother's Day is not just for mothers with children, but we've all had a mother and it's really commemorating our mothers. I remember one day one time uh someone thought I was lifting mothers up and putting on a pedestal and didn't appreciate that 'cause his wife was being so glorified that day, I guess. I said, I was talking about your mother, not your wife. So I want to talk about our mothers today. And uh for some of us we've had some really great mothers, godly mothers. And uh And for those who are still working at the raising of their children, maybe there will be something they can pick up and use in the message today. In Proverbs chapter 31, and uh just verse twenty-eight, her children arise up and they call her blessed. And her husband also. And it says he praiseth her. So there's a lesson that for husbands to be praising the mother of their children. But the children rise up and call them blessed. Recent reports said that if you were to take all the jobs that Uh the woman of the household performs and uh the mother if she had to hire someone uh it cost about a hundred and thirty-five thousand dollars. dollars to hire a woman that could come in and do the grocery shopping, the cooking, the cleaning of doing the dishes, the cleaning of the house, the laundry, the uh to manage the household, the receptionist, the medical appointments and so forth Uh you you probably can't touch that for less than $135,000, $150,000. So uh you ladies are all all being underpaid right now and you know it, aren't you? You really are. And uh if you don't doubt the the value of yourselves, ladies, the Bible says uh of a wife, her price is far above rubies, and she looketh well to the ways of her household So ladies, your price is well above rubies. In fact, when we look in the scriptures, in Genesis twenty-four, when Abraham was looking for a wife uh for his his son Isaac and he sent the servant up into the land to find someone among the kin, someone who would have of like precious faith, someone that would be a believer to be his son's wife and eventual The mother of his grandchildren, Abraham sent the servant up. And the servant when he arrived up there, he gave the woman he selected for Isaac, uh Rebecca, a golden earring, a couple of golden bracelets, and other precious silver and gold items, and apparel. In fact, he even gave her mother a gift of of gold and silver and so forth as well, and her her brother Um so it's a costly thing to invest in the the your wife or the future mother of your children. Uh they are worth every penny of it Because you'll probably never give them $135,000 a year to run the household. And then we find the same thing in Genesis 29, that uh Jacob was looking for a wife and a mother of his children And he said he would serve Laban for the daughter Rachel seven years. That's seven years of salary. That that's a lot of money, you know, seven years. And as it turned out as They had laban cheated him and he had to spend another seven years to work to earn the right To marry Rachel. So the wife and the mother of your children, she has great value, especially if she's a godly lady and a saving. That is so so true. Her price is far above rubies. Uh again, Proverbs thirty one, verses ten and twenty seven. And then we want to also take into account not all the jobs that she does But um how about the the emotional strain that is put on in her life and uh all that she has to put in that child and if if she is a Christ centered woman she wants to put Christ in that child Uh she wants to put an eternal value in that child, something that child will carry with them for all eternity. And that that's inestimatable. You can't put a price on that If the woman that's raising her children, uh she can input impute the love of Christ, love for the scriptures. So great, great value. And uh we really need to consider you young men when you're looking for a wife, would she be the one that would uh instruct the children and and give the children a faith in Christ and love for the word of God? God, that's that has eternal value, far above rubies. We've often heard that the hand that rocks the cradle rules a nation. And that just shows you how important the job of a mother is. Just how important is that job? So important that of course there's no value you can put on it, but so important also that We find that a king in First Kings 2 bowed down to his mother, not to another king. And not to some great warrior that had defeated him. But King Solomon in 1 Kings chapter 2, 13 and 19, he bowed down to his mother. He revered his mother. He looked up to his mother And uh you young folks, I know it says you're to honor your mother and your father, but I wonder if you would bow to your mother and your father. Would you give them that that kind of respect, that kind of respect Because that's that is what is due in the in the scriptures, a godly mother. It's a job that requires prayer. It's a job that requires a special unction strength from the Holy Spirit. No woman can run a household in her own strength Uh you've you've hired you're the helpmate. Boy, it turns out when you get into a household you're more than the helpmate, isn't it? There's more required than you ever ever imagined. And you can't do it in your own strength. You need the the strength of the Holy Spirit to guide a household uh to give you so that you you don't fail. To get that heartiness, to have the health that a woman is required to have to run a household. It is a calling. And it's a calling that if you take it serious, the running of your household will pay great, great dividends. Great, great dividends. Sometimes those are long-term investments. Sometimes those dividends will not come in while you're alive. You may never see the dividends, the effort that you Joseph, we know, as a young a young fellow, was sold by his brothers into slavery and into Egypt. And it's many, many years later when he finally is revealed to his father that he's not dead, that the beast didn't kill him, and he says to Jacob, and he says to the whole family, come up here to Egypt, I'll take corn. We have corn here in Egypt, we'll take care of the family And we we don't find his mother mentioned. And maybe she never lived long enough to know that he was the second highest ruler in all of Egypt. We don't find uh Moses, the same with Moses When Moses uh decides to take the people of Israel into the promised land, when God directs Moses to tell Pharaoh, let my people go. And And we see that Moses has a wife, but not a mention of his mother. Perhaps his mother, his godly mother, not the the Pharaoh's daughter, but his his godly mother, the Hebrew mother. Maybe she didn't live long enough to see Moses get saved, to recognize the God of uh of her father. Uh she may never have seen it pay the dividends She put, remember she nursed Moses for those first two or three years. His mother did, but then the Pharaoh's daughter raised him after that. And when he was about forty years old, he he finally came to a conclusion that he wanted to be with God's people. But that's a great dividend. She planted the seed and many, many decades later the dividends came in, but did the mother know it? Maybe not till Moses got Or maybe not until the angels that day, you know the Bible says that uh even the angels in heaven rejoice at the salvation of one soul And I often wonder when they when they're singing out the praises of another soul got saved. And that must be going on quite frequently in heaven. The angels rejoicing, the Lamb's Book of Life is open Another name is is revealed, and the angel of heaven rejoiced. And maybe when Moses' mother or Joseph's mother was in heaven, uh they heard her son's name called out in praises. I I love to think of that of my grandmother who put uh Sixteen years into my life dragging me to church and dragging me to Bible camp and sitting in her Sunday school lessons. I I hated all of it. And when my grandmother died I was an unsaved uh like a reprobate uh drinking smoking marine and my grandmother never saw the dividends. I'd like to think that when uh I was saved that uh the angels they were rejoicing She hurt my name called out. The prodigal son. We never hear that his mother was around. And yet the prodigal son came home. And that's a great story. I think it gives us hope if we have a prodigal child or two or three sometimes, that we have the hope, like the thief on the cross, another great hope, a deathbed conversion The thief on the cross, the prodigal son. But we don't read that the prodigal son's mother was around. The father was there, but not the mother So to give you, ladies, hope. If you've raised a child that you think is a reprobate, that's lost, you've given up on them, and you go to your death Weeping over the soul of one that never came around. The Lord is faithful. The Lord is good. And there will be people in heaven we never expected to be there. And some of them will be our own children. And that perhaps the mother of the prodigal So that day as well. So there are great dividends, long-term investment. One mother said one time she admired another mother's child and she's that child Such a wonderful child, such a well-behaved child. I would give my entire life to have a child like that. And the mother said, that's what I gave. My entire life to have a child like that For you moms that feel like you're beaten down by the news media because you're not out there you know, contributing to the household uh income and the news media loves to pick on the women and say, well I guess they just didn't get an education or they just weren't smart enough and so they had to do something else. You know, and it sometimes you have your own children that look at your mom and think she's boring, she's a killjoy, she's a stuff shirt, she's old fashioned, she's way behind the times, you know, look the way she dresses or whatever. Um you know, you see all of that But a Christian mother knows the eternal value. She knows the sacrifice. It says in Proverbs 31:27, She looketh well to the ways of her household, she knows. She knows. And sometimes there's the working mothers out there and it's it's a greater struggle for them to be out there and have to do both both ends. And the sacrifices and the long hours that you put put in you come home from work and now you've you've got meals and laundry and uh I don't think anyone appreciates in fact I I I appreciate my wife and I've always told her I I'm so glad I wasn't born and what 'Cause I think the women have the hardest hardest job out there. In fact often you hear it it's the man is great because it's it's the woman that stood behind him, you know. I think that's true But so often the woman that stood behind him isn't the wife, it's the mother who raised him up and made him what he is. Scripture also tells us in Proverbs 31, 26, she opened her mouth with wisdom I've said this before to you young people. I know that you think your mom's old-fashioned. That she's just not getting with the program. She can't program the the DVD or the B well we don't have VCRs anymore. She can't work the computer very well, but I'll gotta tell you something. Your mother, if she is safe, she has more wisdom Than Steve Jobs ever had or Bill Gates ever had. She's got wisdom. You can't get that uh from a classroom. You can't get that from a doctor. You can't get that from Google or Wikipedia. If you've got wisdom from the scriptures, If you have a a mom or a wife or even a sister in your household that's really involved in the scriptures, they've got wisdom above and beyond their years. And as you get older, you young folks, you're going to discover just how smart your mom and your dad have been saved. Just how smart they really are. For some of us it's a learning curve. We never understand how smart our parents are, how smart our mothers are, until we become a mother And then we're calling all the time, what do you do when they got the rash? And what do you do when this and that? And what do you do when they won't stop crying? All of a sudden your mom becomes uh the information highway, you know, you don't go googling for it. That's not gonna go, I gotta talk to your mother. What did she do And all of a sudden her stock has gone way up. And she's so intelligent, she's so gifted. When you become Obam. And you need some information that you're not going to trust to come from anywhere else than but from her. So for you young people who haven't hit that learning curve yet, Just let me tell you ahead of time that uh your mom surpasses the intelligence of all her children with her wisdom And she's garnered it from the scriptures. And she also has more wisdom than all your girlfriends, your buddies, and your friends in school, and the teachers at school. Unless the teachers are mother. Some teachers are like mothers. They got 30 kids that are a mother to, you know, this is their whole uh like a mother hen gathering her chickens I've got something to say about a very special teacher at the end of the message I thought was very unique that happened this week. But you know here we have it. Uh our children often don't understand uh how much information that our mothers have gathered in in thirty or forty years and and how much that they really do know. And that's why scripture tells us in Proverbs 1. 8, Forsake not the law of your mother. Alright Your mother understands things you never would have dawned on you until you bec perhaps you became a mother yourself. But as you when you become a mother yourself, you find out how she guided you. How she guarded you. And how she protected you from things you didn't know you needed to be protected from. You know moms tell you, I don't want you to go into the mall by yourself. Go with a friend What for? I'm sixteen. I don't I don't need a bodyguard or something like that. If you're a a sixteen year old girl, yeah, you do need a bodyguard. I mean you may think that you've you've got it all uh You got it all and you know it all you can do it all. Two weeks ago I read of a man who took his wife on a honeymoon over to the Middle East He was in the marketplace and if you've ever been over there or seen it on TV, they're grabbing at you, pulling on your shoulder, pulling on your coat, they're pulling on your your scarf. Hey come on, I got something to sell you, I gotta just sell you, you gotta look at you, gotta look at it He's he was on his honeymoon with his wife and they're walking to the crowd holding hands and they're just enjoying the whole scenery and he saw something, someone dragged him over and she got and he dragged her over there and you know he turned around and she was gone His bride on the honeymoon. She wasn't 16, she was twenty-something years old. She can handle herself She couldn't handle the needle that somebody stuck in her arm that took her out like that, wrapped her in a rug and carried her through the market right past her husband while he was shouting her name A couple hundred thousand dollars later, detectives, police work, they discovered what happened to his wife. White slave market Had her on drugs. And then they threw her away like trash and she was done with a bullet in the head and into a ditch. Young people, your mom has guarded you and protected you. She knows what's out there She doesn't even want to share it with you. If you knew the things your mother and your father know that's going on in the world today, wisely you'd probably be afraid to step outside your front door. Without your father, three uncles, a couple of brothers, and a Glock 45 on your hip. I mean it's it's really bad out there And your mother has done just that. She has guided, guarded, and she's protected you. She riseth up, it says, While it's yet night, her candle goeth not out by night, Proverbs 31, 15 and 18. Her job is just never done. It's around the clock. Have you ever woke up sick? throwing up, feeling miserable, and you wandered through the house and and your mother didn't get up? She always got up, didn't she? Puts you back in bed, cold cloth on your forehead, something for your tummy, then last thing you remember, close your eyes. She was still sitting there. And when you woke up the next morning feeling a little better, she was still sitting there Moms are always there. We're on the clock, 24-7. Jobs never done, dirty diapers, long hours, dreary hours Punctuary with brief moments of not rest but panic, you know, pandemonium said something else has happened She's also usually the chief disciplinarian, not because the father isn't a good disciplinarian, but she's there more often. If dad's off working long hours, or maybe he's out of town or out of state, discipline ends up falling on the mom More than on the Father. So I want you young people to think about this. I like Dad. He's not as hard on me. He doesn't. He's never there. He's off working. Mom's so hard of me. Your mom okay, so mom becomes the bad guy. But that's only because dad can't be there all the time Some of us have had fathers, had to work out of state and be gone for you know weeks at a time. It's it works that way. And so mom becomes the disciplinary, especially the fathers in the military, gone for months sometimes. The mom has to run the household and and sometimes she's not as the flock doesn't feel as endeared to her. Oh wait till dad comes home, things will be a lot better, you know. Dad can spoil you. He's not there as often. And so it is that sometimes the children don't rise up and call her blessed, as we read in Proverbs 31, 28. Boy. You know, you always think about a mother, some with a bunch of kids, and we got seven with Desi, and seven with Diane, six with uh Debbie. I don't know if anybody saw the article in the paper this week. I only sent I sent it out to Diane, she sent it to Desi. School teacher. Her name is Lacey Duncan. And uh she wasn't a mom. She wasn't married. But she wanted to be a mom. I guess she'd like to be married too if she could, but she's thirty two years old and so she checked in the foster house and she would foster children once in a while. You can be a mom without having your own children, you know. I mean And she was a school teacher and she loved kids and and she just was always being a foster mom. And they called her one night and they said, Hey, um, we got a family of Of four little girls. And they've just been dumped on us. Can you foster four little girls for a while? She says, bring them over. And they brought him over and she was fostering his four children. Oh, by the way, the the mother, she has a two-month old that she didn't send over. Would you want that one too? She said, Well, I can't separate the four sisters. I'll take all five of them, she said. So she had all five of the sisters and she's fostering them. And about a year later, she gets a call that the mother's pregnant again and she doesn't want this one either. Lacey Duncan ends up fostering six children and then the mom called her and said, I really don't want them back. Do you want to adopt them? Now I thought, who would want to drop six girls? But how do you break up six girls? And so I made the story and I went and I got the picture of the six girls. Oh, I'm telling you. Could we have adopted those six girls? I just said to Diane. They look like Diane's little girls. They they're just as cute as a button. They're about eight years down to up to two years old now, but she adopted all six of them. Don't tell me she's not a mother. She's got six little girls. They ought to give her the mother of the year award. I mean she'd never even been married But she's got six and that are are now hers. And I just, wow, give her the mother of the year award. The mother that feareth the Lord. Yeah, that's really what you want. She wants a mother that fears the Lord, Proverbs 31, 30. The mother that fears the Lord will instill in her child Faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. Wow. What would that cost? If you could just go out and purchase faith and and it would be guaranteed to settle in the heart of your child, what would that cost? What would that be worth to you? You know, maybe you got a a niece or a nephew out there that says really needs saving, you know. Maybe you got You know, somebody if if you're an aunt or an uncle, you got somebody, you know, boy, my kids are all right, but we gotta babysit this kid once in a while, and well, I just love to just, you know, uh if I could just purchase salvation and it would be guaranteed The mother that feareth the Lord. What a valuable, valuable thing to have a mother that fears the Lord, Proverbs 31 and 30, and that she can take that faith and instill it in her children. So prayer and Bible reading and memorization. The title Mother, I I I believe that it exceeds the title of Senator. I know we got some ladies in the Senate and Congress, but I think that the title of Mother Exceeds the title of Senator, CEO, Teacher of the Year. I even think that the title Mother exceeds the title of President of the United States Hope I never see that one. At least not the coming year. The fruit of the womb is her reward, Proverbs 100 or sorry, Psalm 127 verse 3. You know there's nothing what what can we take to heaven? Can't take our money, can't take our houses. We can take our souls to heaven if we're saved. That's all we can take to heaven and if we pray right and put enough work into it and ask God to be merciful, our children will go to heaven with us. That's it. That's all you can take to heaven. Worldly fame, honors. You you really get it's worth a whole lot? You get to heaven and you say, Hey I won two Oscars for my acting in the movie. What do you think that's gonna mean to Luke or Noah? Or Samson? I was a decathlon champion of the Olympic, you sand says oh yeah. I carried the gates and gals up. Put 'em on a hill, you know took out a thousand Philistines, a job. I mean, how impressive are we going to be with all the things that we have garnered in our own lifetime? Everybody know who Madonna is? Madonna, I mean she's won two Golden Globes for her. for her pictures or movies and her songs. Two golden globes. What do you think that's worth, you know, when she gets to heaven? In fact, you know what else she's won? She's won five Grammys for videos and dances and Five Grammys, but she's no mommy, I'll tell you that right now. Her son will have nothing to do with her. Her children have all kinds of fights with her. I've got five Grammys. Yeah, well you got five Grammys, but you're no mommy. I don't know a whole lot about Madonna, but I I did look up. She's has more men in her life Then Jacob had children. Big names. Dennis Rodman, oh, wouldn't that be proud to bring him home, right? And he was one of the better ones, Dennis Robin, the the men she's been involved with. Some mommy. See, having children doesn't make you a mother. It's known the Lord Jesus Christ And want to impart the faith. It's necessary to get that child to heaven. That makes you the mother of the year when you can do something like that I call to remembrance the unfeigned faith which dwelt first in my grandmother. So Mother's Day, grandma's you're involved here too. And mother. 2 Timothy 1. 5. The title of mother or grandmother. My aunt became my mother for a while. So maybe maybe you're an aunt and you became a mother. My mother was so sick and tired of us kids, she gave us to my aunt to raise. We got 'em. For about a week my aunts raised them and she became my mother and she had all the rights Corporal punishment, she could do it all. She gave us back before the week was up. You know, my mom had a handful with us We didn't get brought home by the police too often, but in fact I'm not sure my two brothers ever got brought home by the police. I I I did a couple of times So she'd ship me off to the farm and and that worked good for everybody. My grandmother raised me a lot But the mother is responsible for your formative years. She encouraged you and you became courageous. She instructed you and perhaps she became an instructor or a teacher yourself. She taught you right from wrong and you became righteous. She introduced you to Christ. And when she did that, she made you more than any college, camp, or classmate could ever Touch you and teach you and do for you. The law of the mother. It shall lead thee when thou sleepest. It shall keep thee when thou wakest. And it shall talk with thee. Proverbs 6 and 20. All through your life, the laws of your mother. Mothers are unbelievable creatures of God. They can interpret the cry of a baby. They know that that cry in the other room is pain. They know that cry in the other room is boredom. They know if that cry in the other room is is that something's really bothering them or they're hungry. They can interpret the cry of a baby. They may not know Hebrew and Greek and Latin, but boy, they can understand the cry of a baby and they can turn it down. The mothers are amazing I think we all know that mothers have eyes in the back of their heads. No one's ever seen those eyes, but we know they're there because she can be in the kitchen doing the dishes and you're out in the room doing something else and she'll call it out right away. Put that down Don't she touch that? She's not even turning around. How did he do that I've got a great idea to make traveling safe at all airports. Forget about those TSA agents. You know, they can't profile, they can't do this, they can't do that. Put mothers Out there for the security in line. You know why? They'll ask one or two questions and don't know if you're lying or not. They'll just look at your eyes, look at your body, like mothers know if you're lying. Not only that, they know if you're up to something. I mean they just know. Make them the TSA agents. They just know if you're up to something, if you've done something, if you're going to do something, and they also know if you're dating something. Whoa, where did this one come from? You know, I mean they're just intuitive. And someday, moms, your child will rise up and they'll call you blessed That's what the scripture said. That's a promise. The day is coming. If not today, moms, I just want to encourage you. If not today, the day is coming when your child will rise up and they'll admit Boy, God has blessed you. You have been a blessing in this household. The day is coming. If not the day, that day is coming. Because Scripture Moms promises that that day is coming. When your biggest troublemaker when the cops bring home, they'll tell your mother. Did a good job. Lord, Lord has blessed you. Bless you, Mom. If you're going to see your mom today, bless her for what she's done. for you. And if you didn't get one of those gifts, um you go see your mom day, get one from Mike today before you leave Let's pray. Father, we just thank you today that for the mothers you've given us. And some sitting here probably still aren't happy with the mother you gave us, but That mother who may have been too tough or too remote or too harsh or too cold or not as loving as you want, she made you what you are today Maybe she made you a better person because you chose to be more loving and more kind and warmer than the mother you had. Lord, it made you better in the long run. Maybe the mother you had drove you to your knees in fright or in pain or in fear and drove you to Christ Jesus. a Savior and a Redeemer. Oh Lord, we know that you have guided our entire life from the womb and you have given us the mother not that we wanted necessarily. Not the mother that we may have become or wished we had, but the mother that we needed to be who we are. Oh Lord, we bless you for having provided us with the perfect mother for each and every one here. today. And may we bless them for having blessed us. And it's in Christ's name we ask. Amen.