Open in your Bibles with me this morning, please, to the first chapter of Romans. Romans chapter 1. Mr. Turning, just let me say again it's good to see everyone this morning. It's kind of rainy and dreary out there, but isn't it wonderful in here? Isn't it good for God's people to be together gathered around this precious book? Amen. Romans chapter 1. I'm going to read three verses, 16, 17, and 18 of Romans chapter 1. Verse sixteen, Romans one, for I am not ashamed of the gospel of Christ. For it is the power of God unto salvation to everyone that believeth, to the Jew first, and also to the Greek. For therein is the righteousness of God revealed from faith to faith, as it is written, the just shall live by faith. For the wrath of God is revealed from heaven against all ungodliness and unrighteousness of men who hold the truth in unrighteousness. We must always bow for prayer as we approach the Word of God. Let us pray. Father, this morning we thank you for your glorious truth. We thank you that your word is yea and amen. We thank you that your word is a sharp and two-edged sword that appears us the dividing asunder of soul and spirit and joint and marrow. Father, we thank you for this passage before us, which pierced the dividing asunder of soul and spirit of Martin Luther, which brought him to great conviction. And then brought him to the rapturous joy in the salvation that is by grace alone, through faith alone. Father, bless your word to our hearts this morning, we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. On Saturday of this week will be Reformation Day. And this morning we remember the Reformation. You hear people getting all offended over Christmas, and I'm not a great fan of Christmas because there is no Mass for Christ. We remember the birth of Christ, and sorry to disappoint you, but Christ was not born on December 25th. It's probably born sometime in April in the spring. That's when the shepherds will be in the field, but that's for another message. But this Saturday the world will celebrate Halloween. And the reason I mention Christmas is because so many people are offended by Christmas. I'm offended by Halloween. It should not exist But we, as believers, we celebrate the Reformation. And this is what we call Reformation. Sunday. And so we sang that great hymn from Martin Luther, A Mighty Fortress is Our God. And as Brother Vince mentioned, that hymn came from the 46th Psalm. On October 31, 1517, now 503 years ago, Martin Luther, who was a Roman Catholic priest, nailed his ninety-five feces to the door of Wittenberg Castle. These were ninety-five theses or statements, questions for further study. Those of you who have done a paper in high school or in college know that a research paper begins with a thesis statement, is a proposition. This is what we're going to discuss. What Martin Luther did there at the door of Wittenberg Castle was not unusual. It was common in his day for the scholars to post questions there for further debate Martin Luther did not have any inkling of what would come from his 95 theses. He was not trying to start a revolt. He was not expecting them to go any further than the small scholarly community. You see, his 95 theses were in Latin. And only the scholars knew Latin, and so the only ones who could read these questions that he posted were the scholars. But other scholars there in Wittenberg were stunned by these questions because they were vital questions. They were things that needed to be discussed. You see, to boil down these 95 theses into two very basic points, he dealt with the question, does the Pope, being a man, really have the power to forgive sins? And can we really buy indulgences which will free our loved ones from purgatory? And to expand on that a little bit further, one of Luther's theses was this: if the Pope, being a man, has the power to forgive sin. Why does he charge for such a glorious gift? If he has the power to free men from purgatory, why does he not do so just out of the generosity of his heart? Why charge for such a glorious gift? And you can see how such a question would strike interest in the minds of these scholars And so some of these scholars in Wittenberg, Wittenberg, wrote down these 95 theses from the door and sent them to other scholars across. Germany. Luther did not anticipate that. And so within two weeks' time, handwritten copies of these questions had spread over Germany And in January, just two and a half months later, in January of seventeen eighteen, these ninety-five questions were translated into the common language and put on a printing press. It was the first act of mass media. Because these 95 questions were printed in the common language so anyone could read them, and they scattered all over Germany and eventually all over Europe. And the result was what we call the Protestant Reformation. And today we worship without a priest, for we have a high priest in heaven. We honor no Pope on earth, for there is one mediator between God and man, the man Christ Jesus. And we know that sins are only forgiven by God, and not by man. But how do we get here? What brought Martin Luther to ask these questions? Well, Martin Luther, a Romanist priest, was a very religious man. He practiced all manner of self-flagellations and self-disciplines. And he was religious to the core. And as lost as he could be. As far from grace as he could be He was a man who was confident in his own righteousness. And then he found his own righteousness was not enough. For his righteousness could not assuage the righteous wrath of God It was through reading these verses in Romans chapter 1 that God took a Saul and made him a Paul. That God got a hold of Martin Luther, a Romanist priest, and transformed him and saved him. And I would like to share with you Luther's testimony in his own words, and then we're going to dive into the text. Luther said, I was seized with the conviction that I must understand Paul's letter to the Romans. But to that moment, one phrase in chapter one stood in my way. I hated the idea. In it, that is in the gospel, in it, the righteousness of God is revealed. I hated the righteous God who punishes sinners. I was angry with God and said, as if it were not enough that miserable sinners die. Sinners are eternally lost through sin. God Himself adds pain to pain in the gospel by threatening us with his righteous wrath For in verse 18 it says, In this, in the gospel, the wrath of God, the righteousness of God, is revealed. At last, meditating day and night, and by the mercy of God I began to understand that the righteousness of God is that Through which the righteous live by a gift of God, namely faith. Here, I felt as if I were entirely born again and entered into paradise itself through gates that have been flung open. An entirely new side of the scriptures opened up itself to me, and I stole my sweetest word with a love as great as the loathing with which I had before hated the term. The righteousness of God. Thus, that verse in Paul was truly for me the gate of paradise. What was that truth that gripped upon Martin Luther when he was struggling with this truth that in the gospel the righteousness of God is revealed? It is the truth that the just shall live by faith. For you see, Martin Luther was trying to live He was seeking life, but he was seeking it through the law of righteousness, rather than the righteousness of Christ He was seeking, going about to establish for himself his own righteousness. And so he did many righteous deeds, and he performed numerous righteous acts. But none could satisfy the guilt of his soul. None could make him righteous with God. But you see, this battle that Martin Luther was facing did not begin in 17 or in 1517. In Paul's text there in Romans 1, Paul says, as it is written, the just shall live by faith. And you may remember that we read that verse from Habakkuk chapter 2 and verse 4 a few weeks ago. There we read, Behold, his soul which is lifted up is not right within him, but the just shall live by faith. It is written, this was an old battle between truth and error that was going on. And Paul again quotes from Habakkuk in Galatians 3 and verse 11: But that no man is justified by the law in the sight of God is evident, for the just shall live by faith. And we read this same truth again in Hebrews 10, verse 38. Now the just shall live by faith. You see, in Habakkuk's day, men were trying to establish their own righteousness. And in Paul's day You had the Judaizers who were trying to establish their own righteousness. And in Luther's day, you had the Romanists who were trying to establish their own righteousness. And my friend, this battle continues today, and that's why we're observing Reformation Sunday today. This battle between Faith righteousness and works righteousness is raging in our own day. Did you know there's a movement referred to as the Counter-Reformation? And even within churches which once stood for truth and righteousness, there is what is referred to as the new perspectives on Paul. It basically is adding works back into righteousness. Habakkuk stood for this truth in his day. And Paul in his day, and Luther in his day, and we today must stand up for truth and righteousness. So this morning, what I'd like to do from this passage, which So convicted and transformed Luther is consider why it is important that we preach this gospel. That the just shall live by faith. And first of all, I would submit to us that the preaching of the gospel, that the just shall live by faith. is the only gospel that saves. There's a lot of good news out there which leads straight to hell. But this gospel alone is the gospel of salvation. The just shall live by faith and by faith alone. And considering again the passage in Galatians 3, where Paul quotes from the same passage in Galatians 3, verse 11 and 12, but that no man is justified by the law in the sight of God is evident. For the just shall live by faith, and the law is not of faith, but the man that doeth them shall live in them. You see, the problem with works righteousness is the bill is never paid. It's never paid. How much work do you need to do to be righteous? How many penance do you need to purchase to get your loved one out of purgatory? Johann Tetzel, who was the one of the main sellers of penance, said the moment a penny in the coffer rings, a soul from purgatory springs. When have you done enough? When have you paid the price? We must be faithful to preach the gospel. The just shall live by faith, because it is the only gospel it saves. And again in Galatians chapter 2 and verse 16, knowing that a man is not justified by the works of the law, but by the faith of the Lord. Of Jesus Christ, even we have believed in Jesus Christ, that we might be justified by the faith of Christ, and not by the works of the law. For by the works of the law Shall no flesh be justified. Therefore, being justified by faith, we have peace with God. And from verse 19 through the end of this chapter of chapter one of Romans, Paul talks about those that have gone about to establish their own righteousness and uh that when they knew God in their heart they glorified him not as God, neither were thankful, but they came vain in their own imagination. And I won't go through all those verses, but look just at the last verse of um chapter one of Romans. Who knowing the judgment of God, this is Romans 132, who knowing the judgment of God, that they which commit such things are worthy of death. not only do the same, but have pleasure in them that do them. And so my friend, this gospel is vitally important because it is the only gospel that saves. There is no other saving gospel. But not only is this the only gospel that saves, the gospel of grace through faith and faith alone. But this is the gospel that cuts to the very root of man's need. It cuts everything down to the most basic level. What does man need? Well, in Hebrews 12 and verse 14 and 15, we read these words Follow peace with all men, and holiness without which no man shall see the Lord Looking diligently, lest any man fail of the grace of God. How did God create Adam and Eve? In sin or in holiness? God created them in perfection. In that state of perfection, they were immortal. They would live forever. And so God warned them: In the day that ye eat thereof, thou shalt surely die. And we say that Adam And as in Adam all died. What is the one thing that man needs to see God Well we read there in Hebrews twelve and verse fourteen, holiness without which no man shall see the Lord. And so again we find Luther, and he had made a pilgrimage, and he had said his penance And he had beat his own back in his attempts to find holiness with God. And again, the question is this, when do you have enough holiness? You see, God has been gracious to give us a conscience. And the conscience convicts us of sin. And the nearer you get to God, the more you'll be convicted of sin. Isn't that glorious? The more you seek after Him, the more you'll realize your own unworthiness. The more you read God's Word, the more you know you need to read God's Word. And the more time you spend in prayer, the more time you realize that you need to spend in prayer John Wesley is reported to have said that he had a very busy day, and so he had to get up four hours earlier than usual because he needed at least four hours of prayer for that day. Most of us, when we have a very busy day, we cut short our devotion time to get on with what we have to do. But you see, when we truly seek after God and His righteousness and His holiness, the closer we get to Him, the more we realize that we have no holiness of our own. But the gospel of salvation by faith alone, the gospel to the just shall live by faith, is the only gospel which replaces my wickedness with His holiness. It is the only gospel that gives me that which at the very basic level I need. I need to be holy. Because sin cannot enter his presence. That's right. That which is defiled cannot come before the Holy God. The priest, before he could go into the Holy of Holies, first had to bathe and change his clothes. And then he went in and made confession, made atonement for his own sins, and then the sins of the people But all the while he still had the rope around his waist and the bells in the bottom of his garment, lest he enter into the presence of God with sin. And he be slain before the Lord. Nadab and Abihu tried to make their own righteousness. The Bible refers to it as strange fire. They put fire in their censors, their incense burners, and tried to go into the presence of God unworthy, and they were slain. You see, any salvation of works can never produce The righteousness which man needs, holiness without which no man shall see the Lord. In Matthew chapter 5 and verse 20, Christ said, I say unto you, except your righteousness exceed the righteousness of the scribes and Pharisees. Ye shall in no wise enter the kingdom of heaven. The scribes and Pharisees were the most quote-unquote righteous men of their day. And you could see their righteousness on the street corner. Ah, here comes the sinner. I will go to the other side of the road lest I come near him. I thank God that I'm not as other men. Standing on the street corner. But the publican Smoating upon his breast. God, be merciful to me. A righteous man? No. God, be merciful to me, a sinner. And that is what we read, in other words, not testimony, from Martin Luther He hated the concept that in the gospel the righteousness of God is revealed because he could not meet up to that righteousness. He could never hit that mark. But oh my friend, the Lord hath laid on him the iniquity of us all. My unrighteousness was laid on Christ, and by this glorious gift of faith, I believe not in my own righteousness, but in the righteousness of Christ. This gospel alone can meet the need of man. The preaching of justification by faith alone, thirdly. First of all, it is the only gospel that saves, secondly, the only gospel that can meet man's need Thirdly, the preaching of justification by faith alone presents salvation as all the work of God and not at all the work of man. We hear a lot about choice today. Well, it's God who makes the choices. He chose me to be his own child. He chose Jeremiah. before he formed him in the belly. We saw last week that he chose Samson, a Nazirite, from the womb. I did not choose God God chose me. You see, if salvation is something that I choose Then I can choose to be in it and I can choose to get out of it. But salvation being the choice of God, being his own sovereign work, I did not choose to get into it, and Satan and man cannot choose to take me out. Because I am in the Father's hand. If you look back to our text there in Romans 1 and verse 17 For therein is the righteousness of God revealed. Doesn't say anything about the righteous of man, does it? In the gospel, the righteousness of God Is revealed. Salvation is all of God. If it is of my righteousness, I will never obtain it. But it is not of my righteousness because my righteousness is filthy rags. But in the gospel, the righteousness of God is revealed. From faith to faith, as it is written, the just shall live by faith. And again, the Galatians passage Where Paul quotes this same verse in Galatians three and verse ten and verse eleven. For as many as are of the works of the law are under the curse For it is written, Cursed is everyone that continueth not in all the things that are written in the book of the law to do them. But that no man is justified by the law in the sight of God is evident For the just shall live by faith. And have you turn over With me to Matthew chapter 19. The 19th chapter of Matthew. I'll give you a moment to turn. This is the not parable. This is the true account of the rich young ruler. And here we find a glorious picture, if you will, example, if you will, of one who's trying to find righteousness on his own. In Matthew chapter 9 and verse 16 and following, and behold, one came and said unto him, Good Master! What good thing shall I do that I may inherit, or that I may have eternal life? Isn't that the question that's being asked? What must I do to be saved? What good thing can I do? How can I work this out? How can I make for myself an atonement? How can I take care of this sin problem? What good thing shall I do that I may have eternal life And he that is Christ said unto him, and he said unto him, Why callest thou me good? There is none good but one that is God. But if thou wilt enter into life, keep the commandments. That's what he wants to do, isn't it? Keep the commandments. Keep the commandments if you want it into life. And he said, unto him which. Okay, what commandments shall I keep Jesus said, Thou shalt do no murder, thou shalt not commit adultery, thou shalt not steal, thou shalt not bear witness, honor thy father and thy mother. Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself. The young man's feeling pretty good, isn't he? Verse 20. The young man says unto him, All these things have I kept from my youth up What lack I get? I've done it! I've got my crown! I've checked the boxes! I'm ready to go! I shall enter the kingdom of heaven because I have kept the law. Verse twenty one. Jesus said unto him If thou wilt be perfect, go and sell that thou hast and give to the poor, and thou shalt have treasure in heaven, and come and follow me. But when the young man heard that saying, he went away sorrowful, for he had great possessions. He had just bought a brand new Corvette. And his fingers were covered with rings. And he had on twelve hundred dollar alligator shoes. Of course, keeping the law could not save this young man. And this young man, who, like Martin Luther, thought he was so righteous. is brought down to the core to realize he's not righteous at all. And so Christ is going to sh is showing him that he is not righteous. You see, he had not kept the law. And the evidence that he had not kept the law is pointed out to him because Christ says, Go and sell your goods and give to the poor, and he went away sorrowful. He had just claimed that he loved his neighbor as himself. But if he loved his neighbor as himself, he would never have eaten a meal alone. For there were hungry beggars all around him. Why were they not seated at his table if he loved his neighbor as himself? And why was he wearing such expensive clothing when there were those around him who were naked? And if he truly loved his neighbor as himself, why was not every room of his house packed? with people that live with him. You see, he was not loving his neighbor as himself. He was in love with himself. And Christ had to show him, you are breaking the very commandments you're claiming to keep You see, it had nothing to do with possessions. It had everything to do with the young man's heart. And so Christ had to show him you've broken the very commandment which you claim to have kept. And we could go on. He had not kept any of the commandments As God commanded. But Christ had to show this young man who professed to love his neighbor as himself. But he was a sinner. And he was unable to obtain for himself righteousness. You see, he was trying to do it himself. What good thing shall I do to inherit eternal life? But the salvation, the gospel of justification by faith, is all the work of God. And not at all the work of man. Oh, how vitally important it is a day When even churches are preaching a social gospel. When churches are telling people to be good and to be kind and to be generous. Yes we should be good. Yes we should be kind. Yes we should be generous. And if we are truly believers we will be those things, but those things have nothing to do with our righteousness before God. Those are fruits of righteousness. But the righteousness comes by grace through faith alone. The fourth reason why we must boldly proclaim this truth in our own day is that this gospel that the just by shall live by faith Is least likely to produce tears. It is least likely to produce false fruit. It said of of D. L. Moody that Moody was walking through Chicago one day and he encountered a drunk in the gutter on the street corner. And the drunk says to him, Mr. Moody, I'm one of your converts. And Moody looked at him and said, You must be one of mine, because you're certainly not one of God's. And I have read accounts of Moodley being roundly criticized for that comment, how terrible it was for Moody to say something like that. He had no idea what that man had been through. He had no idea the difficulties that man had faced. And how bad his circumstances were. What a cruel thing for Moody to say. No, what a true thing. That man was no more a child of God. He may have been Moody's convert, but he was not one of God. You see, the preaching of salvation by faith alone is least likely to produce tears, and if you want a good illustration of it, go back to the rich young ruler we just considered. You see, that rich young ruler would have been a deacon in most churches pretty quick. He was rich and he was young. And what's the church looking for? Young men that are rich and young. And here he's seeking righteousness. He's asking the right question. Sign him up. Sign the card. There'll be an usher next week and a deacon the week after that. But he would have been as lost as he could be. And the preaching of the gospel today, the free will gospel, is producing tears. Yes, it is It is producing miscarriages and false fruits. And my friend, the gospel that we preach is not popular. No, it's not. But it is vital because it's truth. The preaching of salvation by grace alone, without works, without decisions, without thirty-five verse invitations It's the gospel that saves. We do not give an invitation at the end of our service, we give an invitation 24-7. Seek ye the Lord while he may be found. Call ye upon him while he is near. Come ye that labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. The invitation of our congregation is always there. It's not just something we do at the end of a service. It is our obligation and our responsibility in this wicked age to point men to Christ. When I was in Jamaica many years ago, there was a young, and I don't have this in my notes, I hadn't intended to to to relay this to you, but it I believe it fits There was a dear young girl that was attending our youth meetings and coming to some of our services and she didn't have a piano but she was taking piano lessons and I gave her a key to the church so she could come in and practice piano o on her own uh because she had no other way to practice and sweet young girl lots of questions concern for her soul And one day she encountered some seven-day events. And they told her, the reason you don't feel like you're saved is because you're worshiping on the wrong day. She left our church, went to the Seventh-day Adventist Church, because they gave her one work to do. To satisfy the longing in her soul. And I don't believe she ever came to Christ. This insidious gospel that mixes works with grace. is taking over the religious world of our country. It is vitally important that we preach this gospel of gr salvation by grace alone, because this is the gospel that does not produce tares. It produces genuine fruit. And you remember in the parable of the tares, where the tares came from? Did not thou sow good seed in thy field, whence then hath it tears And the answer was, an enemy hath done this. And you look at all the problems in churches today. And those in leadership who do not show forth the grace of Christ, and you have to question Is the church filled with tares? Yeah. I mean, God give us grace. to preach the faithful gospel as presented in the Word of God and leave the results to man to God rather than counting heads. I almost Had a terrible misquote there. The results belong to God and not to man. That's right. He will save such as should be saved, and he will save them only by the preaching of salvation. By grace alone, the just shall live by faith. Today our world has churches that are filled with spiritual zombies and wraiths. They have the appearance of life. But they are dead. And then finally, the preaching of salvation by faith alone is essential to the understanding of grace. You see, we cannot understand grace without faith. The two cannot be separated. You see, we think of grace today as as me just being kind to someone, me speaking well to them. But the grace of God is so much more. You see, grace is God's divine favor upon me. No merit of mine own, thine anger to suppress. My only hope is found in Jesus' righteousness. Grace is God looking beyond my sin, but far more than just looking beyond my sin. My sins were laid on him. And he is the propitiation. He is the payment. He is the substitute. He is the one who made atonement for me. You see, if one speck of my own righteousness is mixed in with the grace of Christ Then it is polluted entirely. A little leaven leaven. The whole lump And the gospel that is so boldly proclaimed today boils salvation down to one good work. I believed. I believed. Therefore, I must be saved. But you know what? I only believed after he saved me. Lazarus come forth. Lazarus was dead. A dead man can't hear. God had to open Lazarus' ears even to hear the call. Lazarus, come forth And when God called me from the death of sin, first he had to open my ears to hear him. And what did Christ say? My sheep hear my voice. Why can you not hear? Blessed are your ears for they hear. But why can you not hear? Because ye are not of my sheep. My friend, you will never understand what grace is. Until you approach it from the gift of faith. For by grace are you saved through faith And that faith, not of yourselves, it, faith, is the gift of God, lest any man should boast. What did the rich young rulers say? All this I have done, to be boasted. This gospel must be proclaimed. It was under attack in Habakkuk's day. It was under attack in Paul's day. It was under attack in Luther's day, and it's under attack in our own day because Satan hates it. May we be faithful to proclaim the truth. Let us stand for prayer.