Open in your Bibles with me this morning to the book of Philemon. And as we turn to the book of Philemon, we could I guess say chapter one, but uh Philemon only has one chapter. It is a short letter written by the Apostle Paul to Philemon, and the subject of the book is by Leman's servant Onesimus, who had run away and has been converted under the ministry of Paul And now it's become a great blessing to Paul in prison. I'm going to read the first seven verses of this book. And the reason that we come to this book this morning is because this is a church that met in a house. And so it is a message to a house church. If you have your place now in Philemon, I'll begin with verse 1 and read through verse 7. Paul, a prisoner of Jesus Christ, and Timothy, or Timothy, our brother. unto Philemon, our dearly beloved and fellow laborer, and to our beloved Alphea and Archipus, our fellow soldier, and to the church in thy house. Grace be to you, and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. I thank my God making mention of thee always in my prayers, hearing of thy love and faith which thou hast toward the Lord Jesus Christ, or the Lord Jesus, and toward all saints. And that the communication of thy faith may become effectual by the acknowledging of every good thing which is in you in Christ Jesus. For we have great joy and consolation in thy love, because the bowels of the saints are refreshed by thee, brother. Let us bow for prayer together as we approach God's Word today. Great Heavenly Father, we thank you for this short little book, this short little letter, which is before us today. Father, we thank you that there is much meat for our souls here today. And so, Father, I pray that you would instruct us and teach us. Lord, guide us in your word May we today be enriched by your spirit. May we be convicted by your truth. And Father, may we as a church, we as a congregation Be challenged and encouraged and made more like Christ. Open your word to us, we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. I'm going to begin this morning by looking at the various groups or characters that are mentioned here. And then, uh Lord willing, we'll consider some specific uh commendations which the Apostle Paul has for Philemon and for the church that meets in his house. Paul calls himself a prisoner there in verse 1. And we've noted before that Paul does not say a prisoner of Rome, nor does he say a prisoner of the Jews, though both would actually be accurate. He was in Roman prison because of the accusations of the Jews. But he calls himself a prisoner of Jesus Christ there in the first verse. And if you look down to verse 9, which we didn't read, he said, yet for love's sake I rather beseech thee, being such a one as Paul the Age, and now also a prisoner of Jesus Christ. And we find this throughout Paul's writings. In Ephesians 3 and Ephesians 4, Paul calls himself the prisoner of Jesus and the prisoner of the Lord. Second Timothy, Paul told young Timothy, Be not ashamed of me. Or uh ashamed of the testimony of the Lord, or of me his prisoner. When Paul uses this word prisoner, it is a rework a word that refers to one who is bound with a chain. And it was frequent at this time that a prisoner would be bound by a chain to one of his guards, one of his keepers. Remember when Peter was in prison, about to be beheaded, and he was bound between two soldiers. with chains. That's the word Paul is using here, and it is quite possible that Paul may have been chained to one of his keepers so that he could not escape, so that he would be bound with a chain. By calling himself the prisoner of Jesus Christ, rather than calling himself the prisoner of Rome or the prisoner of the Jews Paul is acknowledging that God is in control of everything. He acknowledges that God controls his circumstances. Paul is not in prison because the Jews made accusation. Paul is not in prison because he appealed to Caesar and went to Rome. Paul is in prison because prison was exactly where God wanted him to be. And God greatly used Peter in prison when he was delivered. I meant to say Paul, but God used Peter as well. And God greatly used Paul When he was in prison, for these letters that we read, we refer to as the prison epistles. And so, rather than Complaining about his circumstances, he says that this is what God wanted. Look down to verse 13 of our chapter. And there Paul says, whom I would refer into in Esimus whom I would have retained with me, that in thy stead he might have ministered unto me in the bonds of the gospel. Paul calls his bonds the bonds of torment, the bonds of affliction. The bonds of my great trial. Oh, I think if I was if I was in prison and I was writing a letter to someone, I would say, oh, I'm suffering for the Lord here, folks. He calls it the bonds of the gospel. What is the gospel? It is the good news that Jesus Christ has come to seek and to save. And what has happened while Paul is in this chain? He's met a young man in Onesimus. And he hasn't complained to Anesimus about his condition. He hasn't said, This isn't fair, this isn't right. Instead, he has shared the gospel of Jesus Christ with Anesimus, and Anesimus is now. a believer in Jesus Christ and ministers to Paul. What a great rebuke this is to us that Paul recognizes Paul recognizes his ministry. In Philippians 1, verse 14, Paul said, and many of the brethren in the Lord waxing confident by my bonds. are much more bold to speak the word without fear. Paul says, because of my imprisonment Let a brethren, they have waxed confident, and they're speaking the word of God without fear because of the example of Paul. And so Paul here recognizes that he's not imprisoned because of some great injustice But rather he's right where he's supposed to be. And dear friends, we and not to get too personal, but we in some ways were run out of the synagogue And we we're meeting here together, but this is no accident. It is the furtherance of the gospel of Jesus Christ. We're doing exactly what God would have us to do. We can't complain about circumstances. Rather we glory in the great and effectual door the Lord has opened to us. Yes, that's right. In Acts chapter 28 and verse 20. Turn to that verse with me. Over to the book of Acts. Keep your finger in Philemon. We'll be back there and spend most of our time there. But in Acts chapter 28. And verse 20. Paul says, For this cause, therefore, I have called for you to see you and to speak with you. Because that for the hope of Israel I am bound with this chain. Paul says, for the hope of Israel, I'm bound with his chain. What is the hope of Israel? The hope of Israel is the Messiah. Jesus Christ is the hope of Israel, and what was Paul's hope for Israel? He said, for my prayer for my brethren, that they might be saved. Paul said, I could count myself accursed for my brethren. And Paul says, I'm in this chain, not by persecution. Not by the judgment of man, not by some evil circumstances, but for the hope of Israel, for the cause of Messiah, in his perfect will. I am here. And then in Ephesians, when Paul is making a request for himself, in Ephesians chapter 6, he says, Pray, and for me, that utterance may be given unto me, that I may open my mouth boldly to make known the mysteries of God. the gospel for which I am an ambassador in bonds He's an ambassador for the cause of Christ, for the testimony of Christ, in Mons. And so that is who is writing to This man who has a church in his house. It's the Apostle Paul. And so he says, going back to our text, There in verse 1, Paul the prisoner of Jesus Christ, and Timothy our brother. Unto Philemon, our dearly beloved and fellow laborer. Philemon is the head of the household here. It is by Lemon's house in whom this church meets, and Paul calls him dearly beloved and fellow laborer. That word fellow laborer means a fellow worker. It means a helper. Paul uses the same word in 1 Corinthians 3 in verse 9. For we are laborers together with God. Ye are God's husband. Ye are God's building. The name Philemon literally means one who kisses. It's the literal meaning of Philemon. You can hear that phi, which we think of Philos. It is a loving term. He's called the dearly beloved. And this one who kisses is a little meeting. And the church of Colossians, the church at Colossae. meets in the home of Philemon. But Philemon's not the only one that's mentioned here in our text. We're still in the introduction, folks. We'll get to the message soon. Look at verse 2. And our beloved Alphea. Who is Alphea? Well, this is Philemon's wife. We have the head of the household and we have the lady of the house, our beloved Alfhe. And her name means fruitful. The name Alphea means fruitful. And we think of Proverbs 31, verse 31, where it talks about the virtuous woman. Give her the fruit of her hands, and let her own works praise her. His wife, Philemon's wife, was a lady who was involved in the ministry of God, and her very name means fruitful And then we have Archibus. And Archebus is referred to here as our fellow soldier. We don't know absolutely 100% for sure because scripture doesn't tell us absolutely 100% certainly, but it appears that Archipus is the son of Philemon and Alpha. And that's why he's mentioned here. He apparently is their son, and he's referred to as a fellow soldier. Now we're going to see later on that it also appears that Archipus, their son, is the pastor of the church of Laodicea. Which also met in a house. But we're going to save that. We'll come back to Archipus and his ministry later on. And then the last group that are mentioned there in verse 2 is and to the church in thy house. And so we have four recipients of this letter of Philemon. We have Philemon himself. We have his wife, his son, and the church that meets in thy house. This was the common practice in the New Testament. Right. They didn't have buildings with a steeple. They didn't have a purpose-built place of worship. They had been run out of the perfect the purpose-built place of worship, which was the synagogues, which were in the towns But we find Lydia meeting the prey beside the river. And we find the house of Aquila and April Priscilla. and a church meeting in their house. And so what we are doing today was common practice in the New Testament. And that is not to cast aspersion on church buildings that the Lord leads this congregation in that direction. Someday we will rejoice in it. But for this time in our existence, we have the privilege to meet just as the new Church Testament Church was meeting. And so we gather together. Paul's greeting in verses 3 and 4 is his typical greeting to his letters, Grace be unto you, and peace from God the Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. I thank my God making mention of thee in my prayers. And then we find in the heart of our message for this morning, Paul's commendation of Philemon and of the church that meets in his house. Look what they have verses five through seven. Hearing of thy love and faith which thou hast toward the Lord Jesus and toward all the saints, that the communication of thy faith may become effectual by the acknowledging of every good thing which is in you in Christ Jesus. For we have great joy and consolation in thy love, because the bowels of the saints are refreshed by thee, brother. First of all we find That Paul commends Philemon and the church that meets in his house for their love. This is my commandment, that ye love one another. He commends them for their love. He hears of their love. And their faith. Their love was a testimony. Their love was known abroad. Paul hears of it. He's in prison And he didn't have a cell phone in prison. So someone has told him firsthand The church there in Colossae. The church that's meeting in Philemon's house. They love one another. They're a church of faith. They were fulfilling the commandment of Christ. In 1 John, John said, This is the message which we had from the beginning, that you should love one another. And we have a great contrast there in 1 John as well, in 1 John 4 and verse 20. If any man say, I love God, And hate his brother, he is a liar. For he that loveth not his brother, whom he hath seen, how can he love God whom he hath not seen? This is my commandment have I received of him that he who loveth God love his brother also. Now how is that relevant to what Paul is writing to Philemon? Remember what this book is about. This book is about Onesimus. Onesimus has wronged Philemon. He has run. And Philemon Is not very pleased with Onesimus. And Paul is writing to Philemon and telling Philemon, look, Onesimus, he's now a brother. He wants to come back. I don't think this was up was was Paul just saying Onesimus, you better go back, but rather Onesimus saying, I want to go back, but I know it's going to be trouble I want to make this right, but I know that Philemon is angry with me. And so Paul is saying, look, Onesimus is your brother. Don't receive him as a servant. Receive him as a brother. And so if we say that we love God and we hate our brother, We lie and do not the truth. Where there is the love of the brethren, there will be the love of Jesus Christ. Where there is not the love of the brethren, there is not the love of Christ. Any congregation that does not love the brethren is not the true church of God. And so Paul here is commending Philemon and commending the church that's in his house because they have love. And their love has been heard of. Their love is a testimony for Jesus Christ. In 1 Thessalonians 4, verse 9, but as touching brotherly love, he had not that I need to write unto you For ye yourselves are taught of God to love one another. A new commandment give I unto you that ye love one another. But there's another commendation we find there in verse five Paul commends them because he's heard of their love and of their faith which thou hast toward the Lord Jesus. And it's important that we consider that it's not just faith. Thy faith which thou hast towards the Lord Jesus. We hear a lot of talk about faith today, don't we? If you've been listening to the news this week, And I don't always recommend listening to the news. But uh if you listen to the news this week, you've heard politicians fighting over who has faith and who prays. A lot of people have faith. People have faith in the weather. It's gonna be sunny tomorrow, so I don't need my umbrella People have faith. The Muslims have faith. But here he says that he's heard of their faith toward Christ Jesus. This is not just the common idea of faith he's talking about here. This is faith towards Christ Jesus. There was a national prayer breakfast this week. I wonder if any prayers were heard, because God heareth not the prayers of sinners. You see, we talk about faith, but their faith was a faith in Jesus Christ. We talk about faith-based initiatives and faith-based charities, but our world knows very little about faith. But the faith for which Paul commends Philemon And commends the church that meant in his house is faith in Jesus Christ. He that hath the Son hath everlasting life. And he that hath not the Son hath not life. And so if we are to be a faithful church Our faith must be in Christ, not in man, not in anything other than man. He that believeth is not condemned But he that believeth not is condemned already. You see, if you went out from house to house and took a survey, knocked on doors, and asked people, Do you believe in God? The majority of people would say, yes, I believe there is a God. If you say, do you believe that Jesus Christ has come to save from sin? Uh uh maybe I I don't know. I I've heard about that, but he that hath the son hath life, but he that hath not the son hath not life You see, the devils believe and tremble. In 1 John 5, verse 11, we read, and this is the record that God has given to us eternal life, and that life is in his son. Remember the count of the Philippine jailer? Sirs, what must I do to be saved? And Paul told him to do all kinds of works, told him to join a church, told him to be good. Wouldn't you give the poor? Of course not. None of those things. Sirs, what must I do to be saved? Believe On the Lord Jesus Christ, and thou shalt be saved. And aren't you glad that it didn't stop there? Thou shalt be saved, and thy House. Oh, what a glute glorious truth. What a beautiful promise. And so this church that met in Father Eman's house was a church that had love It was a church that had faith, and their faith was not just this concept of faith that the world has, but it was faith in Jesus Christ. Where is your faith? But we find further, as we look in verse 6, that he commends them for the communication of their faith. Look at verse 6: that the communication of thy faith may become effectual. by the acknowledging of every good thing which is in you by Jesus Christ. What's the word communication mean? You know I never really studied this word until I was working in this verse this week. What does it mean to communicate? Well we know I tell you something, but did you know that the root of the word communicate means to make common. Means to make common. I know something, and I tell it to you, and now it's common knowledge we both know. And so when we communicate something, we make it common. We make it known. That's the root of our English word to communicate. That's where it comes from, to make common or to make knowledge of. Jude wrote to the believers of the common salvation. That's in uh Jude verse 3, beloved, when I gave all diligence to write unto you of the common salvation. Why did Jude call it the common salvation? Well, it was salvation that had been revealed to the Jews, and the very name Jude means Jew. It had been revealed to the Jews, and now it is the common salvation. Jew and Gentile alike are saved by the redeeming blood of Jesus Christ. It is the common salvation. And so Paul commends them, there in verse 6, for the communication of their faith. Their faith is made common. It's communicated. They were evangelists. They told others about the message of Jesus Christ. We as a church should make our faith common. We should communicate this gospel of Jesus Christ. If if there were uh some great plague and we had the cure for the plague and so we just sat here and were all well, we'd be fine, but what about the people around us that are dying of the plague? Is it not our obligation to share good news? Well, they communicated their faith They didn't keep their faith just to themselves, but they told others about their faith. Go ye into all the world and preach the gospel to every creature. In the book of Acts, when they received power, when the Holy Ghost has come upon them, they were to be witnesses in Jerusalem and Judea and Samaria and under the uttermost parts of the earth. But look with me even closer at what verse 6 says there. That the communication of thy faith may become effectual. That it may become effectual. You see, we could stand on the street corner and scream at the top of our lungs, but that's not going to profit anything. You see, it's not my words by which faith cometh. Faith cometh by hearing, and hearing by my opinions? No. Hearing by the word of God The word which brings faith is not that which I say, but it is, thus saith the Lord. What saith the Scriptures? This word is profitable, and this word will not return to God void. This is the word This is the truth. And so we read there in verse 6, that the communication of thy faith may become effectual by the acknowledging of Of every good thing which is in you in Christ Jesus. By the acknowledging of the truth of Christ. And how is it that that is communicated? Well They were active in their faith. They were active in their love. They were displaying to all those around The testimony of Christ. Look very closely at what it says. That the communication of thy faith may come become effectual by the acknowledging of every good thing which is in you in Christ Jesus, for we have great joy and consolation, because the bowels of the saints are refreshed by thee. The bowels of the saints are refreshed. Their faith was an active faith. And it's been a great blessing to my heart in this week to see so many in this congregation that have been concerned about each other. We've had a lot of sickness and a lot of trials going around. And we've all kind of jumped in and helped out any way we could. That is what we should be. That is what the church should be In Hebrews chapter 13, verse 16, but to do good and to communicate, forget not. For with such sacrifices God is well pleased. To do good and to communicate, to make common And then again in Matthew 5, Christ said, You're a city set on a hill. You're the light of the world. A city set on a hill cannot be hid. Neither do man light a candle and put it under a bushel. but on a candlestick and it gives a light to all that are in the room. That's the very example of communicating our faith. By our words and by our neat deeds we make known the truth. Turn over with me to 2 Corinthians. 2 Corinthians and chapter 9. I believe this passage is a good illustration of what Paul is saying here. 2 Corinthians chapter 9, and we'll start reading in verse 8. 2 Corinthians 9 and verse 8. And God is able to make all grace to abound toward you, that ye, always having all sufficiency in all things, may abound in every good work. There's the communication of our faith. We abound in every good work. To the believers, we abound in our love. To the unbelievers, our faith is abounding. They see our good works and glorify our Father which is in heaven. Verse nine, as it is written, He hath dispersed abroad, he hath given to the poor, his righteousness remaineth forever. Okay, there is an example of our generosity That verse is quoted directly, word for word, from Psalm 112 and verse 9. Verse 10. Now he that ministreth seed to the so sorry, he that ministers seed to the sower. Who ministers seed to the sower? Where does the sower get the seed from? It's God. God is the one who ministers seed to the sower. And so we can insert there, God that ministers seed to the sower both ministers bread for your food and multiply your seeds sown and increase the fruit of your righteousness. And so God gives us the seed. May God improve increase our fruitfulness with it. God gives us a seed. May God enable us to spread the seed. May we be the sowers of the seed of the gospel. May we be sowers of the love of Christ. May we show a testimony constantly to all men. That Jesus Christ is in us and we are different. Not because we're good people, not because we're holier than someone else. But going back to our text there in Philemon, it is Christ in us that does good. And so, continuing there, in 2 Corinthians 9, we read verse 10 again. Now he that ministers seed, now he that ministers seed to the sower Both minister bread for your food, and multiply your seeds sown, and increase the fruit of your righteousness. Remember what Christ said in John chapter 15? I in the vine, you're the branches. Without me you can do nothing. Look at verse eleven. This is still in 2 Corinthians 9. Being enriched in every good thing to all bountifulness. God gives us a seed, and by the seed of God we are enriched And every good thing to all bouncefulness which causes us through uh which calls us through us thanksgiving to God. Our obedient love of the brethren will cause thanksgiving to God. Verse 12, for the administration of this service not only supplies the want of the saints But is abundant also by many thanksgiving unto God. And so if we as a church If we as a church are communicating our faith and communicating our love to others, the end result is thanksgiving to God. God is glorified, God is praised. And then verse 13. Well, by the experiment. What's an experiment? Have you ever heard people talk about experimental faith or experimental religion? It doesn't mean that we're experimenting with faith or experimenting with religion, but it's an old English word that means the experience of. Experimental faith is faith that's put to the test. Experimental religion is religion that is lived out in daily life. While by the experiment of this ministration, they glorify God for your professed subjection unto the gospel of Christ, and for your liberal distribution unto them and unto all men. That passage there in 2 Corinthians, we haven't done it justice because there's so much meat there, but I wanted to bring that in. They were a church, first of all, that had faith in Jesus Christ. They were a house church that had love for one another, and they were a house church that had a testimony for Jesus Christ. Remember when I said we'd come back to Archibus? Archipus, who apparently is the son of Philemon, turn over with me to the book of Colossians. I don't know if I mentioned this in our introduction, but the church at Philippi, the church in Philemon's house is the church in Colossae. Okay? So Paul is writing to the church in Colossians, in Colossae. And in Colossians chapter 4 and verse 15 and 17, we have an interesting passage Colossians chapter 4, verse 15, Paul says, salute the brethren which are in Laodicea. Now Laodicea will have been about 10 miles from Colossae. Okay? Salute the brethren which are in Laodicea and Nympheus and the church which is in his house. Okay, the church of Laodicea is meeting in the house of Nympheus or Nipheus. And when this epistle is read, this is the book of Colossians, when this epistle is read among you caused it to be read also in the church of the Laodiceans, and that would ye likewise read the epistle from Laodicea And say to Archipus, here he is again, okay, when you read this book of Colossians, the Church of Colossae, Read it also to the Church of Laodicea and to Archipus, who we believe was probably the pastor of that church. That's why he'd be mentioned here in the contest. And saying to Archipus, take heed to the ministry which thou hast received in the Lord, that thou fulfill it. Okay, I probably confused you, so let's let's get this setting here. We have Philemon. The Church of Colossi meets in his home. He is there with his wife, Alphea. And he has this son, and his son's name is Archibus. Down the road from Colossae is Laodicea. Laodicea meets in a home as well, and Archipus is the pastor of Laodicea. And when Paul writes to Colossians, he says, read this letter to the church at Laodicea as well, and give this warning to Archipusia Archipus, verse 17 of Colossians 4, and say to Archipus, take heed to the ministry which thou hast received in the Lord, that thou fulfill it Why is this important to us when we're talking about the home church? Turn to Revelation chapter 3. Revelation chapter three and verse fourteen Say unto the angel of the church of Laodicea, or unto the angel of the church of Laodicea, write, These things saith the Amen, the faithful and true witness. The beginning of the creation of God. I know thy works, that thou art neither cold nor hot. I would that thou wert cold or hot. So then because thou art lukewarm and neither cold nor hot, I will spew thee out of my mouth. Compare that back to Colossians four, seventeen. Say to Archipus Say to the pastor, take heed to the ministry which thou hast received of the Lord, that thou fulfill it. You see, just because we're a house church doesn't mean we're going to be on fire for the Lord. Right now we we have blessed fellowship and everybody's excited and everybody's involved in the ministry and when one is sick among us we're all jumping in to help But those are not self-sustaining propositions. Those are not things that we can just assume are always going to be the case. Say to Archibis, take heed to the ministry, young man. Look out because it's so easy to become cold. It's so easy to neither be hot nor cold, but to be lukewarm. And because you're lukewarm, I'll spew you out. And then it continues in verse 17 of Revelation 3, because thou sayest, I am rich, and increased with goods, and have need of nothing. And knowest not that thou art wretched and miserable and poor and blind and naked. God has blessed this congregation. God is meeting our needs. He's supplying exceeding abundantly above all that we could ask or think. We stand amazed at the way God is providing for us And yet that's all worthless. That's all worthless. If we lose the fire, if we lose the faith, if we fail to communicate the love and the faith And what does God say to the church that lay at the sea? I counsel thee, buy of me gold tried in the fire. If thou mayest be rich in white raiment, that thou mayest be clothed And to the shame of thy nakedness do not appear, and anoint thine eyes with eyes sad that thou mayest see. As many as I love, I rebuke and chasten. Be thou therefore ze be zealous therefore and repent Behold, I stand at the door and knock. If any man hear my voice, I will open the door, I will come in, and sup with him, and he with me. That verse is so often misused It's used as an evangelistic verse, and I guess that you could say that there is an evangelistic element there because Christ does come into our heart. But Christ isn't standing around begging the sinner to repent. He commands all men everywhere to repent. God is not in heaven wringing his hands, wondering who's going to be saved. The redeemed were chosen in Christ before the foundation of the world. But what we find here in Revelation 3 is God knocking at the door of a home church. Knocking at the door of the church of Laodicea. I'm sure they didn't start out lukewarm. They probably started out very hot. And God warned them through Paul back in Colossians. Take heed to the ministry. Be careful, because coldness creeps in. Coldness finds the cracks and it comes in so very quickly. You see, we are not protected. From backsliding because we're a home church. We are not protected from growing cold because we're a home church. Yes, we're very close together, and yes, we're bound together in love and we're bound together in faith. And we're bound together in testimony, but beware. Be on guard. Take heed That ye fulfill. Take heed to the ministry which thou hast received of the Lord, that thou filleth. To him that overcometh. Verse 20 of Revelation 3, to him that overcometh will I grant to sit with me in thy throne, even as I also overcame, and am sat down with my Father in his throne. You see the one that knocks at the door of the church of Laodicea says, keep up the fight, overcome, finish the faith. And to him that overcometh, I'll grant to sit with me on my throne. He that hath an ear, let him hear what the Spirit saith unto the churches. Oh, brethren, I love every one of you so much. And there's not a one who gathers here for worship week after week who doesn't love everyone here. We're bound together in such sweet fellowship, such joy in the faith, such hunger for the Word of God. God has blessed this congregation abundantly Our fellowship is rich and sweet and thoroughly biblical. But it won't stay that way on its own. It won't remain that way without maintenance. Ah, we need to take heed. We need to stay earnest in everything that we do. We need to take heed to the ministry which we've seen received the Lord to fulfill it. Ah, what amazing instructions God has in His Word for the whole church. Let us stand for prayer.