Good morning everyone. The title for today's Sunday School topic is The Lord's Coming. It's a little more relevant for the holiday season at hand. It's not unusual for Christmas messages to traditionally focus on the Son of God's incarnation, his virgin mother, his unlikely miraculous birth Joseph and Mary's difficulties, you know, all the local and immediate events. But rather than look back in appreciation, today we're going to look forward to anticipation. Anticipation. One big message of the church is that Jesus is coming again as Lord and Judge. It turns out there's many parallels between his first coming and his second. So consider these with me as we review these parallels surrounding the birth of Jesus. The first one is this, I find. Again, seven similarities. We're going to look at the first one here. And that is, Jesus' first coming was foretold by many. It was foretold by many. You know many of the Old Testament prophecies, perhaps not all, but you're familiar with them. In fact, according to Jacob, Moses, Solomon, Isaiah, Jeremiah, Hosea, Micah, and Malachi, these eight men inspired of God to record holy writ and these prophecies. Living across 3,500 years of time. The promised Messiah would be as follows. He'd be the seed of a woman Abraham's seed, in fact, a blessing to all families of the earth. He'd be the seed of Isaac, of the lion of Jesse. He'd be a child born of a virgin. The mighty God, the Prince of Peace, named God with us. He'd be born in the Judean town of Bethlehem, and Judah's scepter would remain until he came. He'd be born a king in the lion of David, and the cause for many infants to be murdered at his time. He'd be called out of Egypt, be presented with gifts, and be preceded by a forerunner named Elijah This is a list of 14 specific prophecies concerning his birth. And yet he came, fulfilling all of them. The chance of only eight prophecy being fulfilled is one out of ten raised to the seventeenth power. 1 out of 10 to the 17th. That's a pretty big number. How do we visualize that? Well, that's akin to spreading two feet of silver dollars across the entire state of Texas. randomly walking across the entire state, reaching down into the pile and finding the marked dollar the first time. When you include all the prophecies concerning Jesus' life, death, burial, and resurrection, there's a grand total of 42 prophecies. This is just the ones concerning his first coming. What's my point? The Promised One came. He actually came. He fulfilled all those prophecies made across the centuries. And that unequivocally validates Jesus' claims to deity and the accuracy of the Bible. God was not kidding when he said, His son, the Godman, was coming. Even so, Jesus' second coming has been foretold by many. even more prophecies and more detailed than those surrounding his first coming. Job starts off saying the Redeemer will stand at the latter day upon the earth Daniel says the ancient of days with white hair and garments will sit on his throne and open the books. Jesus himself had a lot to say about his return. He said, The Son of Man will come in the glory of his Father with his angels. And reward every man according to his works. The Son of Man shall come in his glory and shall sit upon the throne of his glory. All nations shall be gathered before him, and he'll separate each one of them with one sentence. The Son of Man will sit on the right hand of power and come in the clouds of heaven. At the Last Supper, he told his disciples that he won't leave us comfortless, and if he goes away, he will come again. He will come in the clouds, just like when he was taken up into heaven. Peter said heaven must receive Jesus until the restitution of all things. In other words, he's coming back. Jesus will confirm us to the end that we may be blameless in the day of our Lord Jesus. They that are Christ are resurrected at his coming, according to 1 Corinthians 15. And Philippians says he'll change our vile body and fashion it like unto his glorious body. It says we shall appear with him in glory. In fact, our hope, joy, and crown of rejoicing are the elect of God in Jesus' presence at His coming. He'll establish our hearts unblamable in holiness before God at His coming. Thessalonians tells us he comes with all his saints. The dead saints rise first, and the living saints are caught up together with them in the clouds to what to ever be with the Lord. That our whole spirit, soul, and body be preserved blameless unto his coming. He comes to be glorified in his saints and to be admired among all believers. He's going to judge the living and the dead at his appearing in his kingdom. The righteous judge will give to those that love his appearing a crown of righteousness. He will appear the second time without sin unto salvation. You receive an unfading crown of glory when the chief shepherd appears. When he appears, we shall have confidence. And when he appears, we shall be like him, for we shall see him as he is. Jude tells us he comes with ten thousands of his saints. And Revelation says he comes with clouds, and every eye shall see him, and they which pierce him. He comes quickly, and his reward is with him. Thirty prophecies, folks, thirty. More than twice, almost twice more than what, uh more than twice than what we had concerning his first coming. I have a question. In light of all these detailed prophecies and predictions of the second return of Jesus Christ, does anybody actually deceive themselves into thinking these prophecies won't come true? Do you really think that he's not going to come back? If so, if you deceive yourself thinking that's the case, why will you die? He came the first time and he validated the scriptures. Those things spoken were true and faithful. The Lord Jesus Himself giving some of these prophecies himself from the very lips of the incarnate Word of God. Well, there's some other analogies I find between his first and second coming. That's the first, is that it was foretold by many. The second is that no one expected it. No one expected it, especially among the religious. When Jesus was born, only the shepherds were told, and that by the angels And though they informed the town, little appears to have come of it. Think of it. A bunch of shepherds showed up and just let everybody know that they'd seen a sky lit up by angels singing to them in that glorious night. You know, the magi of the Orient saw the natal star. They followed it, came, and inquired of Jerusalem's king, who not only was shocked to hear this news, but had no clue where the young child might be. He feigning a desire to worship the king, Herod sent them away on an errand to find the Christ child. Secretly, he and all Jerusalem were troubled. Because this was apparently bad news to them, and it took them by surprise. No expectation. Even so, Jesus' second coming is going to catch people by surprise. You know, he gave some parables in Matthew 25. He says, it'll be like five wise and five foolish virgins who were asleep when he returned. The Lord's conclusion is we must watch because we don't know the day nor the hour wherein the Son of Man cometh. Corinthians tells us he'll bring to light the hidden things of darkness and make manifest the counsels of the hearts. In Thessalonians and Revelation It repeats this statement you've heard. His coming is as a thief in the night. And I think we all understand that. The thief's coming is a surprise. It's unexpected. If he had known what hour The good the thief would have broken in. The goodman of the house would have watched and not suffered his house to have been broken up. You know, just as the shepherds were alarmed by loud angels in the sky that one night, even so a great alarm A great alarm will go off at his return. It says, lightning will lighten up the skies from one part to another under heaven, and his coming will be with a shout, a voice of the archangel, and the trump of God. It says in Thessalonians, he'll be revealed with his mighty angels in flaming fire, taking vengeance. And Peter says that the heavens will pass away with a great noise. While the elements, the earth, and all the works therein melt with fervent heat. Lightning the skies, a shout, mighty angels, great noise. No one's going to expect it. It'll come as quite the shock. The third point I find concerning the first coming of Christ and how it appears relevant to his return Is that it did not play out exactly as anybody thought? No, it didn't. It did not First thing is it took a lot longer than was supposed. You know, I think we get a little bit of a hint of this when Eve in Genesis 4 says, I have gotten the man. In response to God's promise that her seed would crush the serpent's head, it could be rendered, I have gotten the man from the Lord, the Lord man. Some have seen an intimation of the hope that she might have had that, yeah, this this is the one that God has promised. And no, that certainly wasn't the one to come. In Solomon we have the son of David with the promise of one to sit on the throne, yea, even forever. But that was but a weak shadow of that kingdom to come. Solomon didn't didn't answer it It was going to be a lot longer, a lot longer before the Christ came. And it didn't play out as anybody thought concerning politics. In fact, his first coming had very little to do with politics, though everybody assumed it did. Herod thought that the Christ child was here to take over his seat of power. He was so concerned he had a multitude of babies slain. The multitude when he uh entered into Jerusalem later in his ministry cried Hosanna, meaning, oh save, save us from the Romans, be our political ruler, rescue us from The governmental system of our region. And John 18 is Jesus is before Pontius Pilate. It turns out that Pilate thought Jesus wanted to be an earthly king. Jesus' answer was, yep, I was born a king, but I'm not a king of this world. I have nothing to do with this world system. It's corrupt, it's bankrupt. That's not my not my point here. His first coming had little to do with this world's political system. It also wasn't preceded by earthquakes Every time some tsunami hits or a large earthquake rattles some brick buildings in Turkey, somebody asks me, well, is this a sign a crisis coming? I say, well, did you see that when he is first coming. No, you didn't see it. Well, no, it's that's not that's not the signs you find given in scriptures. But his coming did fulfill every biblical prophecy. Every prophecy that God laid out was fulfilled. My point is this: don't get hung up in too many technical details of Christ's second coming. Given the first 14 prophecies I gave you, do you seriously think anyone could have stitched together a perfect timeline of his incarnation? I've called my son out of Egypt, for instance. When you look at that account in Hosea, you think, well, he's talking historically. God called his people out of Egypt. No, he's talking about the Lord Jesus being pulled out as a young infant from that land. No, I don't I don't think any of us are going to get it exactly right. I think there's there's a lot that we're not going to fully understand. That's the third one. Remember, got seven points. First, it was foretold by many. Number two, no one expected it. Number three, it didn't play out as anybody thought. And number four, a few, a few were waiting. When Joseph and Mary brought Jesus into the temple eight days after his birth, Luke records two people who were waiting. waiting for the Messiah. In Luke 2. 25 we read there is a man in Jerusalem whose name was Simeon. The same man was Justin Devout, waiting for the consolation of Israel And the Holy Ghost was upon him. And then later he records there was one Anna, a prophetess. She was of great age, and she was a widow of about fourscore and four years, which departed not from the temple But served God with fastings and prayers night and day. And she, coming in that instant, gave thanks likewise unto the Lord, and spake of him to all them that looked for redemption in Jerusalem. Even so, only a few will be waiting, watching, and expecting Jesus to return again. You know, Peter says in the last days, scoffers walking in their lusts are going to question the promise of his coming. They're questioning it. They're not expecting it, they're making a mockery of it In Luke 18, Jesus asks a profound question. Nevertheless, when the Son of Man returns, shall he find faith on earth? That's a disturbing question. We might begin to think the answer to that very as very obvious grammatical construct, that rhetorical question. The answer would be no, but then we're disturbed because that means should I or my Christian progeny be found remaining when he comes, they're not going to be in faith. But the Lord Jesus answered earlier in Luke 12 that the servants whom he finds watching will be made to sit down to meet and be served by Jesus. There will be some, but it will be so few, so few Now you might as well ask, shall he even find faith on earth? What about you, friend? Are you waiting for the Lord? Are you looking forward to his return? Are you waiting? Waiting, knowing that the promises of God will come true. Fifth point I find of comparison and similarity is that most were in darkness. It was foretold. No one expected it. It didn't play out as anybody thought. A few were waiting. And my fifth point, most were in darkness. Most were in darkness when he came. You know, consider his extended family in Nazareth, who apparently never once bought into any of the accounts of the angelic appearances. They didn't believe Mary's report of angel visitations. They didn't believe the reports of John the Baptist. This is his family, his very own family in a small town of Nazareth Nazareth, by some estimates, was just a small village with no more than fifteen families living there. It was a small little backwater place. And even when Jesus in the synagogue picked up the book of Isaiah, it was handed to him, and he read from it, and he said, This day this scripture is fulfilled in your ears. It says, all bear him witness and wondered at the gracious words which proceeded out of his mouth. That's not a good wonder, by the way. And they said, Is this not Joseph's son? Is not this the carpenter's son? Is not his mother called Mary and his brethren, James and Joseph and Simon and Judas, and his sisters, are they not all with us? Whence then hath this man all these things? And they were offended at him. That's his own very family, his extended family, right there in Nazareth. Now what about the chief priests? Were they in darkness? Surely the truly religious folks in long robes would be enlightened. Nope. It says even the Pharisees didn't confess him, lest they should be put out of the synagogue. Oh no, we don't want to go down that path. We love the praise of men rather than the praise of God. In fact, when Nicodemus tries to bring some reason to the madness of their counsels, he says he was reproved. They said, search and look, for out of Galilee arises no prophet. They rejected it. They were in spiritual darkness. And likewise, even many Jews expressed great doubt, saying something very similar to his family. They said, Is not this Jesus, the son of Joseph, whose father and mother we know? How is it then that he saith, I came down from heaven? That's in John 6, when he's feeding the multitude, the loaves. Nathaniel asked, Can any good thing come out of Nazareth? Can any good thing come out of that little backwater place? They were in darkness, complete darkness. Even so, when Jesus returns, religious darkness and deception will be the prevailing norm. It'll be the prevailing norm. Jesus says, Because iniquity shall abound, the love of many shall wax cold, the love of the Lord God with all their heart, soul, mind, and strength, and the love of neighbors himself. False Christs and false prophets will show great signs and wonders insomuch as if it were possible they deceive the very elect. There's going to be a deception going on that puts men into darkness and keeps them there. It's very devilish. And the wicked one, restrained until Jesus comes, will be revealed, consumed, and destroyed. He's the one that's helping to keep people in darkness. But the world will be plodding along like its business as usual, never thinking that this could be the day, as it was in the days of Noah, so shall it also be in the days of the Son of Man. They did eat, they drank, they married wives, they were given in marriage until the day that Noah entered in the ark and the flood came and destroyed them all. Likewise also was it in the days of Lot. They did eat, they drank, they bought, they sold, they planted, they built it. But the same day Lot went out of Sodom, it rained fire and brimstone from heaven and destroyed them all. Even thus shall it be in the day. But the Son of Man is revealed. You say there's an awful lot of judgment. Well, Christ's first coming was not to judge. He says, I came not to judge the world, but to save the world. He came to redeem a people unto himself. But he's not coming as the meek, lowly, gentle Savior. That was back then. That satisfied that purpose. His coming again is for a different purpose. But come again he shall Alright, two more points, and I'll let you go. First, it was foretold by many. Number two, no one expected it. Number three, it didn't play out as anybody thought Number four, a few were waiting. And number five, most were in darkness. Number six, there was a messenger. There was a messenger. You know, perhaps God anticipated the great darkness and the devil's forces of evil, which would blind the minds of God's elect. So he sent a forerunner, a messenger named John the Baptist. And what was John's message? What was this message of this messenger? Well, he said, Prepare ye the way of the Lord, make his path straight. It was a message of repentance. John preached, saying, There come one mightier than I after me, the latchet of whose shoes I'm not worthy to stoop down and unloose. It was a message of God's holiness and God's righteousness. He said, I indeed had baptized you with water. He shall baptize you with the Holy Ghost. A message of true conversion, a change of heart. John said unto Herod, It's not lawful for thee to have thy brother's wife. John also had other messages too, a message that pointed out sin, even up to and among the rulers Even so, until Jesus returns, God has his gospel preachers and teachers that preach and teach a message of faith and repentance. They preach about God's holiness and righteousness at the exclusion of all other righteousness, even your own. Our message insists that God must change the heart, since that's the root of all problems and all ills. Our message may offend rulers, yea, even religious ones. The Lord said, yea, the time cometh that whosoever killeth you will think that he doeth God's service. So it shouldn't surprise us to find these prophecies concerning his soon return. Jesus speaks about shaming all those who are ashamed of him and his words now when he returns That he'll deliver up the kingdom to God and the Father and put down all rule, authority, power, even death itself. He's coming to put it down because it's all an offense to him That our trial of faith will be found in the praise, honor, and glory it is appearing. That in this time there's those who don't like the message, and they are rejecting us. Those who partake of Christ's suffering shall be glad with exceeding joy when his glory shall be revealed, according to Peter. And in fact, as far as the Lord's Supper is concerned, the Lord said, as often as you eat this bread and drink this cup, you do show, literally preach, the Lord's death till he comes Yes, there's a messenger now. It's gospel preachers, and they're despised, and they are lights in a great world of darkness. But praise God, there is a messenger. Well the last point I have, that was the sixth, there was a messenger, the seventh is this, is that Christ accomplished far more, far more than anyone expected. Think about it. In six days God created the universe. Men continue to explore it Learn about it. Understand how it's wired, how it all works. Ignore the atheistic scientists' vain but bold assertions for a moment, but look at their data The expanse of the starry skies, the intricacies of human life and cellular composition, DNA, the code book of life, all the interdependent ecosystems. All of that in six days, spoken by the very Word of God. And think of this, so profound was Jesus' work of a mere three-year formal ministry, just three-year formal ministry. From his baptism to the time he was taken up, just barely over three years, the church struggled for 300 years to understand just his deity Just his deity. In what way was he a manifestation of God? Was he a vision? Fully man? Fully God We can study all of our life about the tremendous benefits that His first coming accomplished for us And likewise, Jesus has been in heaven doing something on our behalf for over 2,000 years. After he prepares a place for us, he receives us unto himself so that we can be with him. He comes after he receives a kingdom for himself in a far country. The scripture tells us that I have not seen, nor ear heard, neither have entered into the heart of man the things which God hath prepared for them that love him. We have no idea the fullness, the depth, the joy, the excellence, the full measure of wonder that we will forever gratefully enjoy. In the new heaven and the new earth at his return. It's truly going to set things right beyond what right could ever possibly be. Boredom will not be a word in any dictionary in heaven. And so I hope that that encourages you this Christmas season. Maybe you're there in sickness. Maybe you're there in great pain. Maybe you're there in loneliness, whatever your situation. You you you wish you could be with family and can't get to them, or they won't even have you. Uh there's many hard things that can can happen at this time of year. In fact it can be a very depressing time of year for many people. I I can I can understand that. But praise be to God, we have a Savior who's coming, and his coming will be very different. Than the first time, but very similar in many ways. He will come to rectify and straighten all things out. He will appear the second time without sin unto salvation. So be patient, brethren, unto the coming of the Lord, for he comes for you. All right, I hope that was a blessing to you. I hope you have a merry, Merry Christmas this year.