And I'll be reading verses 1 through 11 of the chapter this morning. I preached many times from the life of Joseph. And um I would have to check back, but I believe seven years ago our first service together as Mission Bible Church may have been from Genesis chapter 37 and the story of Joseph. But you have your place now, Genesis 37, and I'll read the first eleven verses And Jacob dwelt in the land wherein his father was a stranger, in the land of Canaan. These are the generations of Jacob. Joseph, being seventeen years old, was feeding the flock with his brethren. And the lad was with the sons of Bilhah, and with the sons of Zilphah, his father's wives, and Joseph brought unto his father their evil report. Now Israel loved Joseph more than all his children, because he was the son of his old age, and he made him a coat of many colors. And when his brethren saw that their father loved him more than all his brethren, they hated him, and could not speak peaceably unto him. And Joseph dreamed a dream, and he told his brethren, and they hated him yet the more. And he said unto them, Hear I pray you this day the dream which I have dreamed. For behold, we were binding sheaves in the field, and lo, my sheaf arose and also stood upright. And behold, your sheep stood round about and made obeisance to my sheep. And his brethren said to him, Shalt thou indeed reign over us? Or shalt thou indeed have dominion over us? And they hated him yet the more for his dreams and for his words And he dreamed yet another dream, and told it his brethren, and said, Behold, I have dreamed a dream more, and behold, the sun and the moon. And the eleven stars made obeisance to me. And he told it to his father and to his brethren. And his father rebuked him and said unto him, What is this dream that thou hast dreamed? Shall I and thy mother and thy brethren indeed come to bow down ourselves? to thee, or to thee, to the earth. And his brethren envied him. But his father observed the saying. Let us bow for prayer as we approach the Word of God. Gracious Heavenly Father, we thank you for thy word. We pray this morning for the leading and the guiding of thy Spirit, for the understanding of Thy Word. Open to thy people, thy scriptures, and open to our hearts that we might receive the Word of God this day. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. We've all heard of Joseph's coat of many colors. And you've probably heard sermons or Sunday school lessons about the coat of many colors. But this morning I want to take a little different approach. and talk not solely about the coat of many colors, but rather about the many coats of Joseph For we think of the coat of many colors as his clothing, but we find that his clothing changed multiple times throughout his life. In verses 3 and 4, we find that Jacob or Israel as God renamed him. loved Joseph more than his brethren. That's not advisable with our children, is it? It never works out well when a father loves one child more than the others, but that was the case. Jacob, Israel, loved Joseph more than his brethren, and he made for Joseph, a coat of many colors. And of course, the coat of many colors was an emblem of Joseph's position and favor in his father's estimation. It was a declaration that this is the son that I am pleased in. This is the one who will receive the bulk of mine inheritance. Even though Joseph was the 11th out of 12 brethren, he was next to last in the birth order of the family. It reminds us of the words of God the Father regarding his Son, Jesus Christ. This is my beloved son, in whom I am well pleased. Hear ye him. We find in Scripture that the area where Satan first attacked Jesus was the area of his sonship. The area of his favor with God. In the temptation in Matthew chapter 4 and verse 3, and when the tempter came to him, he said If thou be the Son of God, command these stones to be made bread. And just as Joseph's brethren said, are you going to rule over me? Are you indeed the favored son of this family? So we find that Satan says to Christ, if you're really the son of God make these stones to bread. And again at the crucifixion in Matthew 27, verses 39 and 40 We find the scribes, the elders, and the Pharisees, and the chief priests. And they passed by, they that passed by reviled him, wagging their heads. And saying, thou that destroyest and buildest the temple in three days, save thyself. If thou be the Son of God, come down from the cross. And so we see right away that the very thing that God blessed the sun in This is my beloved son, hear ye him, was the thing that both man and Satan reviled him for. And the same was true with Joseph. He had this coat of many colors, this beautiful coat was which was the emblem of his father's favor and his father's blessing, and yet And we find that it was the very thing that was used against him. Christ's words to his disciples In John 15, as my Father hath loved me, so have I loved you. Continue ye in my love. Christ says, Remember my Father's love. This is my beloved Son in whom I'm well pleased. In the same way that my Father has loved me, so I have loved you. Christ says, Greater love hath no many than this, that a man lay down his life for his friends. But in that same fifteenth chapter of John and down to verse 18, Christ says to the disciples and to us If the world hate you, ye know that it hated me before it hated you. If ye were of the world, the world would love its own. But because ye are not of the world, but I have chosen you out of the world, therefore the world hateth you. You see, the very thing with which God the Father blessed Christ was the thing for which he was hated. And the very thing for which Jacob blessed Joseph was the thing for which he was hated. And the very thing for which God has blessed his church is the thing for which we are hated. It is that special favor of our Father. That the world's jealous of. That the world hates. The Apostle John, under the inspiration of the Holy Spirit, repeats this theme in the book of 1 John. chapter three and verse one Behold what manner of love the Father hath bestowed upon us that we should be called the sons of God. Therefore the world knoweth us not, because it knew him not Why does the world hate the believer? Because the world doesn't know our Father. The world is jealous of the people of God. Because the world doesn't know our Father. And again in that same chapter, 1 John 3 and verse 11, for this is the message that ye have heard from the beginning, that ye should love one another. not as Cain, who was of the wicked one, and slew his brother brother, and wherefore slew he him, because his own words were evil and his brothers righteous. Marvel not, my brethren, if the world hate you. And so the very emblem of Joseph's sonship was the reason that he was hated. But we find also that the code of sonship was falsely used and falsely misrepresented against Joseph. Doesn't that sound familiar? How often the very things that are the blessings of God are twisted And misrepresented against the children of God. If you look there, continuing in our chapter in Genesis 37 and down to verse 31. And they took Joseph's coat and killed a kid of the goats and dipped the coat in the blood. And they sent the coat of many colors, and they brought it to their father, and said, This we have found, liars. This we have found. Know now whether it be thy son's coat or no. And he knew it. And said, It is my son's coat. An evil beast hath devoured him. Joseph is without doubt rent in pieces. Have you ever been working for the Lord, doing exactly what God had told you to do? And your very service for the Lord was turned against you by evil men. The accusations came, oh, he just thinks he's better than us. No, he's pointing you to the way of salvation. Well, he just thinks that we're wicked and he's righteous. No, there's none righteous. No, not one. Well he thinks that we're sinners and he's not. No, all of sin then comes short of the glory of God And how quickly the mercy of the people of God to a lost world can be the very thing with which we are opposed. And sometimes, folks, it even comes from our brothers. Who will take what we are trying to do for the Lord and twist it around and lie against us. The very emblem of The father's love was why Joseph was hated, and the very emblem of the father's love was the thing that was used as an accusation against him. Your son must be dead. He's gone. Because here is his bloody coat. They said of Christ he saved others, himself he cannot save. And so Joseph was in no position to defend himself. He couldn't say to his father, no, I'm not dead. He couldn't say to his father, No, I I I was obeying you, I was doing what you said. But we find that his brothers Bloodying of his coat was the greatest blessing Joseph could ever receive. Let me say it again. His brothers bloodying of the coat of many colors resulted in the greatest blessing that Joseph could ever receive. Joseph has said, My brethren and my father will bow down to me. But the c day came when all Egypt bowed down before Joseph. And in verse 23 we find, and it came to pass when Joseph was common to his brothers that they stripped Joseph out of his coat. his coat of many colors that was up was that was on him. But if you look over to chapter 50, you don't need a turn, but I'll read it for you in chapter 50 and verse 20 Joseph says to his brothers, But as for you, ye thought evil against me, but God meant it unto good to bring to pass that which is today, to save much people alive. Folks, there is no trial that we can go through that God won't work together for good. There is no losing of our put a position or privilege that God will not replace with a greater position or privilege. God is working all things to good. And so the first coat that we find Joseph wearing is the coat of sonship, the coat of position and honor. But Joseph's coat is taken from him. And folks, how quickly life can change. Let me ask you a question. Can you tell me at this moment with 100% assurance that your house is not on fire? I know Brother Vince can, because he's here. But you can't tell me that. Your house could be burning down at this moment. And your entire life will be changed. Boast not thyself with tomorrow, for thou knowest not what a day might bring for. And folks, you may be here in perfect health this morning and have a horrible car accident on the way home, and your life be forever changed. Folks, life changes in an instant. And here Joseph, who is the favored son. This morning he woke up in his father's house. Tonight he sleeps in a slave caravan. This morning he woke up in for with a robe of many colors, and this evening he's naked. Folks, Scripture does not tell us. But we do not know if Joseph wore anything underneath his coat of many colors, and if he did, it wasn't much. Life changes in an instance. But has God forsaken Joseph because his outward ex uh circumstances have changed? Has God's blessing been removed from Joseph? Is Joseph any less blessed of God tonight than he was this morning? No, not at all. And so, Joseph is stripped out of his coat of many colors, but flip over to chapter 39. You're in 37. Flip over to chapter 39 and in verse 1. And Joseph was brought down to Egypt. And Potiphar, an officer of Pharaoh, captain of the guard, an Egyptian, bought him of the hands of the Ishmaelites. Which had brought him down thither. Verse 2, and the Lord was with Joseph. Are you kidding me? How could it be possible that the Lord is with Joseph? You know I'm being sarcastic. The Lord was with Joseph. Folks, if you go home this afternoon and find out your house is burned down, the Lord has not forsaken you. In fact, the Lord may be closer with you then than he was when he was with Joseph when he woke up in the morning in his father's house and in comfort. You see, God is closer to us in trials than any other time. And we find here, and the Lord was with Joseph. Verse 2 of chapter 39. And he, that's Potiphar, was a prosperous man. And he was in the house of his master, the Egyptian. And his master saw that the Lord was with him. His master, this wicked Egyptian, could see that God's with this guy. And his master saw that the Lord was with him, and the Lord made all that he did to prosper in his hand. And Joseph found grace in the sight in his sight and served him And he made him overseer over his house and over all the and all that he had, he put in his hand. And it came to pass from time to time that he made him overseer in his house and over all that he had. And the Lord blessed the Egyptian's house for Joseph's sake. And the blessing of the Lord was upon all that he had in the house and in the field. Everything that Potiphar had in his house was blessed because of Joseph. Everything that Potiphar had in his house was blessed because of Joseph. Look down to verse 7. And it came to pass after these things that his master's wife cast her eyes upon Joseph, and she said, Lie with me. Joseph was 17 years old when his father gave him the coat, so he's not much older than that. When his brothers take away his coat and he becomes the slave in Potiphar's house, and Potiphar's wife comes along to tempt him. He is at the most vulnerable time of his manhood. And Satan knows just how to tempt. Satan knows just when to get us. We read in Proverbs chapter six, for by means of a whorish woman a man is brought fault for a piece of bread, and the adulteress will hunt for the precious life. Can a man take fire into his bosom and his clothes not be burned You see, Joseph has traded the code of many colors for the code of temptation. He's traded in the coat of blessing for the coat in which he would be tempted. And again, we see a reflection of Jesus Christ For we had not a high priest which cannot be touched with the feelings of our infirmities, but was in all points tempted, like as we are, yet without sin. And Christ willingly, not as Joseph, whose coat of honor was taken from him, but Christ willingly laid aside his glory and was found in fashion as a man. He was clothed in human flesh. And in that flesh he was tempted. And so we find Joseph now in the coat of temptation. And continuing the text down to verse 20 of chapter 39, and Joseph's master took him We know the story that Joseph refused, and Joseph's master took him. and put him into the prison, a place where the king's prisoners were kept. Joseph left the coat of temptation in the hand of Potiphar's He fled. I skipped ahead. If you go back up to verse 12 of chapter 39, and she caught him by his garment saying, lie with me. And he left his garment in her hand and fled and got him out. And it came to pass when she saw that he had left his garment in her hand and was fled forth, that she called unto the men of the house and spake unto them, saying See, he that's Potiphar hath brought an Hebrew in unto us to mock us He came in unto me to lie with me, and I cried with a loud voice. And it came to pass when he heard that I lifted up my voice and cried, that he left his garment with me and fled and got him out. And she laid up his garment by her until her Lord came home. This is the second time that Joseph's coat has been used as a lie against him, isn't it? He left his coat. He was not going to defile his purity with this woman. It's interesting there in verse 14 of Genesis 39. That she called unto the men of the house and spake to them, saying, See, he hath brought in a Hebrew. She's talking about her father, or her husband. Potiphar's brought in this Hebrew. He's brought in his Hebrew to mock us. I I don't want to get way off here. I was discussing some of this with Penny this morning. There's a there's a great lesson for Christian young women that are looking for a husband here in the in the negative example of Potiphar's wife. Potiphar's wife lived in great luxury. Why? Because her husband had brought in Joseph. And we read there that Potiphar's house and Potiphar's field was blessed because of Joseph. Potter brought in Joseph, and the Lord had blessed, and she is receiving the blessings because Joseph's there, and yet she says, No, my husband brought him in to Makas. And also we find that Potiphar recognizes that the Spirit of God is on Joseph. He saw it. And yet she never saw it at all. And here this wicked woman is ready to commit adultery against her husband, who has provided for her wealth and position. There's a lot to be learned there. But the second time his coat is used against him. And so he's going from the coat of many colors, the coat of sonship To the coat of temptation with his left in the hands of his mistress. And then he comes into the coat of trials. Joseph's coat of many colors is long gone. Joseph's coat of temptation is left with his master's wife, but now Joseph is a prisoner. In our day he'd have a number on his back and stripes. He's in prison garb now. He's cast into the dungeon. Look down to verse 20. This is in chapter 39. Joseph's master took him and put him into the prison, a place where the king's prisoners were bound. And he was there in the prison, verse 21, but the Lord was with Joseph And showed him mercy, and gave him favor in the sight of the keeper of the prison. And the keeper of the prison committed into Joseph's hand all the prisoners that were in the prison. And whatsoever they did they did there, he was the doer of it. Verse twenty-three the keeper of the prison looked not to anything that was under his hand, because the Lord was with him. And that which we did, the Lord made to prosper. But what's Joseph wearing in all this? Prison guard. He's not in the coat of many colors. He probably had pretty good clothes when he was in Potiphar's house. But now he's a prisoner. And we know the story. The baker and the butler both have a dream. Baker dreams, and his dream is that he will be killed in three days. The butler's dream is that he will be restored in three days, but the butler forgets all about Joseph For two full years. For two full years. Joseph remains in the prison after he's interpreted the butler's dream. But we know the story. Pharaoh dreams a dream, and in Pharaoh's dreams seven full ears of corn come up, and seven butt blasted ears of corn eat them. Seven ill fa uh well-fat fatted cows come up and seven ill-favored cows eat them. And the butler now remembers Joseph. And if you look to verse chapter 41 and verse 14 Joseph is still in the prison in chapter 41, verse 14. Then Pharaoh sent and called Joseph, and they brought him hastily out of the dungeon. And he shaved himself and changed his raiment. Ah, there's the prison clothes. He changes his raiment. So the prison clothes have been cast off. And now he comes before Pharaoh. And he interprets the dream of Pharaoh in verse 25 of 41. The dream, Pharaoh is one. God has showed Pharaoh what is to come. Look down to verse 38 of chapter 41. And Pharaoh said unto his servants, Can we find such an one as this is, a man in whom the Spirit of God is? And Pharaoh said unto Joseph, For as much as God has showed thee all this There is none so discreet and wise as thou art. Thou shalt be over my house. Okay. Joseph was favored in his father's house. And then Joseph was favored in Potiphar's house. Now Joseph is favored in Pharaoh's house. And thou shalt be over my house, and according to thy word shall all my people be ruled. Only I in the throne will be greater than thou And Pharaoh said unto Joseph, See, I have set thee over all the land of Egypt. And Pharaoh took off his ring from his hand and put it on Joseph's hand. and arrayed him in vestures of fine linen, and put a gold chain about his neck. Isn't that beautiful, folks? Joseph had a coat of many colors And then Joseph had a coat of temptation. And then Joseph had a coat of trials in prison. But now, fourthly, Joseph has a coat of exaltation. God has brought Joseph through horrible difficulties, through grievous trials, through lies and slander. Against his very character and righteousness. But now God has brought Joseph to the coat of exaltation. Psalm 37, verse 5, Commit thy way unto the Lord, trust also in him, and he shall bring it to light, to pass. He shall bring forth thy righteousness as a light, and thy judgment as the noonday. Rest in the Lord, and wait patiently for him. Fret not thyself because of him who prospereth in his way, because of the man who bringeth wicked devices to pass. Psalm 55, 22, cast thy burden upon the Lord, and he shall sustain thee. He shall never suffer the righteous to be moved. 1 Peter 5, verse 6, humble yourself therefore under the mighty hand of God, and he shall exalt you in due time. And so we've seen four codes of Joseph. We've seen the code of many colors, the code of temptation, the code of trials, the code of exaltation. But folks, Joseph has one more code to come. And so do we. Turn to chapter 50 of the book of Genesis Genesis chapter fifty and verse twenty four Joseph is now ready to die, and Joseph says in Genesis 50 and verse 24, and Joseph said unto his brethren, I die. And God will surely visit you and bring you out of this land unto a land which he swear unto Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob. And Joseph took an oath of the children of Israel, saying, God will surely visit you, and ye shall carry up my bones from hence. So Joseph died, being 110 years old, and they embalmed him, and he was put into a coffin in Egypt. Now turn to Hebrews chapter eleven. Hebrews chapter eleven I'll give you a moment because I want you to see this. Hebrews chapter 11 and verse 22. By faith, Joseph, when he died, made mention of the departing of the children of Israel and gave commandment concerning his bones. Verse 39. All these, and these all, having obtained a good report through faith, received not the promise God having provided some better thing for us, that without us they should not be perfect. Okay, here is Joseph. He now has been second to the Pharaoh in Egypt, but he knows there's something better coming. Don't leave my bones in Egypt. Here we find at the conclusion of the Hall of Fame of faith, as we sometimes call it, for good or ill, but that's what we sometimes call Hebrews chapter 11. Here we find at the end of the chapter that all these godly saints did not receive their final reward because God has something better for us. For me. Revelation chapter 3, verse 4 and 5. Thou hast a few names, even in Sardis, which have not defiled their garments. And they shall walk with me in white, for they are worthy. He that overcometh, the same shall be clothed in white raiment, and I will not blot out his name out of the book of life. But I will confess his name before my father and before his angels. And Revelation chapter 6, verse 11, and white robes were given to every one of them. And it was said unto them that they should rest for a little season, until their fellow servants also, and their brethren that should be killed as they were, should be fulfilled. Folks, Joseph got a fifth robe. He got a robe of righteousness. Folks, if you today have repented of your sins And confessed Jesus Christ. If you are today a child of God, you are a favored son. Now are we the sons of God. And it doth not yet appear what we shall be. But when we shall see him, we shall be like him as he is. If you are a child of God today, you're wearing a robe of many colors. But all that live godly in Christ Jesus shall suffer persecution. And day by day we face temptation. And day by day, we have to leave the robe of temptation in the hand of the sinners and flee for our lives. And as we go through this life, we're gonna suffer a lot of persecution. And we might even find ourselves lied about and imprisoned for doing good. But God will always bring his children out on top. It doesn't mean we're going to be the most wealthy. Doesn't mean we're going to be the most powerful. Doesn't mean we're going to be the most hand But God will work all things together for good. And if you are currently wearing the prison garb of trials, God will bring you in again to exaltation. But folks, those first four robes are earthly robes and they have no eternal value. Well, I shouldn't say it that way entirely because we're we're robed in the righteousness of Christ. But God has prepared a white robe for me. And for all them that love him at his appearing. Folks, Joseph left the four robes behind. For the robe of glory. And so to conclude, I read from 2 Timothy four, verses 5 and 6. Endure affliction. Do the work of an evangelist. Make full proof of thy ministry. For I am now ready to be offered, and the time of my departure is at hand. I have fought a good fight. I have finished my course. I have kept the faith. Henceforth there is laid up for me a crown of righteousness Which the Lord the righteous judge shall give unto me at that day, and not to me only, but unto all them that love him at his appearance. Folks, the robes of this earth do not profit. But God has a robe of righteousness for the saints May we seek the heavenly robe. Stand with me as we pray Father, we thank you for these glorious examples that you've given to us in thy word. Father, may we bask in the sonship that we have in Christ. May we endure temptation with patience. May we endure the trials of this life in the prosperity of God. Father, knowing that you do all things well. But O Lord, may we be ready. May we be in repent, true repentance before Thee, that we might receive from Thee a robe of righteousness. Lord, we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.