Turn this morning to Acts. Doctor Luke writing. I love the thought as we as we read Doctor Luke. He's always talking about miracles and As a doctor, he can certainly confirm whether it was really a miracle or sleight of hand or something phony going on. And so when a doctor says someone was dead or someone was crippled or someone was blind, uh you find it more believable, don't you And uh this morning as we pick up in Acts chapter 14, last week we were looking at it, and there was a man that was crippled in his feet, had not walked, he was born that way. Dr. Luke assures us of this, and the people in that city certainly knew it as well. And uh through the power of God, Paul being the instrument, this man had been cured, healed. And he not only stood up, but he walked and he leaped And so we pick up there in chapter 14 and verse 19, as the man is still leaping and walking and running and jumping. And there came hither certain I'm sorry, verse eleven. And when the people saw what Paul had done, they lifted up their voices, saying in the speech of Lyconia, The gods are come down to us in the likeness of men. They apparently thought that only God could do such a thing. And they called Barnabas Jupiter. That was a name of wonder gods. In the Greek the name was Zeus And Paul they called Mercurius or Mercury because he was the chief speaker. And some of you have seen that on the on the side of trucks and vans. you'll see uh an emblem of the Mercury, the god Mercury. And he usually has a helmet with wings coming out of the side of it, and he's running very fast, and there's wings on his feet. And that's usually a uh a a telegram company for you young folks I don't know how to explain what telegram is. It's all Twitter and tweet and all this other stuff today. But that that was a time when a messenger service used the the symbol of Mercury because he brought messages swiftly and profoundly. And so Paul was the messenger. He was the one speaking. He was the preacher. Barnabas must have been the the stately ambassadors that were And so they thought and an elderly or older gentleman, and so he was Zeus or Jupiter, and his spokesperson was Mercury or the Apostle Paul here So they thought they had these two gods before them, and they called the one Jupiter and the other one they called Mercury because he was a chief speaker or messenger, and that's what Mercury the god did And then the priests of Jupiter, which was before their city, brought oxen and garlands, that's like vines and flowers and so forth, onto the gates and would have done sacrifice with the people. That is sacrifice onto Paul and Barnabas Which when the apostles Barnabas and Paul heard of, they rent their clothes, tore their clothing, and ran in among the people, crying out and saying, Sirs, why do you these things? We also are men of like passions with you, and preach unto you that you should turn from these vanities or these idols and these other gods of these foolishness onto the living God Which made heaven and earth and the sea and all things that are therein. And Paul had been preaching earlier that living God was Jesus Christ The living God was Christ who had come back from the dead, and he is the living God who made the heavens and the earth. And so then in verse 16 he says, Who in times past suffered all nations, that is, God in times past, suffered nations to walk in their own ways. Nevertheless He left not himself without witness, and that he did good, and gave us rain from the heaven, and fruitful seasons, filling our hearts with food and gladness. And with these sayings, scarce restrained they the people that they had not done sacrifice unto them. So he's Paul is saying, we're just men, and you need to worship the living God, who is Christ, and not us. And he just had a difficult time turning these people. Scarce restrained they the people That they had sacrificed unto them. And at that time there came thither certain Jews from Antioch and Iconium, who persuaded the people, and having stoned Paul. Drew him out of the city, supposing he had been dead. Albeit, as the disciples stood round about him, that is around Paul, he rose up and came into the city, and the next day he departed with Barmas to Derbe And when they had preached the gospel to that city and had taught many, they returned again to Lysra and to Iconium and to Antioch, confirming the souls of the disciples and exhorting them to continue in the faith, and that we must Through much tribulation, enter into the kingdom of God. Let me see if I can help you to picture what's going on here Paul has has perhaps been outside the gates of the city or somewhere near the entrance of the city, and he has healed this man who was who was paralyzed, who probably sat outside the gate every day begging for food and alms and so forth But what we didn't know until this week, as we read here, is that outside the gate stood this large idler statue to the god Jupiter. The pagan cities would do that. Most of the pagan cities, they would erect the statue of their god that was to protect their city. And they would erect this god that they would worship outside the main gate. A city might have many gates, a fish gate, a dung gate, uh you know, uh uh uh the Damascus gate in Jerusalem. There are several gates, but there was a main gate. The main gate that they really guarded, a larger gate, and outside the main gate, these pagan cities would place these large statues or these large idols to the God that protected their city. And in the city of Lystra, that God was Jupiter or Zeus And if you're familiar with Greek mythology, you know that Zeus, he's the toughest God. He's the most powerful God of war and so forth. And so outside the city, they had this God at the gate. Named Jupiter. And Paul had just healed somebody, and we had this priest who was always sacrificing to Jupiter and always trying to encourage the people of Lister to come out and sacrifice. And of course the more they sacrificed, the more food he got, the more grain he got, the more beef he got, the more money he got. And so when he sees this this this this miracle of man healed, he sees opportunity This is Jupiter and this is Mercury and they've come down. The gods have come down in the flesh of men and they've healed this man. And you need to come out of the city and worship my idol and worship my statue. And the people were inclined to do just that. When man rejects the inspiration of Scripture, he soon turns to the imagination of men. And that's what Greek mythology is. It's imaginations of men. God's coming down in the likeness of men, verse 11 Where did they get that from? God's coming down in the likeness of men. God's plural now, not just a God, but God's coming down in the likeness of men. Why they got that from the scriptures Where the Bible talked about angels coming down in the likeness of men. Then it could go back to the days of Abraham and Adam and Lot and Samson and Daniel when the angels did come down Many angels would come down at different times. And they were powerful angels, and they did things that one would assume only God could do. And the Bible talks about those angels But setting aside the scriptures, the superstitious people and the Greeks, they came up with an idea of gods coming down and doing miraculous and powerful things. And so it was the perversion of the Bible That was being taught this idea of gods, that there was more than one God, and that these gods would come down in the likeness of men. There has always been in the heart of man a desire for a closer relationship with God. We find it even in the pagan religions, this idea of a closer relationship with the gods, that too was a was a corruption of really man's Yearning for a closer relationship, not with the gods, but man's yearning for a closer relationship with God A relationship that we had in the Garden of Eden. Adam and Eve walked in the garden, spoke with God, walked with God. They had that closer relation. And when they were tossed out of the Garden of Eden and people rejected God's word, they were still left with a with a hole in their heart. They were still left with something missing. And and as the perversion grew and grew and they got further and further away from the inspiration of the scriptures, people still longed for that relationship with gods now, not the god, but gods, but that relationship, that yearning for that personal relationship with these gods was mythology, the imaginations of men. Well the good news is, the gospel, we hold it this morning in our hands. The good news is that We can have a personal relationship with God. That's through the Lord Jesus Christ, the Son of God, God's Son, Christ who is God. And have you thought about this? The pagans were looking for the gods to come down in flesh God did come down in flesh. But not the God's plural, but the true and living God did come down in the flesh You can see how the perversion took them away from the truth, and yet you can see where they got their ideas from, can't you, in mythology and in other religions. And so the scripture, the good news is that we can have a personal relationship with Jesus Christ. Don't you hear people say that sometimes? For God with us, God in the flesh, Christ came down in the likeness of man, did he not? As it says here in verse 11. They thought that the gods had come down in the likeness of man, Barnabas and Paul. Yet here, the city of Lystra rejected the truth. They saw the miracles that God had performed to Barnabas and Paul, but they thought they were the gods And this priest of this mythological god called Jupiter, he was going to take advantage of this, wasn't he? He brings out oxen here, they're going to sacrifice, they're going to promote this worship to Jupiter, he's going to promote the worship at his temple right outside the gates. And Barnabas and Paul are being called gods, and the people are dancing around them. They got the garlands and the sacrifice about to be made to them. And I mean you you can see all of this, and some people might be taken away, might be caught up in being called a Messiah Or being called the King of Kings, or or being some given some kind of a title of deity. Some people get very caught up in that. The Shah of Iran, his title is King of Kings And you look at the the Emperor of Japan during the Second World War. He was he was the king. He was the god of Japan. There are people who really get caught up in it. Some people have called our president the Messiah People can get really flattered by it and get caught up in that. But the Apostle Paul and Barnabas were not caught up by that. They didn't want to be thought of as gods, even if it was a little g coming down from heaven. They already had a title that they that they that they loved. It was the ambassadors of Christ Second Corinthians five and twenty. They already bore the most genuine title and the highest and most glorious title that any man could bear. It's not being president or premier or Minister of Parliament or Senator or Congressman, the greatest title any of us can bear outside of grandfather, you know, or maybe grandmother, the greatest title any of us can only the older folks might recognize what I'm saying there. But the greatest title we can bear is ambassador of Christ, and that was Paul and Barnabas. And they were not flattered by being called gods And when the apostles heard that they were being called gods, it says that they they spoke this in the Lyconian language. That was a dialect they weren't totally familiar with. And they they begin to pick up on what they were saying as this party got bigger and bigger and louder and louder that they're calling us gods. And they want to sacrifice to us. And when the apostles heard this, it says they rent their clothing, they tore their clothing. And they begin running among the people crying out, We're but men, we're but men with like passions as you. We don't we don't deserve worship. We don't want to be worshiped. We want you to worship the true and living God There was a lot of enthusiasm that morning, but it wasn't biblical enthusiasm. There are many today that would be willing to accept any form of religious enthusiasm If it draws a bigger crowd, why it gives us an opportunity to reach more for Christ, right? And there are people out there that they they they'll use wherever they can. Whatever novelty is out there, if it draws a bigger crowd, if it draws lots of enthusiasm, we can use this We can use this to promote the gospel. We can use it to push the gospel. And they'll let it ride, even though they know sometimes they're hard, there's something wrong here, there's something amiss here We we think of the novel movements in recent years of the Toronto Blessing and the Big Tongues movement up there. And uh and then we also come across the idea of the Lakeland Laughter and the Healing Ministry. And these these type of ministries are so full of enthusiasm and tongues and this this charismatic movement. It's so full of all of that and you note And and it fairly exposed itself that the gospel, the message of Christ is just totally overshadowed by nothing but feathers falling in their auditoriums. Oh, those are the feathers of the angels that God has sent here. And all of a sudden, people's teeth filling with gold, where there was once, you know, uh mercury uh fillings or something like that. And you got all this show and pizzazz and enthusiasm And there's no real message about sinners needing to be redeemed from their sins. It gets totally overshadowed by the enthusiasm that some love to incorporate because it brings in big crowds. Well, Paul and Barnabas didn't take advantage of the enthusiasm here to gather the big crowds. They tried to shut it down. It wasn't right. When you look at the life of especially of Paul, but Barnabas as well, you're going to find that when they're scoffing at Paul, He can take that. When they're laughing at Paul, he can take that. When they're threatening Paul's life, he can take that. When they're actually abusing him, he can take. Even when they stone him, Paul doesn't say a whole lot But when they start worshipping him like he's some sort of a god, he's ripping his clothing, he's shouting, No, no, I'm but a man like you, you cannot do this and not sacrifice before us. You see what upsets Paul What upsets Paul is in renting his clothes is when the center of worship is no longer Christ, but it's some other gods. Or some person in the flesh. That's what upsets Paul. Not being stoned or ridiculed or laughed at or stopped at. What upsets Paul is when Christ is not the center of the worship service We we need to be careful in this day and age when the worship service is too much about people and entertainment and little about the gospel. The blood shed on the cross for our sins. Eternity in heaven, purchased by Christ's sacrifice for us, in our place, on the cross You look through scripture and you find that this is not the only time that we find worship that was not given to Christ. John is in the book of Revelation and he's speaking. He's got all these angelic visions and heavenly visions. And at one point John is so taken up by it that in Revelation 22, John falls on his face and worships his angel And and the angels said, Do it not, do it not, worship God. We need to know that it's Christ that we worship. I don't know how some people they they lose I don't know how they lose it, but if you're Buddhist, you worship Buddhists. Got it? You know If you're a Confucian, you worship Confucius. Oh god it. If you're a Christian, you worship who? Christ. Who is God? But some people seem to miss that. Well, if you're a Christian, you worship uh God the Father. If you're a Christian, well you do worship God the Father. But God the Son and God the Holy Spirit You don't worship angels. The angel said, Do it not, worship God. So when you go through scripture, you you find Paul's being worshiped, no, don't worship me. Barnabas is being worshiped, no, don't worship me. We're but men. The angel, oh don't worshi Tell me you worship God. But hold through Scripture, whenever Christ is worship, what does he say? He accepts it. Now, is Christ a good man or a bad man? If he's not God, he's a bad man, right? I mean, a good man would not say, yeah, I'll accept the worship of me as God. But Christ accepted the worship as God because he was God. God come down in the likeness of men. God come in the flesh, but he was truly every bit of God, as much as God the Father is God or God the Holy Spirit is God. He was God And it speaks volumes that Christ accepted worship. Go in your, if you have a concordance, look up the word worship in the New Testament. Find out how many times Christ was worshipped by the disciples and by others. You heal him and they fall down and worship him. The leper comes back, falls down and worship him. The disciples, when the when the ship is about to be wrecked and sunk, and and the calms of the seas in peace, And the waves stop and the thunder stops and they worship. Christ is constantly being worshiped all through the New Testament and not once does he say, Oh, don't worship me, worship God He accepts the worship because he is. In fact, he goes further than that. Christ taught in John 14 and 9, He that has seen me hath seen the Father. Whoa! Can anybody here make that statement? He that has seen me has seen the Father. Who can that is a blasphemous statement to make if it isn't true And Christ made it. He said, He who has seen me, Philip, you want me to show you the Father? Philip. That's what he says in John 14. Philip, you want to see the Father? How long have you been with me? You haven't seen the Father. Philip, he who has seen me has seen the Father What a statement is that. What a protext for the God that Jesus Christ is God. He goes on further. He says, all men should honor the Son. even as they honor the Father. John 5 and 23. We're supposed to honor the Son as we honor the Father. That's what Christ said. Honor me as you honor the Father. But but but but Jesus, I honor the Father as though he's the God and the Creator of the heavens and the earth. He said, that's right. And you were to honor me the same as you honor the Father. I mean the statements are clear who Christ taught that he was He that believeth on me hath everlasting life. Christ teaches in John 5 and verse 44. He that believeth on me has everlasting life. What a horrendous statement to make. If I was to stand up and say, you know, if you believe on me, Keith Byrd, you'll have everlasting life. That's a horrible thing for a person to say To believe on me, you have everlasting life. But Christ says, if you believe on me, I always wish to believe on God, but Christ says Believe on me, you have a rather you believe in God, Christ says in John 14:1. You believe in God? Christ says this. You believe in God, believe also in me. Whoa, what a statement to make unless you are God. You believe in God, believe in me also. Believe on me and have everlasting life. What's John 3. 16 say? For God so loved the world and gave his only begotten Son that whosoever believeth in him shall have everlasting life. John 3. 16 says you've got to believe in Jesus to have everlasting life. What is Satan to make if he's only a man? The Lord Jesus Christ was God. Not Jupiter, not Zeus, not Mercury, not Paul, not Barnabas, not any angel. And therefore, Paul, as he's preaching them, he says, Turn unto the living God. Christ was out of the grave after three days. Turn on the living God, which made heaven and earth and all therein, who gave us rain and fruitful seasons, filling our hearts with food and gladness How much time do you spend thanking God for his goodness toward you? How much time do you thank God for thank him for the times when you are happy? When things are going good. How much time do you thank God for your meals, for your food, for your sustenance? It says there he gives us the rain. Every drop of rain, every bit of water on this planet, every bite of food is dependent upon God Sending rain. If God didn't send rain on America, we look like the Mojobi Desert in a year. Or like Saudi Arabia. I mean, what if he didn't send rain? On the United States. We're so taken for granted this beautiful country. We have lots of rain. If you get a chance to travel around the world, you discover a lot of countries that don't have any rain Iran, Afghanistan, Iraq, Israel. They don't have a lot of rain. We are a blessed country. It's so blessed. We have food, we have sustenance, fruitful seasons. And if we didn't have any of that, there'd be wailing and weeping and woes in our life. So do you spend time thanking God for every morsel that goes into your mouth, for every raindrop that falls on the crops Tell you America was better off when we were a agrarian or a farming society where everybody grew their own food. Raise their own cattle. They understood. They prayed for the rains. They prayed for the wind. They prayed for the pollination. They prayed for the fruitful crops. They pray Prayed they knew there was a God Now we live in an industrial high-techie world and we've all forgotten. I mean you talked to kids in the cities. They've never seen a milk cow. They don't know where milk comes from. They think it comes from a plastic carton or something. It's bizarre. They don't have any appreciation that comes from God You breathe life into us. And you ought to hear once a while as the breath goes out of us that the Lord is good. Have you said that lately? Psalm 145, 9 and 10, as you're breathing in and out daily, do you ever breathe out and say Oh, the Lord is good. Praise the Lord. I don't mean like the characters back just, praise the Lord, oh, praise the Lord, praise the Lord. I don't mean that, but I mean, praise the Lord. Joy comes out of the hospital. She praises the Lord. You haven't even been in the hospital. Can you praise the Lord? You haven't been in the hospital. The Lord is good. For every meal, for every moment of gladness in your life, it is due to the goodness of God. For every moment of happiness in your life, and I know that not every day is happy and every hour is happy. Sometimes you go through months of of a lack of of real happiness or joy, but the fact is you've had some good days, you've had some happy days. And it it's because of the goodness of God that we are all this morning not in hell. We all deserve it. I deserve it. What do you think I've arrived and I'm some sort of a perfect saint or something? I'm not. I've committed enough sins in the last 24 hours to go to hell. Only takes one. But do you think I don't ever covet something? We all deserve hell and we're here this morning instead. Because of the goodness of God, the forgiveness of God, the mercy of God, the grace of God. And whatever's going on in your life, you ought to be able to say, Praise the Lord, I'm not in hell at this moment. And with all that Paul had to say about God sending the rain and the goodness of God. And that he wasn't a God come in the flesh. With all these things, verse 18 and 19, scarce restrained they the people from sacrificing unto them. I mean, Paul is giving us his best, and Paul was a preacher They called him Mercury because he could speak, he could preach, and with all the power that he had in him, and with all the way to exhort and rebuke and admise, whatever he could do, with everything in Paul, he could scarcely keep them from still sacrificing to him. And while he was there and and they're they're starting to think you know what Paul is saying, or maybe there's some substance to it, along come these Jews from Antioch and Iconium, and they persuade the people that Paul was just a man. Oh, did they ever They came in there and they put the final nail in the coffiners where they persuaded what Paul was. And by the time they got through, verse 19, they stoned Paul. What did the Jews from Antioch and Iconium say to turn this mob of adoration into assassination? Boy, that's a crit term of events, isn't it? They're adoring Paul. It was adoration. Now we're going to assassinate him. They may have came and said things we read of Things were said of Paul all through Acts. Acts seventeen six. He turns the world upside down. He's gonna shake this place up so bad. You're not gonna like this guy around. You're gonna wish you never came here He turns the world upside down. He's a pestilent fellow. He he's even going about profane the temple in Jerusalem, and you'll profane your temple here as well. Acts twenty-four five and six. Or perhaps they said that like the Lord Jesus Christ. Oh yeah, he's got power, all right. Yeah, he's got power. He can cast out demons. He can heal through the power of the Elzabod, the chief of the devils. Luke 11 and 15. That was said of Christ And Christ said, What they say of me, you think they won't say that of you also? So whatever we they said, they were easily able to convert this adorating adoring crowd into a murderous mob These Jews had come from Iconium. It says here in Antioch. If we go back a chapter, we find that it was in an uh it was in uh an Antioch. that they had expelled Paul, tossed him out, drove him out of the city. And again in Iconian, the same thing. They got rid of him up there as well. They they they just they hated the gospel of Jesus Christ. They hated the gospel of Jesus, they hated the Bible, they hated the scriptures, they hated those who loved the scriptures, they hated those who love Christ, they hated him, and they and they just hadn't done enough yet They taught them out of Actonium, they taught them out of Antioch, but they must do more. They're just not done yet. Does anybody here really think that that crowd out there to remove the Bibles from the schools is done? Or they remove the Bible to the courthouse and they're done? Or they remove the name of Jesus Christ in the prayers at the at the naval academies and at the chaplains of the military. Do you think the one thing in all that will be done? They'll never be done They hate so much. Hell and destruction are never full, we read in Proverbs 27 and 20. The enemies of the gospel of Christ will always feel like they must do more So don't think, well, we give them this, we give them that, they'll leave us alone. They will never leave us alone as long as there's one Christian left on earth They'll have to get rid of him too. They'll have to shut down the libraries and pull those books out of the libraries, especially the ones that have the word holy Bible written on them. They're never done. Christ said they would chase you from city to city. They're never done. And so here they stoned Paul and they drew him out of the city, supposing him to have been dead. Uh the English there says they drew them out of the city, but the Greek implies more they dragged his dead body out of the city. I mean envision him. Paul has been stoned, he's lying there, they assume he's dead. One guy grabs one leg, one grabs the other leg, perhaps with a head, and they drag him out of the city's head bumping on the cobblestones all the way up. I mean if the story didn't kill him Then they're dragging him out, the carelessly dragging the dead body out and just throwing it away like a piece of rubbish or trash. That would have been enough to kill him Dr. Luke does not say he was dead, but that it appears that he was dead Y you just have to wonder how irrational these people are. I mean, if they were rational people and they thought the Paul and Barnabas were not that the Paul and Barnabas were gods And that's what they thought. Then surely if they're gods, you would believe what they had to say, wouldn't you? And what they had to say was that there is a God Who has come down in the flesh, who you can't have a personal relationship. His name is Jesus Christ. I mean if you believe we're gods and we're not, you would at least think that a rational man would believe what Paul and Barnabas said I mean if you think something highly of a person and that person says, No, that's not true. Actually that this is what's true about me. But by the way And you you would say, Wow, there's a really honest guy. He says he's not a god But he has something he would like to share with me. I can believe a guy like that. But the irrationale of people who are not saved, they would not listen to Paul. He tells them he's not a God. You think they would have listened to him when he had to tell them about the real God, the living God But the unsaved man is not rational. He's just not rational. And Paul was trying to teach him about the living God that made the heavens and the earth and all the things that are therein. But how quickly the cornal natural heart of man flip-flops We got politicians like that. Flip and flop. In fact, I don't know if we got any that don't flip and flop. The carnal natural heart of man. It flips and flops so much. James talks about chapter one or verse eight. He calls him a double-minded man who flips and flops. That's what we'll be voting for probably in November. Lots of flip-floppers And they're they're they're they're not only double-minded, but the Bible says in James 1. 8, they're unstable. And hence we get an unstable government. Do we not? And so here they were. They were flipping and flopping. Oh, he's a God. Now he's not a God. Oh he's a God. One hour they're tossing compliments at Paul, and the next moment they're tossing rocks at Paul's head. That's how quickly things change, you know I mean, one hour they're singing, Hosanna's to Christ! Hosanners to Christ! And the next they want to hang him on a cross. Crucify him They're throwing their garments on the street before Christ and short time afterwards they're ripping his garments off and gambling over them and ripping them and throwing them apart. I mean that's how quickly people change. Irrational people, they flip and they flop And so they dragged Paul's lifeless body out, who the man who they were worshiping, ready to sacrifice before, carelessly along the ground. They tossed him outside the city. Left him as though he had been dead. They left Christ in the tomb, and he was dead. But God always gets the last word. Always, always, always, always. And so they're out there and look at verses twenty and twenty two and the disciples they stood around him. Now, you know, unless we really pray about these things and read these things again and again, we we miss a little bit. They're not standing around the dead body falling and says, Well What are you doing now, guys? I don't know. Things aren't looking good back in Lister. Well, uh, everybody want to go fishing? I don't think so. They stood around and said, at the disciples, these are the followers of Christ. people whose hearts have been touched. Maybe Timothy was standing there. He was from Lystra. I don't know when Timothy got saved. He could say before the stoning of Paul or after the stoning of Paul. I don't know. He could say the first time Paul came to Lystra or the second or the third time he came there. But I do know this. As the disciples stood around about him, and maybe Timothy was there by then, as they stood around him, don't you think really what was going on? They were weeping and crying and figuring the ministry is over. I mean if they'll do this to Paul, we're next Does anybody else really want to continue this ministry? And they had to be weeping. And probably someone said we need to pray over this broken, bloody body before we bury it. And I think these men were in fervent prayer and they were weeping. What, the liquid tears? God said he puts our tears in a bottle. The liquid prayers of a man or the prayers of a righteous man availeth much, and so as they stand before they appear to be the dead body of Paul, we don't know if he was or not There are later places where Paul said that he knew a man that was caught up in the third heavens, whether he was dead or alive, I know not. They think Paul was talking about himself. And he heard and he saw things of which he was not allowed to speak, Paul says. And they think that this is when Paul was caught up in the third heavens And whether he was dead or not, even Paul's not sure whether he was dead or not. But these men are lying, they're standing with this body, and they see a bloody, broken body, and I believe that they were praying and weeping And Paul rose up. I mean, can you imagine? How do we pray? We hold fold our hands, we close our eyes, and we pray And you hear somebody, oh somebody else must be joining us over here, that's good. And a couple of people I feel a little rusty and moving, but I'm going to keep my eyes closed and keep on praying. Fervent prayers of the righteous man availh much. And they got through praying, they looked up, and there's Paul Paul's not on the ground here, but Paul's risen up. Whoa! Oh Paul! What happened? Well, I'm here. I'm feeling pretty good. Let's get out of here. And what does Paul say? Paul rose up, he came into the city. He said, Oh, we're going back to Lystra. They just stoned you. I said, I know that, but we're going back to Lystra. I mean read that's what it says in verse 20. He rose up and he came into the city again. Now that's miraculous, isn't it? It's one thing that he survived the stoning or that God resurrected from the dead. We're not sure there. But with this renewed vigor He heads back into the city. He doesn't say, you know, I can see the writing on the wall. I I can see I put out the fleece. I I the look for God's sign of whether I should go back or not to that city of Lystra We're going somewhere else, that's for sure. But that's but that's not Paul. You talk about the perseverance of Paul, they've stoned this guy to death, they dragged his body out, head bumping along the cobblestones all the way out Toss them on the pile, the crumbled, bleeding, dying body, or dead body is there. And Paul gets up. Go back to Lystra. I got more to say to them. That's the perseverance of a Christian. The perseverance here of Paul. He must have gone back into Lister. And you can just imagine the people. I mean, probably the blood was still in the clothing. They knew who it was. Maybe the bruises were gone. Maybe the the gases were gone. Maybe they were still there, I don't know. But this guy comes back in smiley. And he comes back and he begins to preach to them. And I have to think that he stood there and he says, uh, now then uh before this momentary inconvenience, where was I? Where was it before I was rudely interrupted? And starts speaking to the same crowd again. And says, oh yes, I turn on to the living God, who made the heavens and the earth, and who blessed us with the rain. And he begins to exhort them. And I bet those disciples have followed him back in where can you imagine going back in the lister with Paul? When they see you, they're going to stone you again. We're right behind you, Paul. We're right behind you, Paul. He starts preaching to the same crowd. And to the ones behind him, exhorting them to continue in the faith. Wow. That's the perseverance of Paul, to go through all these difficult times. Are you going through difficult times this morning? Persevere. All that live godly in Christ Jesus will suffer persecution. Oh now the problem with that is we're sitting just one I've got tough things. I'm going through things in my life that are just miserable. But it's not persecution for Christ. If it was persecution for Christ, I think I could take it. But it's not How do you know it's not? Job was filled with boils. His health was shot. Why? He didn't know why. All he knew is he was sickly and he had boils and and his his health was just horrible. But we find out later on that what was it It was a challenge Satan had made with God, and it's Satan to give him permission, and this persecution that Job was under, his flesh was like rotting and boiled and infested. And it was persecution He didn't know it at the time. And so you may be in a sickly body this morning. Or maybe you've got some family crises. Boy, Jove had a family crisis. All his kids were dead. He didn't see that as a persecution for Christ's sake But when we read the story of Job, it was. You know it's you know the hardest thing about going through what we're going through right now, all of us, and we all well we just start to back around, work our way all up. We've all got struggles The hardest thing about what we're going through right now is if we're a Christian, if we love the Lord, we haven't connected the dots yet. We haven't realized that what we're going through is because we love Christ. We are being persecuted. If it's an unhealthy body, if it's a if it's the disruption of our family as it was with Job If it's if it's harassing by old friends who come to them to give him good advice, which is horrible advice, I mean whatever whatever Job was going through. Financial problems, Job had them too All this land, all this cattle, all his camels, everything was drawn. Whatever you're going through right now, the toughest thing about it is you just can't connect the dots that this is persecution for Christ's sake. And if you're not saved, I can't connect those dots either. But if you are saved, think about this. Satan is sitting up there watching how you're handling yourself, Christian. And God's up there saying, She or he will handle it just fine. And Satan says, Oh, really? Watch what I can throw at them. Then we'll see if they don't curse God and die. Then we'll see if they can say, Praise either Lord or not. Well, you want to kick Satan in the teeth this morning, whatever's going on in your life, you walk out and you say, Praise the Lord, I'm not in hell. Whatever's going on in here is only momentary. It's only an inconvenience like Paul being stoned. We ought to walk back out there, wherever's going in our life, we look at the Lord, thank him, and and then look out over the world and the devil's crowd and say, now where was I before I was so rudely interrupted? What you're going through this morning, if it's physical health, if it's finances, family tragedies, it's all there that you might glorify the Redeemer, the Lord Jesus Christ. You don't see that this morning? Neither did Job. But Job's stories are to tell us that that's what's going on in the heart and the household of the believer. So persevere, Paul would tell us. Paul says it's but a light affliction. It's but for a moment, Corinthians four and seventeen. You know what the good part of all this is? The Lord Jesus Christ, who is the living word, in your life, as well as Paul's and Job's. Whatever's going on, comfort yourself with this. He is going to get in the last word. And it'll be a good word, and it will bring you gladness to your heart. Let's pray. Lord, we do thank thee that your word always stands. Your word is good and gracious. And that you will get in the last word. Satan may go before the white throne judgment and toss charges at us. And bring up our sin nature and our failings. But our Messiah, our Christ, the King of Kings, our mediator, he gets the last word on judgment day. And if we love his son, that last word will be a good word said for us. Oh Lord, comfort us today with your good words. Comfort us a day with your gospel, the good news. Until we hear the last words. Well done, thy good and faithful servant. And all of God's people said, Amen.