Open in your Bibles with me, please, through the glorious passage of Joshua chapter 5. And I'm going to read just the last three verses of this amazing chapter of God's Word. I would love to jump into a lot of other verses, but I think we'll just focus on these last three verses. Joshua chapter five Verse 13, 14, and 15. And it came to pass when Joshua was by Jericho. that he lifted up his eyes and looked, and behold, there stood a man over against him, with his sword drawn in his hand. And Joshua went unto him and said unto him: Art thou for us or for our adversaries? And he said, Nay, but as the captain of the host of the Lord am I now come. And Joshua fell on his face to the earth and did worship, and said unto him, What saith my Lord unto his servant? And the captain of the Lord's hosts said unto Joshua, Loose thy shoes from off thy foot. For the place whereon thou standest is holy. And Joshua did so. Let us bow for prayer. Father, now as we approach the Word of God, we do so humbly. We do so graciously. We do so, O Lord, with hunger, that you might teach us from thy word. That you might give us this day a message which would ring in our hearts throughout this week, which would remind us again and again of who you are, of how you are, of who we are. And of your mercies to your people. Father, we thank you, Lord, that as our brother pointed out in Sunday school, this is indeed the living word of God. It is not stale. It is not decaying. It ever lives. And so, Father, bless your truth to the hearts of your people this day, in Jesus' name. We find Joshua Here before Jericho, and he sees a man. It seems to be a sudden appearance. There is a man that is standing in his way. That's literally what that over against him means. It's a phrase that almost shows a bit of opposition. Someone who stands in the way just as the angels stood in the way of Balaam's donkey. There is a man over against him. Hence Joshua's question, are you for us or are you for our adversaries? A man. We know and we will dispense right away with the notion that this was simply an angel. This man that stood before Joshua was the second person of the Trinity. It was the pre-incarnate Jesus Christ before he became flesh and dwelt among us. He, as we saw in Sunday school, always was the same yesterday, today, and forever. He here appears to Joshua. He gives us his identity. Art thou for us or for our adversaries? Nay, I am neither here for you or for your adversaries. I'm the captain. I am not a simple foot soldier for the enemy or a foot soldier for you. I am here as the Lord. I am here as the captain. And I am here as the captain of the Lord's host. And we're going to talk about who the Lord's host is. a little later on. As the captain of the host of Jehovah am I now come. That word captain is an interesting word. Captain is the most frequent translation of this word. It's also translated ruler in some passages. But this word captain is the same word we find in Isaiah 9, 6, where we find that he is described as the wonderful counselor, the mighty God, the everlasting Father, the Prince Of peace. That word prince is the same word captain. Here, where he says, I'm the captain of the Lord's host, he's using a word that is also translated the prince. This is Jesus Christ before his incarnation in Bethlehem. This is the one who was in the beginning was the word, and the word was with God, and the word was God. This is the one by him all things were made by him. And without him was not anything made that was made. Hey, are you for us or for our adversaries? What a foolish question. Nay. I'm neither. I'm the captain. I'm not a foot soldier. I'm the captain of the Lord's host. And so we know that it is Christ because he declares his identity. But also we find that he accepts worship. And consistently in Scripture where an angel appears to man, the angels will not accept worship. Remember in the Apocalypse when John When John bows down to the angel and he says, No, no, no, no, no, I'm your fellow servant. But here we find that he accepts worship. Joshua falls on his face to the earth and did worship. And he accepts that worship. We know also that this is indeed God appearing to Joshua. because he tells Joshua, Remove your pews. The place wherein you stand is holy ground. The first time that God appeared to Moses, God told him at the burning bush, Moses, take off your shoes. And that was at the outset of the ministry of Moses. Now Joshua is going up against an army without Moses for the first time. And God says, Joshua, take off your shoes. The place where you stand is holy ground. What had simply been a battlefield is now transformed. Jericho wasn't holy ground But with Jehovah there, now it is holy ground. The burning bush was like any other bush in the wilderness. until Jehovah inhabited it. And now it is holy ground. And we're going to touch on that a little bit more in throwing the message beyond our introduction. First thing I would have us to see about the captain of the Lord's host is he was there. He was there And to use alliteration, he was present. All of our points today will have a P. The captain of the Lord's host was present. He was there in the time of need. We read when David changed his behavior, when David had to feign to be a madman and let his spit come down on his beard. David declared in Psalm 34, the angel of the Lord encampeth round about them that fear him and delivereth. him. Here we find that the angel of the Lord, the captain of the Lord's hosts, was present with him. In the wilderness he was always there. He was with them in a cloud cloudy pillar during the day and a pillar of fire by night. And he was there beside the wall of fire. Jericho. The captain of the Lord's host is present. When we run into difficulty, when we run into problems, he's present. He's not just present when we have problems. He's always present with us. Remember Elijah and his servant? The city was surrounded by men And they were coming to capture Elijah. Elijah's life seemed to be in peril, but in 2 Kings 6 and verses 16 and 17. Elijah says, Fear not, for they that be with us are more than they that be with them. What are you talking about? There's two of us here. There's Elijah and his servant. And Elijah prayed and said, Lord, I pray thee open his eyes that he may see. And the Lord opened the eyes of the young man, and he saw And behold, the mountain was full of horses and chariots of fire round about Elijah. I love it. It says around about Elijah. It doesn't say round about the city. The city was surrounded by men. But Elijah was surrounded by horsemen and chariots of fire. Folks, we find here We find here Joshua. What is his condition? Well, first of all, Moses is dead. Think about that. Joshua has been the protege of Moses. Moses is dead. We read in the preceding verses that the manna has ceased. I've got all these people. How am I going to feed them? There is no more manna. Through the whole ministry of Moses, there has been manna. They were in enemy territory. They have crossed over Jordan. They are about to face their first battle against a defensive position. We know that when the children of Israel fought Amalek, that Joshua was the captain of the army there. That was when they fought Amalek, that was when Aaron and Hur held up Moses' hands. And as long as Aaron and Hur held up Moses' hands. Israel prevailed. But when Moses put down his hands, Amalek prevailed. And so uh Moses and her held up Moses hands till the going down of the sun and they prevailed. Joshua was the captain in that army. But that was 40 years ago, folks. You realize that was when they came out of Egypt. Forty years have passed. We're in enemy territory We're facing a defensive position. We have folks here that can tell us about defensive positions. We are supposed to go up against the mighty walls of Jericho where they can shoot us with arrows Where where they can throw rocks on us? We have no defense. But God was there. The captain of the Lord's host was present. That made all the difference in the world. Daniel! Daniel, are you alright? God has sent his angel and he shut the lion's mouth. Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego, how is it no fire kindles on your bodies? There's someone else there. Did not we throw three men bound into the furnace? Lo, I see four, and the fourth is like unto the Son of God. Folks, Jehovah is with us in our troubles. Be strong and of good courage, fear not, nor be afraid, for the Lord thy God, he it is that doth go with thee And he will not fail thee, nor forsake thee. And I'm not going to read the whole Psalm again, but we read Psalm forty-six for our responsive reading this morning. God is our refuge and our strength A very present help in trouble. The Lord of hosts is with us. The God of Jacob is our refuge. The Lord of hosts is with us. The God of Jacob is our refuge, Selah. Folks, we find that in this time of greatest need, Jehovah was there. Now, did he just show up then? No. He had been there all along. He was with his people. So the captain of the Lord's host was present. He was there. But secondly, the ho captain of the Lord's host was prepared. He's prepared for war. He's prepared for battle. Look at verse 13. And it came to pass when Joshua was by Jericho that he lifted up his eyes and looked And behold, there stood a man over against him with his sword drawn in his hand. He's pictured as standing. Now, what do we know about Christ? Well, we find that Christ is seated at the right hand of God the Father We find that when he finished his high priestly duties, he sat down. But folks, it is no contradiction to find him standing here. Remember when Stephen was being martyred at the martyrdom of Stephen, Stephen said, Behold, I see the heavens open, and the Son of Man standing at the right hand of God. Folks, he was standing. When I when I was in college, I did a bit of fencing. No, not post of barbed wire. A bit of sword fencing And the first position in fencing is the on guard, is with the sword forward and your weight slightly shifted to the front It's a position from which you can very quickly spring forward, but it's also a position where you can parlay, where you can parry. A sword, where you can get out of the way of a sword. It's a very eager position. And that's the way I picture him standing here. He's standing He's not lying down. He's not slumbering or sleeping, but rather he is standing, and his sword is drawn in his hand. One of the things they they teach us in self-defense is the quick draw. He doesn't have to draw. The sword is in his hand. Folks, not only was was he present with them, but he was prepared. He that keepeth Israel neither slumbers nor sleeps. He was prepared for the defense. In Exodus 15, verse 3, we find The Lord is a man of war. The Lord is in his name. Folks, or I'm sorry, the Lord is his name. You know, we we talk about our leaders being men of peace. And we talk about our leaders being, you know, speaking the right words and so on and so forth. But when it comes to a fight, do you want somebody who's polite or somebody who's a bully? Yeah. Our God, to the defense of his people, is a bully. He is dominant You're not going to push him around. He is a man of war. Psalm 24, verse 7 and 8. Lift up your heads, O ye gates. And be lifted up ye everlasting doors, and the king of glory shall come in. Who is the king of glory? The Lord strong and mighty, the Lord mighty in battle Mighty in battle. He was prepared. And of course the description you have of Christ in Revelation 19, 11, I saw heaven open. And behold, a white horse, and he that sat upon it was called faithful and true, and in righteousness doth he judge and make war. And again in Revelation 19, verse 13 and following, and he was clothed with a vesture dipped in blood, and his name was called the Word of God. And the armies which were in heaven followed him upon white horses, clothed with fine linen, white and clean, and out of his mouth goeth a sharp sword. With that with it he should smite the nations, and he should rule them with a rod of iron, and he treadeth the wine press in the fierceness of the wrath of the Almighty God There in Revelation, Christ is described with a sword going out of his mouth. Now, remember the question. This is very important. Remember the question that Joshua asked. Are you for us or for our adversaries? No. I'm here as the captain of the Lord's host. Folks, how was Israel to overcome this defensive position? Catapults? Cannons, swords, javelins? No They were to shout. It was to be a shout. Look back to chapter 6. Chapter 6, verse 10. Or I'm sorry, the next chapter over chapter 6, you're in chapter 5, chapter 6, verse 10. And Joshua commanded the people, saying, Ye shall not shout. nor make any noise with your mouth. Neither shall ye say neither shall any word proceed out of your mouth until the day that I bid you shout, then ye shall shout And it came to pass, verse 16, and it came to pass at the seventh time when the priest blew with the trumpet, Joshua said to the people, Shout, for the Lord hath given you the city. Verse 20, so the people shouted with the priest uh when the priest blew the trumpet, and it came to pass when the people heard the sound of the trumpet and the shout with a great shout and the people shouted with a great shout that the walls fell down flat. Now folks I've heard theories that when the priest blew the trumpet and the people shouted, it was such a great noise that caused an earthquake and the walls fell down. Folks, hear me now. When the children of Israel were told, don't say a word until you're to say a word. But then when the time came, they were to say a word. They were speaking the word of God. That shout was the inspired word of God. Don't speak out of turn. Don't speak when you want to speak. Don't say what you want to say. Don't say a word until you are inspired to shout. Is what Israel is being told here. And when they shouted, that same sword that proceeds out of the mouth of God, which is the word of God, when the word of God smacked up against the walls of Jericho, they fell flat. And then compare to that Gideon. Gideon has 30 some thousand men and then twenty thousand and finally Gideon has three hundred men And they come up to battle, and they have a picture And a trumpet and a lantern. Three items. The lamp is inside the pitcher, and the trumpet. Which hand are they supposed to hold a sword with? Okay, they don't have a hand for a sword, folks. They've got three items and two hands. And yet how is it that the battle is won? It's a shout. They break their pictures, so the light is shown, thy word is a lamp to my feet and a light to my path, and they shout, the sword of the Lord of Gideon. And the Midians are turned upon each other and kill one another, and the battle is won. Gideon didn't have a sword. It was the Lord's sword, and it was the shout. Folks, what happens here at the Wall of Jericho is that the Word of God was prepared to do its work. And the Son of God was prepared to lead the hosts of heaven against the enemy. And so, it was not the sword of man, but it was the sword of God. It was the word of God. And so we find that the captain of the Lord's host was present. He was there. And we find that he was prepared for war. But we find also that the captain of the Lord's host was preeminent. Or he was presiding. He was in charge. Verse 14, Nay. But as the captain of the host of Jehovah am I now come. Now what do we find here? First of all, we find he wasn't immediately recognizable. Where is God in my problems? Oh, God's right there. You may not see him. You may not recognize him, but it's not for the lack of his presence. This is something I've been impressed with, and you've you've heard heard it in prayer different times that In a lot of circles we hear people pray, Lord, meet with us. And I don't criticize that prayer. I understand what they're praying. But God has promised that if we're gathered in his name, he meets with us. And so the problem is not that he's not with us, it's that we're too blind to see him. The problem is not that he fails to meet with his people, but that the spiritual condition of his people is such that we don't hear his word. If I regard iniquity in my heart, the Lord will not hear me. And also, if I regard iniquity in my heart, I won't hear him. His word will not speak to me if I'm in rebellion. His word will be to me a closed book if I am not ready to receive it. And so we find here that Joshua sees this man, but he does not recognize who it is. God is always with us in our greatest times of need, but God does not always show himself to us as dramatically as he did. unto Joshua. Remember Jacob alone in the wilderness in Genesis 828? And Jacob awaked out of his sleep and said, Surely the Lord is in this place. And I knew it not. God was there. God was with Jacob in the wilderness. And Jacob continues, and he was afraid and said, How dreadful is this place? This is none other than the house of God and the gate of heaven. Folks, the normal becomes extraordinary. Extraordinary. Just like I mentioned the bush that of of Moses there in the wilderness was not Different than any other bush until the fire of God was in the bush. Jacob arrives at a certain place. It's the place you pick to camp. Any of you that have camped away from set you know camping sites know you pick a good place to camp. You set up Suddenly this place where Jacob has set up camp is the place where God is. It says there in Genesis 28 that he lighted on a certain place and tarried there all night. Remember young Samuel in the temple? The Lord called to Samuel, and Samuel answered, Here am I. Samuel runs to Eli the priest and says, You called me. And Eli said, No, I didn't call you. And we read there in 1 Samuel 3 and verse 7. Now Samuel did not yet know the Lord, neither was the word of the Lord yet revealed unto him. Samuel didn't yet know the Lord. He heard the voice and thought it was Eli. Here we find Joshua. He doesn't recognize this man yet. And the same was true with Moses. Moses is keeping his foot his father-in-law's sheep in the backside of the desert, and he sees a bush on fire that's not consumed. Now if any of you have ever thrown a dead Christmas tree into the fire, my boys looked forward when you had l live Christmas trees. That was the that was that was the best part of the new year. was the to to burn that Christmas tree. It it takes about five seconds. Great fire. We destroyed a stand one year when we left it in the stand. Moses turns aside to see this thing. Take off your shoes, it's hollowed ground. Folks. Wherever God is is hollow ground. The fiery furnace was hollow ground. The den of lions was hollow ground. The wall of Jericho was hollow ground. Folks, your bed of sickness Can be hollow ground. Because God is present with his people. He's in charge with his people. And he's prepared with his people. So first of all we find under this point that that he was not immediately recognizable, but secondly he was indeed the captain He was indeed in charge. He was the commander. What does all your army amount to, Joshua? They're just going to march around the wall seven times, but it's my word that's going to win the battle. But the third thing under these subpoints, he was not immediately recognizable, he was indeed the captain. But the third thing that we find under him being preeminent or being presiding The captain of the Lord's host knew Joshua better than Joshua knew himself Folks, this is so evidently the truth. We pray according to our will. God answers according to his The question that Joshua asked is, are you going to fight for us or are you going to fight for our adversaries? No, I'm here as the captain of the Lord's host. And folks, who was the Lord's host here? At at first blush, at first glance, to look at it quickly, you would say, well, you know, he's here as the captain of Israel. No, folks. It's not Israel. Yes, he's Israel's captain. But when he says, I'm here as the captain, are you for them or for us? Neither. I'm here as the captain of a different host. Not the host of Jericho, not the host of the children of Israel that I've delivered out of Egypt. I'm here as the captain of a third host. the host of Jehovah. Second Kings, or 1 Kings 22 and verse 19, hear thou therefore the word of the Lord I saw the Lord sitting upon his throne, and all the hosts of heaven standing by him on his right hand and on his left. Psalm 103, verse 20 and 21. Bless the Lord, ye angels that excel in strength, ye that do his commandments, hearkening unto the voice of the Lord, bless the Lord, all ye his hosts. That's the only we talked about before. It's Hebrew parallelism, where it states it in one verse and then it states the exact same thing in the next verse in a little bit different way. The angels of the Lord and all ye host is the parallel. They are one and the same. Daniel 7. Verse 9 and 10, I beheld till the thrones were cast down, and the ancient of days did sit, a fiery stream issued and came forth from him Thousands, thousands ministered unto him, and ten thousands time ten thousand stood before him. The judgment was set, and the books were opened And then again remember the words of Christ. Thinkest thou that I cannot pray my Father, and he shall presently give me more than twelve legions of angels. Are you for us or for our adversaries? No, Joshua. I'm here as the captain of the Third Army. Now folks, what does that mean? It means on one hand, your problems are irrelevant. And it means on the other hand, your fighting against your problems are irrelevant. You're present, but are you here to fight against my financial difficulties or are you here to pour a bunch of money on me? No, I'm here as the captain of the host of heaven. Are you here to fight against my sickness or to fight with my doctors? No, I'm here as the captain of heaven. I'm here as the captain of a third host. And it was the third host that defeated the armies of Jericho. It was the third host that defeated the armies of the Amalekite when Aaron and Hur held up the hands of Moses. It was the third host that defeated the armies of Egypt in the Red Sea. And folks, you will not win the victory through your own machinations. Satan will not win the victory because he has a host, but God will win the victory because he's the captain of the third host. He's preeminent. He rules through the host of heaven. And so we find that in the time of greatest need When Joshua found himself without his leader Moses, when Joshua found himself with no more manna to feed the people, when Joshua found himself in enemy territory and facing a defensive position. The captain of the Lord's host was present. And when he faced all those problems for which he was totally unprepared. The captain of the Lord's host was prepared for battle. It was standing with his sword drawn. And when Joshua thinks that he is in charge of the army that's going to have to fight against Jericho, Christ comes along and says, No, I'm the captain of the third army. Stand still and see the salvation of the Lord. I'm preeminent. I'm predominant. I'm presiding. I'm the one who by my word will knock down the walls of Jericho. Don't you say anything before, because that's not the word of God. But when you're commanded, I will give you the word, and you will shout, and the walls will fall down. And so I can conclude this morning with the words of the old hymn, the poem written by William Cooper. If you've ever studied William Cooper's life, his his biography is called The Wounded Deer. Um a man who had great trials, a man who attempted suicide two different times because he was in such great depression and trials. But William Cooper wrote these words. Jesus, where'er your people meet, there they behold your mercy seat. Where'er they seek thee thou art found, and every place is hallowed ground. For you within no walls can find, are dwelling in the humble mind. Such ever bring you where they come. and going take you to their home. Dear shepherd of your chosen few, your former mercies here renew, here to our waiting hearts proclaim the sweetness of your saving name. Here may we prove the power of prayer, to strengthen faith and sweeten care. To teach our faint desires to rise, to bring thy light before our eyes. Lord, we are few But thou art near, Nor short your arm, nor death your ear. O Ren the heavens, come quickly down, And make our heart fainting hearts thine own Let us pray. Father, we thank you for thy word. We thank you, Lord, that in the greatest times of trial you are always present. Even though we don't perceive your presence, even though we're not aware of the presence of God, you are present with us. We thank you, O Lord, that you are indeed prepared. We are not prepared to face any of our trials. But our trials are never a surprise to you. And we thank you, Lord, that you are pre-eminent. You preside over the kingdom of heaven. You preside over the hosts of heaven, and O Lord, you rule and reign in the affairs of men. And Lord, we thank you in Jesus' name. Amen.