Turn in your Bibles with you, please, to the book of Isaiah and the sixty first chapter. And as soon as you find that one, turn also to the book of Luke, chapter 4. I'll let you find both passages before we begin. We will be looking at both this morning as we consider God's word together. And so Isaiah 61, we're going to read verses 1 through 3, and Luke chapter 4, verses 14 through 20. When I first stepped up to the pulpit this morning for the call to worship, there was a clock up here on the pulpit. And I see that now it is removed. And uh I don't know if that's uh a s suggestion to preach all afternoon until someone falls asleep in the window and we have to fall falls out. It is a blessing to my heart to preach to a congregation that doesn't watch the clock. I know Brother Vince had that there because it is important that we begin the time between the Sunday school and the worship on time. And so he puts it up here going to Sunday school for his own benefit and I'm kinda teasing him at the moment. Uh but I see he's removed it by the time I get here. Okay, brethren, if you have your place in Isaiah 61, let us turn to God's word. The Spirit of the Lord God is upon me, because the Lord hath anointed me to preach good tidings unto the meek He has sent me to bind up the brokenhearted, to proclaim liberty to the captives, and the opening of the prison to them that are bound. To proclaim the acceptable year of the Lord and the day of vengeance of our God, to comfort all that mourn. To appoint unto them that mourn in Zion, to give them beauty for ashes, the oil of joy for mourning, the garment of praise for the spirit of heaviness That they might be called trees of righteousness, the planting of the Lord, that he might be glorified. And then turn over with me to Luke chapter 4. If you have a Bible ribbon or a marker, you may want to throw it there in Isaiah 61 because we'll be considering these two passages in parallel today. Luke chapter 4, and I begin our scripture reading with verse 14. And Jesus returned in the power of the Spirit into Galilee. And there went out a fame of him through all the region round about. And he taught in their synagogues, being glorified of all. And he came to Nazareth where he had been brought up. And as his custom was, he went into the synagogue on the Sabbath day and stood up to read. And there was delivered unto him the book of the prophet Isaiah. And when he had opened the book, he found the place where it was written. The Spirit of the Lord is upon me, because he hath anointed me to preach the gospel to the poor. He has sent me to heal the brokenhearted, to preach deliverance to the captive and recovering of sight to the blind, to set at liberty them that are bruised, to preach The acceptable year of the Lord. And he closed the book and gave it again to the minister and sat down. And the eyes of all them that were in the synagogue were fastened on him. And he began to say unto them, This day is this scripture fulfilled in your ears. And all bear him witness. and wondered at the gracious words which proceeded out of his mouth. And they said, Is not this Joseph's son? Let us bow for prayer. Oh gracious Heavenly Father. Now we pray that you would open our hearts to receive thy word. And Lord, open thy word to our hearts. Show us glorious things out of thy law this day. And Lord, we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Where we began our New Testament reading there in Luke chapter 4 at verse 14. is immediately following Luke's account of Christ's temptation. In verses 1 through 13 of Luke 4, we find Christ led of the devil into the wilderness And he returns from the wilderness temptation. And this is when he comes into Galilee and more specifically to Nazareth. And it was his custom to go into the synagogue in Nazareth And there, as a man, as a Jewish man, he would take the book and he would read. On this particular Sabbath, as he begins his ministry, he opens up to the book of Isaiah and he reads from Isaiah the prophecy concerning himself. And he applies this word to himself and closes the book and sits down. And the folks gathered there in the synagogue say among themselves, what did he say? Did I hear that right? Is this blasphemy? Is this the Messiah? He said this prophecy is fulfilled today in our ears. Should we stone him Is he claiming to be Messiah? Is not this Joseph's son? I remember when he was a little boy, he would be there in the carpenter shop, and I would go by Joseph's shop, and there was a little boy there. This can't be Messiah. This can't be who he says he is. I would like us to focus our attention this morning. Primarily on one phrase from this prophecy that Christ reads. It's found in the second verse of Isaiah 61 and in the 19th verse of Luke chapter 4. And it is this phrase in Isaiah 61 to proclaim the acceptable year of the Lord. and in verse 19 of chapter 4 to preach the acceptable year of the Lord. And by way of introduction, I want us to take that word acceptable and unpack it a bit and to see what it means. The Hebrew word there in Isaiah 61, verse 2 is the word raidson. It's R-A-S-O-N in our English, but it's pronounced with a bit of a T on the S. Ratson is the word. It is a word which does mean acceptable, but that's not the full scope of the meaning of this word. It is a word that primarily means pleasure. It is a word that means delight. It means good will, will, and self-will. Keep that in mind. We're going to come back to that. But before we look further into the Old Testament word raitsun, let's consider the word that we find there in Luke chapter 4 and verse 19. That is the Greek word dektos. Of course, our Old Testament is Hebrew, or New Testament in Greek. It's the Greek word dectos, and it has just one meaning, and that is acceptable. or accepted, but a say another uh usage of the same word. To understand Rat Sun in the Old Testament and Dectos in the New Testament We need to go into the Old Testament and find the other places that that word is used. So I'm going to have you turn a little bit this morning. Turn with me to Leviticus chapter 9 and verse 5. I'll give you a moment to turn there. Leviticus chapter 9 and verse 5. Again, keep your ribbons in Luke 4 and Isaiah 61. But Leviticus 19 and verse 5. Here we read, and if ye will offer a sacrifice, a peace offering unto the Lord ye shall offer it at your own will. Now that your own will there is this exact same word ratesun or favorable or acceptable. But when they brought the sacrifice, it was to be a willing sacrifice. Not a sacrifice, I've got to do this because God's going to judge me But rather, he is my Lord, and I delight of my own will to bring him the sacrifice. Now that's going to be very important when we apply it to Christ in the New Testament. Because Christ was a willing sacrifice. It was of his own will that he became that sacrifice. But now turn to Leviticus 22, just a few pages from where you are in chapter 19. And in Leviticus 22, verses 19 and 20, and then verse 29, we're going to find this word three times in this passage. Leviticus 22, and starting in verse 19. Ye shall offer at your own will a male without blemish of the beeves, of the sheep, or of the goats. But whatsoever hath a blemish, that ye shall not offer, for it shall not be acceptable for you. And so in verse 19 you see we have of your own will, and in verse 20, acceptable, and it's the exact same word. But then look down to verse twenty-nine of Leviticus twenty-two. And when ye will offer a sacrifice of thanksgiving unto the Lord ye shall offer it at your own will. And all three times it is the word Ratsund. So you see how this idea of an acceptable sacrifice And a sacrifice given of free will are inseparably linked together in the Old Testament. And I won't have you turn to this one because it's a short verse, but in I in Psalm 40 in verse 8 Christ is speaking in Psalm 40 and verse 8. It is a messianic psalm. And Christ says, I delight to do thy will, O my God. Yea, thy law is within my heart. And when Christ says, I delight to do thy will, the Father's will, it's the same word. And so Christ is saying, Not my will, but thy will I delight to do. That is acceptable That is pleasurable unto the Father. And then again in Psalm 69, 13. But as for me, my prayer is unto thee, O Lord, in an acceptable time, O God, in the multitude of thy mercies, hear me in the truth of thy salvation. Lord, in the time of your will, the acceptable time. Hear me. And then again, Psalm 103, verse 21, Bless the Lord all ye saints, ye ministers of this that do his Pleasure. And the word pleasure there is the same word, which means acceptable. It means will. It means favorable. And then one more. In Isaiah 49 and verse 8, thus saith the Lord, in an acceptable time I have heard they And in the day of salvation I have helped thee, I will preserve thee, and I will give thee for a covenant of people to establish the earth, to cause, to inherit the desolate heritages God the Father says, in an acceptable time, in the time of my will, in the time of my pleasure, I have heard thee. And of course, Isaiah 49 again is a messianic passage. It is Christ to whom God the Father is speaking And so this idea that we have here in this passage, where Christ there in the synagogue of Nazareth says, this is the acceptable time. I have come to preach the acceptable year of the Lord. Christ was declaring there that it was the time of God's good pleasure. In the fullness of time, God sent forth his son. We're approaching the Christmas season when we celebrate the birth of Christ. And here Christ is saying at the beginning of his ministry: this is the time. This is what started and was promised in the Garden of Eden. It is all funneled down to this time. This year of favor. And of course, year is not 365 days in Scripture, but rather year is this period, this time. Beginning from now. Christ was declaring that he had come not to do his own will, but the will of his heavenly father. No man taketh my life from me. I had the power to lay it down. I had the power to take it up again. But not my will, but thy will be done, he prayed. Indeed, Christ is declaring that he has come to be the acceptable sacrifice. When Christ here says, this is the acceptable year of the Lord, this is the time of God's choosing, this is the sacrifice that is without blemish. Remember Leviticus chapter 22 Of your own will, without blemish, of the bees and of the sheep. Whatsoever blemish, that's not acceptable to you. But this is the acceptable sacrifice. And so, comparing Psalm 102, verse 3, thou shalt arise and have mercy upon Zion, for the time of favor to her, yea, the set time is come. the time of God's favor. Now, I know it seems like Brother Vince and I are always taking shots at the modern translations. It's not that we're trying to be mean or nasty to anybody, but there are great and fatal issues with the modern translations. The ESV, NIV, and just about any other modern translation you can find, changes this to that Christ came to proclaim the year of the Lord's favor. To proclaim the year of the Lord's favor. Christ says, no, I came to proclaim the acceptable time of the Lord. The Lord's favor doesn't show anything about the purity of the sacrifice. Nor does it show anything about the willingness of Christ to make that sacrifice. And it gets more complicated because I mentioned earlier That Isaiah 49, which I read, is referring to Christ. I'm going to have you turn there now to Isaiah 49 and verse 8. In Isaiah 49 and verse 8, thus saith the Lord, in an acceptable time I have heard thee And in the day of salvation have I helped thee, I will preserve thee, and give thee for a covenant of the people to establish the earth to cause to inherit the desolate heritages. God did not give any man for a covenant to the earth. That is clearly Christ. Paul quotes from Isaiah in 2 Corinthians 6 and verse 2 For he saith, I have heard thee in a time accepted, and in the day of salvation I have secured thee. Behold, now is the accepted time Behold, today is the day of salvation. That is a declarative statement. Now is the time. And it's the accepted time, not just the favorable time. The ESV takes 2 Corinthians chapter 6 and verse 2, and let me read it to you. For he says, In a favorable time I have listened to you, and in the day of salvation I have helped you. Behold, now is the favorable time. Behold, now is the day of salvation. You see how that totally guts the statement. For we find in Acts 17 and verse 30 that God commands All men, everywhere, to repent. It's not simply the favorable time. And when Christ there in the synagogue of Nazareth was preaching to these people, he didn't say, Hey folks, if you think it's good, come on. No, he came to call. He came to seek and to save that which was lost. There's no question of his success It's not simply the favorable time, but rather it is the time of God's appointment for the purity of the sacrifice. And so God commands all men everywhere to repent. It was indeed the acceptable year of the Lord. But this phrase carries even more weight than that. Because this acceptable year of the Lord is a reference to the year of Jubilee. And again, uh Brother Vince made reference to this in Sunday school where the land was not to be sold forever And if a man fell into debt, he might have to basically mortgage his land. But when the year of Jubilee came around, the land was to be redeemed, it was to be returned. And when Christ declares in the synagogue of Nazareth that the acceptable year of the Lord has come, he's declaring a year of Jubilee. It is the time for the bondmen to be set free. We find that in the passage. It is the time for the inheritance to be restored. It is the year of Jubilee when all the debts are forgiven. Hallelujah! My debt is forgiven because the acceptable year of the Lord has come. It's not just favorable, it is a pure sacrifice. And it is the pleasure of the Father and the will of the Son that this come about. The debts are forgiven. Restoration is declared. If you want to put it this way, it's the time of spiritual reset. Because that which was destroyed in Adam is restored in Christ. Indeed, the people there in Nazareth had cause to wonder. They have been waiting for the Messiah. And waiting and waiting. And here the Messiah is in their midst, and he's reading a book that he wrote. He wrote the book of Isaiah. He's reading a book that he wrote about himself And still the response of many is, isn't this Joseph's son? But again, it was mentioned in Sunday school. And we read in our call to worship this morning that Christ asked the disciples, who do men say that I am? Some Elias, some of the prophets, some John the Baptist. Baptist, who do you say that I am? Thou art the Christ, the Son of the living God, flesh and blood, hath not revealed this unto you, but my Father. And so Christ here declares that this is the glorious year acceptable of God. The time has come. But if you look back to the Isaiah chapter 61, verse 2, passage, there's more yet. Look back with me to Isaiah 61, verse 2. To proclaim the acceptable year of the Lord. And the day of vengeance of our God. Vengeance and redemption are linked in Scripture There's a dividing line here. It's the acceptable day of the Lord, the salvation of the elect But it's also a day of vengeance. Isaiah 63, 4, the day of vengeance is in mine heart, and the year of my redeemed is come. In Isaiah 63, verse 4, we find both concepts linked directly together. And it's fascinating again That the author of this book makes a full stop when he reads in Luke chapter 4. Look at Luke chapter 4. To preach the acceptable year of the Lord And he closed the book. Isn't that interesting? Isn't that fascinating? He does not continue in the reading of Isaiah. He stops full stop where we would say halfway through the verse. He closed the book and gave it again to the minister and sat down. The time of Satan's defeat has come. But the crowd of Nazareth, they're not ready for that yet. They have no concept of it. The time of the condemnation of the unbelieving priesthood has come. But they're not ready for that yet. The declaration of judgment of the tares has come. The doom of all who will not believe in Christ has come. But in John 16, verse 12, Christ said, I have many things to say unto you But ye cannot bear them now. You see the wisdom of Christ here Think about it, folks. Did he really need to read from the scroll? No, but he knew what it said. He could have quoted it verbatim by heart. He read it to show his authority. He read it to show where this word was coming from, because it was God the Father's voice speaking about God the Son. And folks, the day of vengeance has come, and yet they still think that he is the son of the carpenter. has come for the establishment of his church. But it's not only the day of vengeance and the day of his appointed time But if you look there again in verse 2 of chapter 61 of Isaiah, to proclaim the acceptable year of the Lord, the day of vengeance of our God, to comfort all that mourn. And that's where Christ picks the passage back up to comfort all that mourn. For if you look back with me again to the Luke passage We find that those who mourn are comforted because the Spirit of the Lord dwells on Christ. Look at verse 4 there. I'm sorry. Excuse me. Verse eighteen there of his reading in Luke four. The Spirit of the Lord is upon me. What was it that the disciples answered when Christ asked who they were, who he was? Well, some say Elias. Some say Jeremiah or one of the prophets. Those men were inspired by the Spirit of the Lord, but the Spirit of the Lord didn't stay with them. The Spirit of the Lord came and went. The Spirit of the Lord was on them sometimes. We have apocryphal books. Some of them say great and glorious things about Christ, but they are not inspired. They're the writing of men. And it may well be that Jeremiah wrote other things which were not inspired, and they are lost because God didn't want us to have them because they weren't inspired. And Isaiah the same. But here we can find that Christ comforts those that mourn in Zion because he declares, the Spirit of the Lord's on me. And remember what the proof was that John the Baptist spoke of. The Spirit came and resting, remaining on him. And if you look back to the passage in Isaiah, it says to proclaim, or um in verse 1 of Isaiah 61, he says, the Spirit of the Lord God, you'll notice God is in all capitals. is upon me because the Lord all capitals. In other words, what Christ says in Isaiah 61 is, Elohim Jehovah is upon me the Spirit of Jehovah. Christ came to comfort those that mourn in Zion, and we can take great comfort because the Spirit of the Lord rests upon him. This is not the son of Joseph. This is the one. And we find further that the Spirit of the Lord rested upon him and we can take comfort because the Spirit of the Lord has anointed him. to preach the gospel to the poor. Look at verse 18 again of Luke 4. The Spirit of the Lord is upon me because he hath appointed unto me to preach the gospel to the poor. And that's not talking simply about the financial poor, but the poor in spirit, the meek and lowly, not many mighty, not many noble, not necessarily the scribes and Pharisees in the synagogue of Nazareth Not necessarily those that are saying, huh, this is Joseph's son, what's he talking about? But rather the common people heard them Great heard him gladly. And he noticed there in verse 22, and all bear witness had wondered at the gracious words which proceeded out of his mouth. Faith cometh by hearing, and hearing by the Word of God. Blessed are your ears, for they hear He came to preach the gospel to the poor, and we can take great comfort there. But further, we find that the Spirit of the Lord was upon him to heal the brokenhearted. Oh, what comfort we find there. The Spirit of the Lord was dwelling on this one, sitting here in na in the synagogue of Nazareth. He's declaring, Come unto me, all ye that labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. Take my yoke upon you and learn of me, for I am meek and lowly, and ye shall receive rest to your soul. The brokenhearted Blessed are the poor in spirit, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. We find here a group that says, Oh, this is Joseph's son. But the common people heard him gladly. Ah, what a blessing. What comfort those that mourn in Zion can take because he comes to heal the brokenhearted. The Lord is nigh unto them that are of a broken heart, and saveth such as are of our contrite spirit. He healeth the brokenhearted, and bindeth up the wounds. Surely he hath borne our griefs and carried our sorrows Yet we did esteem him stricken, smitten of God and afflicted. But he was wounded for our transgressions, he was bruised for our iniquities, the chastisement of his peace was upon us our our peace was upon him, and with his stripes We are healed. He came to heal the brokenhearted. And here, immediately following, immediately following, the temptation in the wilderness He declares in the synagogue of Nazareth. Realize this isn't the greatest synagogue in the world. This is an out-of-the-way place. But he declares to the brokenhearted. Comfort you, my people. You've received double for your sins. The mourners in Zion are comforted because The Spirit of the Lord was upon him to preach deliverance of the captives. And again we go to verse eighteen. He hath appointed me to preach the gospel to the poor, he hath sent me to heal the brokenhearted, to preach deliverance to the captives those that were born in the prison house of sin. This is the year of God's pleasure. Those that are born in the prison house of sin, rejoice! Your redemption draweth nigh. Ah, what comfort! Those bruised by the fall can take in the acceptable year of the Lord. The mourners of Zion are comforted because the Spirit of the Lord has sent him to preach the recovery of the blind. Verse 18. In Isaiah 42, verses 6 and 7, we read, I, the Lord, have called thee in righteousness, I will hold thine hand, I will keep thee, and give thee for a covenant of the people, a light to the Gentiles, to open the blind eyes. To bring the prisoners out of the prison. The people that sat in darkness have seen a great light. The Spirit of the Lord has sent me to preach liberty to the bruised. And indeed, friends, this is the acceptable year of the Lord. I'd like you to turn again to Isaiah 49. This is the third time I've referenced this passage, but it's very important, very key. Isaiah 49 and verses 8 through 10. Isaiah forty-nine verse eight: Thus saith the Lord, in an acceptable time I have heard thee. It's a time of God's choosing, not man's choosing. But folks, this passage is so often applied to men. Today's the day for you to be saved. You need to make this decision right now. But look closely at who the Father is speaking to. Thus saith the Lord, in an acceptable time I have heard the In the day of salvation I have helped thee, I will preserve thee, and give thee for a covenant of the people to establish the earth, to cause to inherit the desolate the desolate heritages. God the Father is speaking to God the Son. And God the Father is saying to God for the Son, In the time of my pleasure, it pleased the Lord to bruise him. In the time of my pleasure, God the Father has heard the voice of God the Son. These are my brethren. May they be redeemed, O my Father. These, my brethren, are fallen in Adam. They have no hope because none of their sacrifices have been acceptable. Their sacrifices are not pure. Their sacrifices are blemished. They find no favor with God, our same word acceptable that we find here in our New Testament passage. But O Lord, I of mine own will, my Father have become the sacrifice And so God says, I've heard thee in the day of my pleasure, and I have helped thee. Verse 19, that thou mayest say to the prisoners to me, go forth. Lazarus, go forth from the grave of sin. Lazarus, arise to the newness of life If any man be in Christ, he is a new creature. Old things are passed away. Behold, all things are become new. Therefore, reckon yourselves to be dead indeed unto sin, but alive unto God. Because the acceptable year of the Lord has come. The day of God's own pleasure. The day in which he rejoices. Verse 10. They shall not hunger nor thirst, neither shall the heat of the sun smite them, for he that hath hath had For he that hath mercy on them shall lead them, even by the springs of water shall he guide them. All that the Father giveth to me shall come to me, and him that cometh to me, I will in no wise cast out. If you drink of this water of the well, you'll have to come back and drink and drink and drink. But if you drink of the water that I give you, it shall be in you a well of water springing up into everlasting life Oh, give me this water that I may come and not draw. You see how important this verse, very short, is. To preach the acceptable year. The entire ministry, the entire ministry of what Jesus Christ has come to do, is found in this one little verse. At the very beginning of his ministry, it's marvelous. It's wonderful. But what is your reaction, friend? Is this still the sun? of the carpenter? Or is this the Son of God? And so we remember In Luke chapter 7. Go ahead and turn there, Luke 7, verses 19 through 23. John, John the Baptist, sends his disciples to Christ, sends his disciples to his own cousin. To find out, to be sure, is this the one? Does he truly read Isaiah 61 in the first person? Or is this this just my cousin, the carpenter's son? Son. Luke seven verse nineteen. And John calling unto him two of his disciples sent them to Jesus, saying, Art thou he that should come? Or look we for another When the men were come unto him, he saith, John Baptist hath sent us unto thee, saying, Art thou he that should come, or look we for another? And in that same hour he cured many of their infirmities and plagues, and evil spirits, and unto many that were blind he gave sight. And Jesus answering said unto them, Go your way. Tell John what things ye have seen and heard, how the blind see The lame walk, the lepers are cleansed, the deaf hear, the dead are raised, and the poor have the gospel preached unto them. And blessed is he whosoever shall not be offended. in me. You see the correlation? You see the connection. This indeed is not Joseph's son. This is the son of God. Whom say ye Let us stand for prayer. Father, we thank you for this glorious passage. Lord, I pray that it would thrill the hearts of your people as it has thrilled mine own. What I pray that we might see the glories of what Christ is declaring here. That which the multitude could not see and did not heed, and yes to poor folks the poor in spirit, the simple ones, their ears were opened, their blind eyes were were given sight. They found strength in their feet, even though they were as dead as Lazarus, to come forth out of the grave of Satan. Father, bless thy truth to thy people, and exalt thy son in their midst. In Jesus' name. Amen.