It's probably easier if you follow along in your Bible, as I'm going to read the passage that we're going to cover today, as we talk about the doctrine of rest. This word rest is used ten times in the Bible, nine times in this very chapter right here in this book. So this is an important teaching. You'll not really find it covered extensively elsewhere in scriptures. It's covered very comprehensively here. Which is why I've devoted the study of the doctrine of rest to two separate passages. So let's turn out of Hebrews 4 and we're going to read 6 through 11. Here now the word of the Lord. Seeing, therefore, it remaineth That some must enter therein, and they to whom it was first preached entered not in Because of unbelief. Again, he limiteth, he designates, he ordains a certain day, saying in David, today After so long a time. As it is said, today, if you will hear his voice, harden not your hearts. For if Jesus had given them rest Then he would not afterward have spoken of another day. There remaineth, therefore, a rest to the people of God. For he that has entered into his rest, he also hath ceased from his own works, as God did from his. Let us therefore labor to enter into that rest, lest any man fall, that's a big word fall, after the same example. example of unbelief. Thus ends the reading of this portion of scripture. Frankly a sermon could be made out of two or three of those verses at a time. And I'm going to endeavor not to be preachy or monologuish, I will try to get into some Q<unk>A because I think that is helpful for you to try to mentally think it through. Well we're going to talk here in, I'm going to take six through seven, the first fill in the blank, is the enduring promise of rest, the enduring promise. It's an enduring promise. We still have it. It's still before us, and it's an enduring promise. We're going to look at verse 8, Jesus the rest giver. Verse 9, that rest is only for God's people. And verses 10 and 11, laboring and resting. So that's kind of the outline of what we're going to talk about that the text directs our attention to. Just focusing for the moment on six and seven, you know, I cannot help but to make a couple of basic observations The first is I'm really struck with the way that the penman under inspiration teaches us from the scriptures. You know what what is it called when you have an approach to learning from the Bible? Do you know what that whole oh I guess you could call it science is called. What is that when we say you're how you approach scriptures, what what are we talking about? How one interprets and divides the scriptures. Hermeneutics, yes, that's a you know 12-cylinder college word, our English professor over here knows. Um that refers to how you understand scriptures, how you deal with the text. And the hermeneutic here in 6 and 7 I find is is fascinating because there's a deduction of reasoning that I don't find elsewhere in Scripture. He points out that he uses the word therefore, which of course directs you to previous verses. And uh the verses that he points to say, for instance, Hebrews 4. 3, as he said, I have sworn in my wrath, if they shall enter into my rest. And then the seventh day, verse 4, God did rest the seventh day from his work. So he looks at those two and says, yep, there was a rest. And then he observes that between that time in history, Genesis 1, Exodus 12, Numbers, that mention of arrest there. To leaping forward to David in the Psalms, he says, ah, rest was mentioned again. And he deduces from that that the rest that they were promised wasn't fulfilled. And that by the time we get to David, there is a rest that remains for the people of God. Do you follow that line of reasoning? Let me read that again now that I've explained it to you. And do you see how He's deducing and extracting that teaching from Holy Writ. Seeing therefore it remaineth that some must there enter therein, and this is the part, and they to whom it was first preached entered not in the implication enter in the rest. Because of unbelief, again, meaning I'm quoting again, he limiteth, he designates a certain day. He's underscoring that there's a certain day he's talking about saying in David, today, he keeps repeating this. Today, today, today. And he says, isn't that interesting? Verse 8, if Jesus had given the rest, he wouldn't have spoken of another day. He spoke of another. So there's a hermeneutic going on here. And folks. What it's showing is that you can strain real hard at scriptures. What did God say? To whom? When did he say it? Did he say something about it later on? All of those have significance. All of that has meaning. God has a timetable for revealing truth. You know, the Bible is kind of like um those pianos at Shaky's Pizza Place. Now this is an old pizza place that only mother would know about. It was uh uh uh you know about Shaky's? Were they okay, maybe they were a chain, they were up here. But anyway there was a great pizza place that I really loved back in the uh in my youth and seventies. But what was cool to me as an eight to nine year old boy was the piano that played by itself. So in the corner they had this piano that had a roll of paper in the back with lots of little holes in it. And as the Mechanism fed through. You could see the little holes going and the keys moving themselves. I was absolutely fascinated with that as a kid. You could have set that in front of me and I'd have been occupied for hours In the scroll of heaven, there is a record coming down with a particular timetable for when truth is getting revealed There had to be a period of silence between the book of Zecharias, which was the last Old Testament given, you know all in our Bibles recorded as Malachi. They just were grouped a little differently. But historically Zechariah was the last. And then to Matthew. How often do you read in scriptures in the fullness of time? There was a specific time when things had to happen So you can look at scriptures and just understand that it's the same God giving it, and when he discloses information is important, every bit as much as to whom he gives it There are promises on the books that have been fulfilled. There are promises that are still open. If God made a promise in the Old Testament, it hasn't been fulfilled, it's still open to you. It's still there even as we're reading about this promise of a rest that remains to the people of God. A rest. Because it wasn't fulfilled And so this point, this hermeneutic, is used a lot in the book of Hebrews. He argues from silence sometimes, unto which of the angels had he said, Sit thou at my right hand until I make thine enemies thy foolstool. In other words No angel has ever been promoted to the right hand of God, Mooks searched the scriptures, see. Even the Pharisees understood this Search. There's no prophet that arises out of Galilee. Now, they were wrong, because there was a prophet that arose out of Galilee, and his name was Jonah. But lo and behold, observe the hermeneutic that's used. And the reason I make that point is because there are some dispensationalists that approach the scripture in a very, I think, divisive way. I'm not saying all do But they can pigeonhole God to say, well, that was the word of God to them. This is the word of God to us now. Well, maybe, maybe not You can't be that hard, cold fast with that. You have to integrate the whole Bible together And that I think is the strength traditionally of the Reformed camp, although I would now call it the Deformed Camp. But anyway, that's that's a benefit from how to interpret you just compare scripture with scripture. And that's basically a good example here of that by identifying that There was something said in David that's relevant. All right, well, I'm too long on that point. But also notice the sense of urgency. How many times do you read that phrase today? Today. today. There's a big sense of urgency here. It is a very important one. I direct your attention to Luke 14. Uh we can maybe pull that up for the folks watching online. Luke 14 verse 16 This indicated this is an example. And Jesus gave plenty of examples like this. He just gave one here. He said unto him, Luke 14, 16, A certain man made a great supper and bade many. He invited many people And sent his servant at supper time to say to them that were bidden, Come, for all things are now ready. And they all with one consent began to make excuse. The first said, I bought a piece of ground, I have to I must needs go and see it. I pray thee have me excused. Another side I bought five yoke of auction, I go to prove him. Here's the guy with a new toy, a new tool in the shed. He's just got to go try it out I pray thee have me excused. Another said, I have married a wife, therefore I cannot come. Well, you can't invite her, really? I'm sure she wouldn't mind being relieved from dinner for a change. So that servant came and showed his lord these things, and the master of the house, being angry Said to his servant, You know ladies know what it's like. You work really hard to get dinner on the table on time, it's all piping hot. Dinner's ready and no one shows up and now it's getting cold That's a little irritating because you've really hustled to get it all together and no one's showing up, it's going bad, it's not going to taste as good, I want you to enjoy it. Being angry, said to his servant, Go quickly into the streets and lanes of the city, and bring in hither the poor, the maimed, the halt and the blind. The servant said, Lord, it is done as thou hast commanded, yet there's room. The Lord said to his servant, Go out in the highways and the hedges and compel them to come in, that my house may be filled. For I say unto you. Now this sounds like an act of spite. Not filled yet, fine, compel those in the highways and the hedges to come in. For I say unto you that none of those men which were bidden, shall taste of my supper. In other words, the invitation is cut off. You turned your back, you turned your nose up at it, you go fine. Hug your ox. Can you think of examples when some heard and immediately responded and were blessed? I'm talking about examples from the scriptures. Can you think of some examples that are the opposite of this case? They heard Responded favorably, they were blessed. Probably the woman at the well. Oh, there's the woman at the well. Yes, she indeed heard. She was convicted no less. Come, see a man told me all that I ever did. Yeah, and she ran to tell the others. Certainly the disciples, they forsook their nets. They for they dropped the mess right there. They just dropped the tools of the job, followed him. Who else heard and came? On the day of Pentecost, the multitudes, many as believed Right. Yeah. And that that day of Pentecost, you know, there were what uh two thousand or three thousand? I think it's Two or three. I think three. Three thousand. Thousands, right? And they didn't they that gladly received. Yes, his word. Yes, they gladly received it. Now I'm sure s plenty of those people had had jobs, had family, had occupied things. Yeah. Um I was struck, you know, just thinking, I thought about the widow of Zarephath. She's out there with her son. Pathetic woman, this poor state that she's in. She's just gathered a few sticks that she should dress the last bit of oil and die. Elijah comes. It says, No, thus saith the Lord, you feed me first, and your crews of oil and your barrel of meal will not fail. I mean she's against the wall. She's got nothing. But she obeyed. And was she blessed or was she ever blessed? It was the very thing that rescued her completely. You know, I think about the Ethiopian eunuch. He's in his chariot coming to Jerusalem to worship. Doesn't understand. How can I understand except some man guide me? Preached unto him Jesus right there. He says, What doth hinder me to be baptized? What's all I gotta do is stop this chariot and I can be baptized? Sure, I'll do that. Blind Bartimaeus There's a lot of examples of people who heard, responded immediately. There is always a sense of urgency because of this timetable that God has coming down. There's a time of birth There was a time when you were to be born. It was ordained the day of your birth. So is the day of your death. Heads up, news flash, you don't know either one. If somebody had not told you what day your birthday was, you would not be able to report it. And even so, no one knows the day of your death, not even you. Not even you. And so there is a sense of urgency. It's coming to you at a particular time, in a particular season Time of affliction for reason woe unto you if you refuse, if you reject at that time You know, look at verse 8, Jesus the rest giver back in Hebrews 4. 8. If Jesus had given them rest, then he would not have afterwards spoken of another day. Let's talk about this. Now, some commentators want to make a point That, well, it really is not talking about Jesus, it's the word Joshua. Because Jesus answers to Joshua. Oh no. This is right. This is talking about Jesus Christ. If Jesus had given them rest, he would not have afterwards spoken of another day. Because Joshua wasn't talking to David. This is talking about Jesus Christ. These higher critics want to put the Bible on trial and pretend to be smarter than God. And as my mentor, Brother Bernie said, the Bible is not on trial. We are. You've got to quit trying to Pick and choose what verses you like to hear and what you think is right and what it should say, and you just need to listen to what God says. And you just got to put your shotgun down. If Jesus had given them rest, he wouldn't have smoked another day. So that's not talking about Joshua. Joshua wasn't talking to David, but Jesus was. And Jesus was in the Old Testament. And that's the big point. Because who is the speaker? Just surveying back in Hebrews, look at verse three seven. It's the Holy Spirit speaking Wherefore, as the Holy Ghost saith today, it's the living God, verse 12, undeparting the living God, it's Christ, chapter 3. 14, if we're made partakers of Christ, while it is said today, if you'll hear his voice speaking of Christ, David Right here in chapter 4, verse 7, and again chapter 4, verse 8, Jesus. You know what this is saying to us is that the Inspired author of Hebrews assumes the doctrine of the Trinity. There's no question in this individual's mind. God the Father, God the Son, God the Holy Spirit, all three speaking in inspiration in the scriptures. You know, Jesus said, Lo, I come, in the volume of the book it is written of me. We're going to see that later in Hebrews 10, but it's a quote from Psalm 40, verse 7. It's the Spirit of Christ which was in them did signify. Jesus is not just some Matthew 2, Luke 2 instance. He has been, he is the everlasting Father, he's the mighty God, he's the Prince of Peace, He's eternal. He came in human form, and so He is eternal. So the doctrine of the Trinity is is implied. Also the doctrine of the verbal inspiration of Scripture is also assumed. It's assumed that the scriptures are inspired. There's no question. The Bible doesn't question it, it doesn't try to go at great length to make that point It just underscores, yes, this is God Almighty speaking. You know, Jesus is very active in the Old Testament. You see him, we heard about the captain of the Lord's host that appeared to Joshua We we we we see him at uh Mount Moriah. He's just all over the testimony of holy bread. And the other point here about Jesus giving them rest and speaking of another day, the other doctrine that's on display here is the doctrine of the Sabbath. Because Hebrew 4. 4 is quoting the first two verses of Genesis 2. The Sabbath day is not what's in view here. Because Jesus is speaking of, quote, another day in Psalm 95, 7. He's not talking about a seventh-day rest. He says there's another day. Every seventh day the Jews were to rest, under penalty of the death penalty, really, if they violated it But every seven days they had to rest. Well that repetition reinforces one thing That's not the real rest. That's not the real rest. Bringing in those bowls of and the blood offerings of animals didn't really put away sin. It's just a reminder. A rest to come. A rest to come. And so this is the teaching we're getting from Hebrews 4. There's a rest to come. Not the Sabbath. Hebrews 4 is not talking about the seventh-day Sabbath at all. It's talking about that eternal rest in Christ, your heavenly home. Because when you've rested, you cease from your works. It's no more work. It's done. It's better than a resort. You know, I want you to stop and think for a moment here. Consider this point, the main point of verse 8. That uh if Jesus had given them rest, he would not have afterwards spoken of another day. Um I'm a I'm really struck with the approach to deducing truth from Scripture. Are there similarities to other ordinances or other things you've seen, just how these things or maybe this is an obscure question. I'm trying to find a better way to phrase it, but um For instance, um in Exodus, the Jews escaped Pharaoh through the Red Sea. Do you remember what God called that when they when they came through the Red Sea? What did God call that escape? Exodus? It was an Exodus. A baptism? Uh well Corinthians. Corinthians labels it a baptism. Mm-hmm. Um uh look at Exodus fourteen thirteen for a moment. That's the the word I'm looking for there is what God refra refers to it. I I have got my question poorly worded here and And I got ahead of myself and gave half the answer, so I I don't think I can get into it. But salvation. It was called salvation. It was an Exodus. It was a baptism. It was a salvation. But it was called the salvation of the Lord. Now, were those people saved in a spiritual sense? No, our very text is talking about the fact that they didn't enter into rest. Yet when they came through that Red Sea experience, God said it was a salvation. And so my point in all this is that the Old Testament is loaded with pictures. That didn't fully deliver all that God ultimately had in view. That picture of the Jews coming through that Red Sea and getting to the other side, walking on dry ground no less. And they were not, as the Baptist would put it, scripturally baptized, meaning it was the it was Pharaoh and his camp that was buried in water. But that's not the baptism God talks about in 1 Corinthians 10. They were probably sprinkled with this wind coming through and the walls of water up there. Because remember, they they didn't get wet. They didn't get immersed. Yet God calls it a baptism. Yet he calls that entire event salvation, and all of it is typological, all of it is a picture. And we have lots of these things. When we partake and we set the elements out here in front of the Lord's Supper It's typological. It's a picture. It's a message. All of what we're doing is a picture, it's a message. It's sending forth The visions. It's a reminder, a visible physical proof that there is a day coming. There is a greater salvation coming. And we find verse 9, what we have. Is a rest only for God's people. Let that sink in for a moment There is a rest that remains for the world. Is that what Hebrews 4. 9 says? Who's the rest for? Not the mixed mold thing. Not the mixed mold. It's only the people of God. Jeffrey, only God's people have a rest promised to them. The hot and taught in Africa has never heard of Jesus, there's no rest for him. It could be. That if he hears and converts in turns, there'll be a rest for him. I don't know who the people of God ultimately are, but the rest is only for God's people It's only designed for the elective God, and brothers and sisters, I'm here to tell you that the God of the Bible is exclusive. He is exclusive. Somebody has a bumper sticker I really like. Hell has open borders. Heaven has strong border security. It has a strict entrance program. That's exactly right Sure, it's a broad road that leads to destruction. In heaven, I guarantee you, God knows how to enforce his border. There are those who can get there's a path to hell even at the very gate of heaven. Say unto me, Lord, Lord, have we not done mighty Many mighty works, many wonderful miracles have we not prophesied in thy name? He says, Depart from me, ye that work iniquity. I never knew you. I know who you are. You're not my child. Not my son, my grandson. God only has sons. He doesn't have grandchildren. Have to be born of God. We're all brothers from another mother. We're born of God. Look at Deuteronomy 28. This is taught consistently that the rest is for the people of God, but for those who are not the people of God, there is no rest. Deuteronomy twenty-eight says, If thou wilt not observe to do all the words of this law that are written in this book, that thou mayest fear this glorious and fearful name, the Lord thy God, verse 64 A whole host of curses occur, and one of them is the Lord shall scatter thee among all people, verse 65, and among these nations thou shalt find no ease. They're not going to find any rest. It's a foreshadow of the lack of rest, individuals who hate God, who refuse his word, who don't like to hear it, don't like to pay attention to it, don't like to read it Just don't like it. He says, you'll find no rest. Neither shall the sole of thy foot have rest, but the Lord shall give thee a trembling heart. Failing of eyes, sorrow of mind. It continues on. That whole chapter is dreadful for those who are God haters. And the world's legion with them. There's plenty of them. Isaiah 57, 20, but the wicked are light are like the troubled sea, when it cannot rest. Whose waters cast up mire and dirt, there is no peace. There is no rest. There's no ease, saith my God, to the wicked. Oh, God knows how to afflict the wicked. He knows. He knows how. Revelation 14, the smoke of their torment ascendeth up forever and ever, and they have no rest, day nor night, who worship the beast in his image, and whosoever receiveth the mark of his name. I assure you, folks The wicked aren't getting away with anything. They are getting away with absolutely nothing. All they're doing is just adding to their wrap sheet. It's just getting longer by the second. Greater rebellion, shaking of their fist, not loving their neighbor, not loving God. God's keeping track of all these things. Nothing is going by the wayside. The Scripture says every idle word that men shall speak They shall give account thereof. And Jesus knows the thoughts of men's hearts. He was sitting there in a Pharisee's house, Simon Simon. I have somewhat to ask thee. This was the fellow who said if this man were a prophet, he'd know what manner of woman this was that's doing this to his feet. He says, I have something to say to you, Simon. He knows the thoughts and the intents of the heart. You know, even as God through Moses never extended an offer to the Egyptians to come and worship Jehovah in the wilderness God's promise of rest is only effective for the elect. The dreadful warnings would only fall on the heads of the reprobates. Isn't that something? What was the message of Moses to Pharaoh? Hey, if you want, whosoever will can come into the wilderness and worship God. That was not Moses' message. He said, let my people go. That they may serve me. And that's what the message of God Almighty is to you. Come and worship God. You come and worship God It's for God's people, and only God's people would be delivered. Alright, verses ten and eleven. I see I'm utterly failing at questions because I can't seem to Shut up long enough to let the discussion en ensue. Alright, laboring and resting, verse ten and eleven. He that has entered into his rest hath ceased also from his own works as God did from his. Let us labor therefore to enter into that rest. lest any man fall after the same example of unbelief. Do you see any apparent contradiction in those two verses? What strikes you as odd about that Rest versus labor. Yeah. It says, entering into rest, if you've entered into rest, you've ceased from your works. He says, let us therefore labor. Well, what is it? Laboring? Working? Which one is it? You know, people a lot of times come into the Bible, well, I'm damned if I do, damned if I don't. You know, they just kind of throw their hands up, oh well, it doesn't matter Well, they're reading too quickly, and they're not reading critically, and if they would slow down and think a little bit and get below that shine of the surface and plow into it some The point is that you need to labor to enter into that rest because once you are in that rest, meaning you're not in it now, but once you are in that rest, you've ceased from your work. Some have said That first word he for he that is entered into his rest. They say, well, that should be capitalized, he that should be Jesus. No, it's not Jesus. Yes, he did enter into rest, but that is not talking about this because the end of the sentence goes as God did from his. So there's a contrast, there's a comparison. An individual who has entered an arrest ceases and works just like God. Well, the point is that's not Jesus. They're talking about individuals. Who among us, who, well, I mean not say among us, who could be said that they have entered into rest? I've already said Jesus, but who could be said to have entered into their rest? Saints that have died. Right, saints that have died, gone on to their long home. They're at rest, the Lord. They have peace with him. They're not afflicted. I like the point that's made from the pulpit here of time to time that God, you know, Aunt Martha ain't looking down here to see how things are going. And she she that would be a miserable heaven for her You have a view of all the torment from your window of all the torment happening on earth. That would be a miserable view. And you can't ask the saints to pray for you. Can't ask them to pray for you, they're not intercessors. In fact, they continue to beseech the Lord directly. Oh Lord God, righteous and true, how long? Uh till that you d avenge our blood upon them uh that dwell upon the earth. Yeah, you can't ask them for help Well, this contrast of laboring and resting, you know, we might want to start to think, well, what what are your thoughts? What might that labor be? What is that labor? Any ideas? Bringing forth the gospel. Alright, bringing forth the gospel. Uh that would help others. How is it what what might that labor be to help me enter into that rest? Certainly I need to evangelize myself, I suppose. Penny? Oh I said he's the theologian, he knows everything. I hope he's the theologian. Seeking the Lord, searching the scripture, calling upon him. Yeah. So seeking the Lord does take a little bit of work Right? It's not automatic. It's not. This is not what it means to seek for something. Seek and you shall find. Knock and it shall be open unto you. ask it shall be given, there is an investment of time that is required in in spiritual duties That help us to enter into that rest, to keep us in the way, so that we can latch on and lay attached and remain attached to the promises of God and not let go. Look at 1 Peter 4. 1. Our sermon today will be in 1 Peter chapter 1, but this is the fourth chapter. Peter writes, For as much then as Christ Hath suffered for us in the flesh. In other words, Jesus has suffered and died. He's our atonement. He's paid his price. He's run his course. Arm yourselves likewise with the same mind. For he that has suffered in the flesh ceased from sin. That's very similar to he that has entered and has rest has ceased from his own works He's done this why, verse 2, that he no longer should live the rest of his time in the flesh to the lusts of men, but to the will of God. You know Somebody compare and contrast for me two people in the Old Testament that were together for a while. Abraham and his nephew Lot. How would you compare these two individuals? What was their pursuit of rest? What was their life like? Well, Lot was younger and chose Sodom because it had fertile land. Yep. Abraham seemed to be older. Wiser. Okay. What did Abraham choose? Not Sodom. Just not Sodom. Yeah, lots of interesting cases and I mean who among us? Standing out in the wilderness, Yvonne's got his herd of flocks, I've got my herd of flocks, they're kind of competing for the same field. You know, hey, I thought I was gonna graze out there. Well, I put my sheep out there first. Well, where are my cows gonna eat? I don't know. You can go over there. It's mountains over there. It's a long hike. I'm old Well, let's figure out how to divide this up. You pick. Who among us would not with lot stand out and look? Wow, that's green over there. I like green things. Cows like green things. But even then, what was reported about Sodom? At that time, what did they know? Yes. It said the men of Sodom were exceeding wicked. If you were Lot, what would be going through your mind? There's greenery over there. But Sodom's wicked. Walk with me through that. What's the thought process? I know it's not in Scripture, but we can deduce some things. A comparison would be Eve that's all the fruit that it was desired to make one wise, it's attractive. So that's Eve's thinking. And don't disagree. What's going through Lot's head? I got all this wealth. I can go down there and live like a king and have what he moved right in the sun He said no. He lived outside at first. But later it's apparent that he moved in. Remember it says he pitched his tent toward Sodom. It appears that Lot said, Yeah, they're wicked, but the land is good. I'll just go this direction. Let everything graze here. But Sodom's wicked, I'll just pitch my tent out here. And you open up the tent every day. There's Sodom. Successful, wealthy. The lure was just too much. Happy. They were very happy. They were gays. They had a perverse happiness to them. Yeah. And before you know it, he's moved in. Settling down into Sodom is a constant threat that remains to the people of God. And the devil will wave all kinds of things in front of your eyes that promises you a false rest. Do you see the temptation that Lot had of a false rest? And the devil wants to offer you that now. Just Just push this away a little bit. Just just don't spend too much time in that Bible thing. Just don't be a fanatic and about the Bible like so-and-so is. The devil also has a message. Come unto me, and I'll give you rest. I'll give you fun. It's a false rest. But the goal, the objective of the Christian's life is to enter into that rest. It's to enter into his rest. So here, this side of eternity, we don't want to let up. It's going to be hard. Jesus taught this. He says, enter ye in at the straight gate. That word straight is afflicted. It's a difficult gate. Abram chose a difficult path. Why? Because God said, walk through the land of Canaan, I'll give it to you. For wide is the gate, broad is the way that leads to destruction, and there's a handful that go there, and many there be that go in there, because straight is the gate, because it's difficult. And narrow is the way which leads to life. You're so narrow-minded. Oh you narrow-minded Christians. Just so narrow. Yeah, it's a narrow way. Can't let that foot turn to the right hand or the left hand. Few. Because of that, few. And few And few there be that find it. He said in Luke 13, strive to enter in at the straight gate. This is the laboring, folks. Strive to enter into that gate. For many I say unto you, Will seek to enter in and shall not be able. Isn't that a stunning statement of Jesus? He says there's a lot of people looking to get into heaven. He says most of them may get there. They're trying to get to heaven. He says, but they don't like that straight gate. They just refuse to go to the straight gate They'd rather have the Broadway. They'd rather have something that's easy to death. Well why don't we do things differently, Random? It's just so hard. You know, we've just got a hard time doing things. It'd be wouldn't it be so much easier if But is it really gospel ministry? Or is it something to comfort the flesh? Right? The goal of the Christian's life is to enter into that rest, and it's a narrow way, and it's a straight gate, and few there are that find it. I didn't write this. Jesus did. I'm not trying to rain on your parade. Jesus is. I'm just telling you that this is how it is. Jesus says, labor not for that meat which perishes, but for that meat which endureth unto everlasting life, which the Son of Man shall give unto you. For him the Father hath God the Father sealed. The labor is expected of God's people, even though they be God's elect It is expected. Now close with 2 Peter 1. 10. Wherefore the rather brethren give diligence to make your calling an election sure For if you do these things you shall never fall, for so an entrance shall be ministered unto you abundantly into the everlasting kingdom of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. You won't fall God gives you a path to stay upright. He gives you a path and a way to stay on the straight and narrow. You need to encourage yourself in the promises of God that they are for you. That they are sure and amen in Jesus Christ, that they are anchored by the blood of His cross, by His ascension, His resurrection, His ascension, His session, is seated at the right hand of the Father. These are real promises. They've really delivered. God's never failed. And when God talks about a rest, it's a rest that's glorious beyond your wildest imagination. It's a rest that cannot fail. You don't want to miss that rest. It's worth it. And then some in fact it is so glorious The more you talk to yourself about it and think about these things, the Apostle Paul concludes, I reckon that the sufferings, the sufferings, The cancer, the bone disease, the wars, the disappointments, and the heartaches The job losses, the financial disasters, the loss of political freedom I reckon that the sufferings of this present time, he says, are not even worthy to be compared with the future glory. You can't even put it in the same scale. It doesn't count. It's like the kid saying, Daddy, thank you so much for that Porsche, but you know there's dust in the seat. I just I just don't like the dust. Oh no, I can't handle the dust. What? That doesn't this is the deal. How can you pass up on that? And so we have to remind ourselves of the glorious blessings and the promises of God. You can't let that go. And that's the labor. And Jesus says, come unto me, all you that labor and heavy laden, I'll give you rest. My yoke is easy, my burden is light. It's actually not that hard of a labor. To remind yourself of the blessings of God, to remind yourself and to be persuaded anew and again of the glorious promises that we have in Christ. It's really not all that hard, but you have to do it And there's a great reward in it. He says, lest any man fall. After the same example of unbelief. God let those Jews fall in the wilderness as an example for you and I. They're exhibit A on the floor of God's courtroom. You have the promises of God. You've seen what great things I have done. You spurned my word This is what happens. Wandering for forty years in the wilderness until your carcass drops in the desert. That's what God reserves for unbelievers, for reprobates among his people. It's an example. It's a warning. That word example is a rich word. It's an exhibit for imitation or for warning. So may we not fail to reach heaven May we not fail of the glorious promises of God. Don't buy into the devil's rest, because it's no rest. There is no rest. He's a liar from the beginning, and he continues to propagate his lies. You can't buy into it. So let's close in prayer. Father God in heaven. May there not be a reprobate here. O Lord, may I not fall. From the same example of unbelief. Oh Lord God, please let us lay hold of eternal life. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen.