Turn with me your Bibles, please, to the book of Isaiah and chapter eight, the eighth chapter of Isaiah. I was informed Not at all in any way as a rebuke, but just informationally that last Sunday I preached for 58 minutes. But who's giving away? I I I was not aware of it at the time and I I'm very grateful that I didn't see anyone nodding or watching their watch. I think we were all engaged in the Word. And it was a glorious time together. I certainly did not intend to preach for fifty-eight minutes and was not aware that that that was the case. This morning we're, Lord willing, going to basically consider what was intended as the introduction to today's message. For how can we consider the matter of the incarnation quickly or briefly? There is a little insert in your bulletins which I had Print it out because it has a lot of scripture in it and I didn't think we'd all have time to flip in our pages. And so we will be using that as a as a guide as we go through God's Word today. And there's some space on the back if you would like to Place your own notes there. But if you have you ever place now in Isaiah chapter 8 We're going to read the last verse of Isaiah 8 and then through verse 7 of Isaiah 9. Isaiah eight and verse twenty two. And they shall look under the earth And behold, trouble and darkness, dimness of anguish, and they shall be driven to darkness. Nevertheless, the dimness shall not be as such as was in her vexation. When at first he lightly afflicted the land of Zebulun and the land of Naphtali. And afterward did more grievously afflict her by the way of the sea beyond Jordan in Galilee of the nations. The people that walked in darkness have seen a great light. They that dwell in the land of the shadow of death upon them hath the light shined. Thou hast multiplied the nations and not increased the joy that increased the joy. They joy before thee according to the joy in harvest, and as a man rejoiceth when he divideth the spoil. For thou hast broken the yoke of his burden, and the staff of his shoulder, the rod of his oppressor, as in the day of Midian. For every battle of the warrior is with confused noise and garments rolled in blood, but this shall be with burning and fuel of fire. For unto us a child is born. Unto us a son is given. And the government shall be upon his shoulders, and his name shall be called wonderful. Counselor. The mighty God, the everlasting Father, the Prince of Peace, of the increase of his government and peace, there shall be no end Upon the throne of David, and upon his kingdom to order it, and to establish it with judgment and with justice, from henceforth even forever. The zeal of the Lord of hosts will perform this. Hallelujah. What a Savior. Let us pray. O Father, great God of heaven, we thank you that you have hidden these things from the wise and the prudent and revealed them unto babes. Father, we pray this morning that you would open your word to our hearts. And Lord, open our stony hearts to your word. Teach us thy truth. Guide us with thy spirit, we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. This passage, which we consider this morning, begins with a reference to great darkness. In the historical setting of this prophecy, it is the invasion of Palestine. And I'm going to murder some names here for you. It is the invasion of Palestine by Tiglath Pelezer, around 740 years give or take before the birth of Christ. It is at this time that the northern kingdom of Israel has made alliance with the Gentiles against Jerusalem. And rather than overthrowing Jerusalem, they themselves are overthrown. And we read there in chapter 8 that they refused God's small stream of blessing. And God sent upon them a flood of destruction. And at this time the northern kingdom was depopulated. Historical records indicate that as much as two-thirds of the population was either killed or taken into captivity. The fall of Judah, the southern kingdom, was not far behind. It was a time of great darkness. And this is taking place very shortly before the gap between Malachi and Matthew. A period of 400 years, 420 years by some calendars, where there was no message from God. Where there was utter spiritual darkness. We talk about the dark ages in our modern history. And when we talk about the Dark Ages, we talk about a time when there was not much knowledge and not much progress, when everything continued, the the kings ruled and the serfs served. But God had his remnant through that time, and God had his remnant through this period as well. And the period that we call the dark ages in our almost modern history. Was nothing in comparison with what we call the intertestamental period. We read in the judges that there was no open that the word of the Lord was precious in those days. There was no open vision. In other words, the word of the Lord was rare. But here Before the birth of Christ we find the greatest time of history, of darkness in history. And there in the first verse of chapter one it says that it won't be light the time when he lightly afflicted them. It will be a great darkness. As we look at this ninth chapter of Isaiah, we find prophecies of the coming Messiah. And yet they are not stated in future tense. It doesn't say unto us a child will be born, and unto us a son will be given, and the government will be upon his shoulders. It does say shall be upon his shoulders, but that is not a future tense shell. It is here. You see, the prophecies of God are yea, and amen. And the salvation of God's people was determined before the foundation of the world. We are chosen in Christ before the foundation of the world. And as Brother Vince was mentioning in uh the Sunday school class this morning That God's view of eternity is immediate. It is not past and future. It is present. It is now. We as human beings, we made reference to the alarm clock. We are tied by time. We are tied by the sun. We see the light in the day and in the night and if that rhythm in our body gets messed up, as some of you have experienced very Pointedly, if that rhythm of day and night gets messed up in our bodies, it it ruins everything. It affects everything about us. Because we are creatures that are bound by time, but God is not bound by time. He is eternal. And so it's fitting that here in Isaiah, some 700 years before Christ at the time of this prophecy, that God refers to the birth of the Messiah as immediate. As present unto us he is born. Hallelujah What a God in whom we are chosen before the foundation of the world And my friends, when we begin to take that perspective of God, which we cannot understand, for who hath known the mind of the Lord and who has been his counselor. But when we begin to realize the magnitude and the majesty of our God, what difference does anything around us really make? Tears last for a night, but joy cometh in the morning. And I reckon that the suffering of this present time are not to be compared with the glory that shall be revealed. And so here we find this prophecy of Messiah stated in the present tense. Unto us a child is born, unto us a son. is given. It is stated as if it's happening right now. If you look at the handout The insert which was in your bulletin, it will give you the outline. And as I say initially, this was just going to be the brief introduction in about five minutes and leave the scriptures to you But rather, I believe this morning it would be edifying for us to go through these scriptures and consider the glorious prophecy here. There are three promises in this passage which accompany the prophecy of Messiah. And as those three promises, I would like us to consider this Lord's Day, and then Lord willing next Lord's Day will go into verses six and seven and dissect them in great detail. If you look there at the second verse of Isaiah 9, Isaiah 9 and verse 2. Verse 1 talks about the darkness. I'll go ahead and read verse 1. as we approach it. Nevertheless the dimness shall not be such as was in her vexation. When at first he lightly afflicted the land of Zebulun and the land of Naphtali, and afterward did more grievously afflict her by the way of the sea beyond Jordan and in Gal in Galilee of the nations. The people that walked in darkness have seen a great light. And they that dwell in the land of the shadow of death, upon them hath the light shined. The first promise Is that great light would replace the darkness. If you look there I'm not sure where I laid my bulletin. Here it is. If you look there in your bulletin on point six, the sixth article of the Wall Densian Confession of Faith, which we read earlier It refers to a time when iniquity everywhere abounded. Great and deep darkness. And Christ came at a time when the darkness was greater than it had ever been before. And yet he comes with great overwhelming light. If you look back to chapter eight, of Isaiah. And I made reference to this earlier, but in verse 6 of chapter 8, We read, forasmuch as this people refuseth the water of Shaloah that goes softly, and rejoice in resin and Romelia's son. The waters of Shaloah. This was a gentle stream which flowed into Jerusalem. It flowed into the pool of shalom, the pool of healing, and it was made into a cistern And here God is giving to us a beautiful picture of what was happening and yet tragic. For God's people had refused the waters of Shaloah. They refused the waters that go softly. And the passage goes on there in chapter 8 before the verses that we read to talk about the flood. There was this gentle stream of blessing. But the people chose rather to align themselves to make confederacy with resin and remelia. Those are the two kings that I mentioned earlier that the northern kingdom confederated with. Rather than taking God's gentle stream, they chose to align themselves with man. And because of man's rebellion against God, which began in the very Garden of Eden, The darkness was growing and growing and growing. And we see there the progression that's mentioned in the first one First verse, it's not going to be as it was when I lately afflicted them. It's going to grow and it's going to grow and it's going to grow until the time when the people that sat in darkness Have seen a great light, an overwhelming light, an overpowering light Have you ever been suddenly overwhelmed by a light? A light that's so bright that you feel like it's shining right through you. I think many of us have had that experience. And when you come from darkness into sudden great light. Your eyes almost go blind. Your eyes cannot adapt. And you find yourself groping and trying to find your way. And oh my friends, what a glorious picture of salvation. Do you remember the day when that light shone upon you? Oh, I remember it. I remember it so clearly. I thought I was walking in light. I thought I had a grasp on truth. And I did not know how blind I was until the glorious light of the gospel showed in. And just as Saul was blinded on the Damascus Road, so I was blinded by the glory of God, and I could do nothing but say, Lord, what would you have me to do? We have the glorious promise that the people that walked in darkness have seen great light. God has replaced my darkness with his light. Oh, how the gentle streams of Shaloah were flowing softly. And I was choosing resin and Remelia. I was choosing the things of this world. I was choosing just as the Northern Kingdom was choosing these kings because I thought in them was salvation. In them was strength. But not the strength of the horse, nor the strength of the chariot, nor the strength of man, but rather the light that accompanies the Messiah. So if you look there in uh Yesheet at Jeremiah chapter 2 and verse 13. God says, For my people have committed two evils. They have forsaken me, the fountain of living waters, and have hewn them out cisterns, broken cistrons, that can hold no Water. Ah. What a sad picture of what Israel was doing. What a sad picture of the state of our souls before we knew Christ. And then I've given to you there Revelation chapter seven and verse seventeen. For the lamb which was in the midst of the throne shall feed them, and he shall lead them unto living fountains of water And God shall wipe away all tears from their eyes. And John eight and verse twelve. Then spake Jesus again, saying, I am the light of the world. He that followeth me shall not walk in darkness. But shall have the light of life. Great light will replace great darkness. And I would ask you, my friend, this morning, are you in the light or are you in the dark? Most of us at some time have been in a dark place and we've learned to navigate. We've learned to feel our way around. We've learned to manage. And oh how many people are managing their way through life thinking that they are children of the light. That was what Saul was doing. He persecuted the Church of Christ with great zeal, with religious fervor. He was a Pharisee. But he did not know the light. But oh, Christ is the light. He is the light that lighteth every man that cometh into the world. And the next verse you have there on your p sheet It's John 1, verses 4 and 5. In him was life, and the life was the light of men. Ah Dead in trespasses and sins, but he brought life. And the light shineth in darkness, and the darkness comprehendeth it not Verse ten, that was the true light which lighteth every man that cometh into the world. He was in the world, and the world was made by him, and the world knew him not. And then John twelve and verse sixty-four. R forty-six, I am come into the world. That whosoever believeth on me should not abide in darkness. And so, in our text there in verse 2, Which is quoted from verse are quoted in Matthew chapter 4 and verse 16, the people that walked in darkness have seen great light. We find this glorious promise. The darkness of sin, the darkness of this world, will be replaced by the light of Christ. It is stated in present tense. And it is presently fulfilled in my heart. And it is presently fulfilled in the heart of every believer. And yet it is to be fulfilled further. For the day will come when every knee will bow, and every tongue will confess that Jesus Christ is Lord. And every man of earth will either come to the light or be condemned by the light. But there's a second marvelous promise in this passage. And it's found in verse 3, Isaiah 9 and verse 3. Thou hast multiplied the nerd nations and not increased their joy, the the joy. They joy before thee according to the joy in harvest, and as men rejoice when they divide the spoil. God has promised that great joy would replace great sorrow. At the time of this prophecy, the land of Israel was spoiled At the time of this prophecy, they labored, but their harvest was taken by their foes. They labored, but their harvest was not of their own. Because the harvest was stolen. And rather than their goods being to their own joy, their goods were to the joy of the invaders. But the promise is that Christ is coming to spoil the spoiler. Christ is coming to defeat the invader. The invader is Satan. The harvest of this world belongs to the Lord. We sorrow now, but not as those which had no hope. And the curse upon the garden and upon Adam was that in the sweat of his brow he would eat bread until he returned to the dust. But Christ has come to give us light. Israel, you see, was rejoicing in temporal things. They rejoiced when their vines brought forth abundantly. They rejoiced when the fields were full of grain, but they had no joy in God. God rejoices in the redemption of his people. Glory to God in the highest! And on earth, peace, good will toward men. Why? For unto you is born this day a Savior, which is Christ the Lord. And here we find words of harvest and reaping. And God will reap his harvest, and it will be reaped with great joy. For there is joy in heaven over one sinner that repenteth, over one that comes. To Christ. And so we have the glorious promise that joy will replace sorrow. And isn't it interesting that this passage here in Isaiah says, unto us a child is born, unto us a son is given. It is a pronoun directed inward. But when the announcement of Christ is made in the book of Luke It changes. What does it say? For unto you is born this day in the city of David a Savior, which is Christ the Lord. And this passage before us talks about the nations. Look at verse 3 again. Thou hast multiplied the nations. And not increase the joy. The nations are the Gentiles. The nations are those apart from national Israel. They have been multiplied and strengthened, but there is no joy in them. They joy according to the things of this world. But Christ is going to change it all. For unto you is born this day in the city of David a Savior, which is Christ the Lord. And great joy comes. And the angels rejoice. And so going again to our sheet. We read there in Isaiah 54 at verses three and fruit one through three. Sing, O baron that thou dost not bear, break forth into singing and cry aloud, that thou didst not travail with child, for more are the children of the desolate than the children of the married wife, saith the Lord How can that be? How can it be that there is more joy in the childless in the barren? Because God is turning it all around. God is changing it from what man imagines. Enlarge the place of thy tent and stretch forth thy curtains and so on. And then in Isaiah 42 and verse 4, He shall not fail, nor be discouraged, till he has set judgment in the earth, and the isles wait for his law. He's coming to correct things. He's coming to make it right. And he will not fail or be discouraged till he has accomplished that which he came to do. Thou shalt bruise his head, and it shall bruise thy heel. Remember the promise in the garden. Christ was coming to set things right. And then in Isaiah 11 and verse 10. And in that day there shall be a root of Jesse, which shall stand for an ensign of the people, the government shall be upon his shoulder, an incense for the people, and it shall be the gent and to it shall the Gentiles seek, and his rest shall be glorious. His rest shall be glorious. And then we find in Jeremiah 16, verses 19 through 21. O Lord, my strength and my fortress, my refuge in the day of affliction. The Gentiles shall come unto thee. From the ends of the earth shall they say, Surely our fathers have inherited lies! Just think about that. Our fathers have inherited lies, vanity, and things wherein there is no prophet. The dust of this world, the curse of sin, the blindness of iniquity, there's no profit in it in it For the gentle streams of Shaloah have been forsaken for the things of man, but God is sending his son who will replace great sorrow with great joy. The Gentiles who have not the law are now brought to Christ through this glorious promise. Verse 20 there of Jeremiah 16, shall a man make gods unto himself, and they are no gods? Therefore, behold, I will this once cause them to know. I will cause them to know my hand and my might, and they shall know that my name is Jehovah. What great joy has been brought through the incarnation! I am not in hell this morning. Oh, how I deserve to be in hell this morning. But the one who came in Bethlehem has the keys of hell and death. The one who is prophesied here is prophesied to be one who will replace great sorrow with great joy. In Isaiah forty two And ver or Isaiah 2 and verse 4, which I'm looking and I don't oh, I'm getting ahead of myself. Okay. I didn't didn't see the verse I'm looking for there under great joy with sorrow uh or joy will replace sorrow because I'm getting ahead of myself. The third great promise we find is that great liberty Would replace great bondage. And look again into our text there at verse 4 and 5 of Isaiah 9. For thou hast broken the yoke of his burden. This is the third point. Great liberty will replace bondage. Thou hast broken the yoke of his burden. and the staff of his shoulder, the rod of his oppressor, as in the day of Midian For every battle of the warrior is with confused noise and garments rolled in blood, but this shall be with burning and fuel of fire. God has broken the yoke of the burden. Remember what the state of Israel was before they were delivered by Joseph, which, as we've been studying in Sunday school, is a type of Christ. before Moses led them out of the land of Egypt, and they carried forth Joseph's bones, because he saw the deliverance coming, though it was four hundred years away. God broke the burden of the taskmaster in Egypt, and he delivered his people. And throughout Scripture, Egypt is typical of the world, Satan, Pharaoh, God's people, delivered under the blood. And so Christ, this Messiah, was coming to set the captives free, to open the prison house, and great liberty would replace great bondage. And the text goes on to say the staff of the shoulder and the rod of the oppressor, as in the day of Midian. Well, what do we know about Midian? Remember Gideon, who was thrashing grain in secret, because the Midianites owned the land, and the Midianites owned the labor of his hand, and the Midianites would take it all from him, and so he was thrashing his grain privately, secretly. to hide it from the Midianites. And the angel comes to him and says, Thou mighty man of valor. And he says, I'm not a mighty man of valor, I'm hiding. And so he puts together his army of thirty thousand men, pretty respectable, till God takes it down to ten thousand, and finally to three hundred. How can you deliver from the Midianites by 300? How can someone from Galilee Can any good thing come out of Galilee? This is not the Messiah we looked for. Where is his white horse? Where is his triumph? But he's coming to set the captive free. And look what our text says, verse five For every battle of the warrior is with confused noise. And how was it that Gideon's triumph came about? Well, it was the breaking of pitchers. Did you ever break something? Did you have you ever been in a restaurant and suddenly you heard a crash and knew that a waiter had dropped a tray? That's a pretty you know what it is, but you still won't because what is it? Crash bang boom. Or have you ever been sitting in the living room and one of your kids in the kitchen and you hear glass shattering? And the image though was that grandma's cup. It's a confused noise. And that's exactly how God delivered Israel from the Midianites with the with the crashing of clay pots and the shout of the sword of the Lord of Gideon and and the light shining and what happened to the Midianites They turned on themselves and they destroyed one another. And the children of Israel did not have to shed a drop of blood. But the garments were rolled in blood. Look at the last part of the verse For every battle of the warrior is with confused noise and garments rolled in blood. And they shall be with burning and fuel for fire. And literally what it's saying there is as the Israelites come into the camp of the Midianites to spoil them, to gather the fruit the fruits of war, for which they have not shed blood, but in which much blood has been show shed. Here are the garments of the soldiers, the Midianites, and they are soiled with the blood of the Midianites. Which they have slain among themselves, and because the garments are soiled with blood, they're contaminated. The children of Israel could not touch a bloody garment. It was polluted to them, and so the bloody garments of the soldiers, the Midianites, are piled together and burned. They are fuel for fire. Now, what happened? What is the prophet alluding to here in this fifth verse? He's alluding to God doing the impossible. Three hundred men with pitchers and lamps, with uh pitchers and and and yeah, lamps, defeating the armies of Midian. Ah, but great liberty replaces great bondage. God set Israel free from Egypt with the death angel and blood on the doorpost God set Egy Israel free from the Midianites with lamps and pitchers. Till the men were slain and their garments were burned. There's a promise here that God will replace the bondage of sin with great liberty. I could not break my soul free. I could not purchase my freedom. I was sold in sin and in bondage. But Jesus Christ came to do the impossible. He came to set me free. And so what a glorious picture we have here. And in Isaiah chapter 2, And verse 4, I've given you the verse here. This is the one I was looking for earlier and thought I'd left it out of the notes. In chapter 2 and uh Isaiah chapter 2 and verse 4 And he shall judge among the nations, and shall rebuke many people, and they shall beat their swords into plowshares. and their spears into pruning hooks. Nation shall not lift up the sword against nation, neither shall they learn war any more That's impossible. This verse is written on what is referred to as the Isaiah Wall of the United Nations. And they have no idea what it means. This verse about beating swords in the plowshares, oh yes, let's take our tanks and pull the plows with them. That sounds good. We can accomplish this. We can get our confederation together. We have the United Nations. Certainly we'll have peace. But anything but it comes out of the United Nations. It's corrupt from top to bottom. But they hold forth this verse. We're gonna beat our plows and the sword share our swords and the plowshares, and our we're gonna make pruning hooks. But it is impossible for man to accomplish. But Christ came to replace bondage with great liberty. He came to do what man cannot do. And what this verse is talking about when the swords are made into plowshares is when every knee bows and every tongue confesses. That verse there in Isaiah chapter 2 is talking about when all men come under the rule of Christ, for then alone will there be no need for the sword. Then alone will there be true peace. And what was the prophecy of the angels? Glory in the highest on the earth, peace, goodwill toward men. True peace was brought about in the prophecy of the incarnation of Christ. I am at peace. I have peace with God because Christ has done the impossible. He won the battle for my soul. And so great liberty has replaced great bondage. And if you continue there on your sheet, the next verse we have is Isaiah, or sorry, is Hebrews chapter 2, verses 14 and 15. Forasmuch then as the children are partakers of flesh and blood, he also himself likewise took part of the same that through death he might destroy him who at the power of death that is the devil, and deliver them who through fear of death were all their lifetime subject to bondage. What is the great bondage of man? For in the day thou eatest thereof, thou shalt surely die. I am dying, folks. And that's not an announcement to anybody, because living is the process of dying. But Christ came to break the bondage and replace it with liberty. You see, my soul was in bondage to death, for the wages of sin is death. And what do we read in Revelation will be the last enemy that is conquered? Death. And the last enemy. Which has conquered death. He came to release me from the bondage of death and replace it with life in Christ. And so, these three great promises that great light has replaced great darkness, great joy has replaced great sorrow. and great liberty has replaced great bondage, and how does it all come about? For unto us a child is born. Unto us a son is given. And the government shall be upon his shoulders, and his name shall be called Wonderable, Counselor, the Mighty God, the Everlasting Father, the Prince of Peace. Of the increase of his government, there shall be no end upon the throne of David, and upon his kingdom to order it and to establish it with judgment and justice from henceforth even forevermore. The zeal of the Lord of hosts will perform it. What an amen on that verse. It's the zeal of the Lord of hosts that will bring it all about. My friend, this morning. Have you seen great light? Do you know great joy? Are you living in great liberty? Or are you still in the darkness of sin? Are you still in the sorrow of your coming judgment and still in the bondage of death? Next Sunday, Lord willing, we will endeavor to expound further in this great passage. Let us stand for prayer this morning.