Turn with me in your Bibles, please, to the fourth chapter of the book of Ephesians, Ephesians chapter four. As you're turning, just let me make a few comments about the singing of psalms. I hope it is thrilling to your heart as we sing these psalms. The singing of psalms in American fundamentalism was totally lost about a hundred years ago. And if you look at most hymn books, um I grew up with the All-American Church Hymnal, which is actually the exact same hymnal as the uh what is called the Baptist hymnal Um they're full of of some very good hymns and some good songs and a lot of uh Fanny Crosby songs, a lot of edification in a lot of those hymns Songs and hymns, but you'll find very, very few psalms in those hymn books And it's good for us to sing songs and spiritual songs, songs hymns and spiritual songs, but the biblical motto is Psalms. hymns and spiritual songs. And so I hope you enjoy singing these Psalms. It helps us to memorize the content of the Psalms. And I can personally testify there have been many times when one of these psalms that we sing has come to mind at the most opportune moment and carried grace and comfort with it. And so um I hope you enjoy singing the Psalms. Ephesians chapter one, sorry, chapter four, and I'm going to read verses one through verse sixteen. I therefore, the prisoner of the Lord, beseech you that you walk worthy of the vocation wherewith ye are called. with all lowliness and meekness, with long suffering, forbearing one another in love, endeavoring to keep the unity of the Spirit in the bond of peace. There is no body, so there is one body and one spirit, even as ye are called in one hope of your calling, one Lord, one faith, one baptism. One God and Father of all, who is above all and through all, and in you all. But unto every one of us is given grace according to the measure of the gift of Christ. Wherefore, he saith, When he ascended up on high, he led captivity captive and gave gifts unto men. Now that he ascended, what is it but that he also descended first into the lowest parts of the earth He that descended is the same also that ascended up far above all heavens, that he might fulfill all things. And he gave some apostles and some prophets and some evangelists and some pastors and teachers for the perfecting of the saints for the work of the ministry, for the edifying of the body of Christ, till we all come in the unity of the faith and of the knowledge of the Son of God unto a perfect man. Under the measure of the stature of the fullness of Christ. Let ye henceforth be no more children tossed to and fro, and carried about with every wind of doctrine, by the slight of men, and the cunning craftiness whereby they lie in wait to deceive. But speaking the truth in love may grow up into him in all things, which is the head, even Christ. From whom the whole body fitly joined together and compacted by that which every joint supplies, according to the effectual working in the measure of every part Make it the increase of the body under the edifying of itself in love. Let us pray. Father, now as we approach your word, we recognize that words after man's wisdom have no profit to your people And the exposition of Scripture is only profitable if the Holy Spirit is indeed the true expositor. And so, Father, we pray that as we open your word today and as I attempt to amplify it and outline it and make it clear to the hearts of your people, Lord, we pray that all those mechanical elements of preaching would not get in the way of the work of the Spirit of God. But Lord, rather, may your spirit guide us into all truth. May the entrance to your word give us light. And Father, may we rejoice in thy word May we be challenged to discipline ourselves according to thy word. And Father, may we be improved in grace by our study of thy word this morning. We pray these things in Jesus' name. Amen. Happy Father's Day. It's good to have our fathers with us. But our message today, though it is a Father's Day message, is not just for the men present. Nor is it just for the Father's present. It is the word of God for all of us this morning. The text, if you would to choose one verse from our scripture reading this morning, would be verse thirteen. till we all come in the unity of the faith and of the knowledge of the Son of God unto a perfect man. Or to the measure of the stature, of the fullness of Christ. Till we all come to the perfect man. I think most two and three-year-olds think that their father is the perfect man And then as we grow, we begin to realize that our fathers are men of flesh and they make mistakes and they're not always right on everything. And as we get to our teenage years we often begin to see our father's faults looming large and we get to our late teens and think that guy doesn't know anything And it's been said that a twenty-five year old begins to look back and realize how much his father knew knew. And by the time we reach fifty we realize, you know, that guy that thing's pretty well figured out. He he had a pretty good grasp on what was going on. We were thankful for our fathers. But what we want to look at this morning is the perfect man. We realize that God demands perfection. In Matthew chapter 5, verse 48, be ye therefore perfect, even as your Father which is in heaven is perfect. And in Genesis 17 and verse 1, God speaking to Abraham. And when Abraham was 90 years old and nine, the Lord appeared unto Abram and said unto him, I am the Lord God all I am the Almighty God, walk before me and be ye perfect And again in verse 8 to 13 of chapter 18 of Deuteronomy, thou shalt be perfect with the Lord thy God. How many are perfect? Don't see any hands. So we have to understand first of all what does this word perfect mean? And this word perfect, which we find here in Scripture. is actually many Hebrew and Greek words which are translated as perfect in our English, but they all mean pretty much the same thing. And this biblical word perfect In its most basic kernel form, means to be spiritually mature. It means to be grown up in grace. To no longer be a babe in Christ. To no longer be one that toddles along and stumbles constantly, but to stand up and be a man. To grow up in the faith, to grow up in grace. And when I use that term, stand up and be a man, I'm not referring just to the males in our congregation. but for the men and women together to be spiritually minded, spirit-controlled, to no longer be bathed in Christ, but to reach spiritual maturity. And so this word perfect means to be brought to the end or completion, to reach that which is the goal. To be grown up, adult, or spiritually mature, to have all of its necessary parts. This word is a word that carries with it the idea of completion. Or having all of its parts. We had a puzzle at my house when I was growing up. And my The middle brother of the three of us, who was always sort of the the prankster of the family, had taken this box for the thousand piece puzzle and crossed out one thousand and written 999. Because we put the puzzle together and there was one piece missing. It was not complete. It had an imperfection. Now, in Scripture, when we're told that we are to be complete, there is a call there for the man of God. To discipline himself, to root out every evil. Search me, O God, and know my thoughts. Try me. See if there be any wicked way in me. And so we're called to be perfect. But when we find men in Scripture, we're going to look at some examples in a moment of men that are called perfect in Scripture. We do not find that they were sinless. There has only been one perfect man, and that was Jesus Christ. But not to give too much of our outline away right at the beginning, we're going to see in Scripture that to be a perfect man is to be in the likeness of Christ. He is the model. He's the picture on the box of the puzzle. He has all the parts. And we are to be like him. And so we cannot claim to be sinless. In fact, in first John we read, if we say that we have no sin, we lie and we do not the truth. And yet that's not an excuse for sin. That doesn't mean that we can say, well, you know, this is a little one, or God doesn't care about this one, or, you know, scripture reading's not that really important. You know, I can go to church on Sundays and live like the devil the rest of the week. Which a lot of people try to do. But rather, as Christians, we're called to perfection. We're called to strive. Paul said, After I've preached to others, I myself should be a castaway. Therefore I keep my body under and bring it into subjection. And so, first of all, we have to understand what this word perfect means. It means to be spiritually mature. When Paul was preaching to the church and writing to the church at Corinth, he said, I could not speak to you as spiritual, but as carnal. Uh to read the verse in 1 Corinthians 3 verses 1 and 2, he says, Brethren, I could not speak unto you as unto spiritual, but as unto carnal, even as unto babes in Christ, I have fed you with milk and not with meat, for heretofore ye were not able to bear it. Neither yet now are ye able. Paul there addresses the Corinthian believers as brethren. They were indeed children of God, but they had not grown to spiritual maturity. We all love babies. There is an un indescribable Experience to hold your own child. That tiny infant life. What a miracle! How amazing. But I'm sure all of us at some time or another have either cared for or encountered someone who never grew. Someone who may be thirty, forty years old, and yet their mental capacity is still that of a child. And I worked with individuals with developmental disabilities and precious people. You can't help but love them. They're as sweet and as tender as they can be. And yet there is always that element of sadness because they never grew into that maturity. And so Paul says to these Corinthian believers, I've fed you with milk and not with meat. Spiritually, you're not ready, you have not reached perfection. You have not grown spiritually. And again in Hebrews, the time when you ought to be a teacher, you have need that one teach you again, which be the first principles. of the things of of of the oracles of God. You're unskillful. And there in uh Hebrews five and verse fourteen he says, But strong meat belongs to them that are of full age Then there are full age, even those by reason of use who have exercised their senses to discern good and evil. And there in Hebrews 5 and verse 14, that word full age is our first same word perfect. that we have here in Ephesians. Full age. Perfection. And so the first thing we see is what is this idea of perfection? It's not a sinlessness that I'll I don't sin anymore. That's an old doctrine that used to be taught by the Holy Church that you could reach a point of sinless perfection. No, as long as we live in this body, we will sin, and yet that sinlessness That perfection in Christ is that which we're called to, and that which we strive for, that my life may be so guided by the Word of God and so disciplined by the Spirit of God. That I indeed mortify my members. But then we find in Scripture some examples of those that are called by God Perfect. And consider this. In Genesis chapter 6, now read from verses 5 through verse 9 of Noah. And God saw that the wickedness of man was great in the earth, and every imagination of the thoughts of his of his heart was only evil continually, and he repented the Lord that he had made man upon the earth, and it grieved him at his heart. And the Lord said, I will destroy man whom I had created from the face of the earth, both man and beast, and creeping things, and the fowls of the air, for it repenteth me that I had made them But Noah found grace in the eyes of the Lord. Now these are the generations of Noah. Noah was a just man and perfect in his generation. And so here we have the account of the time before the flood when God looks and he sees the wickedness of man, it's great It's all around. Every man has corrupted himself. But Noah finds grace in the eyes of the Lord, and God says, here's one that's perfect. Here's one who is walking with me, as it says there. Noah walked with God. Here is one in his generation who is not going with the world. Here's one that is perfect. And then again in Abraham, I read this verse to you earlier, but in Genesis 17 and verse 1, Abraham was 90 years old. And nine, and the Lord appeared unto Abram and said unto him, I am the Almighty God, walk before me and be thou perfect And I will make my covenant with thee. And again Job, who we considered last week in Job 1 and verse 1, there was a man in the land of Uz whose name was Job, that was a perfect man, upright. one that feared God and eschewed evil. And David in 2 Samuel 22 in verse 33 said Who is God, save the Lord? Who is our rock, save our God? God is my strength and my power, and He maketh my way perfect. So here we have four men in Scripture that we find in reference to this term perfect. They have reached a state of spiritual maturity. Noah standing in a wicked day, but he stood for truth and righteousness. Job, who suffered so many things, but he did not curse God, nor uh uh speak foolishly about God. David A man after God's own heart. And yet, as we consider these four men, we also have to consider that all four of them had faults. Noah was drunk in his tent and cursed his grandfather. Abram lied about his wife, said she was his sister. Job complained about his troubles, and David was an adulterous murderer. And yet they are the four that God calls us, tells us these are these are perfect. And so none of us in this life are going to reach what the world calls perfection. But yet we are to be godly men. We're to stand in a wicked day. We're to join this company. But think about it, folks. That's the company we're called to join. Excuse me. Allergy's getting to me. That's the company we're called to join. We are called to be perfect. We're called to be like David, the man after God's own heart. We're called to be like Job, the man who suffered patiently. We're called to be like Abram, the father of many nations. We are called. To be like Noah, to take a stand in a wicked day and age. The old hymn says, A noble army, men and boys, the matron and the maid. Around the Savior's throne rejoice in robes of light arrayed. They climb the steeps of heaven's ascent. Through peril, toil, and pain, O God, to us may grace be given to follow in their train. May we be that kind of men. And so the first thing we see here Is the nature of this perfection and then examples of those who the scriptures call perfect. But now I'm going to get to the heart of what I want us to consider today. What are the characteristics of these men? What is it that Scripture teaches us about those that are perfect before Him? And if you look again at our text there in Ephesians chapter 4, And verse 13 and following, I'll read the verses again just to implant them in our mind. To we all come in the unity of the faith and the knowledge of the Son of God unto a perfect man. under the measure of the stature of the fullness of Christ, that we henceforth be no more children tossed to and fro and carried about with every wind of doctrine. by the slight of men, and the cunning craftiness wherein they seek to deceive, but speaking the truth in love may grow up into him in all things The first thing we see from this passage about the perfect man is that the perfect man in God's eyes is a peacemaker. The perfect man in God's eyes is a seeker of unity. Look at verse one of our passage. I, therefore, the prisoner of the Lord beseech you that you walk worthy of the vocation wherewith you're called, with all lowliness and meekness. With long-suffering, forbearing one another in love, endeavoring to keep the unity of the Spirit in the bond of peace The godly man, the perfect man before God, is one who is a seeker of unity. He is one who is a peacemaker. He is one who, as they say, is oil on troubled waters, endeavoring to keep the unity of the Spirit in the bond of peace. In Psalm one hundred thirty one, verse one Behold, how good and how pleasant it is for brethren to dwell together in unity. The cause of much division and fighting within churches is spiritual immaturity. But this man who is called the godly man, this man who in Christ is the perfect man, is one who is a peacemaker. It is one who endeavors to keep the unity of the spirit in the bond of Perfectness. It is one verse two who with long who with lowliness and meekness and long-suffering forbears one another in love. And we have to consider what the all is here as well. It says, to we all come, verse 13, to we all come in the unity of faith. Who is the all? Who's being spoken of here? Well, in the first instance, the all is all of us, all who are in the local assembly. There should be peace within the local assembly. There shouldn't be fighting in the local church. There shouldn't be divisions. There shouldn't be concerns over this is our traditions. There shouldn't be concerns over he said this and she said that and he did this and We're the body of Christ. And we've all who have children have said to our kids sometimes, knock it off! Stop it! Because kids will bicker and quarrel over the most ridiculous things. He's got more milk in his cereal than I have in mine. It's childishness. But God calls his people to be perfect. In other words, grow up. God calls us to move on to spiritual maturity. Paul said to Corinthians again, I couldn't feed you with milk or with meat, but with milk, because heretofore you weren't able to bear it and still you can't bear it, he said there in the passage. And so the all first of all is all in the local assembly, but then it's also all the local assemblies There should be peace between congregations. We find situations where there's congregations that stand against each other. And thirdly, this all is all the elect. If you look at this passage, it says it gave some apostles and some evangelists and some teachers. It's a very evangelistic passage. Till we all come, till the entirety of the elect. Grow. And so it's a call for the individual to grow in grace and for churches to grow in grace and for all the elect to be brought into this grace till we all come. to her all in unity. And is not that what the ultimate goal is in heaven? All that the Father giveth to me shall come to me, and him that cometh, there shall be one body And one foal, uh sheep have I which are not of this foal, but there shall be one foal and one shepherd. And so that is the goal. And so the reasons for disunity or spiritual immaturity, but when we talk about this unity in the faith that we're all called to, we have to understand that unity cannot be pursued apart from purity. You cannot have unity in the body of Christ if there's impurity. This call for unity does not allow us To find unity with brethren that are disobedient. The Word of God is our model. And so the unity is broken by disobedience. From henceforth, or from whence cometh wars and fightings among you, come they not even from your own lust, which war against your soul. And an amazing passage in 1 John 3 verses 11 and 12 for this is the message that we have heard from the beginning, that we should love one another, not as Cain, who was of that wicked one, and slew his brother. And wherefore slew he him because his own works were evil and as well as righteous. And so there will be disunity When there is sin within the body. And so this unity cannot be pursued apart from purity And unity of faith is not unity with the world. It doesn't mean that we are to join with the world or to join with unbelievers who call themselves the children of God. It is to be unity among the true body. And so the first characteristic of the perfect man is that he is a seeker of unity. He is a peacemaker within the body of Christ. The second characteristic that we find of this perfect man is that he's characterized as a man of faith If you look again there at our text in chapter 4, verse 13, till we all come in the unity of the faith. What is it that unifies us? It's the faith of Jesus Christ. We've said many times before that it is unlikely that most of us would have ever known one another apart from the grace of Jesus Christ. And what is it that unifies us? It is the faith of Jesus Christ. And what is it that splits up a lot of congregations? The lack of faith in Jesus Christ. The presence of tares which were planted by the wicked one for the destruction of the wheat And let me just pause for a moment and say, anyone who is wondering, yes, there is a bird that desperately wants to come in. And I know he's distracting some, and he's distracting me as well. He has yeah. He's he's hit the window at least a hundred times thus far, and he will continue, so just ignore him. He's not getting in and he's not harmful. Okay, let's get back to the message. And so the second thing we find about the perfect man is he's characterized by a man of faith. Without faith, we read in Hebrews 6, it is impossible to please him. For he that cometh to God must believe that he is, and he is the rewarder of them that diligently seek him. The unity of faith is uniting of all the elect within the faith. We touched on that just a moment ago But it's also the uniformity of faith. The unity of faith is the uniformity of faith. I believe everything that it says. Every single word, even ones that I may not personally like. Even ones that don't fit my sensibilities even ones that don't agree with what my human nature would like them to say. I believe it all. My father used to say I believe the Bible from cover to cover, and I even believe the cover because it says Holy Bible, and that's what it is. And this unity of faith has got to be a unity of all the faith. We can't pick and choose. Now we have uh Doctoral distinctives. We have areas where we may disagree with other brethren on some issues of Scripture. But we cannot come into d into unity with those that preach another gospel And as, you know, Brother Mentz and I have footstalked many times before, that preach from another gospel, that preach from a polluted word. There is a unity of faith, and the the man of God is characterized by faith. We believe it all. We believe every word of it. We believe what it says. Faith is the substance of things hoped for. It is the evidence of things not seen. And so, if we are to be a perfect man, we cannot take bits and pieces of the faith and say we believe this, but And maybe God didn't create in six days. Maybe not all the Word of God's inspired. Maybe there's errors, maybe there are mistakes in here. No, the man of God is is characterized. as a man of unity of faith, of complete faith. The man of God is characterized as a man of knowledge. Look again at verse 13 of chapter 4. Till we all come in the unity of the faith. under the knowledge of the Son of God. This knowledge must be our goal, study, to show thyself approved unto God, a workman that needeth not to be ashamed. Well, what kind of a workman would be a shame? Well, an immature workman. A workman that doesn't know his business. Many times you might have a repairman come by your house. And my father in law had one uh couple of months ago that stood there and looked at the furnace and scratched his head and then stepped back from the furnace furnace and cussed at it a couple of times. And my my father in law had to Ton not in my house. And the guy hemmed and hauled for about four hours And then presented the bill for all the hours he had been in the house and he hadn't touched the furnace yet. He hadn't fixed the thing. Well he was a workman that should be ashamed, didn't know his business and so another man came in and well that's the problem fixed it for him. But you see If we're to strive to be this perfect man, understand that this word perfect doesn't mean sinless, but it does mean having all its parts. It means being complete. Then we're to be men and women of knowledge We're to study to show ourselves approved unto God, and that we're to all come in the knowledge of the Son of God. And this knowledge that Paul is speaking of here. Is what the pure the Puritans used to call experimental knowledge or experimental religion. That word experiment is totally polluted in our understanding today. A better way to put it is experiential knowledge In other words, we're to have a knowledge of the Son of God that isn't just up here, but a knowledge of the Son of God that we have studied in the Word and seen effective in our lives. Seem practical in our daily living that Christ liveth in me. That it that I know That I am not righteous in myself, and yet I know the Spirit of God leading and directing my heart causes me to abhor sin. And to know that when I sin, the waves of guilt come pouring in, and those waves of guilt have nothing to do with me, because my flesh would love that thing that I abhor. But that experiential, experimental knowledge of Christ, knowing that He dwells within me, and Christ in me abhors sin. And Christ in me causes me. To love righteousness and to walk in faith. That is truly to know him. And that is what we find here in this verse. The spiritually perfect man is characterized. By experiential knowledge of Christ. I know that he lives in me. Rather, we are to be conformed to his truth by his word. And that's what Paul spoke of. In Philippians 3 and verse 10, he says that I may know him in the power of his resurrection, and the fellowship of his suffering, being made conformable unto his death. And again in Second Peter one verses two and three, grace of peace be multiplied unto you through the knowledge of God and of the Lord Jesus Christ. According as his divine power hath given to us all things that pertain to life and godliness, doesn't that sound like the perfect man we're speaking of? Given to us all things that pertain to life and knowledge of to life and godliness through the knowledge of Him that has called us to glory and virtue. And so we find that the perfect man is a man that's characterized by as a peace seeker, and characterized as a man of faith and a man of knowledge. But fourthly, the fourth characteristic of this perfect man. And says a man is characterized by Christ's likeness. And that is the center of all of it. Looking again there At Ephesians 4 and verse 13, till we all come in the unity of the faith and the knowledge of the Son of God unto a perfect man, unto the measure Of the stature of the fullness of Christ. Let those words sink in. To we all come in the knowledge of the Son of God, unto the perfect man, unto the measure. Of the stature, of the fullness of Christ. What three glorious descriptors of what we should be. The measure of Christ, the stature of Christ, the fullness of Christ. You see, Adam was created in the likeness of Christ. But Adam fell in sin. Jesus Christ, the second Adam, came in perfect righteousness, and he fulfilled all righteousness. And now we are called, though born of the first Adam, to be like the second. Though born in flesh, we are called to the righteousness of the Son of God. Jesus Christ is the measure. Jesus Christ fulfilled all righteousness, Matthew 3. 15. And Christ is the measure and the stature and the fullness to which we're called. We read in 2 Corinthians chapter 3 and verse 18 But we all with open faces beholding as in a glass The glory of the Lord are changed into the same image from glory to glory, even by the Spirit of the Lord. In Romans chapter eight, verse twenty-nine, for whom he did foreknow he also did predestinate to be conformed to the image of his son. To be made in the measure and the stature and the fullness of Christ. But a glorious verse. In Isaiah 61, where Isaiah is describing the ministry of the Messiah And actually the reason I chose Psalm 1 for our responsive reading this morning, you'll see as I read the passage, in Isaiah 61 and verse 1 through 3, describing the ministry Messiah would have The Spirit of the Lord God is upon me, because He has anointed me to preach good tidings unto the meek. He has sent me to help to set He has sent me to bind up the brokenhearted. to proclaim liberty unto the captives and the opening of the prison to them that are bound, to proclaim the acceptable year of the Lord and the day of vengeance, the day of comfort, and of all mourn comfort to all that mourn. To point unto them that mourn in Zion, to give them beauty for ashes, the oil of joy for mourning, the garment of praise for the spirit of heaviness. That they might be called trees of righteousness, the planting of the Lord. that he might be glorified. The ministry of the Messiah is prophesied that they, that those that mourn in Zion, blessedly that mourn, those that have been brought to the realization of their sins, That they might be called trees of righteousness. Blessed is the man that walketh not in the council of the ungodly to understand that he shall be planted like a tree by the rivers of water. Now, we are called the measure and the stature and the fullness of Christ. Will be like a tree planted by the worbers of water, and the work of the Messiah was to make those that mourn over their sin to be called trees of righteousness, the planting of the Lord. Have you ever been out west and seen the red woods? Trees that are bigger around than this house. Three, four hundred foot tall. How do you measure around that tree? How do you consider its stature or its fullness? How do you measure the Messiah? How do you consider his height or his greatness? But we as the children of God are trees planted by the river of water that bringeth forth its fruit in its season, its leaves shall not wither, and whatsoever he doeth shall prosper. And we, as the children of God, through the work of the Messiah, are his planting that we might grow into the measure and the stature and the fullness of Christ. And so, this perfect man is characterized above all by the likeness of Jesus Christ. He has come. to spiritual adulthood. It's no longer a babe, no longer offended by the little things that people say. No longer tripping constantly in the besetting sins, no longer annoyed over what songs are sung at church or what clothes somebody wore or what hat she had or what he said to me at the door or what his kids did or anything else you can think of that all of us at some time or another have heard of is complaints in the church But rather spiritual maturity. And so those are the characteristics of the spiritual man, but what are his blessings? And we're w starting to wind down now. The blessings of the spiritual man are that which we find there in Psalm 1. He indeed is a well-planted, well-watered, spiritual tree. But in Psalm 24 we read these words, verse 3 and following, Who shall ascend into the hill of the Lord? Or who shall stand in his holy place? He that hath clean hands and a pure heart, who hath not lifted up his soul into vanity, nor sworn deceitfully, he shall receive the blessing from the Lord and righteousness from the God of his salvation. And so we've seen what is meant in Scripture by this perfection. And we've seen what the characteristics are of this spiritual man. So the question as we conclude is how do we get there? How do we get there? We're called to Christ's likeness. We're called to this perfection. But how do we get there? We may grow spiritually, first of all, by the study of the Word of God. The study of the Word of God. But continue thou in the things which thou hast learned, and been assured of uh And that from a child thus knowing the holy scriptures, which are able to make thee wise unto salvation, that the man of God may be perfect Thoroughly furnished unto all good works. This was Paul's charge to Timothy. Remember the things you've learned. Remember what your mother and grandmother taught you, that you may be perfect. thoroughly furnished unto all good works. Timothy, if you want to reach it, immerse yourself in the Word of God because that's where you've learned to be perfect. Secondly, if we're to grow spiritually, we grow by the preaching of the Word of God, by attendance. to the preaching of the Word of God, whom we preach, warning every man and teaching every man in all wisdom, that we may present every man perfect. In Christ Jesus. That's why Paul said we preach. The goal of it is that we may present every man perfect, that we may present every man grown up. That we may present every man spiritually mature. Thirdly, we grow spiritually by the Word of God, by the preaching of the Word of God, and by prayer. The psalmist David, the man after God's own heart, said, Morning, evening, at noon, will I pray and cry aloud. Remember, Daniel? Daniel, if you pray, You're going to be thrown in the lion's dead. When Daniel read the reading He went in to his house, his windows being opened, his chamber towards Jerusalem, and he knelt on his knees three times a day and prayed and gave thanks before God and his fathers a four time. He's a man of prayer. And finally, how do we grow? How do we become spiritually mature? Through the fellowship of the brethren. Iron sharpeneth iron, so a man sharpeneth the counsel of his friend the countenance of his friend. Hebrews chapter ten, verse twenty-four and twenty-five, and let us consider one another to provoke one another to good works. Not forsaking the assembling of ourselves together as the manner of some is, but exhorting one another so much the more as you see the day approaching. God has called us to perfection. We're not sinless. We all trip and stumble. But if you're not closer to God today than you were yesterday, you're backsliding. And if you've been saved for ten years and you're still spiritually immature, what a sad shame for the baby that never grows. And so on this Father's Day. The Word of God speaks to men that we may be perfect, and yet, as we've seen, that all includes all the body of Christ, God has caught us all. To grow in grace and in the knowledge of the Lord and Savior. May God help us that we might be perfect that we might be mature that we might be spiritually complete in him. Let us stand for prayer Father, we thank you for your grace and mercy to us this day. Bless your word to our hearts. May we continue in it. In Jesus' name. Amen.