Turn in your Bibles with me, please, this morning to the Book of Malachi, the last book of your Old Testament. We began a series through Malachi at the beginning of this year. And uh you'll remember that I set the time that we weren't going to go consecutive Sundays, but we were going to jump in and out of Malachi from time to time throughout the year, and Lord willing, get through the entire book in this year. It has been, I think, eight weeks since we've been in Malachi. I had not intended that long a break, but uh there have been other other messages along the way But this morning we're returning to Malachi and beginning with the 17th verse of the second chapter. But actually I believe it would be advisable for us to go back to verse 1. So I'm going to read verses 1 through 9, and then Verse 17 as we look at God's word this morning. So Malachi chapter 2, and I'll read the first nine verses and the 17th verse. Let us hear the word of God. And now, O ye priests, this commandment is for you. If ye will not hear. If you will not lay it to heart to give glory unto my name, saith the Lord of hosts, I will even send a curse upon you. And I will curse your blessings. Yea, I have cursed them already, because ye do not lay it to heart. Behold, I will corrupt your seed and spread dung upon your faces, even the dung of your solemn feast, and one shall take you away with it. And ye shall know that I have set this commandment unto you, that my commandment might be with Levi, saith the Lord of hosts. My covenant was with him of life and peace. And I have given them to him for the fear wherewith he feared me and was afraid before my name. The law of truth was in his mouth, and iniquity was not found in his lips. He walked with me in peace and equity, and did turn many away from iniquity. For the priest's lips should keep knowledge, and they should seek the law at his mouth, for he is the messenger of the Lord of hosts. But ye are departed out of the way. Ye have caused many to stumble at my law. Ye have corrupted the covenant of Levi, saith the Lord of hosts. Therefore have I also made you contemptible and base before all the people, according as ye have not kept my ways But have been partial in the law. And then verse seventeen. Ye have ye wearied the Lord with your words. Yet ye say, Wherein have we wearied him? When ye say, every one that doeth evil is good in the sight of the Lord. And he delighteth in them, or where is the judge the God's judgment? Let's foul for prayer. Heavenly Father, we thank you for your holy and precious word this morning. Father, we thank you that it is inerrant, it is without error. We thank you that it is verbally inspired. It is God breathed. We thank you, even that it is preserved to us, for thy word you declared is kept. Father, bless thy word to our hearts this morning. If there is any error this morning, it is only an error of man. And so, Father, I pray that you might enable us to rightly divide the Word of Truth. Father, we pray this morning that the Holy Spirit of God would be the exegete. May the Spirit of God be the preacher in our midst this morning. And may your Spirit speak truth to the hearts of your people. Father, bless us as we look in thy word. O Lord, we thank you that this is a glorious passage that is all about Jesus Christ. And so may we see Christ in the Word. And we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Reading that 17th verse again. Ye have wearied the Lord with your words. Yet ye say, Wherein have we wearied him? When ye say, every one that doeth evil is good in the sight of the Lord, and he delighteth in them, or where is God's judgment? I wanted to go back and read from verse one through nine Because this rejection of God's message and this wearying of Jehovah began with the priesthood. The priests of God have wearied Jehovah with their words. The elect of God have wearied Jehovah with their words And all of mankind has wearied Jehovah with their words In Isaiah 7 and verse 13 and 14, we read these words, hear ye now, O house of David! Is it a small thing that ye do weary men, but will ye weary God also? Therefore, the Lord himself shall give you a sign. Behold, a virgin shall conceive and bear a son, and ye shall call his name Emmanuel. The prophet Isaiah there, when Jehovah says, Ask of me a sign, no, we won't ask a sign, you weary men with your words, I'll give you a sign, behold, a virgin shall conceive. Adam and Eve wearied God. God's solution was The serpent's head will be bruised in the sea of the woman. Noah and his generation wearied God. The solution was Noah found grace in the eyes of the Lord. You see, throughout the Word of God, we find this pattern where God is wearied, and we're going to talk a little bit about that word wearied. But God is wearied with the sins of mankind. But again and again, when we find that God is wearied with people's sins, the solution is God says, I'm going to send a Savior. And here we find in this seventeenth verse of chapter two, you've wearied me with your words. But Malachi didn't write chapter 2, verse 17, and then start chapter 3, verse 1. These are men's additions for our understanding, but look at what we read in three and verse one, behold I will send my messenger. And so God says, you've wearied me with your words, but I'm going to send my messenger. We read there in our responsive reading from Isaiah forty-three this morning, but thou hast not called upon me, O Jacob. Thou hast been weary of me, O Israel. Thou hast brought not brought me the Did we read the wrong responsive reading? Did we read forty three? Okay. My sorry, I had a a brain freeze there. Isaiah forty-three verse twenty-two. But thou hast not called upon me, O Jacob. Thou hast not thou hast been weary of me, O Israel. Thou hast not brought me the small cattle with burnt offerings, the last part of verse 33, nor I have not wearied thee, verse 24, but thou hast Wearied me. And that word wearied that we find here in Malachi and that we find there in Isaiah 43 is the same word that David uses in Psalm 6 and verse 6 I am weary of my groanings. All the night I make my bed to swim. And then again in Psalm 69 and verse 3, I am weary of my crying, my throat. is dry. And how is it that Jehovah can be weary? And this is why my mind went in neutral there for a moment. In Isaiah 40, God tells his people, he that watches you, I'm not weary. He says in Isaiah 40 and verse 28, Hast thou not known? Hast thou not heard that the everlasting God, the Lord, the creator of all the ends of the earth, fainteth not? Neither is weary. There is no searching of his understanding. He declares, I'm not weary. So how can it be Do we have a great contradiction here that God says in Malachi, you've wearied me with your words, and yet God says in Isaiah 40, I'm not weary. And again, I point out to you what is the context of Isaiah 40, where God says, I'm not wearied. Isaiah 40, verse 3, the voice of him that crieth in the wilderness, prepare you the way. You see how that soterical idea comes in again and again when God's talking about this weariness. The weariness that God speaks of in Isaiah 40, when he says he's not weary, he's not weary to save. He's not weary in the pursuit of his people. He that watches over Israel, not all that are born of Abraham, but all that are his own elect, he's not weary over them. He will not fail nor be discouraged. He will drink from the brook by the way, as we read in our call to worship God will never be weary in the seeking of his people, for he's come to seek and to save that which is lost. All that the Father giveth to me shall come to me. That is the salvation side. He that watches over Israel is not weary. He neither slumbers nor sleeps. But rather, God is weary with the wicked. And that weariness with the wicked is a weariness of judgment For you see, God is a long suffering and patient God But thou, O Lord, art full of compassion, gracious, long-suffering and plenteous in mercy. The Lord is long-suffering and great in mercy, forgiving iniquity and transgressions and will by no means clear the guilty, visiting the iniquity upon the fathers into the third and fourth generation. God is a long-suffering God. And he's not lack concerning his promise as some men count slackness. He's long-suffering to usward. Not willing that any should perish. But though God is long-suffering, and though God bears with the wicked Because of the good seed among the wheat. Remember the tares of the wheat. Don't tear out the tares lest you harm the wheat. God is long suffering. He is never weary in his redemption. And God suffers long with the wicked. But the weariness of God with their sin demands justice. And demands judgment. And so though God suffer long, and though the sentence is not carried out instantly yet God will and God must judge sin. That's right. If thou Lord shouldest mark iniquities, Psalm 130, O Lord, who shall stand? But there is forgiveness with thee that thou mayest be feared. And so we find here in our text this morning. Ye have wearied the Lord. And you notice, of course, it's Jehovah there. It's in all capitals. Ye have wearied Jehovah with your words. What does that phrase imply? What it implies that God hears the words. God hears every word that's spoken. Every word will be brought into judgment with every idle thought. God hears the words. And he will judge them. In Psalm 94, yet they say, The Lord shall not see, neither shall the God of Jacob regard it. Understand, ye brutish among the people, and ye fools! When will ye be wise? He that planted the ear, shall he not hear? He that formed the eye shall he not see. You see, men think that their actions can be hidden, and that their actions may be hidden much more their words. But the eyes of the Lord are in every place beholding the evil and the good. Remember when Sarah laughed at the promise of God? And then she denied it. I didn't laugh. Ah. God hears the words. But my friends, it's not just the spoken words. God hears the words that never pass the lips. For you see the true words of man are the words said in his heart, for as a man thinketh in his heart So is he. Psalm ten, verse eleven. He has said in his heart, God is forgotten, he hideth his face, he will never see. Psalm 73, 11. And they say, Doth God know, and is there knowledge in the Most High? Isaiah 29, 15, Woe unto them that seek deep to hide their counsels from the Lord. And their works are in dark, and they say, Who seeth us, or who knoweth us? Job 22, 13. And thou sayest, How doth God know? Can he judge through the dark cloud? And you know what? We inherited this idea that we can hide our sins from God from Adam and Eve. For what did they do when they sinned in the garden? They heard the voice of the Lord walking in the garden, and they hid themselves. You understand when God said, Where art thou? He wasn't seeking information. He knew exactly where they were. He was seeking repentance. And when you find questions in Scripture where God is asking a question. He's not seeking information. And in most cases, if you tally them up, he's seeking repentance. He's bringing men to the understanding of their sinfulness before him. Adam, where are you? was to make Adam think, ah, how I have enjoyed walking with God in the cool of the garden, but now I'm naked. Now I have no cloak for my sin. And so Adam hid himself in the cool of the garden. Yet have ye wearied the Lord with your words? Have you say, Wherein have we wearied him? Who me? Who? Me. Me? Certainly you mean someone else. Certainly you you're not talking about good old me Who me? Such is the way of an adulterous woman. She wiped with her mouth and said, I have done no wickedness. That verse has has haunted me. Has haunted me since I was a teenager. Oh, how we try to portray to God that we have not done any wickedness. Oh how we try to act like we're good. Just like the child with the crumbs all over his face. Did you eat the cookies? No, not me. And yet the evidence cannot be hid. And even when the evidence is washed away It's not removed from the sight of God. You've wearied me with your words, yet you say, What did I do? Wherein have we wearied thee? And again, we get this tendency to blame it on someone else. From our examples. And the man said, The woman Who thou gavest me. She gave me of the tree, and I did eat. There's a double blame there. It was the woman, and you gave her to me. My dad used to say that when Adam sinned he took it like a man, he blamed it on his wife. God, she gave it to me, and you gave her to me, so ultimately Adam's saying, I'm not responsible. It's not really my fault. Wear in if we weary thee. What have I done? You gave me a woman and she gave you fruit. It's not my fault. Aaron. Exodus 32. And Aaron said, Let not the an the anger of my Lord wax hot. Thou knowest the people that they are set on mischief. For they said unto me, make us gods. So they gave me it, that they gave me gold. Then I cast it into the fire, and there came out a calf. So so Moses, first of all, you gotta know these people. You know 'em, you know, these people, they're they're they're set on evil. They're gonna find some way to do evil. And they said make us some gods. So it wasn't my idea, it was their idea, and they gave me this gold, I threw the gold in the fire, out came the calf. So what are we gonna do? Now we've got to worship it, because here it is. I've done no evil. And then again we find King Saul. What meaneth then the bleeding of the sheep? And Saul said, The people spared the best of the sheep and some of the oxholds for the sacrifice. I didn't do it. They did it, and they had good motives. Yet you say, wherein have you wearied me? You see, the sins of the Levitical priesthood wearied God But the sins of the elect weary God as well. God is long suffering, but God hates sin. And though the long-suffering of God, the goodness of God, leadeth us to repentance, and though God will save his very elect And God's tired of our sins. Saul, Saul, it is hard for thee to kick against the priests. Who art thou, Lord? I am Jesus, whom thou Persecutest. And Saul could have said, Well, no, I've never I never beat you. That was the Romans. I never threw you in prison. That was someone else that led you into judgment. I'm over here with these people. Not me. How we make excuse for our sin. Ecclesiastes seven and verse twenty There is not a just man upon the earth that doeth good and sinneth not. If we say that we have no sin, we deceive ourselves, and the truth is not in us. If we say that we have not sinned, we make him a liar, and his word is not in us. But God's word not being in us when we say, I've not sinned, is the very problem. Because the word of God is the great spotlight of sin. God has not left us without instruction. God has not left us to wander in the darkness. God's word is indeed a lamp to our feet and a light to our path. And wherewithal shall a young man cleanse his way? by taking heed thereto, according to thy word. And so you say, Wherein have we wearied him? And then he spells it out for us. He tells us exactly how we've wearied him When ye say, everyone that doeth good in the sight of the Lord. Sorry, when ye say, everyone that doeth evil is good in the sight of the Lord. Where have we wearied you? We've wearied you by saying that everyone that does evil is good in the sight of the Lord. Notice the first thing about that statement. It's not saying that they were committing evil themselves. It says that they were calling the evil of others good. You see, the first element here is that it wasn't solely a sin of commission, it was a sin of omission They allowed iniquity, they allowed sin, they suffered sin upon their neighbor. They did not call sin. They lived in a wicked society as Lot lived in a wicked society and they said nothing about it. And thereby they were as guilty as the ones committing the vile acts. In 1 Corinthians chapter 5 verses 1 and 2, Paul is speaking to the church at Corinth, and we get our term carnal from Corinth. But Paul is speaking to the church of Corinth, and he says, It is reported commonly that there is fornication among you And such fornication as is not so much as named among the Gentiles that one should have as father's wife. And ye are puffed up and have not rather mourned. Well, as Paul's saying, you're puffed up. You're thinking, we're not doing wrong. And you haven't mourned. It has not grieved you that this sin was taking place. And so they have wearied the Lord. And they say, Wherein have we wearied you? First of all, we've wearied you by calling everyone that doeth evil good. But not only that, if you look closely at verse 17, ye have wearied the Lord with your words, yet ye say, wherein have we wearied him? When you say everyone that doeth evil is good in the sight of the Lord, and he delighteth in them. Not only did they fail to call sin, but they said God delights in them. Remember Aaron again, these be your gods which brought you up out of the land of Egypt And they proclaimed a feast unto Jehovah. They were going to use this golden cap, which around which they were dancing naked as the item and the emblem of their worship of Jehovah. What a corrupt mess they so quickly became. Issay, God delights in them. When you say that God delights in that which God has forbidden, when you say that God delights in that which God despises, and when you say God delights in that which God declares to be abomination. Now remember again, we read verses one through nine of chapter two because Israel was a theocracy. And so the core context of verse 17 teaches us that the things which they were saying was good that was evil were related, first of all, to the worship of Jehovah. It was things related to the worship and they had not spent money on the small corn for Jeho the small cane for Jehovah. They had polluted their worship. The priests of Levi were to be the righteous leaders, but they had brought corruption in. God would not accept the offering of Cain. It didn't matter how good the fruits and the vegetables were. It was not acceptable. It was not a blood sacrifice. God would not allow the graven image Of the golden calf to stand as a representation of himself, and God will not accept imperfect offerings. Look back to chapter 1 and verse 14. And remember, the book is one context, not divided in the chapters. Chapter 1, verse 14 But cursed be the disavor, which hath in his flock a male, and voweth and sacrificed unto the Lord a corrupt thing, for I am a great king, saith the Lord of hosts, and my name is dreadful among the heathen. And so the context here of them calling evil good and calling that which God calls abomination good and saying that God delights in it, it's related to their sacrifice. It's related to the manner and purpose of their worship. What are you doing, Israel? And we don't escape. Because it's a message to the elect of today, and the elect through all at all ages, God is serious about this matter of worship. God is serious about the righteousness of his people. God is serious about our behavior before Jehovah, and God hears the words we say in secret. And God knows when evil is called good, and good is called evil. When you say everyone that doeth evil is good in the sight of the Lord. I remember when I was in Jamaica many years ago, I was watching the evening news and there was some talk on there about how liberated the Jamaican woman was. Mm-hmm and this news reporter was talking about how wonderful it was that women were moving into occupations that they had not had before. There was actually starting to be women taxi drivers and that was big news in Jamaica and women driving some of the buses and and working in different industries. And this news reporter said, and isn't it woman w wonderful that a woman can even be a pastor of her church if she wants to? And I thought, well who gave her permission? Who decided this was acceptable in the sight of the Lord? That's right. And yet today in false Christianity, I heard this message from Joyce Myers, and oh my, it was wonderful. Wonderful God. What can God? And I my wife will snicker because I refer to Joyce Myers as the most ugly, angry woman in the world. You never see a smile on her face at all. It's a Yeah. Not that I've ever watched your sermons, but so. But anyway, uh today it's called good But God calls it evil. Suffer not a woman to teach her usurp authority over a man. God is angry with his people when we become unequally yoked with unbelievers. And be not unequally yoked together. There used to be a song that I heard as a child, I'll go to my church and you go to your church. We'll all be together in the by and by. You see, there's there's just there's just one God. And we all worship this one God, we just call him by different names. Some call him Buddha, some call him Muhammad, some call him Confucius, some call him whoever else, Sun Mon Moon, or whoever the guy was. No The Lord said, the Lord our God is one Lord. And he said, This is my name. He hasn't left us any confusion. That's right. You see, Israel was beginning to assimilate the gods of the Canaanites and the sun gods and the moon gods. They were bringing in other gods. But there's one God. And you probably knew we were going to head to this one. But God despises the substitution of his word, the addition to his word, and the subtraction from his word. And yet today it's called good in most of Christianity. Today, we've got to have a Bible that the children can understand. We've got to have a Bible that's in the common language. Nobody says thee and thou anymore. And, you know, some of this Trinitarian stuff just really, you know, that might offend somebody, and so on and so forth. God's preserved His word. And we cannot call what is evil good. And so we cannot give credence to polluted text. And yet that is the common, the common theme of our day. God declares that if we take away from his word, he'll take away our book from the Lamb's book of life. John 2, verses 1, or chapter John, 2 John 1, verses 9 through 11, we read these words. Whoso transgresseth and abideth not in the doctrine of Christ hath not God. He that abideth in the doctrine of Christ, he hath both the Father and the Son. If there come into your company, sorry, if there come any unto you that bring not this doctrine, receive him not into your house, neither bid him godspeed. For he that biddeth him Godspeed is partaker with his evil deeds. Folks, it's a narrow pathway. That's right. We do not choose how we worship. We do not choose who we worship. We follow the directions given to us by God in His Word. It's not popular. And though we would love to have a huge congregation, you're not going to build a huge congregation on that kind of preaching. That's right. Narrows the way. And so we must be careful, not proud, not boastful, but we must be careful that we don't fall into the trap of the Corinthians. Of condoning evil for the sake of fellowship. Of condoning evil for the sake of popularity. Or even of condoning evil to get more people to come in. The gospel is its own attractive. That's right. But not only did they call evil good, they said everyone that doeth evil is good, and he delights in them. He delights in what they're doing. But further they say there in verse seventeen, Wherein have we wearied him when he when ye say every one of you th everyone that doeth evil is good in the sight of the Lord, and he delighteth in them, or where is the judgment of God? Where is God's judgment? You see, they had gone along generation after generation, and part of God's coming judgment was going to be 400 years of silence After the prophecy of Malachi, when God just said, I'm not even going to speak to you. I'm not talking to you anymore. And in that 400 years of silence, how many were born? That were never taught the Ten Commandments. That had no message from the Lord. Where there is no vision, the people perished. And that word vision isn't talking about great foresight. That verse gets misused a lot The vision spoken of there where there is no vision, the people perish, is talking about a vision from God, a message from God. Where God's message does not come to a man's heart, they perish. Where is the judgment of God? I made reference to this verse earlier, but in Ecclesiastes 8 and verse 11, because the sentence against an evil work is not executed speedily. Therefore, the heart of the sons of men is fully set in them to do evil. I got away with it once, and I got away with it twice. So, what's going to stop me a third time? Where is the judgment of God? Knowing this first that there shall come in the last days scoffers walking after their own less, saying, Where is the promise of his coming? For since the fathers fell asleep, all things continue as they were from the beginning of creation. Now, I had intended verse 17 to be the introduction to chapter 3, verses 1 through 6. And along about Tuesday, I realized that wasn't going to happen. We had looked at verse 17 briefly back several weeks ago. But now let's tie this all together. Remember, I pointed out in our introduction that we have this condemnation in verse 17 of chapter 2, but then immediately in verse 3, God's response is this. Behold, I'll send my messenger. And God's sending of his messenger was an evidence of his plan for the elect. of his saving love, and though he is weary with the wicked, he is not weary in his plan of redemption. And so God killed a lamb for Adam and Eve. God gave an ark to Noah. God sacrificed the firstborn lamb. Or they told Israel to f sacrifice the firstborn lamb in Egypt rather than the firstborn son. And so Again in Isaiah 7 and verse 43, Isaiah 7 verse 13. Hear ye now, O house of David, It is a small thing for ye to weary men, but will ye weary by God also. And Isaiah forty in verse one and three, which we mentioned earlier, comfort ye my people, saith the Lord. The voice of him that crieth in the wilderness, prepare the way of the Lord, make straight a path in the desert. And that continues on with Isaiah 28 through 31, which is a passage you see on plaques, and a passage which which people apply to themselves, but look listen closely to Isaiah 40, and with this we'll conclude. Isaiah 40 verses 1 and 3 is talking about Messiah. Comfort ye my people, the voice of him that crieth in the wilderness make straight away for the Lord. Isaiah 40, verse 28, but hast thou not known Hast thou not heard that the everlasting God, the Lord, the creator of the ends of the earth, feigneth not, neither is weary. There is no searching of his understanding. Remember we said that weariness of Jehovah applies to his seeking of his people He giveth power to the faint, and to them that have no might he increaseth strength. Even the youth shall faint and be weary. The young men shall utterly fall, but they that wait upon the Lord shall renew their strength, they shall mount up with the wings of the eagles. They shall run and not be weary, they shall walk and not faint. Who is verses 29 through 31 of Isaiah 40 talking about? Is it talking about me and my weariness? No, it says the young men shall hardly fall, the youth shall faint. It's talking about Jesus Christ. That's the context. Verses 1 and 3 is talking about the coming of Messiah. And the one who is not weary, the one to whom power is given when he's faint, is Jesus Christ. And the evidence is found in Isaiah 110, verses 1 through 3 and verse 7, which we started with in our call to worship this morning. Isaiah 110, verse 1. The Lord saith my Lord, Sit thou at my right hand until I make thine enemies thy footstool. The Lord shall send the rod of his strength out of Zion. Rule thou in the midst of thine enemies. Thy people shall be willing in the day of thy power. In the beauty of holiness thou hast In the beauty of holiness, from the womb of the morning, thou hast the dew of youth. And then verse 7, he shall drink from the brook and the way, therefore shall he lift up his head. And so, though it is proper and acceptable to apply Isaiah forty, the last verses, to our own weariness and our own problems, it's ultimately a prophecy of the Messiah. That he will not be weary, he shall not fail, nor be discouraged, until the isles wait for his law. And so to wrap up what we've seen here in verse 17 of chapter 2, God's weird with our words, not just our actions. God knows the thoughts and intents of the heart. God is weary with the wicked in their sin, and God's long suffering will not extend to them forever. God endures the wicked for the sake of the righteous, just as the tares are allowed to grow until the time of harvest. But God is not weary in the redemption of his people. He shall drink from the brook by the way and lift up his head. The ewes shall utterly fall. But he waiting upon his father will renew his strength and mount up with a wing as eagles, wings as eagles, and how is he described how often we have gathered in his He will bear thee on eagle's wings. And so my friend, may we not be guilty in our words, much less our actions of bearing children. Jehovah. But may we rejoice in the fact that he will not be weary in the salvation of his people. Let us stand for prayer this morning. Father, we thank you that you've given to us your word. We thank you that you have preserved it for us and inspired it to our edification. Father, we thank you that Christ is found throughout the Word of God. Lord, may we always seek Christ in the Word. May we open the Word of God to many verse and head for the cross Father, bless your word and truth to us this morning. Father, we thank you that you've not chosen the the eloquency of man, for Paul came not with eloquent with eloquency of speech, but Lord rather you've chosen the foolishness of preaching. And so, Father, may you take these simple words this morning and bring blessing and edification to your people through them. In Jesus' name. Amen.