Turn with me this morning to Second Samuel. Chapter seven. Titled the Message This Morning Promises. Uh some of the commentators say we spend too much time on the promises and we ought to be talking more about the promiser. So uh you can pick and choose whatever Title of the Message You Want This Morning, The Promises of the Promiser or The Promiser's Promises. But let's look at 2 Samuel this morning, chapter 7, verses 1 through 17. And it came to pass when the king, that is David, sat in his house, and the Lord had given him rest roundabout from all his enemies. That the king said unto Nathan the prophet, See now, I dwell in a house of cedar, but the ark of God dwelleth within curtains or in a tent. And Nathan said to the king, Go into all that's in thine heart, for the Lord is with thee. And it came to pass that night That the word of the Lord came unto Nathan, saying, Go and tell my servant David, thus saith the Lord, Shalt thou build me a house for me to dwell in? Whereas I have not dwelt in any house since the time that I brought up the children out of Israel, of Israel, out of Egypt, even to this day, but have walked in a tent and in a tabernacle In all the places wherein I've walked, with all the children of Israel, spake I a word with any of the tribes of Israel whom I commanded to feed my people Israel, saying, Why building not a tent or a house of cedar for me? Now therefore, so shall thou say unto my servant David, thus saith the Lord of hosts: I took thee from the sheepcoat, from following the sheep to be a ruler of my people over Israel. And I was with thee whithersoever thou wentest, and have cut off all thine enemies out of thy sight, and have made thee a great name, like honor the name of the great men that are in the earth. Moreover, I will appoint a place for my people Israel, and I will plant them that they will dwell in a place of their own, and move no more. Neither should the children of wickedness afflict them any more as before time. They'll still afflict you, but not as before time, she says And as since the time that commanded judges to be over my people Israel, and have caused thee to rest from all thine enemies, also the Lord telleth thee that he will make thee a house. And when thy day be fulfilled, and thou shalt sleep with thy fathers, I will set up thy seed after thee, which shall proceed out of thy bowels, and I will establish his kingdom. Speaking here to some extent of Solomon And he shall build a house for my name. So, David, you're not going to build it. Solomon's going to build it. And I will establish the throne of his kingdom forever. And I will be his father, and he shall be my son. And if he commit iniquity I will chasten him with the rod of men, and with the stripes of the children of men. But my mercy shall not depart always from him, as I took it from Saul, whom I put away before thee. And thine house and thy kingdom shall be established forever before thee, thy throne shall be established forever. According to all these words and according to all this vision, so did Nathan speak unto David. So the king had come to Nathan the prophet and he said, I'm I I feel guilty. I'm living a prosperous life. I'm living the good life. Our enemies have been shut down pretty much. I'm living this house made of cedar But the ark of God it's it's it's sitting inside of curtains. It's in a tabernacle. There's some inequity here. God ought to have a beautiful house and I ought to be living in the tents It just doesn't seem right. And David was deeply concerned that Israel would honor God with a suitable permanent house or temple for the ark and a place to worship God. And one must say from the very beginning that it was an honorable thing that David thought. It was a noble thing. It was a rational thing. It was a good thought. God deserves better than a tenth. There was nothing wrong with David's thinking that way. And I might ask you this morning, how concerned do you think the leaders of our nation are to honor the Lord Jesus Christ? How concerned are you that you think that really our leaders out there want to honor the Lord as David wanted to honor his God here? You think about it. Our leaders tax the rain that falls on this church building. Nice. Our leaders demand our prayers to Christ and our preaching about Christ. be confined to this church property. Don't want you praying about Jesus out in public. And those same leaders, at the same time they publicly promote Provide and pursue every reprobate lifestyle that's known to humanity But that wasn't the heart of David. He wanted to honor God. And that wasn't the heart of Nathan in verse 3. He he felt the same way. Nathan, without thinking twice, he says, Go and do it. Do all that's in thy heart, David. That's great. Sounds good to me. Neither David nor Nathan were content with dwelling in their houses of cedar while God was in a tent. In the tabernacle, behind curtains as it were. I just wonder how many Christians think the same way today I think there's many of professing Christian who's living quite well out there, especially in America, but all over the world Christians living quite well while their place of worship is in need of repairs and their missionaries are out there struggling to make ends meet. That's just not right. And yet many a Christian is uh not touched to do more for God. And I just wonder, pilgrim, have you ever known someone that was able to do enough for God Have you ever felt like you've done enough for God? Do you think it's possible to do enough for God? Have you ever met anybody that has done enough for God? You know, well, that guy's done enough for God. Wow, he's he's really he's really put himself forward there. The Apostle Paul, the Apostle of Christ, he wrote, I beseech you therefore, brethren, that you should present your bodies a living sacrifice unto God. Do you know if anybody present our body a living sacrifice unto God? Because Paul says that he beseeches us to present our bodies a living sacrifice unto God, and then he sums it all up by saying, which is He didn't say, which is really great, which is really grand, which is unusual. Paul says, which is your reasonable service. Romans 12 and 1. It's reasonable? Someone sacrifices himself, puts his body out there and sacrifices himself. His body onto God and it's and it's not, you know, we we hear that happening sometimes that somebody says is murdered for their faith, you know, they're they're beheaded for their faith Or someone shoots them because they profess Christ, the Columbine, the girl Rachel, profess Christ. And we say, Wow, what faith. This is fantastic. Paul says that is our reasonable service. Well, who would ever present their body, a living sacrifice? Well, it's done in the scriptures. Isn't that what Isaac did? Abraham brought Isaac up to the mount. To sacrifice him? And Isaac was old enough to understand what was going on. And Isaac and Abraham, they were in concurrence that he was going to present his body a living sacrifice. And Abraham, as hard as that must have been for him and Isaac, we read the Paul says it's only reasonable sacrifice. How much Samson in the temple? With the Philistines. And when he wanted to bring the temple, oh God, give me the strength one more time to avenge myself and my and my testimony for thee. And he presents his body a living sacrifice, and he dies, taken down the temple of the Philistines. Reasonable sacrifice. Just reasonable service. And the Lord Jesus Christ was, of course, the greatest sacrifice ever done. And boy, there was a reason for that too, wasn't it? And so for to be Christ-like, there's probably a whole lot more we can do for the Lord, for God. As a testimony of who we are. Now we read here that Nathan the prophet had agreed with David. He had agreed with David. It thought it was a great idea. And who standing there would have thought any different? And yet that night in verses 4 and 7, the word of the Lord came unto Nathan, saying, Tell my servant David, Shall thou build me a house? In other words, I don't think so, David. Shall thou build me a house to me to dwell in? Spake I a word with any? Why build ye not me a house in the cedar? God had never said why they were traveling to the wilderness You know, they've got this tenth, we've got this tabernacle, but why don't you build me a house? Why don't you build me something out of the sea? God said I never said that David, you're not going to do it. And as we read further, we find out that Solomon will do it. But what I want to point out to you here is that David The sweet psalmist of Israel, Nathan, the prophet of God. Where I want to point out here that the best of God's people can be wrong. Their opinions sometimes are not right No matter who they are, sometimes our opinions are we we run ahead of God's revelation Nathan got a revelation that night that what he had told David to do was wrong. Nathan and David, they had let their emotions lead them. They thought, it's just gotta be right. It just feels good. I mean, why wouldn't God why shouldn't we give God something better? And they got all emotional about it, but they didn't ask of God if it was the proper thing to do They let their emotions run ahead of the revelation of God. And so the revelation of God comes, the word of God comes to Nathan. Now he says, You're wrong. David's not going to build it. It's not going to be built now Don't let your emotions be your guide. The Word of God, the revelation To the Holy Spirit. That must guide us, no matter how good it sounds, no matter how great it really may be, no matter who is suggesting it, no matter who be who it is that is concurring with you. That's a great idea. Let's do it Let the Word of God always lead us. I don't mean to pick on Nathan. the prophet or David, the sweet psalmist of Israel, but if we see that all through the scriptures we find that men of God have have blown it By letting their emotions they've come up with a wrong decision or a wrong opinion or a wrong observation because they didn't look at the scriptures, they looked at their emotions We we've got Eli. Eli comes in the tabernacle out there by the tabernacle one night and there's Hannah and she's praying and she wants a baby and then specify she gets one named Samuel and she she's almost blithering and and weeping and carrying on and he says this woman is drunk but Hannah wasn't drunk Hannah was caught up in praying in the Spirit and she was so distraught that she hadn't had a child. And Eli, the high priest of Israel, well he ought to know, but he let his emotions get involved. He didn't go up and talk to her and converse with her and address her a couple of questions. So that it might be revealed to him what her problem was. He just assumes immediately she's drunk. Like the disciples at Pentecost. They're all drunk this early in the morning. So Eli was wrong. And then there was Samuel, and God says to Samuel, I want you to go down to the family of Jesse. And he has some sons there, and I have the next king of Israel, and I want you to anoint him king of Israel. And Samuel's Oh, well we're through with Saul. Well that's been a bad chapter in the life of Israel We're going to finally get a a king that God has anointed, that God has appointed. And Samuel goes down to the household of Jesse, and he walks into Jesse, and there's four or five of the sons of there, and he sees Eliab. He's the tallest and statuous and good looking, you know, and and he gets oh There he is. That's the king that God has sent me to anoint. It sure is. I I can just feel it. Letting his emotions get a hold of him. And God said to Samuel, It's not him Well then it must be this one. Not not him. Wow, then surely he goes to all the children. So he finds out there's one missing. The youngest. The littlest, the ruddiest, David. So Eli was wrong, Nathan was wrong, David was wrong Samuel was wrong. We all let the emotions lead us, and we find ourselves wrong, and we can maybe some great man of God, and yet we are led by our emotions instead of revelation. We need to carefully weigh the words of those that we look up to. Preachers, mature Christians. Weigh carefully the words of even the most reliable and the popular of Christian leaders. James says, if you had lack any wisdom, ask of God. That is, if you're not sure, look into the Word of God. Ask of God. Don't go by, well, he's a revered televangelist or he's a revered minister with a large congregation. No, no. Go to the Word of God. Far too often We've got it going on right now. People endorsing who should be the next president of the United States. And you you look out there and you look at all the different people who are who are endorsing this canada, that can if it was of God, they'd all be in agreement. But they don't all agree. And some of it is very, very emotional. We have to look to the Word of God to see what the Word of God says as to who we should be voting for. If any lack of wisdom, ask of God. Look into his word. James 1 and verse 5. Nathan hadn't done that, and so we find that in verse 4 the word of the Lord came unto Nathan. And Nathan, to his credit, reverses his opinion. Wow. How many people do you know that will say And and Nathan's now already got to reverse his opinion. Nathan's got to go to King David and say, Uh no, knock knock, I'm the cedar house of David. And and you say And David come, oh boy, I've got the plans half drawn up and I've got people coming in for I got stone coming from here, I got timber, oh this is gonna be great. And they said, Whoa, whoa, whoa. We're wrong. What? We're wrong. What do you mean we're wrong? How can you be wrong? It's a good thing you said so yourself yesterday. I know. A lot of emotion involved there, but the fact is I was wrong. Epso facto King David, you're wrong too. Boy, how how often do you ever admit you're wrong? How often has someone ever admitted to you they were wrong? How often have you ever told somebody else From your heart, I'm sorry, but you're wrong. It's not easy. But it happens. Joseph's brothers Remembering they're before Joseph, they don't know it's Joseph there in the temple and and Joseph's giving out the corn and and they're gonna keep one of the brothers back and they find the cups in the bag and all that and finally Joseph hears the brother and say, Oh It's all because of what we did to Joseph. We were so wrong. Boy, that was music to Joseph's ears, you know it. To hear someone say and admit that they had sinned or that they were wrong. I know we don't get that much from other Christians or from other family or friends or people at work. We don't hear much of that. I'm wrong. I'm sorry, I was really you we don't hear that much. You should at least hear from Christians that when you go to the scriptures, you do. Aaron and Miriam. They decided, what, Moses? What? He's taking us all on himself. What has only God spoken to Moses? God hasn't spoken to others. God has spoken to us. What do you think, Miriam? Yeah, I think so, Aaron. Yeah, what's going on here? And God strikes her with leprosy Has a run outside the camp for seven days. And Aaron comes back to Moses and before God he says, I was wrong. I was wrong. Please take the leprosy off of Miriam. We we were wrong. We were wrong. Why is it so hard for Christians today to admit when they're wrong? When you've got a landslide here of people through the scriptures who had no problem. Peter denied Christ three times. Did he admit he was wrong? Yes. We need to admit sometimes. Well we're wrong. And Nathan with The next morning, only a few hours later. He's got to go back to the king. He's got to reverse his opinion. And he does. And I think it's because he concludes From what God has told him, it's better to serve the Lord in the tent of God's approval than the temple of man's invention. Or man's novelties. And there's a lot going on today in the churches that's nothing but a bunch of novelties. There's something going on in the way we serve the Lord and the way we talk to the Lord. and the way we pr promote the Lord that it's it's it's it's not it's not scriptural. And I we've talked about some of that before, but uh tongues that aren't real languages that are being babbled in churches. I mean there's there's there's novelties, there's things going on in churches, phony uh faith healing service I mean there are just things, there are novelties, and we we are better to serve the Lord in his tent approved worship. And then the inventions of man. And so Nathan goes back. I guess I'd have to ask you this morning if here we find that the emotions got Miriam and Erin, the emotions got Uh Nathan here, our emotions can get in the way. The emotions got in the way. The brothers, they were gonna bow down to Joseph, you know? Our emotions can lead us and lead us very wrong. And so I what we need to say here this to do this morning is this does the revelation of God ever Overrule your emotions. I'm going to submit to you that it should. That the Word of God, God's revelation, needs to overrule our emotions. For example, young people especially, but you know what? David wasn't so young, and he had a problem with this one. Thou shalt not commit adultery. Young people, you're out there? Boy, he's a good looking guy. This is feels so good. Oh, she's so pretty. It can't be wrong. You're gonna let your emotions overrule it. God says thou shalt not commit adultery. Letting your emotions rule your life. Instead of revelation, it will get you in a whole lot of trouble. Remember the Sabbath day and keep it holy. Well, what do you mean by holy? Well, we would need about 10 weeks to cover that one Well just let me give you some of the gamut of extremes. For some people, if they they popped in twice a year on Sunday, they've kept the Lord's Day holy. Did it twice this year Or maybe they come in the most Sundays. Okay, we'll do it every year. We give them the hour. That's it. We've kept the Lord's Day. It says the Lord's Day. Doesn't say remember the Lord's hour and keep it holy. They're up here in Ricestown, uh very, very uh Orthodox Jews, and they they they really want to keep the Lord's Day, the Sabbath day, holy And so in their house, no cooking. The night before the Sabbath, the wife prepares the cold cuts and they have cold cut subs or something I mean they uh there's they don't turn the burner on. They don't turn the s oven or the stove on. They don't do that. In fact, in these Orthodox homes, Jewish homes, if they happen to leave the light switch on They can't turn it off when they discover it. Once the Sabbath starts, oh we left the lights out, we left all the lights on the house. Well that's gonna cost us money. And books people hate to spend a lot of money on on electric that they don't really want to use. Oh my goodness, we left the electric blanket on or or or we we left the air conditioner way up and and now we can't turn it down. They will not turn the air conditioning up or down. They will not turn the light off or the electric blanket off or on, whichever way it has to go. Because it's the Lord's Sabbath, and they just keep it holy, and they don't do anything else but give that day to rest And see if you turn the switch on, you're not resting. They won't answer the phone. You want to find out if your Jewish friends are Orthodox, call them on Saturday, on the Sabbath. See if they answer. You'll find out But that's that that's one end of the spectrum. And then there's the other end of the spectrum where you they you keep the Lord's Day holy. Yeah, we go once in a while. And uh You know, uh unless there's a baseball game that Sunday or we we skip church and go to the baseball game or or the football game or you know something like I mean, there's there's the spectrum we go all over it And for the most part, we are letting our emotions run and rule us over revelation. I mean Revelation doesn't say. Well there is a place where it says now they gather sticks and start a fire, you know. Well if someone's freezing and cold You're going to do that. The innkeeper, what did he do? Good Samaritan brought the man to the inn? He said, Take care of this man, here's money, take care of him, and I'll be back in a week. Which meant he expected the innkeeper to feed that man, cook for that man all seven days, which concludes the Sabbath. But do we let revelation rule our lives or do we let our emotions Honor a father and a mother. We find all this in Exodus 28, 12, 14, and 7. You honor your father and your mother I can't honor my mother and father. He told me I can't date that guy anymore. I can't honor my mother and my father. He told me I've got to give everything I earn at this job is just God. I can't honor my mother and my father. And then you go on and on. How do you expect me to You're letting your emotions rule. The honoring of your mother and your father. You may not feel that warm, gushy, fuzzy love for your mother and your father, but you are to honor them. As onto the Lord. Let's say ask you to do something that's contrary to Scripture, like go out and get an abortion or go and get drunk with me. You are to honor your mother and father. You can honor people We show people show honor to the President of the United States. They don't love him. They don't even like him. They may hate him, but you honor the office or the position and you honor your mother and your father. Or do you let your emotions rule you and you do what you want? How about taking that garbage out? So we can let our emotions rule us. And that's what it happened here with Nathan and David. They let their emotions rule them. Let's go build the ark. Let's go build the house for the ark of God. And they were wrong. Emotions often override our reason. They often override our rationale. They often override the religious instructions in the scriptures. And we have excuses. Paul wrote about in Romans 3. 8 Let us do evil that good may come of it. Okay, it it's not right what we're gonna do, but good will come of it. And then we'll explain the good that will come of it. Marxism, communism. The end justifies the means. Look, it's not nice what we're doing, but the end's going to be so good. But that's what Paul says back in Romans 3. There's nothing new under the sun. Karl Marx didn't have anything new to say. Romans 3 and verse 8, let us do evil that good may come of it. And we hear people saying that today. They were saying the days of the first century church with Paul, the disciple of Christ, and we we find this still going on. I heard this this past week. Let's vote for the one that can win. rather than the one that's closely following the Lord Jesus Christ. We can't vote. He's not going to win. Let's vote for the one that can win. That's ridiculous. That's not appropriate. If we're to be Christ-like, we should be supported. I can remember from for decades us saying, oh, that we had a Christian that was running for presidency. Oh, that we had a Christian was running for the office in this country or for senator. Oh, then we had someone who really loved the Lord. And then we hear, can't vote for him. He can't win. Let's vote for someone that can win. You're letting your emotions drive your voting. And you see it also I've had someone say to me sometime, I I have such a love for souls. I want souls saved. I want God to use me as a soul winner. I want souls to be saved so much. I said, How how much would you like to see souls saved in your ministry? He said If I thought lying would work, I would lie to see souls saved. You would lie to see a soul saved? What happens when they find out you were lying about something? Or they do evil and good may come of it. So Christians are told that we should tolerate That's a new sacred word, by the way, of the news media. That's a new sacred word of the world. We are to be tolerant. Now that's that's an emotional thing. We must tolerate this, we must tolerate that, we must be tolerant. In order to get along with people, we must be tolerant with everybody. That's a new sanctified word. Christians must be tolerant of the gay lifestyle. Now think about that. God is not, but we should be tolerant. We we're to be more tolerant than God. Do you tolerate weeds in your garden? No, you don't Do you tolerate uh the type of children that are are despicable or or that that are always in trouble with the police? Do you tolerate did you welcome them into your house to play with your children? Do you want them to be the babysitter of your little girl? No. There's some things you don't tolerate Well we shouldn't discriminate. That's another one of the world's s sanctified words. Discrimination is wrong. Never discriminate. You shouldn't discriminate in any way, shape, or form. Really? I submit to you that everybody discriminates. How'd you pick your last friend? You discriminated. There were three or four people at work. There was one that there was More godly, one that was more decent, one that you could bring home and one you could trust around the kids. We discriminate in who we pick for our friends. Everyone here discriminated about you you know why you're married? The person you're married to? Because you discriminated and you didn't like the other one. that you were dating or had data. We discriminate in our friends, how we pick our friends, how we pick our spots. You discriminate on which doctor you're gonna go to or which house we're gonna go to. You discriminate on which car you're going to buy or what college you're going to attend. You discriminate it on the food you're going to eat or the diet you're going to take. You discriminate it on your place of worship, don't you? You discriminate. You choose the place you're going to worship You got two ladies walking down the street. They're coming towards you. And you've been warned that they're out to get you. Someone's out to get you and they're gonna blow you up or they're gonna knife you or kill you or shoot you And here's two ladies coming, they're both dressed in black from head to toe. One's got a burqa on. And the other's a little old Amish lady. Which way do you go? go. I move away from the burqa and I head towards the lady in the Amish black out. We discriminate. To say we shouldn't discriminate is so wrong. Everyone discriminates Now Nathan continues here with his revelation from God as he turned to verses eight and nine and uh he says, You're not gonna build You're not going to build a house, but God would like you to know David that He took you from following the sheep to be ruler a ruler over my people Israel and to cut off all your enemies. And he made the great name in the world And what what Nathan is saying here to him is, consider some of the blessings that God has given you, David. I mean, you were a ruler. You were just nothing but a shepherd boy, and now you're in charge of all of Israel, and he's taking care of your enemies. Look at the blessings in your life, David. You're not going to build the house of God for the ark, but look at the blessings. And I just wonder how many people here, do you ever consider God's previous blessings in your life when things aren't going well? When things aren't going the way you want them. How about thinking back to the blessings that God has given you? Someone once we we haven't done this like we should, but they had a jar. Every time God blessed them, they put it in the jar. And on Thanksgiving Day, almost a year later, they pull out all the blessings and they'd read them. Because you know if you don't do that, you you'd be surprised. You try to think of the blessings right now, and you come up with three or four. But if you stick them in a jar, you'll have thirty or forty by the end of the year. And so he's trying to tell David, David, God has given you blessings. Concentrate on the blessings Concentrate on them. They will encourage you, David, and they'll cause you to trust in other promises of future blessings that God's going to give you. If you can concentrate on the blessings God already gave you, then you can also believe that there will be future blessings. That God is giving you blessings in the past and in the present. He's going to give you blessings. In fact, Nathan goes on in verses ten through thirteen and talks about the blessings that are coming for David. Moreover, I will appoint a place for my people Israel. And I will plant them, and they may dwell in a place of their own, and move no more, and I will set up thy seed after thee. And that was Solomon. And he will make thee a house for my name. The house is going to be built, David. That's a promise. That's a promise. It's going to be built. And I'm going to protect my people. And I'm going to give them a place and they're not going to be able to be moved from that place God is promising some things for David that he would see. He would see Israel planted. He would see his son being placed on the throne. He would see so much of this. But you know something? He would never see The house of God built. Why should he believe that it's going to be built? Because God has promised David so many things and he has seen them. God promises us things that we we eventually see, and then God promises us some things that we're not going to see. We're going to die before they happen. God promises David he would see some of these things, but not the house built. We we have people that all through scripture that were promised things that they never saw. Abraham is told that you will be a father of many nations Well he didn't live long enough to see that. Why should he believe that? Because Abraham was also told in his old age that he and Sarah would have a baby named Isaac And it came true. Wow, I've seen that. Okay, I believe I will be the father of many nations then. So God will give us some things to encourage us to believe other things. Joseph was told, your brothers will bow down before you, you will rule over them. But it happened. But he also said, your bones will be carried out of Egypt and placed in the land of Israel. You know something? Joseph never saw his bones Carried out and placed in the land of Israel. You never saw that. How can you be sure it's going to happen? Because other promises God made did happen. Christ told the disciples. That the destruction of the temple was coming. Why should they believe Christ for that? Why should they believe that? Because he said Oh, if you don't believe the temple's going to be destroyed, maybe you'll believe this. They're going to crucify me, and in three days I'll rise again. And when he was crucified, and when he rose again, there wasn't a disciple in Jerusalem that didn't believe the temple's going to be destroyed He said every stone's gonna be tearing down off of it. Wow. So look back on the things that God has promised you. Look back on the things that God has done for you. And accept that there are promises that you you don't know will ever be fulfilled in your life, but he says they will be. I mean there are we read in John four and thirty-seven some soweth and another reaps. There are ministries, pastors, preachers, Christians. You sow, you witness, you drop tracks, you pray for people, and nothing happens. And maybe long after you're dead, someone comes along, quotes one verse that you had quoted a dozen times them, and pow, it's just it hits them, and they say, wow. That's what John always said to me, or that's what Tim is always saying to me, or that's what Dan will say, and it just never clicked, but boy, it clicks now, and I can remember him talking to me about this time and time again. Oh, I wish he was here so I could tell him. We so And sometimes others reap and we never see it. But God says if we sow, he is faithful and just who will reap? Fivefold, tenfold, thirtyfold. We've been praying, many of us here, for revival in this country. Praying for revival in this country But well, for myself, about forty years that God would revive this country. I don't see it happening. Last night was it in about probably the most evangelical Bible Bible belt state. We had three men running, and the least Christian of the three grabbed the majority of the Christian evangelical vote. That's not revival, friend. Praying for revival. But you know what I believe? I believe God will send it. But I also believe I'll probably never see it. But that doesn't mean God won't send it We have to believe that God is a God that answers prayer. If He's put on our heart a burden for revival for this country, one is going to come But not maybe in our lifetime. Maybe nobody here will see it in their lifetime David here was promised that he uh it says here that uh the blessing for David to hear that some of his seed would follow him on the throne. He was not going to see the seed following him on the throne for generation after generation, but it was promised to him, he did see Solomon. And and not only on the throne, it said that the some of them would follow him in the faith, and he didn't see that either. I mean at the time that David dies, I don't know that Solomon was saved at that point But it says that those of his seed will follow him on the throne and in the faith. And maybe some are sitting here this morning, and you are still waiting for God to save one of your children. And it hasn't happened. It's just, you've got one of those prodigal sons or prodigal daughters out there. It's just not happening. Well, David has told her there will be a day when David in heaven will be praising God That down on earth one of his seed is now praising God also. And I believe that some of us here this morning are praying for a son or a daughter. It just hasn't happened, but there's gonna be a day when you are in heaven and you're praising God because down below your prodigal son or daughter has finally got it. Has finally saved and is praising God. Wish mom or dad or grandma knew and And you could say to them face to face. And why do I believe this? Why was David to believe this? Because Nathan says in verses 14 and 16, My mercy shall not depart. From thine house. That's a promise. And thy kingdom shall be established forever before thee. There's another promise. It's talking about David's kingdom, it's talking about Israel shall be established forever and ruled by one of David's house, one of David's seed, one of David's tribe. And it says this is going to be forever. In fact, it's emphatically repeated three times, verse 13, verse 16, and again in verse 16. The David's house that David will the his from his seed will come a ruler over Israel forever And this looks beyond Solomon because Solomon died, so he's not going to rule in Israel forever. Who's going to rule in Israel forever? The King of Kings The King of glory, the Lord Jesus Christ, the Christ has promised. Even Gabriel the angel promised that this king would come in Luke 1:32 and 33. The Lord God Shall give unto him the throne of his father David. That's Christ who's going to get the throne of his father David. And he shall reign over the house of Jacob forever. And his kingdom there shall be for with no end Okay, that's to David. That's interesting for a Jew, I guess. What's it got to do with us in 2016? That this Jew is going to reign in Israel forever and ever. There will be no end. Well, this is what it has to do for us In spite of the United Nations, in spite of the PLO, in spite of ISIS, in spite of Hamas, in spite of Islam, who are planning Israel's destruction There will be one ruling in Israel forever and ever and ever. And if you don't believe that, let me go back to past histories. The parasites said they would destroy Israel. Anybody know any parasites today? God destroyed them instead. The Philistines said they would destroy Israel. Know any Philistines today? No. The Amalekites said they would do so. The Ammonites said they would do so. The Hittites said they would do so. The Hiphivites said they would do so. The Jebusites said they would do so. Every nation's come against this prophecy that someone from David's seed will sit on his throne forever and ever. And the prophecy by Gabriel says it's the Lord, Jesus Christ, who will sit on that throne forever and ever. Israel is always going to be there That's what it means. And you know something? When I see that prophecy fulfilled, that Israel will always be there, I've got to believe the other promises to me, like I will never leave thee and forsake thee. That they're those are solid promises to me You have not because you ask not, those are promises to me. How can I believe those promises? Because I see Israel right now And they're sitting there. And they'll never be destroyed. Oh, scattered? Put in Babylonian captivity? Yes, that can happen, but they'll never be destroyed. And all the other nations have been And there's another promise here. I know so much this has nothing to do with you. It's David and his seed. We we talk about Eternal life. We talk about everlasting life. We talk about heaven. We talk about eternity. And all these concepts that are taught In the New Testament. It's not taught in the Old Testament. I mean the con what kind of a concept do they have of eternal life and everlasting? Well, we see it here talking about the let's look at verse 16. I think verse 16 is is is really unique. It teaches in verse sixteen that there is life after death, and that this life is forever. Alright? Look at verse sixteen. It says, In thine house, David, in thine kingdom shall be established forever. Look it. Before thee. David is going to be around to see it. Though David's going to die David will be around to see his kingdom established forever before thee. David is how how can David see this before? David has to be alive in the forever time frame. In order to see his his throne established forever, he must be alive and there in the forever time frame. In order to see his kingdom established Forever before him. This is talking about, this is teaching that even in the Old Testament, they believed in eternal life. They believed in life after death. They believed that life that would last forever. The question of the hour is Pilgrim, will you be in the forever with David? There is a forever. Will you be forever with in the forever with David. It's a place full of promises that just go on and on forever and ever because Christ promised Yes, it would be so. Let's pray. Father, we thank you this day as we hear of the imperfections of the prophet Nathan and And the sweet psalmist of Israel, David, and Abraham. We're so grateful that a perfect God Would be merciful to an imperfect creature. And we just ask, Lord, today, that someone here has not come into that relationship with Christ, has no interest in Christ until today, that Touch their heart. Touch their heart in such a manner that they too can look forward to a forever and eternal life. It's in Christ's name we pray. Amen