I uh trust you're able to get the question this week as we look at Hebrews nine five. And the subject today is a verse that we've already looked at. It's one about the mercy seat Well before we get into the question, let me read Hebrews 9 and verses 2 through 5. Only 5 is in your handout, so hear now the word of the Lord. For there was a tabernacle made, the first wherein was the candlestick, and the table, and the showbread, which is called the sanctuary. And after the second veil, the tabernacle, which is called the holiest of all, which had the golden censer, the Ark of the Covenant, overlaid roundabout with gold. Wherein was the golden pot that had manna and Aaron's rod that budded and the tables of the covenant? And here's our Passage we're going to cover today, and over it the cherubims of glory shadowing the mercy seat, and then this curious phrase, of which we cannot now speak particularly. Thus ends the reading of our text. So when a king is seated on his throne, how is it, meaning the throne, positioned? Up. Up the wrong. Facing the room. Okay. Up, yeah. Up is high. Higher than everyone else. Yeah, the idea is uh preeminence and height. Now what does such a location imply? A high Seat, somebody said at the back of the room, or does someone say at the back of the room or the middle of the room? Or where is it in the room typically? I know we're Americans, we gave up kings to oh so 1776 years ago or whatever. There's a a degree of separation between the common man and where the king sits. All right. Yeah, I didn't think about that, but that's true. There's a degree of separation, so no commoner could set back. Yeah, there's setbacks separate. Yeah, right. Now what does such a location imply? Dominance, strength. If you wanna make the person look bigger, bolder, like some pie. Okay, yeah, dominance and strength Authority. Authority, yeah. Yeah, even if you go into a lowly courthouse like that found in Montgomery County. Uh the the courtroom is very specifically architected and there's actually some videos you can watch online that go into the architecture of the U. S. civil courts because they're laid out in a particular way to impress upon you you're in a place of authority and we are sitting in a seat of judgment over you and you're here to receive that judgment, good, bad or otherwise. Yes, you're a subject, right. So that's the layout of the room. So we certainly have, even in our common use, meanings that are implied by the position of furniture Does anybody know, just a little off topic, in uh corporate boardrooms or in big, you might know this, in corporate boardrooms, what's the power seat at the table? Head of the table. Yeah. You would think it's the head of the table, but it's the one to the right. It's it's unusual but that's how it works. Yeah. That's the power seat, the one just at the right. Um the head typically these days is empty because they're projecting something up there. So the guy just to the right is the one that's typically in charge. Yeah, so if so locations of where people sit are important, right? Uh and of course you then find it interesting if the corporate ruler perhaps sits All the way at the back of the table. That would make a statement, wouldn't it? What if the king sat in the back of the room? What kind of a statement is that? I'm watching you. Well he's down seated. Yeah, he's looking at the back of everybody, you know. Should show that he's humble. Maybe he's very humble, right? Or passive, yeah, right, right. Okay, who would be near the king? So we've got the king, we're putting it we're going back to kings and that type of a rule. He's got a seat, a throne, it's sitting up high, it's presumably decorated. Um and um who is it that's typically near the king? Who are the individuals near the king? The who? The right minister. The right minister? Yeah. What's a right minister? You mean like a prime minister? Yeah, like a prime minister. Like a prime minister, yeah, okay, correct. That's true. England has a prime minister. Yes, yes, yes, the Prime Minister, correct. It's second in charge with his right hand. Second in charge. The air apparent. Heir apparent. Somebody might be, right? Somebody's of significant there. Heir apparent is good, right? Um and the wives. And the wives, they might be there, yeah. Uh the head wife. The head wife would be there. Yeah, I've seen pictures of that Um and uh which country is it that has the multi is it India, someplace over in the Indian region of the world where they have uh multiple wives that will show up in the picture with the king on his throne. Four better four worse, four richer, and four fur poorer. So he's got sixteen twenty bad. Okay, so some you know, I've seen pictures uh from time to time, although I have an ever-decreasing interest in what happens in Britain. that you don't always necessarily see the queen up there. She's not always up there. She's, you know, the queen. And but who is typically always by or near the king? There's always Guards. Guards. Guards are always there. Guards are always there. The king is never left unguarded. He's all the guards are always there apparent, usually but not always. He may be dispatched to go someplace else and the king makes some kind of a statement. Right. Yes. Yes. They're uh they're they're substantially sized individuals. If you ever make a tour of the Pentagon, uh I believe they have a protocol where they call out the They seem to go through all of the armed services and they look for the strongest, tallest, meanest looking dudes that you can imagine, and they're the ones that give the tour. I've never seen such large human beings before as the guards at the Pentagon who give the tours. It's incredible. You'll I mean you do look up, it's just impressive. It really underscores the guard aspect of it Okay, well that was just a little mental exercise to begin to think about a throne room and what the positions of things mean. Because we are looking here in Hebrews at something which talks about the cherubims or the angels. There's one of two classes of angels. There's cherubs and there's seraphs. Today we're talking about the cherubims, that's a totally different class of angels. The cherubims of glory shadowing the mercy seat So let's look at your bulletin, or you can turn if you'd like to Exodus 25 and verse 16. And there we're going to read about the construction of the mercy seat. We're then going to look at its position, and then we're going to talk about the cherubim. So that's where we're going today. This is kind of the three points we're going to talk about. So let's review the construction of it. 2516 of the book of Exodus And thou shalt put into the ark the testimony which I shall give thee, the testimony, meaning the tables of the covenant, the Ten Commandments. That's what goes in it. And then he goes on. God speaking to Moses. And thou shalt make a mercy seat of pure gold. So this thing would be big and heavy. Two cubits and a half shall be the length thereof, and a cubit and a half the breadth thereof. Now it turns out that if you look a little earlier in Exodus 25 The Ark of the Covenant was two and a half cubits long and one and a half cubit wide. The mercy seat would fit perfectly on top of the Ark of the Covenant. It wasn't short by an inch, it wasn't longer by an inch. It lined up perfectly. Verse 18. And thou shalt make two cherubims of gold, of beaten work shalt thou make them, in the two ends of the mercy seat. And notice that word in. The cherubims of gold were one and the same. They were part of the mercy seat. This was all a large beaten work. You couldn't pick up the cherubims like I can pick up this vase and move it away, it was actually anchored in and part of that seat. So this thing would have been incredibly heavy. We continue and make one cherub on the one end and the other cherub on the other end. Even of the mercy seat shall ye make the cherubims on the two ends thereof. So it's actually part of it Verse 20. And the cherubim shall stretch forth their wings on high, covering the mercy seat with their wings, and their faces shall look one to another. Toward the mercy seat shall the faces of the cherubims be. Alright, so we imagine angels as creatures that look similar to men, except they have wings. And these wings are stretching forward. They are covering the mercy seat, and they're looking face to face, but they're towards that mercy seat. That's what they're looking at. Verse 21, and thou shalt put the mercy seat above the ark, and in the ark thou shalt put the testimony that I shall give thee. So he underscores the fact That it's the Ark of the Testimony that is in the the Ark of the C the Ark of the Covenant contains the testimony, the old covenant, tables of Moses. And the mercy seat is above it. Verse 22, God says, and there I will meet with thee, and I will commune with thee from above the mercy seat. from between the two cherubims which are upon the ark of the testimony of all things which I will give thee in commandment unto the children of Israel. Alright, so when Moses would go in, or Aaron rather, to the Holy of Holies, or if Moses was called in, sometimes God called him in, that here is this Mercy seat. And that's precisely the place that God would speak. I have seen and heard all kinds of wild ideas as to what this mercy seat is, and I'll just share with you one of them. That it was actually the big electronic battery. And it was made of gold and it could conduct electricity and the tables of the covenant was the Cathode and the other part was the diode, and and so when he went in and he put blood on it, it connected the ends and it went zap And that was what was and because the two wings it you know I mean you've heard these I mean these ridiculous ridiculous crazy ideas as to what that could be. They will look for a naturalistic, materialistic explanation for anything other than what's patently obvious, which is that's where God would meet with them. And that ark of the testimony remains a mystery to them. Their eyes remain blinded as to what God is talking about. Of course, they're going to come up with some stupid nonsense All right, we also read a little later, and twelve chapters later in Exodus 37, we continue the reading of it again, and it kind of repeats everything we just saw before, and I'm a little short on time But uh you can look at that in your handout that Exodus 37, 6 through 9, pretty much say the same thing. It's verse 7 The cherubims are gold or beaten out of one piece, but they're on the two ends of the mercy seat. So this is a continuous piece of gold. It would have been fabulous. And um uh And then we go to Numbers 789 and the book of Numbers after this thing has been made, the wilderness tabernacle is constructed The Kovathites, that's the moving company. I'd forgotten their name before, but that's the name of the sons of Kohath, or the moving company. They put the poles in the little rings and they move it, and you can see why this thing would be heavy. You'd need four guys to move it You find that God actually does do what he says he's going to do. And in Numbers 789, we read this: when Moses was gone into the tabernacle of the congregation to speak with him Moses is going to speak with God. Then he heard the voice of one speaking unto him from off the mercy seat that was upon the ark of the testimony, from between the two cherubims. And he spake unto him. Alright, this is the location where God chose to speak with him. He didn't choose to speak with those people in Moses' tent. He did not choose to speak with them by the river. He said, When I meet with thee, I'm going to speak with you at this location right here. This is where I will commune with thee. This is where I will speak with thee. Does that say God never worked with the prophets? Yes, he did. But this is a very symbolic operation going on here because he wants this mercy seat made in a particular way. It's in a particular location. It's in the Holy of Holies. It has two particular pieces of artwork to it. These cherubims. He could have had lambs, he could have had other animals. No, he chose cherubims, angels no less, to be there. So it turns out that there's an awful lot of symbology going on here. There's a lot of symbology going on here. So Let's now consider the position of this. We talked earlier about a throne and where the king sits. We're going to talk a little bit about the position of this mercy seat. Now It turns out that this word, rendered mercy seat in Hebrews 9, that particular word in the Bible is only used twice. Once in Hebrews 9. The other place it is rendered in Romans 3 and verse 25 as propitiation. In fact, some of the ancients would call that mercy seat the propitiatory. The propitiatory, the place where propitiation for mercy is found. Look at Romans 3. 25 with me This is the other use of the word. And we read in that passage. The apostle is in a long line of reasoning here, so I just want to focus on this passage. Speaking of Jesus Christ, whom God has set forth to be a propitiation, a mercy seat. He's speaking of Jesus Christ, through faith in his blood, to declare his righteousness for the remission of sins that are past through the forbearance of God. Alright, what do we find here? Well, God the Holy Spirit, speaking to the Apostle Paul, he speaks and writes under inspiration. He speaks to us through his writings. He's making a connection of that old covenant mercy seat. He uses that term propitiation, that propitiatory. And it's the word propitiation, not expiation. Two different meanings of those words. Just as much as a uh an exit and and uh uh uh well that's ex there's not a proxit but anyway the the oh ac a professional versus an ex-professional right those are two different things right He's making the connection that mercy seat is tied to Christ's atonement, his propitiation through faith in his blood. That mercy seat represents the atonement of God. And indeed, what happened? Once a year. Well, the high priest would go in with the blood of the Passover lamb, and where would he sprinkle it? Well, it wasn't on the altar of incense. There was two pieces of furniture in there. He didn't dabble it on The angels. The cherubs didn't get it. The blood of the atonement went right on the mercy seat. Right there. And so also interestingly enough that that mercy seat is positioned above the law. Did you catch that repeat in Exodus? That it's over the ark, and in the ark is the ark as the table of testimony. Now there were other things in the ark. Right? There was, we read it in Hebrews 9, there was the golden pot with manna and Aaron's rod that butted. He didn't mention those. He's mentioning the law. Mercy sits over the law of God. The law of God demands a penalty, and the law of God accuses sinners. To God. It looks up to heaven because that's where the throne is, and the law of God points out sins to heaven. Here's an offense. Here's an offense. But it has to go through something called a mercy seat. And God looks down, because he says, I'm going to meet with you, between the cherubims, over the mercy seat. As it were, God looks down. He hears the accusation of the law, but what does he see? The mercy seat and the blood. And he's satisfied. And it's exactly the size of it. There's not one millimeter off There's not one little ray that could come up that says, oh, this has not been covered. It's completely covered Every aspect of the law of God has been addressed in the atonement of Jesus Christ. I can remember when this thought first gripped me early in my salvation. Of the sufficiency of the blood of Christ, the thought that gripped me was, well, of course God is going to accept Jesus Christ. He knows the law of God perfectly. He would know everything that is required to pay for my sins. If anybody would know it, he would surely know it. And if he says it's satisfied. It's finished. It's done. Atonement's made. And that's why it's called a mercy seat. The law is not thrown out by the mercy of God. The law is addressed by the mercy of God It is in fact part of the very throne of God. The very foundation of God is the righteousness of God depicted by that ark, depicted by that table of covenant. Inside that heart of the box, if you will. Mercy is of a higher stature than the very law of God. And you see this echoed with some peculiar phrases by the Apostle Paul. Let's just touch on a few. Earlier, the penman for Hebrews says, Let us come therefore boldly unto the throne of grace God calls it a throne of grace. This is what God shows to you and I. A gracious response. It is not a throne of justice for the believers. If it were a throne of justice for the believers, you're sunk If you want to start pounding your fist saying, well that's not fair, I want what's fair. Be careful. You start looking for what's fair, it would be very fair of God to take you and cast you right into hell. In thought, word, and deed, omission and commission, you are You might as well consider yourself on heaven's top ten wanted list, and you're pretty near the top. You might as well consider it that way. But no, we come boldly to the throne of grace I get a strange sense of satisfaction and humor when I've seen some little clips There's different courtrooms that have now gotten into this business of YouTube shorts, and some courts like to show when some arrogant, cocky individual who thinks it's a party and you know I don't care about this court or whatever. And the judge says, uh excuse me, excuse me, this is not a bar, this is not a party room, this is a court. Very flippant, another five thousand dollars They keep acting flippant and five months in jail. They just keep piling it on until finally they shut up, but they still get to pay You don't act flippantly in a court of law. At least that's a decent court of law that has some respect to the institution But we come to the throne of grace. And James, that our brother has been covering in his Wednesday devotions, says, Mercy rejoiceth against judgment. It hasn't thrown it out. It's still there, but it's answered. It's addressed. Jesus spoke to the Pharisees in Matthew 9 He says, but go ye and learn what that meaneth, I will have mercy. And not sacrifice. In fact, mercy, you could say, is closer to God than is the very law that is a short distance from it. There's a lot you can draw from that symbology there. And so that is our mercy seat. Jesus Christ is that mercy seat. It's in Jesus Christ we meet. There is no other way to meet with God because that mercy seat only answers to the law of God and only atones and deals with that. The hot and tot in Africa does not have a mercy seat if he's not an elective God. He's coming to God apart from that. Well, if he's in front of that, the mercy seat isn't in front. The mercy seat's on top, and God communes with you on top. And I've said it this way before. In Christ, God is love. Outside of Christ, God is wrath. And you come to Him any other way, it will not work. And you will come to Him. You will come to him. But you better meet with him where God tells you to meet with him, which is above the mercy seat. In our English, we tend to think of a seat as a place to sit down But it's better to think of it like you think of the county seat. It's the place where authority and judgment is administered. It's not chair. It's the s the the place of authority. Excellent. Very good point. Very good point. This is this amazing what comes to me when you're speaking about the mergency of the law is look God made provisions for his people from the very beginning Right. Because the provision has already been made for us from the very beginning. Yes, you have to follow his terms and conditions. You can't go monkeying with it and say, well, we'll try it this way. Somebody tried to offer wrong incense in there and they got killed on the spot. Monkey, God's got a plan that works. Don't try to fix it. Well, at the mercy seat, God's justice is satisfied. Mercy and truth are indeed met together. And that's the platform where God meets with his people. That's the platform. Now we look at the cherubims. Curiously enough, you see this language that says of which we cannot now speak particularly, and I've thought about that some. The best I can resolve that, and I haven't found others that other commentators that that have offered any useful insight, is that the context of Hebrews 9 right here has to do with Jesus Christ and His work. He really doesn't want to talk about angels. He's already covered that earlier and said basically Christ did not come in the form of an angel because angels are not the object of a redemption. He's not going to talk about that. He doesn't want to talk about that as it were. So I believe in a context he's saying I I I just am not going to cover the cherubim. However, they're mentioned and they're part of the mercy seat, and we can learn some things about them in the context, and this is where your filling the blanks come in. The first one is that God dwells between the cherubim. He dwells there. That's his dwelling place. He doesn't visit it. He lives there. That's where he's at. 2 Kings 19, verse 15, King Hezekiah is praying. He prays before the Lord and says, O Lord God of Israel, which dwellest between the cherubims. Thou art the God, even thou alone of all the kingdoms of the earth, thou hast made heaven and earth. So just so we're clear as to what God we're talking about, Hezekiah says, yeah, you're the one that created everything. And he says, you dwell between the cherubims. Alright. Psalm 80 repeats that. Give ear, O shepherd of Israel, thou that dwellest between the cherubims. Interesting. That's where he lives. In the middle of all these angels, we find, curiously enough, at the tomb of Jesus Christ, two angels. It's very interesting. John records it. You might want to mark this in your Bible because I find it to be fascinating. It's in John 20, it's 11 and 12. Mary stood without, outside, at the sepulchre, weeping. She goes to see Jesus. She's just heartbroken. that he's dead. And as she wept, she stooped down and looked into the sepulchre, thinking to see a body, but she doesn't. What does she find instead? Verse 12 And seeeth two angels in white sitting Notice the location. The one at the head and the other at the feet. The body of Jesus lay So right there at the very tomb, you have a depiction of the mercy seat. You got two angels, one at the head, one at the feet, and what's in between. where the body of Jesus Christ had lay, where the mercy seat should be. Even at his resurrection you find these two angels so positioned. I think John records that Clearly under inspiration, but it's a very important fact, a very bold connection to her mercy seat. Angels are frequently mentioned around heaven's throne And at this point, I think I'd have you to turn in your Bible to Revelation chapter 5, because we'll be flipping a little bit in there and making reference to some passages. that are, I believe, easier to see if you've got your Bible there. Revelation 5, beginning in verse 6, we find that angels are mentioned frequently around heaven's throne. In Revelation 5. 6, we read this. And I beheld, and lo, in the midst of the throne, and of the four beasts. Now King James renders that word beasts. It can also be rendered as living creatures, living creatures or beasts. And in the midst of the elders stood a lamb as it had been slain. So here in the middle of the throne And right in the middle of these four beasts or living creatures, you have the Lamb, of course, a reference to Jesus Christ. And then you skip to verse 11, where it says, I beheld And I heard the voice of many angels round about the throne, and the beasts, and the elders, and the number of them was 10,000 times 10,000, and thousands of thousands. You know, he dwells in heaven. There's a countless multitude of angels up there. You remember when Peter attempted to rescue Jesus from being taken? And he swung his sword. And some think that the the man ducked this way 'cause Peter probably went for a headshot and just shaved his ear off. However he bent, doesn't matter. The guy lost his ear And Jesus healed the man, told Peter to put up his sword, but he made an interesting comment. He says, Do you not think that I could presently call to my Father in heaven twelve legions of angels? Now he can call more than twelve. A legion is a Roman term that indicates a unit force of about five to six thousand individuals. In other words, snap, I could snap my fingers and it would be judgment day. Because if one angel can kill 185,000 Syrians, I cannot imagine what 60,000 would do. The earth is toast your toast. He said, Don't you think I could call all this to closure right now? I I can do this. And we find around Heaven's throne you've got ten thousand times ten thousand and thousands of thousands. You have this It's seemingly an innumerable multitude of angels around the throne. So angels are mentioned around the throne of God. So this mercy seat just has two. Just two that are particularly focused on that particular seat. Third Fourth point, rather, is the cherubim in particular are closest to him and his throne. The cherubim in particular are closest to Jesus and his throne. We find in Revelation 4, 6, you can back up a chapter, maybe look over in a prior page, it says, before the throne there was a sea of glass likened a crystal. And in the midst of the throne and round about the throne were four beasts full of eyes before and behind. Now we have a slightly amplified description of these beasts or living creatures. I can see why they're regretted beasts, because if I saw that in the forest I'd be stark mad terrified Verse 7. The first beast was like a lion, the second beast like a calf. Third beast had a face as a man, and the fourth beast was like a flying eagle. And the four beasts had each of them six wings about him, and they were full of eyes within and without. Excuse me, full of eyes within. And they rest not day and night saying, Holy, holy, holy, Lord God Almighty, which was and is and is to come. Isaiah saw the same kind of vision That they were ceasing not to cry. Holy, holy, holy. Now it turns out that Revelation's 4 beasts, these living creatures, are in fact the cherubim, and we know that because the prophet Ezekiel also saw them. And he describes them at length in the first chapter. I'd love to include the entire first chapter for you. It's too long. You can read it. It's a fascinating read. About the cherubims And you should read it, and you'll understand why as we draw near the close. For instance, in Ezekiel 1 in verse 5, we find that he describes the likeness of four living creatures. Verse 6. Every one had four faces and four wings. We see a slightly different wing and face configuration here. But after you finish reading it, you go, yeah, I think they're depicting the same thing here. Verse 10, face of a man, of a lion, of an ox, of an eagle. You see those same individuals up there. The one that differs is ox, and Revelation says calf. Well you could have a calf ox. There's nothing off there. This is This is not collusion. This is two bona fide eyewitness accounts. Verse 11. The wings were stretched upward. I like this verse 24. I heard the noise of their wings as the voice of the Almighty Even the flapping of their wings says it sounds like the voice of the Almighty. Again, this is symbolic language to us. Did he see this? Yes. Was it a real vision? Absolutely. But God is teaching us through this. Okay? When they give Yes. Yes. Oh yes. Verse twenty-six, and he says, Above the firmament, over over them was the likeness of a throne. So they're right there at the throne. So Ezekiel see in the same vision. Ezekiel calls them the uh uh the the living creatures, uh they're they're they're they're cherubim, there's a connection there. But lo and behold, we find out the thing that's exciting to me is that the cherubim, and this is my two fourths, fifth point, the cherubim typify the redeemed of God. They're pictures of you and I, if you're a believer in Jesus Christ and redeemed by his blood. You say that's pretty audacious, Vince. Look at Revelation 5, and this is why I want you to turn to that passage because you see 5 and 6, he talks about round about the throne, the four beasts, they are there, and what do they say in 5, 8 through 9? And when he had taken the book, this is Christ, the four beasts, the four and twenty elders, fell down before the Lamb, having every one of them harps. and golden vials full of odors, which are the prayers of the saints. And they sung a new song saying, now this is their song. The cherubims, the elders, I'm not going to talk about the elders right now, of which I cannot now particularly speak. Here he's listening, and what does he say? What are they saying? Thou art worthy to take the book. Believers say that. And to open the seals thereof, for thou wast slain and hast redeemed us to God. We know from the earlier part of Hebrews, redemption is not for angels. God doesn't. He didn't come in the form of an angel. Angel's blood was not shed to atone for angels, but man's blood was shed. These typify us. Redeemed us to God by thy blood out of every kindred and tongue and people and nation. Verse 10, and has made us unto our gods, kings and priests, and we shall reign on the earth Brother Vince, you're straining too hard at that passage. I mean maybe they're just singing some No? No, I don't think I am. It's not a stretch at all. Do you remember the account in Matthew 22 where A group of Jews came to Jesus and said, well, let me give you an interesting story. There's a guy that married a wife and he had brothers. And he died bearing no seed. And so the next brother marries this woman to raise up seed in accordance with the law of Moses. They're trying to tank the idea of the resurrection. He dies, bears no seed, the next brother marries, until all seven have her, and the seventh died, and so in heaven, whose shall she be? Ha! We got ya Polygamy of the worst kind. One woman trying to satisfy seven men. What a nightmare. Right? This isn't going to work. Obviously, we can't trust this. And so Jesus says to them, you do err, not knowing the power of God. uh nor the scriptures. Verse 20, Matthew 22, verse 30, Jesus says, a very interesting insight. He says, for in the resurrection They neither marry nor are given in marriage, so you can just ditch this marriage idea, that's just for here and now. Having trouble in your marriage, bear up with it, you're a picture of Jesus Christ. You're typifying God, and it always comes at a price. But, he says in the resurrection, they are as the angels of God in heaven. They are as the angels of God in heaven. So when you look at these cherubims, and what are we interested in? What do the believers look at? Oh the atonement. That's what they're retrostig at. The atonement of Jesus Christ What is their flapping and they're doing as if though it's thus saith the Lord? This is what they're interested in. They're roundabout the throne. God is in the midst of it. the family. That's where God meets with them. That's where mercy's at. That's the place of mercy, the only place of mercy. They don't want to be outside of the place of God's mercy. And Freddie, it's a narrow place. Because it's a narrow way. It's two and a half cubits by one and a half cubits. That's it. That's the place of mercy where God meets with his people. I um Have a note here from Matthew 18. 20. For where two or three are gathered together in my name, there am I in the midst of them. Christ dwells in the midst of his people. And that's what you're seeing, I believe, in Revelation. Are there angels in heaven? Sure, don't doubt it. And yet we are as angels. I don't read in the scriptures that angels lack any power. I don't read that they get tired. I don't ever see something where somebody took a rod and poked the end and said, wake up from your nap They don't they just seem to have boundless energy and power. And they are of sufficient quality as to be always around the throne of God. They are closest to him. And so saints in heaven shall always be at the left and the right hand of Jesus seated on his throne. They sing and reign with him throughout all eternity, as God says, I will dwell in them. Isn't that glorious? I think it's fantastic. The mercy seat of all things. So I just couldn't pass that up. I had to explore that sum and I trust it was profitable to you. Uh Brother Jim, would you mind closing this in prayer? Could I trouble you for that? Okay, thank you. Thank you that we were able to make it uh to be part of it. Well, so much