Turn in your Bibles with me this morning to the book of Song of Solomon and chapter 1. Song of Solomon and the first chapter. And this morning, we're going to consider the gospel according to Song of Solomon. Or we could also say Song of Solomon's Message of Christ and his church. It's good to be together today. Glad to welcome you. Probably Benson mentioned the announcements at the end, but uh Uh next week Pastor Keith is going to be bringing the morning message. I will be here next Lord's Day, but I have the great privilege of being at a pastor's conference this week. I get to be preached to. And every preacher needs that. So I appreciate your prayers on my behalf. Song of Solomon chapter 1, and I'll read the first four verses of God's holy word. The song of songs, which is Solomon's, let him kiss me with the kisses of his mouth, for thy love is better than wine Because of the savor of thy good ointments, thy name is as ointment poured forth. Therefore do the virgins love thee. Draw me. We will run after thee. The king hath brought me into his chamber We will be glad and rejoice in thee. We will remember thy love more than wine, the upright love. Let us bow for prayer. Gracious Father, now as we look into thy precious and holy word, we approach it with the acknowledgement that we must humble ourselves before. For indeed this is the message of the King. Father, we pray that your Holy Spirit would indeed be the preacher in this room today. Father, I will endeavor as you allow to expound upon thy word and to explain it to these people here gathered. And Father, we acknowledge that no true spiritual prophet will be gained except that your Holy Spirit take the word and speak truth within our hearts. And so, Father, bless us to that end. Jesus' name. I don't often preach the Book of Song of Solomon. And I have not heard a lot of messages from this book. It's certainly not to be ignored. And in all honesty, I began about two months ago praying over and searching for a wedding message and came to this text this morning and that is when it began to arrest my heart We think of the message of salvation being a New Testament thing. We think of the gospel as being contained in Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John, and then in the sermons of Peter and Paul in Acts and Stephen and the epistles. But folks, this book of Song of Solomon is a gospel. It's a story of good news. It's a book of love. In the bulletin, your title this morning is The Love of Christ, and that's a good and that title As I have studied throughout the week since I sent the bulletin information in on Monday, I thought possibly a better title would be The Gospel According to Solomon. We could also call this the Song of Christ and the Church. This book of Song of Solomon is a book that's full of beautiful imagery and picture. In its initial instance, Solomon, an earthly king, was writing to an earthly queen. And yet there is a greater picture that is being portrayed for us here. For this book of Song of Solomon is Christ and his bride. It is Christ and his church. And so, though Solomon is expressing his love for a woman of earth, and that woman of earth is returning that expression of love to her king. So Christ expresses and declares his love for his own elect bride, the church. And the church, in response, cries out to our King, we love you. You are our King. The Psalm of Solomon, Song of Solomon begins very abruptly. In verse 2, let him kiss me with the kisses of his mouth. Brother Vence mentioned in his speech at the wedding reception. how difficult it is to get near his daughters. And my own father-in-law sent many a young suitor home crying People talk about, well, do you kiss on the first date? Remember when that was a thing? Do you kiss on the first date? In our world today We won't even go there. But here, here, the bride calls out to the beloved, let him kiss me. With the kisses of his mouth. What a glorious gospel statement that is! Oh Christ, if you do not kiss me, I am lost. And the significance of the kiss in the Bible is so important to understand when we consider the imagery and the types and the pictures here. Because a kiss was a token of relationship. Remember the prodigal son Who has rebelled against his father, and he has run, and he comes to his father and he says, Father, I have sinned against thee and in the uh heaven and against heaven and in thy sight And am no longer worthy to be called thy son. And the father says, or the father runs and embraces him and kisses him. And says, bring the fatted calf, bring a robe. You see, the son was in rebellion. He had left the father. And when he comes back, the way that the father shows the son the relationship exists is he kisses him. He welcomes him with a kiss. All we like sheep have gone astray. Does the shepherd spank the sheep when he comes back? No. The shepherd takes the sheep and his arms. And so when the prodigal son, who had wasted all of his substance, And righteous living returns to the Father. The Father shows that he still loves him, that he's still his son. The relationship exists by a kiss. And then we consider when Jacob meets Rachel. Talk about a kiss on the first day. Jacob's never met Rachel before. Jacob's gonna marry this woman. Jacob has deceived his father. Esau is gonna kill him. And Jacob runs and goes to the house of Laban, and he meets Rebekah at the well. And we read in Genesis 29 verse 11, and Jacob kissed Rachel and lifted up his voice. and wept. And Jacob told Rachel that he was her father's brother, and that he was Rebecca's son, and she ran and told her father. And it came to pass when Laban heard the tidings of Jacob, his sister's son, that he ran and met him and embraced him and kissed him. What's significant here? Jacob meets Rebecca, another or Rachel, and I if I said Rebecca a minute ago, I'm going to do that a couple times, but you know it is Rachel. Jacob meets Rachel at the well. He realizes this is my sister's son. Or my my my mother's brother's daughter. We'll get it right yet. This is my mother's brother's daughter. This is the one I was sent here to find. And he kisses her. He's not kissing a stranger. But he's never met her before. And then Uncle Laban comes along and he kisses Jacob. He's not kissing a stranger, but he's never met him before. You see, the kiss is a sign that there is a relationship, even though we've never met before Let him kiss me with the kisses of his mouth. Is that not the gospel Let Christ kiss me with the kisses of his mouth. I have gone astray as a prodigal, but I'm returned to the Father Let him kiss me with the kisses of his mouth, because there is a relationship that now exists between us. But not only is the kiss significant in that it's a sign of relationship, but the kiss is significant because it is a covenant of forgiveness. Remember, we said that Jacob had run from Esau because Esau was ready to kill him. But after the years of labor for his two wives and for his flocks and herds. In Genesis 33 and verse 4, Jacob returns to Esau. And Genesis 33 and verse 4 says, And Esau ran to meet him and embraced him and fell on his neck. and kissed him. Esau, who was ready to kill him, now he kisses him. Jacob is okay. Okay, come home, I forgive you. And then again in Genesis 45 and verse 15, Joseph's brothers have sold him into slavery. But now Joseph reveals himself to them. And in Genesis 45 and 15, Joseph kisses all his brothers. They realize that their brother Joseph now is second only to Pharaoh. He has the power to take their lives, but instead of a knife, he gives them A kiss. Come unto me, all ye that labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. Let him kiss me with the kisses. of his mouth. Remember Elijah? Elijah is running from Jezebel. And Elijah says, God says, What are you doing here? Elijah and Elijah says, I have been very bold, I have been very jealous for the Lord of hosts, because the children of Israel have forsaken thy covenant, they've thrown down thine altars, they've slain the prophets. with a sword, and I only am left, and they seek my life to take it away. Do you remember God's answer to Elijah? First Kings 19, 18, God says to Elijah, Yet have I left me seven thousand in Israel, all the knees which have not bowed to Baal, and every mouth which hath not kissed him. Elijah says, I'm the only one, God, and they want to kill me. And God says, No, I still have 7,000, and they have not kissed. The false prophet. They have not kissed Baal. Remember when Christ is in the house of Simon The Pharisee. And a woman of the city comes in. She's an adulterer, most likely a prostitute. And she comes behind him weeping, weeping her tears upon his feet, and wiping his feet with his hair with her hair, and she ceases not to kiss his feet. And Simon says within his heart, If he were truly a prophet, he would know that this woman is a woman of the city. He would not let such a wicked woman touch him. But Christ responds to Simon, and this is what he says. He says to Simon Thou gavest me no kiss. Simon, thou gavest me no kiss. But this woman, since the time I came in, hath not ceased to kiss my feet. Who had a relationship with Jesus Christ? Simon, the Pharisee who loved to pray in the street corners Simon, the one so thoroughly taught in theology. Simon the one with all the degrees and initials after his name. Or this wicked repentant sinner. And so a kiss is also a mark of repentance Repentance in Scripture. But may we not forget that a kiss can be counterfeited But there may be some who claim relationship with Christ. And may even show themselves outwardly to have a relationship with Christ. And while he yet spake, behold a multitude, and he that is called Judas, one of the twelve, he had been in church every Saturday One of the twelve went before them and drew near to Jesus and kissed him. But Jesus said unto him, Judas, betrayest thou the son of man with a kiss. You see the significance of the kiss. And so here we find the bride Christ, the church, calling out the Christ. Kiss me with the kisses of thy mouth. Oh, may you confirm your relationship with me and my relationship with you May you confirm your forgiveness of me. May you confirm that I am accepted, though I am no different from this woman of the city. I'm accepted. But not only does the verse or text say, Let him kiss me with the kisses of his mouth, but notice where the kiss goes. Let him kiss me with the kisses of his mouth. So shall my word be that goeth forth out of my mouth in It shall not return unto me void, but it shall accomplish that which I please, and it shall prosper in the thing whereunto I send it. How is it that God is to kiss us? His expression of relationship, of acceptance, of forgiveness comes through his His word. Oh, may God kiss my soul with his word. May the kisses of his mouth fill my being. May the kisses of his mouth be new and fresh to me every day. May I never be lacking the kisses of his mouth. We read in Luke chapter 4 that Christ enters the synagogue and there's delivered to him the book of the scroll, the book of the roll, the Old Testament prophets. And Jesus reads therein, the Spirit of the Lord is upon me, because He hath anointed me to preach the gospel to the poor. He has sent me to heal the brokenhearted. to preach deliverance to the captives, and recovering of sight to the blind, and to set at liberty them that are bro bruised. And all bear witness and wondered at the gracious words that preceded. Out of his mouth. Did you ever read the scriptures and wonder at the gracious words that proceed out of the mouth of Christ to his people? That's a kiss, my friend. And not to be crude or too sarcastic with the Word of God. That's an all-out smooch. That is a wet kiss. That is a kiss of great joy and great adoration Oh Lord, kiss me with the kisses of thy mouth. Don't let me go without your word. Don't let me go without a blessing. Don't let me go without, as they say, laying one on me. Kiss me, O Lord, with the kisses of thy mouth. But Christ continues in that passage For this people's heart is waxed gross, their ears are dull of hearing, for their eyes they have closed, lest at any time they should see with their eyes, and hear with their ears, and understand with their hearts, and should be converted. But blessed are your eyes, for they see, and blessed are your ears, for they hear. Do you ever see anybody turn away from a kiss? I bet you have. Who's this trying to kiss me? You're not gonna kiss me. Kiss me. But here is the heart cry. Let him kiss me. Don't kiss another. Kiss me. There's an old hymn. It's me, it's me, it's me, O Lord, standing in the need of prayer. Lord, it's me. It's me I need the kisses of your mouth But the passage continues, let him kiss me with the kisses of his mouth, for thy love is better than why. And we need to stop and consider the significance of wine in Scripture because we said that this passage is gloriously symbolic. Wine in the Old Testament was the emblem of joy. It was the emblem of blessing. It was the emblem of celebration. They would celebrate Celebrate with wine. Wine brought great joy. In Psalm 4 and verse 7, thou hast put gladness in my heart more than the time when their corn and their wine increased. The kisses of his mouth, the kisses of his mouth are better than why There is no greater joy. There is no greater celebration. There is no greater blessing than the kisses of Oh soul lost in sin. You will surely go to an eternal hell unless you are killed. That's right. Little child child of God that is hurting, the great remedy for your soul is The kisses of his mouth. Oh, backslidden believer, you know the hypocrisy of your heart. There is no restoration apart From the kisses of his mouth. And so to hammer the phrase again: let him kiss me with the kisses And again, remember we've spoken of the prodigal son when the father kissed him. The prodigal son was words were, I am not worthy to be your father, your son. But it was concerned, confirmed the forgiveness with But not only do we find in Scripture that the wine is emblematic of blessing and of joy and of celebration, also we find that the wine in Scripture is used for healing. It is the agent of medication. The good Samaritan, but a certain Samaritan, as he journeyed, came where he was, and he saw him and had compassion on him. And he went and bound up his wounds and poured in oil and wine. They didn't have CBS pharmacies They didn't have the access to manufactured medications that we have today. We have two pharmacists with us as morning. They didn't have access to those medications, but oil and wine were standards. There were some balms and other things as well, certainly. But oil and w oil and and wine were the aspirin and Tylenol. They were the standard medication. Let him kiss me with the kisses of his mouth because his love is the best medicine for myself. His love is better than oil and wine. It's better than wine But also in the scriptures we find that wine is symbolic of the new covenant For in the Old Testament we find wine as being the emblem of celebration and joy. But when it comes to the Lord's table, Christ says, This is my blood of the new covenant. of the New Testament, which is shed for you for the remission of sin. And so his love is better than wine, because his love is what brought about the blood. For God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son. Christ came to give his life a ransom for many. He came not to be ministered unto, but to minister and to give his life a ransom for many. And so the first part of our text is that second verse. Let him kiss me with the kisses of his mouth, for his love, for thy love is better than wine. But consider with me the third verse Because of the savor of thy good ointments, thy name is as ointment poured forth. Therefore do the virgins love thee. Three elements in this verse. First of all, the savor of thy good ointments. Everything about him is good. It is lovely. That word savor is a word we use for taste It is also a word that involves the smell, the taste of thy ointments. Olive oil is pleasant to the taste. The smell of thy ointments, the perfume that the frankincense gives off. These sweet ointments are referenced to our Christ. Because the savor of thy ointments, he smells good. Mm-hmm. He smells good. I'm sure all of us have walked into a kitchen and smelled a delicious smell and our mouths began to salivate because we smelled something delicious. Men, I hope there's a certain fragrance that your wife wears, and when you smell it, your mind is instantly turned to her. I remember the smell of my grandfather's barn. And it was not at all a pungent smell. Uh there weren't often animals actually housed in the barn, but it was the smell of the feeds. It was the smell of binder twine. If you've ever baled hay, you know the smell of binder twine. Twine. It was the smell of granddad's barn. And I spent so many hours in there with my grandfather now long dead. And I can still smell that smell today. Because here was a man who loved me regardless of what I did. It didn't matter how bad I was, he loved me. It didn't matter what I broke, he loved me. It didn't matter what I did, he loved me. That's right. And what a glorious picture we have here Because the savor of thy good ointments, because of the savor of thy good ointments, because of the glories of Christ. Because of his forgiveness, because of his love, because of his acceptance, because everything about him smells good. And is desirable and draws me to it, I cannot resist the smell of a good brownie. Or an apple pie. Oh, may the smell of Christ cause us to hunger and thirst after righteousness. Solomon Song of Solomon three and verse six Who is this that cometh out of the wilderness like pillars of smoke, perfume with myrrh and frankincense with all powders of the merchants The bride sees him coming, and before he arrives, she smells the ointments. Who is this that is coming? It is love And in Song of Solomon 2 in verse 1, we find the voice of Jesus Christ: I am the rose of Sharon and the lily. of the valley. And so, because of the savor of thy good ointments Thy name is as ointment poured forth. God's name is like a glorious, precious, desirable Make me hungry for it, ointment that is poured forth. Neither is there salvation in any other For there is none other name under heaven given among men whereby we must be saved, and his name is poured forth To those who are not part of the bride, it's repugnant. To those who are not loved by Christ and do not love him. This is not a pleasant smell. He is despised and rejected of men, a man of sorrows and acquainted with grief, and we hid, as it were, his fa face from us. He is despised and we esteem. him not. But oh to the child of God, the savor of his name. It is precious. We hunger for it. And so it is poured out. And blessed be the glorious name forever Let the whole earth be filled with his glory forever and ever. O Lord, our Lord, how excellent is thy name in all the earth! Wherefore God also hath given him a name that is above every name. That in the name of Jesus every knee should bow and every tongue should confess of things in heaven and things in earth and things under the earth. Neither is there salvation. And so, because of the savor of thy good ointments, thy name is as ointment poured forth. Therefore Therefore, because his name is poured forth, do the virgins love they. Therefore do the virgins love thee. Who's being spoken of here? Who are the virgins? Well physical virginity has Physical virginity once surrendered to one man is never recovered. When I was in Jamaica, there were actually advertisements in the newspapers, people claiming they could restore virginity. Physical virginity is once and done. It cannot be restored. You're born with it, and when it's gone. It's gone. Spiritual virginity is already lost. I lost my spiritual virginity when my father Adam sinned in the garden. Wherefore, as by one man sin entered into the world, and death by sin, so death passed upon all men, for that all have sinned. All have sinned and come short of the glory of God. I was born in trespasses and sin. David and his great Psalm of Repentance. In Psalm 51, said, in sin did my mother conceive me. And he wasn't saying my mother was an adultery, but he was saying when my mother conceived me, I was already a sinner. I was born without spiritual virginity. Physical virginity can never be restored. But hallelujah, praise God, spiritual virginity can be. Because Christ has come to seek and to save that which is lost. I was born in spiritual adultery to the God of this world. But by Christ I am restored to spiritual virginity. If any man be in Christ, he is a new creature. Things are passed away, behold, all things are become new. Except the man be born again, he cannot see the kingdom of God. Because his ointments are glorious and precious, everything about Jesus is utterly lovely. the rose of Sharon. Because the ointment of his name is poured forth, the virgins love him, the redeemed. Those who have been transformed, those who are no longer dead in trespasses and sins But now stand before him in perfect righteousness because he has restored their spiritual virginity. He has restored them to righteousness. They love him. Do you love him? question. Do you love him or do you hate him? Do you love him? Therefore, do the virgins love him Him. If we say that we have no sin, we deceive ourselves and the truth is not in us. If we confess our sins, he is faithful and just to forgive us of our sins and to cleanse us. That's the restoration. of spiritual virginity and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. Come unto me. Or come now let us reason together, saith the Lord Though your sins be as scarlet, they shall be as white as snow. Though they be red like crimson, they shall be as wool. Blessed are the pure in heart, for they shall see God. Pure in heart, folks, that's the version. They're spoken of here. But we must move along to the last verse of our text for this morning, verse 4. Draw me, we will run after thee The king hath brought me into his chambers. We will be glad and rejoice in thee. We will remember thy love more than wine. The upright love. The draw me and we. Notice that the change of person there? Draw me, that's singular. And we, that's plural. There's a body that's being spoken of here. There's a group that's being spoken of here that's going to run after him. But it begins with the individual reference. Draw me And we will run after thee. In other words, Lord, bring me into your bride. Bring me into the church. And we, the company, the bride of Christ, we will run after thee. Christ said, No man can come unto me except the Father which has sent me, draw him. See why I call this the gospel according to Solomon. Oh Lord Jesus, I plead with you, kiss me with the kisses of Your mouth. Draw me to yourself. And with this great company, a host that cannot be numbered In Revelation, they're clothed in white. We will run after thee. Come unto me, all ye that labor are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. Ho, everyone that thirsteth, come ye to the waters. He that hath no money, come buy, and eat. Yea, come buy wine and milk without money and without price Wherefore do you spend money for that which is not bread, and your labor for that which satisfieth not? Hearken diligently unto me. Eat that which is good, and your soul shall delight itself. in fatness. Wherefore do you b spend money for that which is not bread? My friend, is your life a waste? Is your life a wreck? Everything you try fails You have no hope. You're surrounded with sorrow. You've been through relationship after relationship after relationship You've been through job after job after job. You've tried this, you've tried that, you've tried alcohol, you've tried drugs, and none of it's worked. It's left you lower than you started. Why do you spend money for that which is not bread? And your labor for that which satisfieth not. Ho everyone that thirsteth. Come. Come Come to the water. You don't have any money? Doesn't matter. Come. Buy and eat. Buy wine and milk without money and without price. And remember what we said about wine earlier? It's the emblem of blessing and joy In celebration. It's that which brings healing like an oil. And it's emblematic of the blood of Jesus Christ. And that word ho is an interesting word too. It's not a word we use often. We say woe to a horse, but ho is an arresting word. Ho, everyone that thirsteth. Do you realize the word ho there in Isaiah is only translated ho four times in Scripture, but 36 times it's translated woe, W-O-E. Woe unto him, Isaiah 45, that striveth with his master. It's a word of judgment and a word of condemnation. Most of the time where we find it Because it's a word that arrests him. Whoa, you better stop, you that strive with your Maker. You better stop because you're going to destruction. But here on the other side, O everyone that thirsteth. And so draw me, and we will run after thee The king hath brought me into his chambers, and they shall dwell in the house of the Lord. The king hath brought me into his chambers. Chapter two and verse three through six as the apple tree among the trees of the wood, so is my beloved among the sons of men of among the sons. I sat down under his shadow with great delight, and his fruit was sweet to my taste He brought me to the banqueting house, and his banner over me was love. Stay me with flagons, comfort me with apples, for I am sick of love His left hand is under my head, and his right hand doth embrace me. Do you know that kind of love of Christ? Has he kissed you with the kisses of his mouth? Has his name poured forth his ointment become to you to be a name above every name A precious name. Has he drawn you to himself? Do you run after him? For the virgins love him. Jesus Christ has come that you might have life and that you might have it more abundantly. He has come to take on himself all of our spiritual adultery that we might receive his spiritual virginity. He has come. To make us pure. And so the king hath brought me into his chambers. We will be glad and rejoice in thee. We will remember thy love more than wine. The upright love thee. I'd like to conclude this morning simply by reading from Psalm 116. Which says, I love the Lord, because he hath heard the voice of my supplication Because he hath inclined his ear unto me, therefore will I call upon him as long as I live. The sorrows of death compass me about. The pains of hell got hold upon me. I found trouble and sorrow. Then called I upon the name of the Lord. O Lord, I beseech thee, deliver my soul. Gracious is the Lord, and righteous. Yea. Our God is merciful. Oh, my friend, this morning, if you've been kissed with the kisses of his mouth, rejoice in him and love him because the virgins love him. Upright in heart, love him. This morning, if you do not know Jesus Christ, call on to him, and he will answer you and show you great and mighty things. Which thou knowest not. Let us stand for prayer. Oh Lord, we thank you for the glorious gospel of Jesus Christ so beautifully portrayed for us here in this poetic language, inspired by thee and blessed to thy people. Father, enrich us by it. Oh Lord, we we have to die daily like Paul. We confess that that iniquity cleaves to us. But Father, we thank you that in Jesus Christ we are made pure. In Jesus Christ we are made holy and righteous. Father, we thank you for this great salvation. Lord, may you love we love you. May Lord we rush run after you, we pray. Father, we pray for any here that may not know the kiss of his mouth, that may not know his saving grace, O Lord, may they seek the Lord while he may be found. Father, may they be found of thee Father, we pray that you would bless thy word continually to our hearts in Jesus' name. Amen