Open your Bibles with me this morning to Psalm seventy five. And we're going to take as our text this morning verse eight of this psalm as we observe the Lord's table together today. I actually have had Psalm 75. 8 uh scribbled on one of the top corners of my calendar for a long time. I'm not sure how long. I I will from time to time come across a text and it will just kind of grab a hold of me and I meditate on it for a while and keep it somewhere where it will remind me. And I had this text set aside for the Lord's Supper for probably a year or more. It's a powerful text. I'm going to read the entire Psalm. There's just ten verses. And our focus will be on verse 8, but we will be looking at other verses in the Psalm. Psalm 75, verse 1 Unto thee, O God, do we give thanks. Unto Thee do we give thanks, for that thy name is near, thy salvation, thy wondrous works declare. When I shall receive the congregation, I will judge uprightly. The earth and all the inhabitants thereof are dissolved I bear up the pillars of it, Selah. I said unto the foolish, feel not foolishly, and to the wicked, lift not up the horn. Lift on up your horn on high. Speak not with a stiff neck, for promotion cometh neither from the east, nor from the west, nor from the south But God is the judge. He putteth down one and setteth up another. In the hand of the Lord there is a cup, and the wine is red. It is full of mixture, and he poureth out the same But the dregs thereof, all the wicked of the earth shall wring them out and drink them. But I will declare forever. I will sing praise to the God of Jacob. All the horns of the wicked also will I cut off, but the horns of the righteous shall be exalted. Let us dial for prayer as we begin. Father, we thank you for the glories of your word. Father, no man is sufficient to the task of proclaiming your truth. Who is sufficient to these things? And yet, Father, you have chosen the foolishness of preaching to save them that believe. You could have proclaimed your gospel by many other means, but you've chosen this means that is before us this morning. You've chosen preaching And so, Father, this morning I acknowledge my inability to expound this text. And yet we thank you that your word will not return to you void, but will prosper in the thing whereunto you send it. And so, Father, our prayer this morning is send forth thy word to the edification of your people and to the glorification of your Son. Let me pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. In the hand of the Lord there is a cup, and the wine is red. It is full of mixture, and he poureth out the same. But the dregs thereof, all the wicked of the earth, shall wring them out and drink them. This morning I want us to consider that there is a cup in the hand of Jehovah. And then we're going to consider that there is a cup in the hands of Christ. And then finally, there is a cup in the hand of the saints. We find, first of all, in this text in Psalm 75. 8, that there is a cup in the hand of Jehovah. And our King James Bible there has in the hand of the Lord, but it's all in capitals to indicate to us that it is Jehovah God that is being spoken of, the covenant God of Israel, the great I am, the God of the universe. The gods of the heathen are wood and stone, the works of man's hands. But the Lord made the heavens. Jehovah God has the cup in his hand. Not Buddha or Muhammad or Confucius or any other god that man has made. There is a cup in the hand of Jehovah. And this cup in the hand of Jehovah is a cup of judgment. It is a cup of justice. It is a cup of wrath. And if you look there at verse 2 of the Psalm, he says, I will judge uprightly. And verse three, the earth and all the inhabitants thereof shall be dissolved. And verse four, I said to the fools, deal not foolishly. And verse seven, God is the judge, he put it up one, and verse ten, all the hand the horns of the wicked Shall be broken. Every man is subject to Jehovah. The believer has been made subject willingly and joyfully. The unbeliever raises his horn, his emblem of strength before Jehovah. But all the horns of the wicked shall be broken. Turn with me to Jeremiah chapter 25, and I'm going to have you turn there. Because we find in Jeremiah 24 or 25 a beautiful exposition on this issue of the cup that is in the hand of Jehovah. And so we're going to refer to Jeremiah 25 several times as we consider Psalm 75 and verse 8. The first 15 verses of Jeremiah 25 expounds for us God sending forth the prophets. And I won't read all 15 verses But I would like to read verses four and five of Jeremiah twenty-five, if you have your place there now. Jeremiah twenty-five and verse four, and the Lord hath sent unto you all his servants and prophets. rising early and sending them. But ye have not hearkened, nor inclined your ear to hear them. And Brother Bence mentioned in Sunday school that phrase, sending them early Is ascending with urgency and with an earnestness. Verse 5. This is what the prophets said. They said, Turn ye again. Now every one from his evil way, and from the evil of your doings, and dwell in the land that the Lord hath given unto you and to your fathers for ever and ever The message God sends forth with the prophets is turn to the Lord, repent, repent, repent, except ye repent, ye shall all likewise perish. And then in verse 15 of Jeremiah 25, the prophet speaks again. For thus saith the Lord God of Israel unto me, take the wine cup of this fury at my hand. So God says to the prophet, this is the cup of the fury. This is the cup that's spoken of there in Psalm seventy-five, verse eight Take the cup of my fury at my hand, and cause all the nations to whom I send thee to drink it. And they shall drink and be moved and be mad because of the sword that I will send among them. God says, I'm sending this cup of wrath, this cup of red mixed wine that is in my hand. The nations shall all drink of it, and they shall be moved. That word mood is a word that is also used like an earthquake. They will tremble at the wrath of God. and be made mad. They will lose all their senses. And this word mad that's used here is the same word that's used of David when he feigned madness before the Philistines. He acted like he had lost his mind and he said, Who is this fool? You see, the world is so r so uh Tied up in their own wisdom. And verse 10 of Psalm 75 talks about the horn of the wicked being broken. Man thinks he's so smart, he's smarter than God, and he tries to shake his fist in the face of God But the wisdom of man is foolishness with God. And so when the cup of God's wrath is poured out, we find that men tremble and all their wisdom is madness. Because of the sword that I will send among them. Verse 17. Here the prophet speaks. Then I took the cup at the Lord's hand. And made all the nations to drink unto whom the Lord hath sent me, to wit Jerusalem, and the cities of Judah, and the kings thereof, and the princes thereof, to make them a desolation and astonishment and hissing, a curse, as it is this day. He made him a hissing. Did you ever see something go In Jamaica we always use the term we would suck your teeth. You know, if you didn't like something, suck your teeth at it. Make them a hissing! Did you ever see something whistle? Wow. Look at that. Oh my. You see, the wicked are put to astonishment. They're put to a hissing in all their strength and in all their wrath. And then verses 19 through 26 goes on and gives an extensive list of all the kingdoms and the kings on whose God on whom God's judgment comes. And then coming down to verse 27. Therefore, thou shalt say unto them, Thus saith the Lord of hosts, the God of Israel, drink ye and be drunken and spew and fall and rise no more because of the sword that I will send among you. Drink this cup Drink the dregs that are wrung out, and be drunken, and vomit it out, spew it out, and fall, and rise no more. Verse 28. And it shall be, if they refuse to take the cup at the hand, to drink, at thine hand, to drink Then shalt thou say unto them, Thus saith the Lord of hosts, ye shall certainly drink. For lo, I bring evil on the city which is called by my name. Should not ye be utterly unpunished? Yea, not uh y yea, shall shall not ye be ashamed or sorry, ye shall not be unpunished, for I will call for the sword upon the inhabitants of the earth, saith the Lord of hosts. And so the first thing we see about this cup that is in the hand of Jehovah is that is a cup of mighty wrath. It is a cup of inescapable judgment. God is angry with the wicked every day. The wicked say, ah, there is no God. The wicked say, prove it to me. The wicked say, all things have continued since the time of the fathers. Where is the sign of his coming? But there is a hand of a cup of wrath and a cup of judgment in the hand of Jehovah. And then coming back to Psalm 75 and verse 8. We find that the wine is red. And throughout Scripture, red is a picture of judgment. Remember in Revelation, the red horse that comes for judgment. And red is a picture of blood in Scripture. But also, red is a c red is a color in Scripture which cannot be removed. Though your sins be as scarlet, they shall be as wool. Though they be red like crimson, and that phrase red like crimson there in Isaiah 1 in verse 18, it literally means red that is double-dipped. or double-dyed. It is a red that is so pervasive in its staining capabilities that when you put the the red in there and throw it in the washer, everything's gonna be pink. Because you'll never get the red out. And isn't it a glorious picture of salvation? Though your sins be as scarlet, they shall be as white as wool. But here the wine of this cup is described as being red. It cannot be changed. It cannot be altered. It is red. It is judgment blood. And you will drink of it everyone on the earth, even to the dregs. But there's another element because this word that is translated read here in Psalm seventy-five and verse eight. This word red also means turbid or troubled. Remember in Proverbs, look not on the cup when it's red. When it moveth itself aright in the cups, there's a constant movement within this red. And the wicked are like the troubled sea, when it cannot rest, whose waters cast up mire and dirt. The wine of the cup of God's wrath is red. It is a bubbling red. It is a turbid red that is bursting forth. Upon the wicked. Look not on the cup when it moveth itself aright. This word red is also translated as foul in Job 16 and verse 16 when Job said, My face is foul. He used this same term that is used here for red. It is turbid. It is troubled. But then we find further that this red cup of wrath in the hand of Jehovah is full of mixture. It's full of mixture. And that term full of mixture is the same Different wording because you have Greek versus the Hebrew and Aramaic, but it's the same concept of the mixed cup that was given to a condemned criminal They would mix vinegar and gall or wine and frankincy. And remember that they took the sponge and they offered it to Christ and when he tasted it he would not drink of it. It was that which would dull the senses. It was a mixed drink. And here we find that this cup of God's wrath is full of mixture. They gave me gold for my meat and for my thirst. They gave me vinegar to drink. This full admixture shows us the many fold elements of the wrath of God. God didn't send just one plague on Egypt. He sent ten. He sent ten. There is no escaping. If one escapes you, the next one gets you. You cannot get away. And in Psalm 11 and verse 6, upon the wicked shall he rain snares, fire, brimstone, and a horrible tempest. This shall be the portion of their cup. Psalm 111 or Psalm 11, verse 6. You shall hear of wars and rumors of wars. Nations shall rise against nations. There'll be earthquakes and famine and pestilence. Have you had the news on the last couple days? Mm have you seen all the concerns over disease and all the talks of wars and rumors of wars and even bombs going off in our own country? Well, this cup is full of mixture. In Isaiah 51 verse 17, it's called the cup of fury and the cup of trembling. In Ezekiel twenty three, thirty-three it's called the cup of astonishment. In Habakkuk two, verse sixteen it's called the cup of shame. In Zechariah twelve, verse two, it's called the cup of trembling. It's full of mixture. But not only does it being full of mixture show us that there are so many varied aspects to the judgment of God. But it also shows us that it's all inclusive. And I mentioned there that the verses 19 through 26 of Jeremiah 25 is an extensive list of king after king after king and kingdom after kingdom after kingdom. How else will we escape if we neglect so great salvation? There is nothing hid from his sight. The cup of his judgment is full of mixture. It is varied in many ways of judgment and it encompasses. All the earth is a cup that is full of mixture Do you ever have a cup of bleach that you're getting ready to put in to dilute in the bleach water and accidentally you spill it on something? And you end up with a big white spot. Or did you ever have some caustic acid, maybe that you were going to pour down the drain to unclog something? And you accidentally spill it on someplace you didn't intend it to be. I have inadvertently spilled a little bit of brake fluid on the fender of a car. And boy, it'll destroy the paint. And so when we have something that is dangerous and deadly, we we put little skull and crossbones on the poison under the sink because we want to warn people this is dangerous and we're very careful not to spill a drop. But this cup of wrath in the hand of Jehovah is to be poured out. It's not to be kept and maintained in the cup. And it's not poured out by any accident. And he poureth out the same. That doesn't fit very well with the common message of our day, oh God loves everybody. And God is gracious, and God is merciful, and God just loves you so much. Those things are all true of the believer. But God is angry with the wicked every day, and there is a red cup of judgment bubbling in his hand, just waiting to be poured out. Mine eyes have seen the glory of the coming of the Lord. He is tramping out his vintage where the grapes of wrath are stored. He has loosed the fateful lightning of his terrible, swift sword. His truth is marching on. But not only will this cup be poured out. We find there in the end of verse 8, but the dregs thereof All the wicked of the earth shall ring them out and drink them. All the wicked have sipped the pleasures of this world. But they will drink the dregs of their doings. The wicked have been drunken with the wine of this earth, but they will drink of the judgment of the of God. And I won't have you turn again, but let me refer back to the last few verses we saw there in Jeremiah 25, verse 27 and 28. Therefore thou shalt say unto them, thus saith the Lord of hosts, the God of Israel, drink ye and be drunken, and spew and fall, and rise no more, because the sword will uh uh the sword that I will send among you And it shall be that if they shall refuse to take the cup at thy hand to drink, then shalt thou say unto them, Thus saith the Lord, ye shall surely drink. So the first thing it happens to see this morning is that there is a cup in the hand of Jehovah. It's red, it's turbid, it's judgment, and it is ready to be poured. But we find also The cup in the hand of the Savior. Turn with you to the book of Matthew and chapter 26, the first book of your New Testament. Matthew twenty-six, and I'll begin reading in verse thirty-six. Matthew twenty six, and verse thirty-six Then cometh Jesus with them unto a place called Gethsemane. And saith unto his disciples, Sit ye here, while I go and pray yonder And he took with him Peter and the two sons of Zebedee and began to be very sorrow, be sorrowful and very heavy. Then said he unto them, My soul is exceeding sorrowful, even unto death. Carry ye here and watch with me. And he went a little further and fell on his face and prayed, saying O my Father, if it be possible, let this cup pass from me. Nevertheless, not as I will, but as thou wilt. Here we find this cup of wrath that we've read about in Psalm 75 and in Jeremiah 25. But it's passed to Christ. And my friend, I believe that the cup that Christ is talking about here encompasses the cup of wrath. For Christ is saying, if I must drink this wrath, if this is the only way, Father, if there can be another way to save my people. Then let this cup pass from me, but my not my will, but thine be done. This is that red cup of judgment. This is that cup of turbidity. This is that cup full of mixture This is the cup. And so we find this cup of unspeakable horrors in the hand of Christ. And remember when the disciples were disputing over who would be greatest in the kingdom. And desiring that they might have a place of prominence in the kingdom of God, and I want to be first. Doesn't that sound like Satan, who said, I will be like God? Doesn't that sound like Satan's words to Eve? You shall be as gods, knowing good and evil. Isn't that man's purpose? We're gonna be like God. I'm gonna be my own God. No one's gonna tell me what to do. The disciples are asking Christ if they can have a place of prominence in the kingdom. And in Matthew 20 and verse 23, but Jesus said unto them, Ye know not what ye ask, are ye able to drink the cup that I shall drink? Can you take this stuff yourself? Will you even get to the kingdom that you want to be prominent in? You can't get there by drinking the cup yourself because the wages of sin is death. But the gift of God is eternal life. Are ye able to drink of this cup that I shall drink of, and to be baptized with the baptism that I am baptized with? They say we're able. I'm not so bad. I'm a pretty good guy. I'm kind. In fact, when I'm going into a store, I put five cents in the Salvation Army cup. Just to make the guy shut that bell up. I'm a good guy. I do well. I'm a nice person. God's not going to send me to hell. I'm able. I can take care of this myself. Thou fool, this night shall thy soul be required of thee But if you're looking there in Matthew 20, I would like to show you a contrast between verse 22 and 23. I should have had you turn there earlier. If you haven't turned, go ahead and turn to Matthew 20. And we read verse 22, are ye able to drink of the cup that I shall drink of? And they and to be baptism with the baptism that I am baptized with? And they say unto him, We are able. Verse 23 Then said he unto them, Ye shall drink indeed of my cup. Do you see the difference there? Are you going to drink of the cup that I will drink? But then he says, ye shall drink of my cup. There's a difference there. He is drinking the Father's cup. The cup of wrath. But he says, indeed, ye will drink of my cup. And so we find that a cup comes into the hand of Jehovah, and it is the cup of God's wrath. But when Christ offers the cup to his disciples, it is not the cup of wrath. It is the cup of mercy. It is a cup that has been transformed from wrath to mercy because it has passed through the Redeemer. He said to them, ye shall drink indeed of my cup and be baptized with the baptism that I am baptized with. But to sit on my right hand or on my left is not mine to give, but it shall be given to him of whom it is prepared for the Father. So Christ says, you're going to drink of my cup and be baptized of my baptism. We're baptized into his death through salvation. And so Jesus Christ drank of the cup of the Father's wrath so that we do not have to. We drink of the cup of the blood of Christ instead of the cup of wrath. Awake, awake, stand up, O Jerusalem, which has drunk at the hands of the Lord the cup of his fury. Thou hast drunk the dreads of the cup. of trembling and wrung them out. Isaiah fifty-five, twenty-two, thus saith the Lord, and thy God that pleadeth the cause of his people, behold, I have taken Out of thine hand the cup of trembling, even the dregs of thy cup of fury, and thou shalt drink it no more. Again. Let me give you the reference there again. The reference here is Isaiah 51, verse 20. Behold, I have taken out of thine hand the cup of trembling. Even the dregs of the cup of my fury, and thou shalt drink it no more again. Hallelujah! All the earth drinks of the cup of God's wrath. But Jesus Christ took my drink. He drank the dregs for dregs for me. And so we find a cup of wrath in the hand of Jehovah. And that cup of wrath is to be poured out upon all the earth. But Christ takes the cup in his hands, and he drank it for me on the cross. He planned with his father, if it be possible, let it pass. But not my will, but thine be done. And so there's a cup of wrath in the hands of Jehovah. There's a cup in the hand of Christ. But then finally we look at the cup in the hand of the saints. We read in our responsive reading this morning, I will take the cup of salvation and will call upon the name of the Lord. Turn back to Matthew 26 with me. And then Matthew chapter twenty-six and verse twenty-six we read And as they were eating, Jesus took bread and blessed it, broke it, and gave it to the disciples, and said, Take, eat, this is my body. And he took the cup and gave thanks and gave it to them, saying, Drink ye all of it, for this is my blood of the New Testament. What does Christ mean? This is my blood of the New Testament. Is he talking about Matthew through Revelation as opposed to Genesis through Malachi? Old Testament, New Testament. No, Christ is saying, this is my blood of the new covenant. This is my blood of the new and living way. This is my blood instead of the cup of God's wrath. Without the shedding of blood, there is no remission of sins. And here is Christ's institution The first Lord's Supper, he says to his disciples, This cup is my blood in the New Testament, in the new and living way, not of the works of the law But of grace, grace, and grace alone. And Christ was not saying that they were saved because they drank the cup. No man is saved because he partakes of the Lord's table. But rather, Christ is saying to them, This is a picture. This blood, this wine is the picture of my blood shed for the remission of sin. And whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. They took the cup And gave thanks and gave it to them, saying, drink ye all of it. What do we see about the cup of wrath? All the earth will drink it. But Christ gave a cup, drank that cup on my behalf, and he has given to me the cup of salvation, which we saw there in Psalm 116. But I say unto you, I will not drink henceforth of the fruit of this vine until the day when I drink it new with you in my Father's house. Father's kingdom. And so, my friend, Christ, on the night of his crucifixion, instituted the first Lord's table. He gave his disciples another cup. And he has given to us another cup. And the day if you have drank of the cup of salvation. If your faith is found in Christ and in Christ alone, this cup is for you. Not that this cup saves, not that there is merit in the fruit of the vine But it is a picture. Christ said, do this in remembrance of me. It typifies for us the blood of Jesus Christ shed for the remission of sins. All the earth will drink in the cup. One cup or the other. But I drink of the cup of salvation Let us pray and then we'll go directly into the Lord's table.