Put it in your Bibles with me this morning, please. To the book of Jeremiah and chapter twenty-nine. You'll notice there are two scripture portions listed in your bullet this morning. One from Jeremiah 29 and one from Luke chapter 19. It at one time was a practice in worship, but there was always an Old Testament and a New Testament reading. We have somewhat gotten away from that today But it is a good practice because the Old Testament and the New Testament are not two books. They're one book. And it's not really two covenants, it's one covenant, and they are unified. So I'm going to begin reading just verses four through ten of Jeremiah 29. And when we turn from there to the book of Luke, keep your finger there because we're going to be back in Jeremiah again this morning. Jeremiah chapter 29, beginning in verse 4. Thus saith the Lord of hosts, the God of Israel, unto all that are carried away captive, whom I cause to be carried away from Jerusalem unto Babylon. Build ye houses and dwell in them. Plant gardens and eat the fruit of them Take ye wives and beget sons and daughters, and take wives for your sons, and give your daughters to husbands. that they may bear sons and daughters, that ye may be increased there and not diminished. And seek the peace of the city whither I have caused you to be carried away captives And pray unto the Lord for it. For in the peace thereof shall ye have peace. For thus saith the Lord of hosts, the God of Israel, but not your prophets and your diviners. that be in the midst of you, deceive you, neither hearken unto your dreams, which ye cause to be dreamed. For they prophesy falsely unto you in my name. I have not sent them, saith the Lord. For thus saith the Lord. That after seventy years be accomplished at Babylon, I will visit you and perform my good word toward you. In causing you to return to this place. And now turn over with me to Luke chapter 19. And in the 19th chapter of Luke, I'm going to begin reading in verse 11. Luke 19 and verse 11. And as they heard these things, he added and spake a parable, because he was nigh in the Jerusalem. And because they thought that the kingdom of God should immediately appear. He said, therefore A certain nobleman went into a far country to receive for himself a kingdom and to return. And he called his ten servants and delivered them ten pounds, and said unto them, Occupy till I come. But his citizens hated him and sent a messenger after him saying, We will not have this man to reign over us. And it came to pass that when he was returned, having received the kingdom, then he commanded those servants to be called unto him to whom he had given the money, that he might know how much every one, every man had gained by trading. Then came the first, saying, Lord, thy pound hath gained ten pounds And he said unto him, Well, good thou servant, because thou hast been faithful in a very little. I have made thee author uh that have thou authority over ten cities. And the second came, saying, Lord, thy pound hath gained five pounds. And he said likewise to him, Be thou over five cities. And another came saying, Lord, behold, here is thy pound, which I have kept laid up in a napkin For I fear thee, because thou art an austere man, thou takest up that thou layest not down, and reapest where thou dost not sow. And he said unto him Out of thine own mouth will I judge thee, thou wicked servant. Thou knewest that I was an austere man, taking up that I laid not down, and reaping that I did not sow Wherefore then gavest thou not my money to the bank, that at my coming I might have required mine own with usury. And he said unto them that stood by, take from him the pound and give it to him that hath ten pounds. And they said unto him, Lord, he hath ten pounds. For I say unto you, that every one which hath shall be given, and from him which hath not, even that which he hath shall be taken away from him But those of mine enemies, which would not that I should reign over them, bring them hither, and slay them before me. Let us bow prepare for prayer as we begin to look at God's Word. Heavenly Father, Lord, we thank you that all scripture is given by inspiration of God and all scripture is profitable. Father, profit your word to our hearts this morning for doctrine, for reproof, for instruction, for correction. Lord, bless your word to us, we pray Lord, may we not look upon thy word with the eyes of flesh, but Lord, may the Spirit of God open it to our hearts. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Our Lord is not physically present with us today. All Christ is here. He is present with us at all times, and he's promised never to leave us or to forsake us. And that promise is true. But he is not physically present here today. I believe if I ask how many of you would rather be in heaven at the moment than here, I would see your hands. For we live in this world and we live in these bodies of flesh, and as Paul said, in this we groan. We have pleasures in this world, but they cannot be compared with the pleasures of heaven. And so we can say that our condition is not exactly that which we would desire, and yet I don't believe any of us would Dare to say today that we believe that the Lord would rather us be in heaven than we're here by some mistake. We are where we are by God's hand. Now we read the Jeremiah passage, which talked about the children of Israel being in captivity in Babylon. And we read here in Luke about the master that has gone away. He is not present with his people. And so I'd like, by way of introduction, to do a very quick overview of this parable of the talents or parable of the pounds that we find here in Luke 19. It's also found in another form in Matthew 25. But then we're going to go back to Jeremiah to make application of the teaching of the New Testament into the Old Testament. And so when we come to that 13th verse there of Luke 19, we read: And he called his ten servants and delivered unto them ten pounds, and said unto them. Occupy till I come. And it's interesting that it's uh two references to ten in that uh 13th verse. The previous verses are that of Zacchaeus, which we didn't read. Zacchaeus who had climbed up in a sycamore tree to see Christ. And Christ was criticized for going to Zacchaeus' house because Zacchaeus was a publican, he was a sinner, but Christ said he is a child of Abraham indeed, he is an Israelite Indeed. And this parable was given to the ten tribes of Israel to whom Christ had come. They were looking for him to establish a kingdom. But he was going to receive a kingdom. He was returning to heaven. And his kingdom was not a kingdom of this earth. It was a heavenly kingdom. And Christ did indeed receive that kingdom. And he will come again. The key word there, verse 13, that we need to begin with is that word occupy. What does this word occupy mean? Well, that word uh occupi is a verb, it is the the Greek word uh pragmatuomi And you might hear a bit of an English word in there. It is the word from which we get the word pragmatic. It is the verb pragmatic form pragmatumai. It means to busy oneself. It means to carry on one's business. It means to occupy oneself Now, this verb form is only found one time in our Texas Receptus New Testament, and it's found right here in this verse. However, the noun form pragma is found several times in the New Testament. I think it's about 15 times. And let me give you just three examples of the noun form In Matthew 18, verse 19, if two of you shall agree on earth as touching any thing, the thing there is the noun form, pragma, any matter, any concern. When Ananias and Sapphira lied about the pri price of the land they had sold in Acts 5, while it remained, was it not thine own, and after it was sold, was it not in thy power? Why hast thou conceived this thing? This matter, this concern in thy heart. And then in 1 Corinthians 6, 1, dare any of you having a matter against his brother go to law before the unjust. And so the noun form talks about a thing or a matter, and the verb form talks about being engaged in a thing or a matter, being engaged in business. And so the instruction to the people of God as the master was going away was, occupy till I come. Christ did not leave his people to be idle in his absence, but rather the people of God are to be active in his absence and to be very active in his absence. And those that were inactive were condemned. The parable here in Luke 19 is a parable of pounds. What does this word pound mean? Well, uh it's Can be used interchangeably with talent. The pound in the Old Testament was 300 shekels. The pound in the New Testament was 100 drachma. And the talent in the New Testament was 100 pounds. So you see there is there is interchange between the two. And in both the parable in Matthew 25 and the parable in Luke 19 The root idea of the pound is a quantity of money, and that is told to us in the text. If you look down to Luke 19, verse 15, command the service to whom he had given the money. It's referred to as money, and again in Matthew 26. And so we're talking about an amount of currency that has been given by the master to his servants. What was the purpose? Well, Christ gives the purpose of the parable right there in verse Number 11. Because they thought that the kingdom of God should immediately appear. That's very important because we need to keep this idea of what is immediate and what is future in mind when we go back to Jeremiah 29 in a few moments. The Jews believed that Jesus was coming to establish a kingdom right then and there and to cast out Rome And Christ gives the parable. No. He's going to receive the kingdom, not receive a kingdom here, and he'll return again after he's received the kingdom. What was the message? We've already referred to this already. The message was that God's people are to be active, we're to occupy, we're not to be idle. While you are waiting for the fulfillment of the promise, what are you to do? Well, we are to be sought And we are to be light. Ye are the sword of the earth, but the sword has lost his saber, wherewith shall it, shall the earth be seasoned? Ye are the light of the world. A city that's set on a hill cannot be hid. Let your light so shine before men that they may see your good work, see your occupation, see what you're doing, and glorify your Father which is in heaven. Also, by way of reviewing this parable, we need to realize that what Christ was expecting, or what the master was expecting of the servants, was not unreasonable. It was their reasonable service. And in the Matthew passage, it says he gave five talents to one, and two talents to another, and one talent to everyone according to his several abilities. And we find this throughout the New Testament, having gifts differing according to the grace of God. There are diversities of gifts. And so with that overview of The parable in the New Testament, now let's turn back to Jeremiah and see what application we can make from Jeremiah 29 To the parable of the talents. In Jeremiah twenty nine, we find the people of God in a place that they did not want to be. They were captives in Babylon. Now, let's be very clear. The message today is not about Babylon. And the message today is not about the United States. The message is about God's people wherever they are, and what we're supposed to be doing wherever we are. And one of the first things that we see here is that these people in Babylon didn't want to be there. They wanted to be home. They wanted to be in Jerusalem, and they were eager to go home to Jerusalem. But they were right where God wanted them to be. They were in the place of God's ordination I did not read the first verse earlier, but let's go back now to the first verse of Jeremiah 21. And there we read, now these are the words of the letter that Jeremiah the prophet sent from Jerusalem Under the residue of the elders which were carried away captive, and to the priest, and to the prophets, and to all the people whom Nebuchadnezzar had carried away captive From Jerusalem to Babylon. Go down to verse four. Thus saith the Lord God of Israel the Lord of hosts, the God of Israel, unto all that are carried away whom I have cause to be carried away from Jerusalem to Babylon Look down to verse 20 of the chapter. Hear ye therefore the word of the Lord, all ye of the captivity, whom I have sent. From Jerusalem to Babylon. And we won't read verse 7, but in verse 7 we find the same thing again. The first principle that we learn here in Jeremiah And that we must remember today is that we as the people of God are exactly where God wants us to be. That's right. Our brethren, who today cannot meet openly, are exactly where God wants them to be. Our brethren who are in prisons in foreign land today are exactly where God wants them to be. And the martyrs, when chained to a stake, waiting the flames, were exactly where God wanted them to be. And so it's not about Babylon, and it's not about the United States, or about Saudi Arabia, or about China, or about Indonesia, or about anywhere in the world. It's about God's people. And there we uh in the New Testament passage it was the master that had gone away. Here in the Old Testament passage, the people that are going away, they're in the foreign land. But we're not left just to sit around and say, oh no, we're in a foreign land. Isn't this terrible? Wouldn't we rather be in heaven? Well, we'll just sit here and wait for it and come back. But no, we're to occupy until he comes. And so here in Jeremiah, we find, I believe, a beautiful illustration of what the people of God are supposed to be doing while we wait for him to come back. What are we going to be doing? And the background of this passage from chapter 28, which we'll go to later on in the message, was that there was false prophets. And the false prophets were saying, it's just going to be two years. Just two years. And Nebuchadnezzar is going to be gone, and you're going back to Jerusalem. But that was not what the Lord of the Lord had said. God had said it was going to be a 70-year captivity. And so Jeremiah has to stand up against false prophets with the truth of God and say it's going to be a 70-year captivity, and this is what God wants you to do with the talents. While you're waiting. Look at verse number five of Jeremiah 29. The first thing that they would do is to build ye houses and dwell in them. And plant gardens and eat the fruit of them. And then down to verse 28 of the chapter For therefore he sent unto Babylon, saying, The captivity is long, build ye houses and dwell in them, and plant gardens, and eat the fruit of them In Proverbs 13, verse 22, we read these words, a good man leaveth an inheritance to his children, and the wealth of the sinner is laid up for the unjust. Or laid up for the just, excuse me. The first thing they were to do is they were to build houses and plant vineyards. Now, that that seems like a contradiction, doesn't it? This world is not our home. And we're not to lay up to ourselves treasure on earth, and moth and rust doth corrupt, and we're not to love the world, either the things that are in the world. And so why is there instruction to build houses and plant vineyards? The people of God are to establish themselves where God has put them. We do not build houses and plant gardens because, oh, we just got to get rich. See, it's not a matter of greed. When Penny and I left for the mission field, we never thought we'd own a home. We just gave that up. And I remember about ten years into our marriage when our college friends and high school friends were sending us pictures of the houses they were buying in We were on the mission field and we said, well, okay, those are beautiful places, but that's not what the Lord has for us. Now the Lord's given us a beautiful home. But the point is this My name is on the deed, but I don't own it. Right. It's not mine. Think about it. It belongs to the Lord. The ten servants that received the ten quantities of finance, of currency, from the master, was it theirs or was it his? It was his. And when he came back, and the one had taken and had doubled it. Who got the prophet? It was the master's prophet. He entrusted more to the faithful servant, but it always belonged to the master. And so we're not talking about a matter of greed here. But the children of God are not supposed to be just Sitting back saying, well, the Lord's coming back, I guess we'll sweep. But rather, we are to use every talent, every resource the Lord gives us for the furtherance of his kingdom, for the promotion of his truth. They were in a foreign land, and yet they were to establish themselves in the land. And we have the story of the rich fool who said, My barns can't hold all my goods, I'll tear down my barns and build greater. And God's response was, Thou fool, this night. Ninth thy soul shall be required of thee, and then who shall be all these things he've laid up for yourselves? You can't take it with you And so the first thing we find here is that the people of God are to be an industrious, hard-working people. Remember the Proverbs 31 And the Proverbs 31 woman, she considereth a field and buyeth it. Should her hand to the distaff. Her candle goes not out by night. And so, if we are to be, as Christians, sought And light in the world, we should be the best employer the cupboards has. We should be the people that are the most diligent about our lives. We don't buy lottery tickets. We don't foolishly squander money on nonsense. But rather we shepherd the talents that God has put in our hands. And remember he gave us 110? To others five to one one. In the parable of the talents, it was five and two and one. God provides more resources in the hands of some believers than others, but God owns it all. And it's to be used for his glory. The planting of a vineyard is interesting, isn't it? Why would you plant a vineyard? Well, you take a few seeds to produce many, to produce more. And so the first thing we find here in occupying till he comes is that the people of God need to be a diligent people We need to be diligent with the resources that God has provided for us. In 1 Timothy 5. 8 But if any man provide not for his own, specifically those of the house of the Lord of his own house, he has denied the faith. And it's worse than an infidel. Um there have been times in history when false prophets have come along and told the believers to sell everything and and the Lord's coming back next week. And uh you know False prophets among you. It's not true. What is the second thing that the children of God, that we as God's people, are to do as we occupy? We're to make good use of God's resources But secondly, in verse 6 of Jeremiah 29, take ye wives, and begat sons and daughters. Take wives for your sons, give your daughters to husbands, that they may bear sons and daughters, that ye may be increased. And uh there and not diminished. Now the passage does not say directly here, take sons within the children of Israel But we can say from the from the whole of Scripture that Jeremiah the prophet and God was not telling them marry the Babylonians. That was not the case at all. They were to very carefully guard, they were not to marry the daughters of Heath They were to marry within their own people. And so though Jeremiah 29 does not spell that out, we know from the whole of Scripture that that is the context. But what they were told was they weren't just to diminish. Because if they said, well, we're here in captivity, we're not going to have any children, they would begin to diminish away very quickly. But the original command that God gave was be fruitful and multiply and replenish the earth. God's people should be a reproducing people Happy is he that hath his quiver full of them. And uh yeah the uh the Gentile quiver, I think it was was held seven arrows, and the Hebrew quiver held twelve. So which quiver are we supposed to fill? Well, I'm not saying we all need to have twelve or seven children. But God's people should have children Children are a heritage of the Lord. They are a blessing from God. And so God's people should be multiplying. But there's more here than just physical multiplication talked about. In the Old Testament, again, in Isaiah 54, verses 2 and 3, enlarge the place of thy tent. And let them stretch forth the curtains of thy habitation. Spare not, lengthen thy cords and strengthen thy stakes. God promised to Abraham that his seed would be as the stars of the heaven and as the stands before the seashore When those verses there in Isaiah 54 are talking about enlarging the tent and making longer cords for the tent, it wasn't talking there about physical children Because the next verse there in verse 3 of Isaiah 54, for thou shalt break forth on the right hand and the left, and thy seed shall inherit the Gentiles, and make desolate cities to be inhabited. The children of God are to be multiplying while we wait for the coming of the Messiah. The fruit of our body, but also the fruit of righteousness, is to be multiplying We are to be growing in grace just as the planting of the seed. And further, we are to be evangelists. We're the light of the world. were the slope of the earth. And so the people of God living whether we're in Babylon, whether we're in the United States, whether in Saudi Arabia or in wherever we are We are to be a multiplying people. We are the light of the world. We're to go into all the world and preach the gospel. Ye are my witnesses, we read in Isaiah 43. And so the people of God, as we wait for Christ to come, are not to sit under a bushel and hide our light. But rather, we're to be an aggressively evangelistic people. Um w we love what we call reform theology, the doctrines of grace And not one person for whom Christ shed his blood will be lost. All that the Father giveth to me shall come to me, and him that cometh to me I will in no wise cast out. They will be saved. But God didn't tell the angels to go tell them. The heavens declare the glory of God and the firmament show of his handiwork, but a tree cannot tell me about Jesus Christ. And so God has given to his people in Babylon, in the United States, wherever we are. Whether we want to be where we are or not, whether we're comfortable where we are or not, God has given us the responsibility to be evangelists. That's right. were to produce seed in a foreign land. And then the third thing that relates to our occupying till he comes is found in verse 7. And seek the peace of the city whither I have caused you to be carried away captive. We're to seek the peace of the city. This message isn't about the United States. We see all kinds of violence and things going on in this country. That's not our business. That's not what we are to be involved in. We are to seek the peace of the city. We're to seek it Let your light so shine before men that they may see your good works and glorify your Father which is in heaven. Can anyone tell me without looking what is right before that? Well that's Matthew 5, 16. Matthew 5, 3. Blessed are the poor in spirit, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Blessed are the meek. Blessed are the merciful. Blessed are the peacemakers. That's the context of let your light so shine before men. Year the soul of the earth is verse 13 of that same chapter. And year the light of the world is verse 14. But how was it that Christ was showing the disciples in the Sermon on the Mount that they were to be the light of the world and the salt of the earth? By meekness By being peacemakers, by being uh uh uh humble servants of God. And so As we live in a country that is not our own, our country's in heaven, though we are glad to be citizens of this land, we are to be peacemakers. And we are to seek the peace of the land. If you look there again at the verse, its entirety, it says, And seek the peace of that city whether I have caused you to be carried away, and pray unto the Lord for it. For in the peace thereof ye shall have peace. Where do we find our peace? Do we find our peace in the things of this world? No, we find our peace in God, but we'll have a lot more peace in this world if we seek the peace. of the land in which we dwell. And so we're to seek the peace of the land. But not only that, if you look at the middle portion of verse seven And seek ye the peace of the city whither I have caused ye to be carried away captives, and pray unto the Lord for it. You know, it's a blessing that in just about every one of our prayer meetings, one of the prayer requests that is mentioned by this one or that one of various ones, pray for our country. We're to pray for it. We're to pray for it. In First Timothy two Paul said to Timothy, I exhort therefore that first of all supplications, prayers, intercessions, and giving of thanks be made for all men. For kings, and for all that are in authority, that we may lead quiet and peaceful lives in all godliness and honesty For this is good and acceptable in the sight of the Lord. You notice the linking there? Paul said, pray for kings and those in authority. Why? That we may live quiet and peaceful lives. Paul didn't say pray for good kings. He would be Put to death by a Roman emperor not long after. Paul didn't say, pray for righteous kings, because there were none in his day. He didn't say pray for honest kings. He didn't say pray for the kings you voted for. He said pray. It's not always easy to do, but we're to pray for those in authority. No man becomes a king without God's hand. No man becomes a president without God's hand. It's all of God. He controls it all. This world is not our home. We live here. Pray for kings. Pray for presence. Part of occupying while we wait the master's return. Part of using the resources he's given to us. is praying for kings. In Romans chapter 13 and verse 1, let every soul be subject to the higher powers. For there is no power but of God. The powers that be are ordained of God. That includes Stalin. That includes Mao. That includes Hitler. That includes whatever rogue from history you want to name. They only rule because God allowed them to rule. And so we are to to be an industrious people in a foreign land, we're to be a reproducing people in a foreign land, we're to be a preying people in people in a foreign land. But we also find that we are to protect the faith in a foreign land. And this is probably the most important one of all these for our consideration this morning. I made reference earlier to chapter 28, which is the previous chapter. Turn over to chapter 28 with me. Again, the context of chapter 28 and 29 of Jeremiah is that there were false prophets who were coming and claiming to prophesy in the name of the Lord. You've heard that before. And yet their prophecy was not in the name of the Lord. And the people of God living in Jerusalem, and Jeremiah in particular, Jeremiah was in Jerusalem, the people of God were in Babylon, had to stand up against false prophets. Look at verse 1 through 3 of Jeremiah 28, the previous chapter. And it came to pass the same year in the beginning of the reign of Zedekiah, king of Judah, in the fourth year and in the fifth month, That Hananiah, the son of Azurah, the prophet, which was of Gibeon, spake unto me in the house of the Lord, in the presence of the priest and of all the people, saying, Thus speaketh the Lord of hosts. I have got a message from God. Thus speaketh the Lord of hosts, the God of Israel, saying, I have broken the yoke of the king of Babylon within two full years. I will bring again unto this place all the vessels of the Lord's house that Nebuchadnezzar, king of Babylon, took away from this place and carried them to Babylon. He's coming back and I know the date. Send me money and I'll send you a piece of your tie, my tie, and you'll be blessed. There are all kinds of false prophets and charlatans. And you know, none of these prosperity gospel people say, you know, if you send me five dollars, you're gonna get fifty cents. Or if you do this, God's going to bless you a little bit. No, they've got this many. Oh, you follow my word. And oh there's gonna be such a blessing. And somebody in the audience will say, Yeah, I sent in twenty bucks and I've got a check in the mail this week for twenty thousand. That's exactly what was happening here in Jeremiah 28. God has broken thee. I rebuke thee, Nebuchadnezzar, you know, you hear him on TV. God has broken the yoke of Nebuchadnezzar in two years, the vessel will be carried back to Jerusalem. Come to verse 10 of chapter 28. Then Hananiah the prophet took the yoke off the prophet Jeremiah's neck and broke it You ever see them do that? I hope you don't watch those things unless you need something to laugh about. But uh you know you'll you'll you'll see them we've got a whole table of prayer requests here. We're gonna pray over them and your miracle's on the way. You know, we're gonna we'll We won't send it to USPS because their mail system's all messed up right now, but we'll send your blessing FedEx. Verse eleven. And Hananiah spake in the presence of all the people, saying, Thus saith the Lord, even I will break the yoke of Nebuchadnezzar, king of Babylon, from the neck of all the nations within the space of two full years. God had already given the truth. And this supposed message from Hananiah is not a message from God. And the prophet Jeremiah went his way. Look down to verse 12. Then the word of the Lord came on the Jeremiah the prophet. Then the true word came. Then the word of the Lord came to Jeremiah the prophet after Hananiah the prophet had broken the yoke from off the neck of the prophet Jeremiah, saying, Go and tell Hananiah, saying, Thus saith the Lord. Boy, there's the message. Thus saith the Lord. Thou hast broken the yokes of wood, but thou shalt make them yokes of iron For thus saith the Lord of hosts, the god of Israel, I have put a yoke of iron upon the necks of all these nations, that they may serve Nebuchadnezzar, King of Babylon And they shall serve him. And I have given him the beast of the field also. Then saith the prophet Jeremiah unto Hananiah the prophet, Hear now, Hananiah, the Lord hath not sent thee. But thou makest the people to trust in a lie. Therefore, thus saith the Lord, Behold, I will cast thee off from the face of the earth. This year thou shalt die because thou hast taught rebellion against Jehovah. So Hanani the prophet died the same year in the seventh month. As the people of God Occupying till the master returns, we are to be good stewards of all the things that God has given us. We are to be a fruitful people in the land. We are to be reproducing ourselves physically and spiritually. We are to be a prayerful people praying, or a peaceful people seeking the peace of the city. We are to be a prayerful people praying for the city and for the leaders. And we are to be a people that stand strong on truth and raise the standard against the errors, against the lies. Do you remember what we saw there in Luke 19? And the citizens hated him. And said, We will not have this man to rule over us. And the last verse we read there in Jeremiah, or in Luke 19, 27. The master, Christ, says, bring before me and slay them in my presence God's people must stand for truth. And so the first principle that we saw there in Jeremiah was that God had ordained the captivity. Remember that? Now making full circle, the final principle is that all things, we are, in all things, we are to submit to the will of God. And why is that? Well, let us go for conclusion back to Jeremiah twenty-nine. And you may notice in your bulletin that Brother Vince has used these same verses in part of the exhortation in our bulletin. But in Jeremiah 29, I'll start reading again in verse 8. For thus saith the Lord of hosts, the God of Israel. Let not your prophets and your diviners that be in the midst of you deceive you, neither hearken unto your dreams which ye have caused to be dreamed. For the prophet for they prophesy falsely to you unto you in my name. I have not sent them, saith the Lord. For thus saith the Lord of hosts, after seventy years be accomplished at Babylon, I will visit you and perform my good word toward you in Causing you to return to this place. In my father's house are many mansions. If it were not so, I would have told you. I go to prepare a place for you. And if I go and prepare a place for you, I will come again and receive you unto myself. That where I am, there ye may be also. What portion of that is false? What part of that won't happen Now here, God told them 70 years. We haven't been told the time. No man knows the day nor the hour. But he's coming back. And we will give account. We must be ready. Verse 11. For I know the thoughts that I think toward you, saith the Lord, thoughts of peace and not evil. to give you an expected end. Ah, and the world will have tribulation. But be of comfort, I have overcome the world. Pray for the peace of the city Be a peaceful people. The Prince of Peace is coming. He has thought of peace for us. Verse 12 When you do these things, when when uh when you when you know that your thoughts my thoughts toward you are thoughts of peace, and I'll give you the expected end, then she shall call upon me And ye shall go and pray unto me, and I will hearken unto you, and ye shall seek me and find me when ye search for me with all your heart And I will be found of you, saith the Lord, I, and I will return turn away your captivity And will gather you from all the nations and from all the places whither I have driven you, saith the Lord. And I will bring you again into this place which I have caused you to be carried away captive. Doesn't matter if we live in Babylon in captivity. Do you ever think about Daniel? Young man Daniel, taken away from his own country Taken away from his own home. He lived under four different governments, one in Israel and then three in captivity. But he was right where God wanted him to be. Doesn't matter if you're in Babylon, doesn't matter if you're in the United States or in communist China or in Indonesia or in some Muslim country, the people of God are to be faithful to the Lord their God. Faithful to use the resources he's given us. Faithful to use the opportunities he's given us. Faithful to be a witness where he's placed us. Faithful to live peaceably in the land, and faithfully to pray. for the land. Because he's coming back. He's coming back soon. We must be ready. We will give account of what we've done with the talents the Lord has given to us. May we be found faithful. Let us pray.