From Caesarea rather down to Jocal, where he has been informed that Peter, a fisherman, one of those disciples of the Lord Jesus Christ, is uh abiding. And uh he sends for him And think of this. Ask him to come to Caesarea. He's a centurion. He could have commanded his fisherman to he sends a soldier, as it was at least one soldier, and maybe more The mic's not working. It's not on. Alright. That's because I didn't turn it on. So didn't think I knew the problem. All right. So here so here we have Cornelius could have commanded Peter to come. He sends at least one soldier, perhaps more, down to Joppa from Caesarea, and he doesn't command him. But God has told Cornelius in a vision that he must Send for Peter, that Peter will bring him the word, as it were. And Cornelius does. He sends a soldier to Joppa and some others And they tell Peter, request that he would come, not commands, as he could have as a centurion. And Peter says, why? And he says, well, he wants to hear the word. He's had a vision. And so this morning Peter arrives, and uh last week we or two weeks ago we talked a little bit about. Peter came in and said, All right, uh you sent for me, I'm here. What is it that you want to hear from me And Cornelius says, I've had this vision from God that I was to send for you, and I am ready to hear the word. Whatever you had to say, I'm ready to hear the word. And I hope this morning you two are ready to hear the word. And that's where we begin this morning. in chapter ten and verse thirty-four. And Peter opened his mouth and said, and I hope you can receive it as well. Of a truth I perceive that God is no respecter of persons, be they Jew or Gentile. He finally come to that conclusion. But in every nation, he that feareth him and worketh righteousness is accepted with him or with God. The word which God sent out of the children of Israel, preaching peace by Jesus Christ, he is Lord of all. That word I say, you know. He says to Cornelius, you know about this Jesus, and you know about the words he was preaching. That word I say, you know. It was published or proclaimed throughout all Judea. And it began from Galilee after the baptism, which John preached. How God anointed Jesus of Nazareth with the Holy Ghost and with power, who went about doing good and healing all that were oppressed of the devil. For God was with him. And Peter again is saying, This is the word, and you know these things, Cornelius And we are witnesses of all things which he did, both in the land of the Jews. He says we, that's because Peter had come from Joppa with six of his friends, who must have also been a part of the seventy that used to follow Christ everywhere. And we are witness of all things which he did, both in the land of the Jews and in Jerusalem, whom they slew and hanged on a tree. Him God raised up the third day and showed him openly Not to all the people, but under witnesses chosen before of God, even to us, Peter says. Who did eat and drink with him after he rose from the dead. And I might add, they not only ate and drank with the Lord Jesus Christ, but at one situation on the shore of Galilee, Christ actually prepared the breakfast for them. Not to all the people, but under witnesses chosen before of God, even to us who did eat and drink with him after he rose from the dead. And he commanded us to preach unto the people and to testify that it is he which was ordained of God to be the judge of quick and the dead. To him give all the prophets witness, that's all the Old Testament prophets, that through his name whosoever believeth in him shall receive remission or forgiveness of sins. You can assert there the word forgiveness instead of remission. And while Peter yet spake these words, the Holy Ghost fell on all them which heard the word. That's Cornelius the Centurion and his soldiers, and those he brought into home, some of his kin. All of them Gentiles. And they of the circumcision, that is the Jews that were there, which believed, were astonished, as many as came with Peter, because that on the Gentiles was poured out the gift of the Holy Ghost. Peter knew that God was a respecter of persons, but those he brought with him weren't so sure until at this moment. For they heard them speak with tongues and magnified God. And then answered Peter, can any man forbid water that these should not be baptized, which have received the Holy Ghost as well as we? And he commanded them to be baptized in the name of the Lord, and then prayed they him to tarry certain days. Peter began here with, I perceive that God is not a respecter of persons, but in every nation. He that feareth him is accepted with him. And perhaps as Peter thought about these things coming from Joppa up to Caesarea, another seaport city, he began thinking how God is not a respecter of persons, and how Christ had taught them in Matthew 28 and verse 19, just before he left them and ascended into heaven. He had taught them. Go ye and teach all nations, baptizing them. And yet they'd stayed back there in Jerusalem, and they really hadn't gotten off dead center yet. They really hadn't gone into all the nations, the Gentile nations yet, although Christ had told them to But now Peter had had begun to understand that the gospel was to go to the Gentiles, and you were sitting here this morning because he understood and he began to preach to the Gentiles. You would not be here this morning If Peter had not understood that God was not a respecter of persons and the gospel to go outside of Israel to other nations. So that in itself is important for everyone sitting here this morning that is saved. that Peter perceived that God was not a respecter of persons. And he should have, with that verse, go and teach all nations, have understood that. And had not Christ also revealed it even earlier unto the disciples, that concept that the gospel was to others when Christ met the woman at the well in Samaria, at the well of uh Jacob's well as it were, and he spoke to this woman. And and they they were shocked that he was speaking to a Samarian, and she is a Samarian A half breed as it were, uh half Jew and half Gentile. They were shocked he was speaking to her. And she was shocked that Christ was speaking to her as well But there was an indication that the gospel was to go outside of Israel and outside of the nation of the Jews And then of course there was a Roman centurion before Cornelius that that Christ had met along the road in Luke seven. And he said, I have a server that's sick and it's And if you could just say the word he'd be healed, and Christ said, Well, I'll just follow you and we'll go and and and we'll speak with him and we'll and and we'll take care of his disease. And and the centurion said, No, no, no, it's not necessary. I command men to go and do it. If you command he be healed, I know that he would be. And so Christ said, what greater faith have we not seen in all of Israel? The greatest faith Christ had ever seen was a Gentile. And the disciples should have noticed that as well. And how about the woman that came, the Canaanite? Oh my goodness, a woman that's a Canaanite, what a nation to come from. She's a Canaanite. We know how Moses and Joshua were sent into the promised land to wipe out the Canaanites And here was one that hadn't been wiped out, one that was still alive. And this Canaanite woman comes to Christ and she says to him in Matthew fifteen and twenty-seven, My daughter is sick and I want you to hear her. And he says, But you you're but a dog, he says to her And she says, I know that and she says even the dogs get the crumbs and fall from the table. And Christ again says, Such faith. Such faith from a Canaanite. And the disciples again should have understood that, that he had at least there were crumbs of mercy in Matthew fifteen and twenty seven that That were there offered to a Canaanite. Grievously, her daughter vexed with the devil, it says. Grievously vexed with the devil. And yet Christ offered her crumbs. Oh Gentiles sitting here this morning, are you in need of a miracle this morning in your life? Jesus Christ the same yesterday, today, and forever. And I would encourage you, as this Canaanite woman did, to cry unto Christ for the crumbs. That still falls from his table. And Jesus Christ will hear you. I know sometimes you think you're asking for something big or something impossible in your life, but he has crumbs for you too, and they take care of just the crumbs, a grievously vexed demonically possessed daughter. Ask Christ this morning for some crumbs. He'll give them to you. He will hear you. And so this morning, as we're reading here, Peter is coming to a Gentile, and he's coming with crumbs for Cornelius, and they will be enough. He comes the corneas of the word, for he has perceived that God is not a respecter of persons or nations, just as the Apostle Paul would also conclude that when he says Paul says in Ephesians 3 and 6, the Gentiles should be fellow heirs of the same body and partakers of his promise in Christ by the gospel. Paul also concludes, in fact, Paul's whole ministry becomes a ministry to the Gentiles, or you again would not be here this morning. And so Paul begins to share with Cornelius the Gentile and his Gentile soldiers and kindred. He says in verses 36 and 37, the word which God sent by Jesus Christ. And of course Christ in John 1 is called the word, isn't he? In the beginning was the word, and the word is with God, and the word was God. And so when we hear here the word, it's not just the word, but the incarnate God. The word come in the flesh. The word which God sent. In the flesh he sent the word. The incarnate Jesus Christ, the word which God said by Jesus Christ, that word, he says in verse 37, that word ye know. He says to Cornelius, you are not ignorant of the things that have been going on around Jerusalem. And and we've we've got to remember this, that the Romans, uh the Israelites were in Roman bondage And that Cornelius was there. He was like a part of the homeland security. And they knew everything that was going on. It was their job to know everything that happened in Jerusalem. Everything happened outside of Jerusalem. And and so Cornelius as a centurion, he got reports daily. Is there a squabble over here? Is there a zealot over here? Has there been a Roman guard uh attacked by some Jewish fanatic or zealot? And where this where did this mob originate? Where did this mob go to? And they kept track of all the movements in Jerusalem in and outside of Jerusalem and all of Judea. And so Peter says the word which God sent by Jesus Christ, that word you know Which was published or proclaimed throughout all Judea. You not only know of the Lord Jesus Christ, the word coming the flesh, you not only, but you know the word he was proclaiming. You know the proclamations, you know the preaching, you know the sermons, you will probably know almost ver verbatim, the sermon on the mount. You know these things. They were proclaimed throughout all Judea, verse thirty seven God sent Christ the Word in the flesh to proclaim the Word, and it says in Matthew 4 and 24, not only throughout all of Judea, but in Matthew 4:24, he was to proclaim it throughout Judea and throughout all of Syria. Christ preached in a great area of Israel, but also up onto the edges of Syria as well. So there was no way that this Roman centurion, Cornelius, and his soldiers and his friends and his family had not heard of the word and had not heard of the Lord Jesus Christ. He says you know. You couldn't make that charge, and Corinne said, No, I don't, Peter. I don't know what you're talking about, Peter. Peter says you do know. Every Roman centurion knows the story These Roman centurions, they'd observed a mob gathering outside of Jerusalem along the Jordan River a mob being baptized by a voice crying in the wilderness and they had to know what's going on. Is this some sort of insurrection? Is it a flat to overthrow the Romans? was people are leaving Jerusalem by the droves and are going out there to see this man named John the Baptist and and they had to inquire what was going on and listen to what he's saying to them. Is he preaching revolution? Is he preaching the overthrow of the Roman government And and they knew and and he says, You know these things. They'd observe John the Baptist preaching, and surely Herod who would have a bodyguard of Roman soldiers around him, a censuring at least and and several others to protect Herod from the Jews who were always in the mode of insurrection, always in the mode of trying to toss out the Romans Herod was surrounded by Roman soldiers to protect him. And so certainly some of these Roman soldiers had heard when John the Baptist rebuked Herod for taking his brother's wife. We read about that in Mark 6. 17 and 18. And there must have been quite a talk. Oh, you should have heard it today. Herod wanted to go and hear this John the Baptist fellow. And he's out there preaching. He sees Herod and he rebukes him in front of all the crowd, in front of us soldiers, and says, You have no right to have your brother Philip's wife. This is adultery. And not long after that, John the Baptist is arrested. By who? Roman soldiers. And he's in prison. And he's kept a guard is kept over him. Who's guarding him? Roman soldiers. And then when Herodias wants him beheaded, And his head brought on a platter, who do you think beheaded John the Baptist? Roman soldiers. You think Cornelis knew anything about John the Baptist? You think he ever talked to any of the soldiers about the beheading and about the arrest and about the capture And the guardian, of course. And that's why Peter says, Cornelius, you know these things. You know this word. Do they also not have opportunity, perhaps Cornelius and these men to have talked to the soldiers who arrested Christ in the Garden of Gethsemane? And then tormented him and mocked him and slapped him and beat him and hit him and scourged him with a whip, a cat of nine tails, and crucified him on the cross. Do you not think Cornelius talked to the centurion who stood at the cross and said, How did he die? What was it like? What did he say? And the one centurion would talk to Cornelius, the other centurion said, Well, it was amazing. He didn't cry out. They drove nails in those hands and he said nothing. Not a peep It's like a lion led to slaughter. He said not a word when the nails were driven through his hands and his feet not a word. But later he did spoke. My conclusion, Cornelius, is this, and I don't know if this conversation took place. But Peter says, you know these things, Cornelius. And perhaps that centurion said to Cornelius, all I can tell you, Cornelius, is truly this man was a son of God. I stood there and I watched him die. Cornelius Peter says, I'm going to give you the word, but you know these things. You said that God has called for me to come to you and to talk to you, to give you the word, and that you're ready ready to receive the word. Well, you know these things, and I'm just giving them back to you again one more time. And if some of this he missed out on, and Peter has to share with him anew, surely when the tomb was empty on Sunday morn, and the keepers, who were the keepers of the tomb? They were Roman soldiers. And what did they do? They fled the tomb. They fell down as dead men and then they fled the tomb and they went to the city of Jerusalem. And some of them were petrified, and I don't know where they went, but some of them went to the high priest, and for money they said they would tell a lie The disciples come and stole him away. And do you not think Cornelius, who's supposed to know as a centurion, what's going on, the makeup of the city of Jerusalem, what's going on in In all of Judea and Galilee. Do you not think he inquired also from the other centurions and the other Romans what happened that morning? These angels came, and the soul was rolled away, and we fell down as dead, and we fainted it. And then the these crazy traces in the past month was just lions and the disciples took his body. Well I'll tell you what really happened. I mean there was an angel there. Do you not think Corinius knew this? It was his job to know everything that took place in Jerusalem. And he knew these things. As you all sitting here have heard the same report. And some of you believe it, and some of you don't, to the saving of your soul, those who believe it. It changes your life And you act different and you do things different and you believe different and you love his word. You want to know what's in the word. And Cornelius knew all these things and yet he wasn't saved. And you may know all these things and yet you're not saved But Peter has come to him this morning because God has given Cornelius a vision to call for Peter, and he will give you the word. And you listen to Peter. And Cornelius came to a point where he said, Cornelius said to Peter, I am now ready to hear the word. Do you remember the day you were ready to hear the word? And some of you this morning you've never been ready to hear the word. May God put it in your hearts this morning that you be ready to hear the word. Cornelius, a hardened warrior, a bloodthirsty enemy of Israel, who probably killed many a Jew in his time, or at least his men had, and yet he is now ready to hear the word. What excuse do you have not to hear the word? And now he's ready to hear the word. And he's he's heard it maybe indirectly from Herod's soldiers and from the keepers at the tomb and so forth. But he's ready to hear it now. When you go through the New Testament and really start thinking about all these things, you begin to realize that these men were not ignorant. Even Paul, when Paul is in prison and Paul is is on the on his big about ready to be taken off to Rome to be tried and so forth. He has at one point an opportunity before King Agripped to speak And what does he say to King Agrippa? King Agrippa he he takes that title the King of Jerusalem, or rather the King of Judea, because Caesar was so far away in Rome that they would take titles they didn't reserve. So Agrippa's called King Agrippa And King Erippa says, Okay Paul, what do you have to say? Paul says, I want to give you the word. And King of Ripha says, Go ahead, give it to me. And and and Herod's there also. And Paul starts talking about Christ. being crucified and resurrected from the dead and and ascended into heaven. He's given this whole the whole gospel message. And of course Herod says, Oh Paul, you're beside yourself. You don't know what you're talking about. And Paul spins and he says there in Acts 26, 26, None of these things are hidden from King Agrippa. For this was not done in a corner someplace. Oh, King Agrippa, I am convinced you know everything I'm saying. You've heard it all from Cornelius or some other centurion, some unroving guard. The report is there. There's enough witnesses for us to believe that this really happened. And so King Agrippa, what do you do with this information? And that's where it's this morning. You can say, well, I wasn't there, I didn't see it. Well King Agrippa wasn't there either, but he had enough testimonies. And Cornelius wasn't there, but he had enough testimonies, and you weren't there either. But there's enough testimonies in here from Gentiles and Jews and believers and unbelievers and enemies of the gospel That this is true, that the word is true. And if you sit to this morning and you just I just don't believe it, it's not for lack of evidence, it's because you have a moral sin problem Or you would believe this and you would love it. You get down on your knees, you weep to God. You ask, oh God, put in my heart to receive the word now. And some of us have been there, haven't we? And we're so glad. We're so glad that we've been there on our knees to receive the word. And if you still think, well, he might have missed all this. Cornelius maybe was up in Caesarea when this took place in Jerusalem, and maybe he was down in Joppa when this took place up in Galilee. Maybe he missed all this. I'll tell you one thing he didn't miss. When Christ came riding in on a colt, the fold of an ass into Jerusalem, and all of Jerusalem was saying, Hosanna! Hosannah! Hosanna! And I'm telling you, the Romans thought they had total resurrec a total insurrection here. They thought there might be an overthrow in the whole city. Must have been a talk of what what's going to follow. The king has come, the king has come. And they're all saying son of David, King of Jerusalem. You don't think Cornelis missed that one, do you There wasn't a Roman soldier in all of Judea and Galilee. They didn't get the word that there's an insurrection rolling in Jerusalem. Their king has come, and the people all sound up David and Hold Zannah to him and save us. You think Cornelius didn't know that? Every Roman soldier knew that. The lips of the multitude shouting, Hosanna in the highest, Matthew 21, 9-7, as Christ entered in. It was not hidden. It was not done in a corner. And so, dear listener, I say to you this morning, have you not heard the name of Jesus? On the radio, on television, or from the lips of your mother or grandmother, if you have, you are without excuse. How shall you escape if you neglect so great a salvation? You have heard the word. Hebrews 2 and 3, and you shall not escape. Christ had said in John twelve and thirty-two, I, if I be lifted up from the earth Would draw all men, Jew, and Gentile alike unto me. And so was Christ lifted up from the earth? Oh yes, he was He was lifted up on a cross and he was between heaven and earth. He was lifted up above the earth upon the cross. He was also lifted up out of the grave when he was resurrected. He was also lifted up into a cloud towards the heavens at his ascension. And he was also lifted up, Paul says that he was lifted up. His name was lifted up, Paul writes in Ephesians one and twenty-one. For Christ, his name is far above every name that is named. Lift it up, lift it up, lift it up, Christ that if I be lifted up, it was to prove that he was the Christ, the Messiah and the Savior And was he lifted up countless times? In every way possible he was lifted up. His name was lifted above every name that is named. Higher than Buddha, higher than the Dalai Lama, higher than Muhammad, Gandhi, Caesar, Mother Teresa, the Virgin Mary, or Moses. His name is lifted up above every name. And it's the only name we hear regularly on TV that is cursed. Why? Because there's still a devil, there's still demons, there really is a hell, and they hate the very name. The most lifted up, glorious name in all of life is the only name they curse with. It ought to tell you something about that name. And so Peter Continues with the word in verse 38 and 39. He says, God anointed Jesus of Nazareth with the Holy Ghost and with power who went about doing good. And healing all oppressed of the devil. And we are witnesses of all these things which he did. Whom they slew and hanged on a tree. Disease, death, demons, the Mahani struggles They've always been with us. There's nothing new under the sun. These were common occurrences because we live in a sin-cursed world. And we may hate the sin-cursed world. It brings us great trials and tribulations and tears, but living in a sin-cursed world, Christ came. And it gave him an opportunity to do good because it was such a sin-cursed world. Christ had so much good he could do, and so he would heal some. And he'd help others with the demonic oppression. And for those he didn't heal, he at least helped them to pass on through this Godforsaken, sin-cursed world and get to heaven. He went about doing good Oh Christian, do you go about doing good? It was said of Christ after he was dead. He went about doing good. What will people say about you when you were dead? You went about doing good We had a funeral just a week ago and I don't want to embarrass families. Mrs. Cross, Teresa Cross's mother. You know what they talked about that funeral? They said She's sitting in a chair and the Lord just takes her. And sitting on the table are four cakes she's just baked for people in the church. She was a woman who's the largest funeral, I've ever attended. I've never seen so many people at the recession. She went about doing good, and that ought to be the testimony of every Christian. It was a testimony of Christ, and it ought to be us too. Well, people say when you are dead, you know, he went about doing good. And if you say, well, I don't know what I can do out there. There's so much you can do out there. There's so many broken hearts, so many diseased people, so many hurting people. There's so much you can a call A telephone call, a cell phone call, a text, a Twitter. God, in this modern day and age, you've got so many different ways you can do good And after Christ had done good, they slew him and hanged him on a tree. For we read in the scriptures, John 3 and 15, so must the Son be lifted up. He must be lifted up. Why must Christ be lifted up? Aren't there other ways to get to heaven? My goodness, we're always told, oh, there's many ways, there's many paths, there's many ways to heaven. If that were true, then Christ must not be lifted up. It's just a a secondary plan that God came up with. It wasn't necessary. But it says here in John, uh John the beloved writing in John 3 and 15 So must, must, must, must the son be lifted up. Because there isn't another way to heaven. He must be lifted up. And that whosoever believeth in him should not perish but have eternal life. You know that verse John 3, 16. When others suggest that there are several ways to heaven, they are proclaiming that God, the God of the Scriptures, when when they say there's other ways to heaven, they are proclaiming that the God of the Scriptures is ignorant of the other ways. Because Christ and the scriptures teach us that God said there's only one way, one name, one God, one savior, and they are accusing the God of Scripture, the sovereign God of Scripture, of being ignorant ignorant of the many other ways. And so because he was ignorant, the sovereign God of the universe, the omniscient God, the omnipresent God, everywhere present, all-knowing God, he's an ignorant. He doesn't know there's other ways But the scripture says Christ must be lifted up because God knew in the heaven of heavens that there was no other way to get saved and to go to heaven and to have eternal life and have your sins forgiven. He knew that. But when they say that there's other ways, it's one of two things. They're either saying God, the Father, the Holy God of heaven, is ignorant. Or they're saying that he's a liar And that he just insists upon one of the cruelest and narrowest of all options In other words, God the Father knows his other ways. He's not ignorant, but he's a liar. He knows. He's just lying. And he wants you to come through one of the cruelest, cruelest ways imaginable. That take that option. I want you to have that option also. The reason that the only way is a cruel and narrow option is because sin is so loathsome Sin is so loathsome. And you look at all the other religions. You can look at Hindu and Buddha and and the the Mohammedans and Muslims and and all the other religions and the Jehovah's Witnesses and the Mormons, they all teach that you can get to heaven By good works. Their concept of how loathsome sin is is pretty pathetic. And they say you can get the by good way. All you need is that the good works patch, you know. You just get the good works patch and you're in They don't understand how loathsome sin is, and that it requires a priceless, priceless, priceless, I say again, a priceless blood sacrifice. Which he, God, only God, hath purchased with his own blood, Acts 20 and 28. You want priceless blood? Acts 20 and 28 to that God purchased his church, he purchased sinners. For gay sinners gave the remission of their sins and gives them eternity life. He he knew how low some sin was, and he knew it wasn't a good works patch. He knew that it had to be paid with Christ's blood, and he paid with his own blood, which he God had purchased. With his own blood. That's priceless blood, friend. That's someone who understands how loathsome sin is and what it's going to cost to get rid of it. Peter continues, and him having paid with his own blood, God raised up on the third day and showed him openly, not to all, but unto us. Peter meaning us, meaning him and the men that had come with him from Joppa to visit Cornelius in Caesarea Him raised up on the third day, Christ Jesus, showed him openly, verses 40 and 41. Not to all, showed himself openly, but not to all, but unto us, not to Pilate, not the Herod, not the Caipus, but unto us, Peter says. We saw Christ after his resurrection. He showed himself onto us in verses 42 and 43 and commanded us to preach. That he was ordained of God to be the judge of the quick and the dead. That's quite a message to preach. I've come here. Cornelis, you said you're ready to hear the word. Well, here is the word that Christ is the resurrection of the dead, and he's told us, he's commanded us, commanded us. Not suggesting, commanded us to preach that he was ordained of God to judge. He is the judge. It says the Father has given the judgment over to his Son Jesus Christ. He is to judge the quick and the dead I want you to note in verses 42 and 43 that first we are commanded to preach. Paul says in 2 Timothy 4 and 1 that he, I charge thee therefore before God and the Lord Jesus Christ, preach the word. Preach the word, reprove and rebuke and and with doctrines and make full proof of your ministry. Paul says if you're not out there rebuking and admonishing and teaching doctrine, you don't even use that there's no proof that you have a call into the ministry at all. And I I know you don't like being rebuked, exhorted, and admonished. But if the pastors and the churches don't do it, there's no proof that they're called to the ministry. Paul says that we are to reprove and reprove. Make full proof of your ministry, he says in 2 Timothy 4, verses 1 through 4. It is our job to preach. We're to condemn sin, convict the sinner, convert the elect, and comfort the saint. That's our job. Commanded to do it. And second, as we preach, exhort, and admonish, don't forget this message. Christ is to be the judge. We're going to be judged. The saved or the well I always like to say the saints or the ancient. Christ is going to make that decision. Not Muhammad, not Moroni, the angel from the Mormon church. Christ is going to stand there at the judgment seat the last day, and he's going to decide who gets to heaven and who does not. He is the judge of the quick and the dead. Christ, Peter says, preach this. This is the word, Cornelius. Christ is the judge of all the heavens and all the earth. Christ is the judge of the quick and the dead. He is the judge. Who will spend eternity in heaven? You know something? If what Peter told Cornelius, if the word he gave Cornelius, if the word I'm sharing with this morning is true, if Christ is a judge You ought to make him the most intimate friend you've ever had. He's the judge. You can hold before a court and you look up and you know the judge. You've been in a picnic with that judge. You've been to church with that judge. You've had birthday parties with that judge. You know that judge intimately. He fixed his in. You'd better make Christ the most intimate friend and brother you've ever had because he is the judge. He shall judge the quick and the dead at his appearance. Verse 42, he'll judge the quick and the dead. We know who the dead are. Who are the quick? Well, the quick are those who are alive at his coming. The quick are those who are not just physically alive, but they're spiritually alive. They've been Quickened by the Holy Spirit. You who are quickened were once dead in trespasses and sins, Ephesians 2. 1. The quick are those who are no longer dead in trespasses and sins. They are alive physically, but they're also alive spiritually. He's come to judge the quick and the dead. Which are you? Are you the quick? Quickened by the Holy Spirit? No longer dead in your trespasses and sins? Are you the quick? Would Christ judge you as one of the quick They're alive in Christ at His second coming. Those who are the quick, those who are alive in Christ Jesus, those who are spiritually alive. shall be changed in a moment in the twinkling of an eye at the sound of the last trumpet. And the trumpet shall blow, it says. We read 1 Corinthians 15, 51 and 52. And the quick You know, I play with these words a little bit, but I hope maybe help you understand. The quick, those who are spiritually alive with grace, the quick shall be quickly changed. The quick shall be quickly changed. And they should be quickened, that is, the whole bodies will be changed. They'll be quickened and given immortal, incorruptible bodies, everlasting new bodies. This is what Peter was preaching. And as Peter preached the word, and was sharing the list of Cornelius. Cornelius, you know these things You had soldiers tell you, other centuries, they shared all that. You know this is true. And he's and Peter is boldly, he's not even going to argue the point with his church. You know it? And he goes on and preaches the whole gospel about the crucifixion of Christ, the resurrection of Christ, the second coming of Christ. He gives her all the corners. And he said, you know this is true. I'm just giving them back to you. You've heard it before, but you hear it one more time. And you're here this morning. You know you've heard this before, and you're hearing it one more time. Maybe your last time. You're hearing the word. And as Peter preached the word, verses 44 and 48, the Holy Ghost fell on them which heard the word. Oh, pray God that that would happen here this morning. That God's Spirit would touch someone it's never fallen on before. Wow. The Holy Ghost fell on them, which heard the word, and they heard them speak in tongues and magnify God. And just briefly let me say something about these tongues. It must have been a real language because it says they heard them magnify God. Peter and the and the ones with them, they didn't say, What are they talking about? They're just babbling in tongues. They don't understand the thing they're saying It says they heard them magnifying God. They were speaking in a language that Peter and the others that were with him understood. It was probably Hebrew. I mean, these soldiers they knew Latin and from Italy, of course, and and they knew the Roman language, they knew the Greek language But they didn't know Hebrew. They weren't in Hebrew. Maybe a little Aramaic. But here they are speaking a language they hadn't been trained in. And Peter understands the language. It was probably Hebrew. But it was a real tongue, a real language And as they perhaps spoken Hebrew. But we don't know for sure. But one thing we know for sure, Cornelius the Centurion, and his soldiers and his family, his friends who generally despised the Jews. Remember now, these are these are Romans from uh from the Italian uh group we were told early in the chapter. They were Italian Romans who'd come over to Caesarea, his family and so forth. And we we do know this That the Romans generally despise the Jews. And so here you've got these Roman centurions and the other soldiers who generally despise the Jews. And all of a sudden, if the Holy Spirit falls on them and they submit to the baptism of some Jewish fishermen. What's going on here? They submit to the baptism of the Jewish and they and they pronounce at that point that they will begin begin at that time to worship a Jewish carpenter? Man, that's a miracle. When someone said the Holy Spirit's falling upon him, when someone said the Holy Spirit touched your life, we're going to see change. Real change. And they changed. These who had no love for the Jews just ho lord it over them as their as their suppressors and oppressors They acquiesce to be baptized by a Jewish fisherman and to follow a Jewish carpenter. That's a miracle. Has that miracle happened to you? That's the big question. And only you can answer it. Let's pray. Father, we thank you this day for the history of the early church. And for men like Peter and Cornelius, who attest to the fact that the Lord Jesus Christ is Lord over all Jew and Gentile. And that he is coming as the judge. O Lord, when he arise, may everyone here, be found among the quick. And we ask this in Christ's name. May your spirit fall upon some here today, or in the days ahead, and they too can follow. A Jewish carpenter into heaven. It's in his name our great God and Savior, our Redeemer, Jesus Christ, His name, the name above all names. In his name we pray. Amen.