Opening your Bibles with me this morning to the Old Testament Book of Isaiah and the seventh chapter. Isaiah chapter seven And I'm going to read verses 1 through 16 as we begin our worship this morning. The seventh chapter of Isaiah. And beginning in the sixteenth verse, a glorious prophecy of the coming Messiah. Isaiah chapter 7, and I begin in verse 1. It's exciting to be scattered over three rooms, isn't it? We have the two that are connected here. and uh sort of using the uh other living room for those that need a bit more comfortable seating and also kind of serves as a nursery for the children It's a blessing that the Lord has uh laid upon the hearts of our host to open their home in such abundance to us. If you have your place now, Isaiah chapter seven And I begin with the first verse. And it came to pass in the days of Ahaz, the son of Jathan, the son of Uzziah, king of Judah. that Rezin, king of Syria, and Pikah and his son Remaliah, king of Israel, went up toward Jerusalem to war against it, but could not prevail against it. And it was told the house of David, saying, Syria is confederate with Ephraim And his heart was moved, and the heart of his people, as the trees of the wood, are moved with the wind. Then said the Lord unto Isaiah, Go forth now to meet Ahaz, thou and thy son, shear Joshua, thy son. At the end of the conduit of the upper pool in the highway of the Fuller's Field, and saith unto him, Take heed and be quiet Fear not, neither be faint-hearted, for the two tails of these smoking firebrands, for the fierce anger of Rezin, king of Syria, and the son of Remaliah Because Syria, Ephraim, and the son of Remaliah have taken evil counsel against thee, saying, Let us go up against Judah and vex it. And let us make a breach therein for us, and set a king in the midst of it, even the son of Tabiel. Thus saith the Lord God, it shall not stand, neither shall it come to pass. For the head of Damascus is Damascus. And the head of Damascus is Rezin. And within three score and five years Shall Ephraim be broken, that it shall not be a people. And the head of Ephraim is Samaria. And the head of Samaria is Remaliah's son. If ye will not believe, surely ye shall not be established. Moreover, the Lord spake again unto Ahaz, saying, Ask thee a sign of the Lord thy God. Ask it, either in the depth or in the height above. But Ahaz said, I will not ask, neither will I tempt the Lord. And he said, Hear ye now, O house of David. It is a small thing that ye weary men, but will ye weary my God also? Therefore, the Lord Himself shall give you a sign. Behold, a virgin shall conceive and bear a son, and shall call his name Emmanuel. Butter and honey shall he eat, that he may know to refuse the evil and choose the good. For before the child shall know to refuse the evil and choose the good, the land that thou abhorest shall be forsaken of both her kings. Let us bow for prayer as we begin. Gracious Father, we thank you for your word. Your word which is perfect and without error. Your word which suffers not from twisted tongues and failing language. Father, I pray that you would help this man of stammering lips this morning to be able to clearly, effectively, and faithfully proclaim thy word. Lord, we pray that your message from thy word would come forth to your people, that they may see the glorious truths expounded in this passage. The certainty of the Word of God. And Father, may your people be blessed and may your Son be glorified. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. I've mentioned to you before, I believe, that I had a not a speech impediment as much as a great difficulty reading allowed as a child. I couldn't do it. Uh I was called upon as in elementary school and even in junior high to read aloud and I stumbled and fell. I was trying out for a Shakespeare play and I had memorized the part And did very well in the first tryouts, but when it came to the second tryout, we had to read from a passage we hadn't memorized. And I couldn't do it, even in college. So when I misread a few words in a passage, please forgive me. Brother Vince knows that I read these passages in my office multiple times. And this morning I messed up about four words. So forgive me for that. Overlook it. I'm not changing what the scriptures say. The scriptures are faithful. And I sometimes stumble on them. I've broken down this passage into three sections. First of all, we have the historical context that precedes the prophecy. And then we have a challenge that precedes the prophecy, and then the content of the prophecy itself. What is the historical context? What's taking place here? Well, we have a wicked king. A wicked king named Ahaz, one of the worst kings that Israel had. And to understand This king Ahaz, we have to turn to 2 Chronicles chapter 28. So flip over to the 2nd Book of Chronicles Chapter 28, or you can just listen as I read. But I want to give you a few tidbits of the life of this Ahaz. In 2 Chronicles 28, the first verse, Ahaz was twenty years old when he began to reign, and he reigned sixteen years in Jerusalem. But he did not that which was right in the sight of the Lord like David his father. For he walked in the ways of the kings of Israel. He made molten images for Balaam Moreover, he burnt incense in the valley of the sons of Hinnon, and burnt his children in the fire. After the abominations of the heathen whom the Lord cast out before the children of Israel, he sacrificed also and burnt incense in the high places and on the hills and under every green tree. And then down to verse 21 For Ahaz took away the portion out of the house of the Lord, out of the house of the king, and of the princes, and gave it unto the king of Assyria, but he helped him not And in the time of his distress did he trespass yet more against the Lord. This is that, King Ahaz. For he sacrificed unto the gods of Damascus, which smote him. And he said, Because the gods of the kings of Syria helped them, therefore I will sacrifice to them, that they may help me But they were the ruin of him and of all Israel. And Ahaz gathered together the vessels out of the house of God. and cut in pieces the vessels of the house of God, and shut up the doors of the house of the Lord, and made him altars in all Jerusalem. This guy is bad. Well, I don't know which is worse. Sacrificing his own children as a burnt offering Or desecrating the temple and taking the beautiful vessels that Solomon had had made for the temple and cutting them in pieces and paying the king of Assyria to help him. But the king of Assyria did not help him at all. Folks, it's amazing that the glorious prophecy we find in verses 14, 15, and 16 of this chapter were given to such a godless man. Such a wicked king. And yet is a testament to the truth of God. No human author would reward such a wicked king with such a glorious prophecy. I'm a student of literature. I love good literature. And sometimes the the bad guys get a few things, but not this. This is a wicked, wicked king. And so the first part of the context is who this Hezekiah was, to whom this prophecy came. But then we find it came in very fearful circumstances. If you look there in verse 2, back in Isaiah 7, it was told the house of David, saying, Syria is confederate with Ephraim And his heart was moved, and the heart of his people, as the trees of the wood, are moved with the wind. What a beautiful poetry that is. His heart was moved. As I was actually preparing this, it was on one of the very windy days that we have had this past week. And uh my wife and I have a huge poplar tree right on the corner of our property. Um th this tree is probably well I couldn't put my arms around it, couldn't begin to put my arms around it. I remember that tree when I was a child. Beautiful tree. If you know anything about poplar, poplar is a very brittle wood. And uh it's gonna cost us about four thousand dollars to get that tree taken down. We've got some estimates on it Because when the wind blows, it could go right over on the neighbor's house. So it fell in my yard, I'll cut it up. But we've all seen trees that are swaying in the wind. That's the way Israel is described here And that's the way Hezekiah is described. The wind blows, they go this way, they're fearful, they're scared. That is the national circumstance when this prophecy comes about. But folks, where does the wind come from? Well, uh the the the wind blows and we hear the sound thereof and we know not where it comes from, but we do that was talking about the Holy Spirit. We don't know this where the Spirit comes from, but we understand that He commandeth the rising wind storm. He commandeth a rising and stormy wind, we read in Psalm one hundred seven twenty five. Psalm one hundred forty eight verse eight fire and hail, snow and vapor, stormer winds, fulfilling his word Remember the disciples on the sea when they were afraid of the winds and waves, but then Christ filled the sea and he said, What manner of man is this? But even the winds and the waves obey his voice. You see, this prophecy comes about at a time when Judah is being invaded by a confederation that has been coming about from Ephraim, Ephraim being the largest area of the northern kingdom of Israel. Ephraim and Syria are confederate together against Judah. And Ahaz, the wicked king of Judah, is fearful of this invasion. If you look at verse 4, there we read, say unto him, or let's start at verse 3. And the Lord said unto Isaiah, Go forth now and meet Ahaz. Thou and Sheer Jashab, thy son, at the end of the conduit of the upper pool in the highway of the Fuller's field. You know what God sh would have been justified to leave Isa leave Hezekiah Leave, excuse me. Ahaz without any witness at all. But here God in great mercy sends Isaiah to this wicked king. And then in verse four, say unto him, Take heed Be quiet, fear not, neither be faint-hearted, for the two tales of these smoking firebrands For the fierce anger of Rezin, king of Syria, and the son of Remeliah. Don't be afraid of them. You see them as great adversaries. God sees them as smoking firebrands. Fire is just about going out. It's down to the wisp of smoke Take heed, be quiet, fear not, neither be faint-hearted. You know what Hezekiah Hezekiah's, no, I keep saying it. We're going to use it to Hezekiah. What Ahaz's big problem was? He had great fear of man and no fear of God. He was afraid of men and not afraid of God. The reason I keep saying Hezekiah was the great king of Hezekiah was the son of this same Ahaz. We're going to see that later on. Ahaz, take heed, be quiet, fear not. Because Syria, Ephraim, and the son of Ramaliah have taken counsel against thee, saying, Let us go up to Judah and vex it, let us make a breach therein for us. and set a king in the midst of it. Thus saith the Lord, it shall not stand, neither shall it come to pass. God goes on in verse 8 to say, within sixty-five years Within 65 years, the head of Samar uh Samaria is Damascus. The head of Damascus is Rezin. And within three score and five years shall Ephraim be broken that it shall not be a people. Where are the ten tribes of Israel today? Well, this was the end of them. God tells Hezekiah that dip again. God tells Ahaz, within sixty-five years They're gone. And if you will not believe me, verse 9, if thou shalt not believe, surely ye shall not be established. They're on the way out, and you could go with them So that's the context when this prophecy is given. Now, what is the challenge that precedes it? Well, in verses 7 through 10, verses 10 through 11. Verse ten. Moreover, the Lord spake unto Ahaz, saying, Ask the assign of the Lord Thou shalt ask it either in the depths or in the height above. Ask a sign in the sea or ask a sign in the sky. And this is where it's fascinating. Because we've already read and we'll see again that Ahaz refuses to ask a sign from God. But Ahaz will have a son. Ahaz a son that manages to escape being burned in the fire. His name is Hezekiah. And Hezekiah will be sick unto death. And God will send this same prophet Isaiah to Hezekiah to warn him, get your affairs in order, because you're going to die. And Hezekiah, who was a righteous king, pleads with God, and God relents and says, Okay, I'll give you 15 more years. And Isaiah goes back to Hezekiah. the son of Ahaz and says you're going to live fifteen more years. And Hezekiah says, What is the sign He's learned the lesson from his wicked father. What is the sign? And we read these glorious words in 2 Kings 20, verses 8 through 11. And Hezekiah said unto Isaiah, What shall be the sign that the Lord will heal me? And that I shall go up into the house of the Lord the third day. And Isaiah said, This is a sign that thou shalt have of the Lord, that the Lord will do the thing that He has spoken Shall the shadow go forward 10 degrees or back 10 degrees? A sign in the heavens above? Okay? Ask a sign in the depths or in the heavens above. And Hezekiah answered, It is a light thing for the shadow to go down ten degrees. Nay, but let the shadow return backward ten degrees. And Isaiah the prophet cried to the Lord, and he brought the shadow ten degrees backwards, that which had gone down in the dial of Ahaz. The sun went down in the dial of Ahaz. Ahaz who would not ask a sign. In the depths or in the sky had a sundial. His son Hezekiah Ask a sign. And the sun went backwards ten degrees on the dial of Ahaz, Hezekiah. See my power Now we find in verses twelve and following, but Ahaz said I will not ask a sign, neither will I tempt the Lord. And on first reading, that looks like, well, he's being pious there. No, that's not what he's saying at all. What Ahaz is saying is, I'm not going to compare your God with my God because I know my God's better. I'm not, don't ask me to ask a sign of Jehovah. I have my gods I will not ask a sign of Jehovah. Remember back in the last part of verse seven Verse nine, if ye will not believe, surely ye shall not be established. He's already had the warning. Notice the change in wording here. Look in verse ten Moreover, the Lord spake again unto Ahaz, saying, Ask thee a sign of the Lord, thy God. Ask a sign of the Lord thy God. Hey, you're the king of Judah. You're the house of David. Jehovah should be your God. Ask a sign of thy God. Verse 12. But Ahaz said, I will not ask a sign, neither will I tempt the Lord. Verse 13. And he said, Hear now, O house of Israel. Before he was addressing Ahaz by name. But now he's saying, House of Israel. Is it a small thing that ye weary men? But will you weary My God. You see, I had a Isaiah says to Ahaz Ask a sign of the Lord, thy God, but when he refuses, he says, You're going to get a sign from my God. Because we have a distinction going on here. It's subtle. It's not quite clear. But it's a distinction between the gods of Syria. To whom we read in Second Chronicles that Ahaz burnt his children and didn't get an answer That Ahaz cut up the t the vessels of the to temple and didn't get an answer. And I didn't emphasize it, but it said there in a passage we read that he shut up the doors of the house of the Lord. Ahaz would not serve Jehovah, and he wouldn't let anybody else go in. To serve Jehovah either. And so, Ahaz versus the house of David, my God, thy God versus my God. You see, Ahaz was offered the opportunity to ask a sign according to creation. Ask a sign in the depths, or ask a sign in the heavens above. And he refused. The first ver word of verse 14 is one of those very important words that we often miss. Therefore The Lord Himself will give you a sign. The sign that Hezekiah was The sign that Ahaz was offered was a sign under the creation, the depths or the heights. God says, therefore, if you're not going to ask the sign there, I'm going to give you a sign of the Creator Himself. Therefore, a virgin who conceives. and have a child. You see the beauty of the intricacies here that aren't on the surface of our English reading You would not ask a sign of earth, I'll give you the sign of heaven, the Messiah. You would not ask a sign in the depths of the heights, I'll give you a sign in the one who created the depths and the heights, therefore a virgin. shall conceive and will call his name Emmanuel. In the beginning was the Word, the Word was with God, the Word was God, the same as in the beginning with God, with God. And the Word was made flesh. And dwelt among us. And so therefore a virgin shall conceive. Matthew 1, verse 18 Now the birth of Jesus Christ was on this wise, when his mother Mary was espoused to Joseph, before they came together. She was found with child of the Holy Ghost before they came together, before their marriage was consummated. We understand the euphemism that scripture is using here. And she shall bring forth a son, and thou shalt call his name Jesus, for he shall save his people from their sins Now all this was done that it might be fulfilled which was spoken of the Lord by the prophet, saying, Behold, a virgin shall be with child and shall bring forth a son. And thou shalt call his name Emmanuel, which being interpreted is God with us. You see, folks, Isaiah 7. 14 is the prophecy. Matthew 1, 18 is the fulfillment, and Matthew 1, 22 to 23 is the confirmation. This was done that it might be fulfilled with what Isaiah said when he was speaking to Ahaz. Therefore, because you are fearful of the destruction of the house of David, I will show you that that is impossible. We read there in verse 7, thus saith the Lord, it shall not stand, neither shall it come to pass. Why is it, Hezekiah? Did it again? Why is it Ahaz that you should not be worried about this? Because he's coming against Judah Because God has promised of the house of David would come. They're in verse six. The last part of verse six. Let us uh uh for Let us make a breach for us and set up a king in the midst of it, even the son of Tabiel. No, you cannot put the son of Tabiel to be ruler in Judah. Because the Messiah, let him tell you about, has to come from the last house of David. Got a promise to the house of David in um 1 Kings 9 verse 5. Then I will establish thy throne upon the kingdom of thy of the house of Israel, as I promised unto David, saying, There shall not fail thee a man upon the throne of Israel. Ahaz, don't be fearful. Don't tremble. It can't happen. Because the scriptures have to be fulfilled. But also you notice that verse 6, let us go up against Judah. and vexeth. Matthew five two But thou bethlehem efferh that thou be little among the thousands of Judah. Yet out of thee shall come forth him unto me him that it will be ruler in Israel. Ahaz What are you so worried about? You won't ask a sign in the depth of the height, I'll give you a sign of the Creator You're worried about this invasion? They want to replace you and put someone else on the throne? No, it must be the house of David. No, it must be from the land of Judah. We read for our responsive reading why do the heathen rage and the people imagine a vain thing. The kings of the earth set themselves against the Lord and against his anointed, saying, Let us break the rams asunder. Therefore a virgin shall conceive, not a young girl. Not a young unmarried woman. Sorry, not a young girl, not a young married woman, but a virgin, one who has never known a man, only a female That has never been with a male. But then look at the as the prophet that continues, butter and honey shall he eat That he may know to refuse the evil and choose the good. Why such an unusual diet? Butter and honey? For an infant? Why this diet? Well, folks, butter and scripture, butter and milk are emblems of the Word of God. You see, the Messiah will be brought up on the Word of God. And we know that we find him at twelve years old. sitting in the temple disputing with the elders and during his earthly ministry they were astounded because this guy is from Galilee. He never learned. How knows he the word Well, as newborn babes desire the sincere milk of the word, that they may grow thereby. The prophecy is that this one that is to come will be raised on the word on the word of God, butter and honey. For the time ye ought to be teachers, ye have need of such as uh use milk and not strong meat Those that use milk are unskillful in the word. He was brought up on the word of God. Thy words were found, and I did eat them. Job said in Job 23, 12, Neither have I gone back from the commandments of thy lips. I have esteemed the word of thy mouth more than my necessary food. He'll be brought up on the Word of God, on butter. But not just on the Word of God, but on the law of God. And folks, the law of God in Scripture is referred to as honey. It's referred to as honey in the Word of God. The word the law of the Lord is perfect, converting the soul. The testimony of the Lord is sure, making wise the simple, more to be desired today than gold, yea, than much fine gold. Sweeter also than honey and the honeycomb. Psalm 119, how sweet are the words of thy mouth to my taste, yea, sweeter to my mouth than than honey to my mouth. What is the point here? Well the first Adam listened to the serpent and fell. The second Adam, the Messiah which is to come, will listen to the words of his father. He will listen to the words of the law, and he will stand. He will fulfill the law which was broken by every man born on earth except for Jesus Christ. Butter and honey shall he eat. So I open my mouth, and he calls me to eat the roll. And he said unto me, Son of man, cause thy belly to eat, and he filled my bowels with the roll that I give thee. Then did I eat it, and it was to my mouth as honey for sweetness. And so the prophecy here Is that this one that is coming shall be brought up on milk and honey. But still it seems a bit obscure. Still it doesn't come clearly into our view. Milk and honey Remember when the children of Israel were going into the the land of Canaan? What was it called? A land that floweth of milk and honey, but there weren't any rivers of milk. There weren't rivers of honey But it wasn't a land that flowed with milk and honey. It was a place where God's Word and God's law flowed throughout the land. A land of milk and honey. And so we find that the Messiah is perfectly pictured here. He is brought up on milk and honey. He is raised in the law of God. The wicked king would not ask a sign God gave him. a much greater sign than he could ever imagine. But then we come to verse 16, and this is where the prophecy really gets fascinating. For before the child shall know to refuse the evil and choose the good, the land that thou abhorest shall be forsaken of both her kings. And this is where the skeptics say, ah see, the prophecy falls apart. How could it be that Messiah came hundreds of years later? Well, let's examine it closely. There's two prophecies going on here. There's a dual prophecy. Some people say, oh, there's a current fulfillment and a letter fulfillment. No, it's two, it's two separate prophecies are going on here Verses 14 and 15 are the long-term prophecy of Jesus Christ. Verse 16 is the contemporary near-term prophecy to Ahaz. And I'll show you why that's true. In verse 3, then said the Lord unto Isaiah, Go forth now and meet Ahaz. thou and Shear Jashab, thy son, at the end of the conduit of the upper pool in the highway of the Fuller's Field Why did God tell Isaiah to take his infant son along with him? Well, you see that name, Sheer Jashab, means the remnant shall return. It's the name of Isaiah's son. The remnant shall return. In fact, in Isaiah chapter 10, over a few a few chapters in verse 21, The remnant shall return, even the remnant of Jacob, unto the mighty God. And where it says the remnant shall return, there in chapter ten, verse twenty-one, it's actually the name of his son, Shirab Jasub And so here this wicked, fearful king, Isaiah says, before this child, before this baby in my arm, shall know to choose between good and evil. the siege will be over. And if you look up to the first verse, there's actually a hint in the very first verse of the chapter. And verse seven, verse one of chapter seven, and it came to pass in the days of Ahaz the son of Joseph. and the son the son of Uriah, king of Judah, that Rezin, king of Syria, and Pekah, the son of Remaliah, king of Israel, went up toward Jerusalem to war against it, but could not prevail against it. The end of the story is told in the first verse. You see, verse 1 is the prologue, and verse 2 goes back and begins to tell the story. They came up against Israel, against Judah, and they couldn't prevail. And this is what happened. And so now we already know that they couldn't prevail. So we jump to the end of the story, and we find that before Isaiah's little son has learned the difference between good and evil, all these kings will be gone in 65 years. More of the kingdom of Israel will no longer exist. Before my son has come to understanding. This will happen. Ahaz was a wicked king. Ahaz was an unbelieving king. The northern kingdom, 65 years later, is gone. The smoking flax fled the land. They could not prevail. But all this happened because there was a Messiah coming. Because there was a Savior that must come. And so, folks, we have a more sure word of prophecy if we read in 2 Peter 1. Whereunto we do well to take heed. As unto a light that shineth in a dark place, unto the day dawn and the day star rise in your hearts Knowing this first that no prophecy of Scripture is of any private interpretation. For the prophecy came not in old time. by the will of men. But holy men of God spake as they were moved by the Holy Ghost. 1 Peter 1, of which salvation The prophets have inquired and searched diligently, who prophesied of the grace that should come unto you. Searching what? Or what manner of time the Spirit of Christ which was in them did signify when he testified beforehand the suffering of Christ and the glory that should follow, unto whom it was revealed that not unto themselves, but unto us did they minister the things which are now reported unto them By them, uh uh unto you, reported unto you by them that have preached the gospel unto you with the Holy Ghost sent down from heaven, which things the angels desire to look into And so folks we have a glorious prophecy here sent to a wicked king, sent in terrible times, a king who said, I don't want a prophecy from Jehovah, even if it's in the creation, and God says, I'm going to show you one that's outside the creation. Creation. A son shall be born, born of a virgin, and we will call his name Emmanuel, which being interpreted as God. With us. Let us stand for prayer. Father, we thank you for the glory and the majesty of thy word. We thank you, Lord, that your word is yea and amen and is forever settled in heaven. Though men may dispute against it, it stands, it never contradicts itself. No prophecy fails to be fulfilled Father, we thank you that you use your word that will not return into you void. And so, Father, may you make your word profitable to our hearts this day. In Jesus' name. Amen.