Turn with me again to the book of 2 Samuel, chapter 13. May have noticed the responsive reading was the same. And uh some of the music. Uh try to match things with the message. And this is really the second part, title of the message, The Folly Continues. Second Samuel thirteen, being in verse twenty-one to the end of the chapter. And we're following up our Tamar. has uh been abused and molested by her brother. And her other brother says, Don't tell dad, don't tell anyone, keep it to yourself. So in verse 21, but when King David heard of these things, he was very wroth. And Absalon spake unto his brother Amnon, he's the one that had abused their sister. He spake unto his brother Amnon, neither good nor bad, for Absalon hated Amnon because he had forced his sister Tamar. And it came to pass after two years that Absalon had sheep shearers in Baalhazar, which is beside Ephraim, and Absalom invited all the king's sons. And Absalon came to the king and said, Behold, now thy servant hath sheep shears. Let the king abesee thee and his servants go with thy servant. And during the sheep shearing sea season there would be a great festivities after the sheep shearing was done. And uh so that's what we have here is to invite everybody over to celebrate. And the king said to Absalom, Nay, my son, let us not all now go, lest we be chargeable on thee. It's very expensive to entertain everyone. And he pressed him, howbeit he would not go, but he did bless him. But David still wouldn't go. And then said Absalom, if not, I pray thee, let my brother Ammon go with us. And the king said unto him, Why should he go with thee? Little suspicion there. And Absalom pressed him that he would let Ammon and all the king's sons go with him. That that worked. And now Absalom had commanded his servant, saying, Mark ye now when Ammon's heart is merry with wine or when he's drunk. And when I say unto you, Smite Ammon, then kill him. Fear not. Have not I commanded you be courageous to be valiant? And the servants of Absalon did unto Ammon as Absalon had commanded. That is, they they killed him while he was drunk. And all the king's sons arose, and every man got him up upon his mule, and they fled And it came to pass while they were in the way that tidings came to David, saying, Absalom has slain all the king's sons, and there is not one of them left. And then the king arose and he tear his garments and he lay on the earth and all his servants stood by with their clothes rent. And Jonatab The son of Shimeah, David's brother. Remember him from last week, he'd encouraged Ammon and how he might uh set it up to Abuse and molest his own sister Tamar. He he shows up here in verse 32. And Jonathan, the son of Shimeon, David's brother, answered and said, Let not my lord suppose that they have slain all the young men, the king's sons. For Ammon only is dead. For by the appointment of Absalom this has been determined from the day that he forced his sister Tamar. Now therefore let not my lord the king take the thing to his heart to think that all the king's sons are dead, for Ammon only is dead. But Absalon fled, and the young men that kept the watch lifted up their eyes, they looked, and behold, there came much people by the way of the hillside behind them. And Johnadab said unto the king, See, or behold, the king's sons come. As thy servant said, so is it. And it came to pass as soon as they made an end of speaking, that behold, the king's sons came. And they lifted up their voice and they wept, and the king also and all his servants wept very sore. But Absalom fled and went to Tamai, the son of Amihud, king of Gishur. That was his uh uh mother's father by the way, so he was he was going to grandpa who was a king nearby. And David mourned for his son every day. That's for Absalon. And so it repeats again in verse thirty eight. So Absalon fled and he and he went to Geshir and and was there. three years and the soul of David longed to go forth unto Absalom. Well soon he forgot what Absalon had done, for he was comforted concerning Ammon, seeing that he was was dead. That verse twenty one it says when David heard all these things he was And I would remind you what were all these things that he had heard. Well, he had heard about uh Tamar and what had happened and what Ammon had done to Tamar He'd heard how he'd had abused his sister, how he'd tossed her out of his house on the street like some garbage. And how she ran to the streets covering her face and and weeping with her robe torn. He heard all these things and how her life was shattered And she was now living in the house of Absalom, her other brother, uh like a recluse. He'd heard all these things. I wonder who else had heard all these things. You ever have somebody in your family? embarrass you or embarrass the whole family? I think about Cain when he killed his brother. You know, they were they were quite old by then. They weren't they weren't teenagers. And there were other children in the household Adam and Eve. And what an embarrassment it must have been. When Cain killed his brother Abel and and how about Samson? What an embarrassment. He he's a man of God and yet he he has this this this attitude uh uh this This this sin nature keeps popping up and drawing him off to other women throughout the country. In fact, even a Philistine. He wants to marry a Philistine. How embarrassing to his mother and father and how they would they said can you not find somebody in all of of Israel that you want a Philistine and and we can do things that just embarrass the family Peter, on the night that Christ was betrayed, deny that he was a Galilean, deny that he was a follower of Christ, denied that he was a disciple, denied it with cursing and swearing. What an embarrassment to the fellowship. What an embarrassment to the family of faith And so I ask you again, have any of your family members ever embarrassed you? If they haven't, just hold on to the saddle, it will happen. It happens in the best of families. There are going to be times when someone's going to embarrass the family. It might be dad. It might be you or a brother or a sister. I've chewed on this for quite a while. Who told David? I mean who told David? Ammon certainly is not going to go to his father and say, hey Dad, guess what I did last night till your daughter came out. He's not going to do that. Tamar's not, and Absalon's not. In fact, Absalon told Tamar, hold your peace, don't say anything, in verse 20 of this chapter. And I believe that she held her peace and that Hammond certainly held his. He wanted David to think that he wasn't all that upset. He wasn't all that filled with anger. Wasn't even going to talk about it Maybe the prophet Nathan came to David as he had done before and said, as he had said to David, Thou art the man for having killed you. Uriah and and that was such a top secret, but somehow it got out. If you are hiding some sin in your life to this morning And you just know that nobody knows. Well, probably the CIA. NSA, uh Homeland Security. But other than that, nobody knows Well, the scripture tells us that we should not curse the king, nor should we have even in our thoughts something ill towards the king, for a bird of the air shall carry The voice and that which hath wings shall tell of the matter. We read in Ecclesiastes 10:20. If you have sinned and you think you can cover it up and no one knows, It will come out. It will at least come out on the day of judgment for sure. When the Lord Jesus Christ comes down, he also knows Have you stopped to think about that? It says Christ himself said in Mark 4 and 22, he taught, there's nothing hid which shall not be manifested Unless you confess it, ask the blood of Christ to cleanse you of that sin and wash you white as snow and white as wool, then God takes it and And puts it as far as the east as from the west, and he remembers it no more. But if you're going to hide your sins and not confess them to the Lord Jesus Christ, it will come out And let me add to this, it will come out because it says that everything that you think is hidden, it shall be manifested in the end on judgment day. So not only is your sin going to come out, it is going to come out at the worst possible time. Judgment. So I would just really encourage, exhort, admonish you, if you've got hidden sins in your life, stop sinning and ask God to forgive you. Because David did hear. And he's the king of Israel. And the king of kings, the Lord Jesus Christ, he's going to hear too. He's going to know. So having heard it says here what had happened to Tamar, David was wroth. He was angry. He was mad. Righteous indignation, which is all right. He had all of this. He was wrought But that was it. He was just mad. That was it The scripture tells us in Leviticus 20 verse 17 that Ammon should have been cut off from the sight of his people. It wasn't enough that David was wroth He ought to be drummed out of society, made to flee out of Israel, cut out of the sight of his people, removed from Israel, removed from the fellowship Shunned as it were, no more access to the tabernacle, no more right to worship with the rest of the people and fellowship, and no sacrifice could he now give before the tabernacle. He was to be out of country, shunned, driven out. Unless he would repent, as David had, for similar things. Deuteronomy 27 and 22 said that he was cursed that lieth with his sister. He is cursed. We look so often at the fathers in Scripture that we admire, and we find out that You can be a man after God's own heart like David. You can be the high priest of Israel, you know, like Eli, and you can be the prophet of God like Samuel And you look at the sons of Eli, you look at the sons of of Samuel, you look at the parents of Samson, and what an embarrassment he was. And and you see all of this and you and you just realize that There are a lot of dysfunctional families in the household of faith. And don't be surprised in time if you don't look around you and think your own family's a bit dysfunctional. So David's Roth. But that was it. It was a blot upon the family name. But David was only wroth It was a blood upon the family name, but that's it. There's a blood upon Israel, but that's all. It's a sin such as is not named among the Gentiles, but that's all. He's just robbed. He's not going to do anything about it When sinners escape the judgment that Scripture says they should have, it will only encourage others to sin, or that person to sin in like manner again. Maybe the only reason that That uh Adam doesn't rape another sister in the household is because we only know of one sister in David's household. I'm still looking if there's another sister. Tamar is the only one mentioned But you encourage sin if you don't bring justice down upon the sinner and make him pay. There should be a comeuppence. But David was just wrath. Ecclesiastes 8 and 11 says this, so you don't just think it's my opinion that sinners ought to pay or else Others will sin as well, encourage the sin like others who sin and don't pay. Ecclesiastes 8 and 11 says, Because sentence against evil work is not executed speedily, and sometimes not at all Therefore the heart of the sons of man is fully set in them to do evil. Already, there's a man being charged with in our military with carelessly taking home some classified material. And they want to court-martial him. You know what his lawyer said? We plead the Clinton defense. You know what the judge said? I'll give that some thought Right? If evil isn't dealt with, it just encourages others to do it again and again. And what did we find here with David? And what we find perhaps Throughout this country today, do you love your children so much that you don't punish them? I just want them to love me. I don't want them to hate me. I love my children so much. You can't love them enough. Oh, you can love them too much. Do you love your children so much you don't punish them for rebellion against the words of Christ? I mean, I'll think about that It says honor your father and your mother. You know, if if they spit in your face, they kick you in the shins and they bite you when they're little and you do nothing, come on. That's not honoring your mother and her father, and if they grow up, they do worse things, embarrassing things. And it's if you love your children so much you don't punish them when they're in rebellion against the words of Christ. That is that love is a foolish fondness. That is a folly. And you say, well, but we're supposed to love everybody Really? 2 Chronicles 19, 2 is the story of Jehoshaphat. He goes out there and makes a league with another king to do battle. And the prophet comes to him and he says, Art thou Art thou to love those who hate the Lord? Because of this is wrath upon you We do try to love people into the kingdom, but you do you love them when they're just blatantly in your face, so anti-God? They they do something like the abuse of Tamar and you walk up to him and say, Oh, I love you, brother. I don't care what you've done, unconditional love. That's not what the scriptures say. I know we hear that on the Christian radio all the time. You've got to love them unconditionally. Well, when you look at scripture, God says there are some conditions. There are conditions on how we love and who we love. And I'm just going to quote you from the disciple of Christ, John the beloved. Of all the disciples, you couldn't find one that was more loving. That talks about the love of Christ, that talks about how we should love sinners. You can't find one better than that. But you know what he says? We are to love 1 John 3 and 18, John, John and his epistle, we're to love in truth. Truth is not expended at the expense of we've got to love and just ignore the truth. I know it says thou shalt not kill. We're gonna ignore that truth, and we're gonna love this guy who just murdered And you'll see that on TV. Some crazy will go off and he'll kill some people, and immediately the families out there, we just want him to know we forgive him and we love him. That's not loving in the truth. Let the man repent of his sin and what he has done, and then let me hear the Christian say, Wow, he's repented. I have to look Love him. But you love in the truth. And and John says that the disciple John he says it in 1 John 3:18, love in the truth In 2 John 1 and verses 1, love in the truth. In 3 John chapter 1 and verse 1, love in the truth. We are to love in the truth. It isn't unconditional love. We are to love with the truth Or its foolish fondness. of the disciple of Christ John should restrain us from spoiling our children rotten out of we gotta love him unconditionally. The greatest love you can show your child when he does something sinful is to discipline him. Let your child know from the very time he's just he's he's I'll tell you, you want your child to know as soon as he's able to experience pain. You want him to know that if he does something contrary to the word of God, contrary to his parents who he's supposed to honor, like don't touch that hot water on the stove, if he if he goes contrary to what you told him, there are painful consequences. Even if he doesn't spill the hot water on himself, there should be painful You must teach him that when you sin, when you do things contrary to the Word of God, Contrary to what society has set up as as godly laws and rules, if he does things contrary, there are consequences, painful consequences. You may have to pay a speeding ticket. You may get arrested. You may spend some time in jail. There should be Teach them young there are consequences for rebellion against the Word of God. And they should be they should learn early that some of those consequences can be very painful Yeah, I'm not like the schools that are opposed to corporal punishment. Well when I went to public school, we had the Board of Education hanging over the entrance of every classroom. How many ever saw the Board of Education in the school at Remember the ones even had the holes drilled in them about this big? And we said, what are the holes for? He said, When I swing that paddle, I don't want any air resistance before it meets your behind. Hostel. Well I tell you, you never saw a teacher hit, raped cursed at. There was a fear of God in our young people then. Verse 22 through 27, we read it. That Ammon hated, or rather Absalom hated Ammon because he had forced his sister. And of course David had done what? Well, he was angry, but that was it. That just made Ammon angrier. That nothing had been done. To Ammon for what he had done to his sister. And after two full years, Absal, this thing had been stewing inside him, it had been festering, you know, it had been boiling. And finally he comes to the king and says, My brother Ammon, can he go with us? Why would you want Ammon to go with it? Oh, you know what? Let's have all the sons come. And David says, Oh, yeah, that'd be good. That would be good. Hey, maybe Ammon and Absalom will kind of work things out And maybe this would be a good time for them to mesh and if there is a problem. I don't know that there's a problem because Amin hasn't said anything for two years. So I guess things are okay. Sometimes we think there's no elephant in the room, there's nothing going on, we're fine. And David he thought, I guess maybe things are okay or this ought to make things even better. They'll get together. It's a joyful time, shearing the sheep, not realizing that Absalon wants to butcher one whose name Wow. The king said that yeah, Ammon can go and The life of Absalom, we will learn in the months or chapters ahead. He didn't have the spirit of Christ that we read about. In Romans 8:9. What I mean by this is if the Spirit of Christ dwelt in Absalom, he would not have killed his brother. He would not have hated his brother. In fact, Christ says if you hate your brother, you're already guilty of murder, right? He's already guilty of murder. But he he hated his brother. And the scripture teaches us that if there's an anger in us, it says, Let not the sun go down upon your wrath. Neither give place to the devil, Ephesians 4, 26 and 27. When you just let it fester inside, you let this anger boil inside, and you and you let the sun go down upon your wrath, and you wake up the next morning And you know what? It's even boiling more. You you went to sleep, it was at a six, you wake up, it's still at a six. By the next night it's up to a seven. The meter starts pegging higher and higher And after ten years, can you imagine after ten years how many times the sun went down upon the wrath of Absalom, and how heated he must have been, how angry he was, enough to kill his brother He nursed that wrath for two years because David the king said, Well, It's okay. I'm angry. I'm mad too. I don't like it. Well, I'm not going to do anything. When you let the sun go down upon your wrath. Two years of a lot of sun sets, by the way. When you let that happen, the wrath swells up inside of you. You it grows, the pressure gets greater, and it says here that you'll give place to the devil when you do that, and Satan is able to secure an entrance into your soul and your heart. And he'll make you something you never were two years before. Are you nursing a grudge this morning? Been nursing it quite a while. Thinking about revenge? Had anger in your heart? Jealousy? Covetousness? How long has it been there? Gotten bigger, hasn't it? Become a bigger part of your life. It's overwhelming you, it's consuming you. And in I'm gonna tell you right now, something's gonna happen. It's gonna burst. Unless you can turn to the Lord and say, get rid of this anger in me, this jealousy, this colour. Covetousness. Absalom had come to David and his whole plot. He'd been working on this for two years, so he knew I'm going to invite Ammon, but how am I going to get David to let Ammon come in? I know I'll invite King David, I'll invite everybody And he thought this out really well. This is premeditated murder, friends. Premeditated murder. He thought this out really well. I will go to my father during the sheep shearing season. It's a busy time. It's a rejoicing time. It's a time when even my father, remember he's the shepherd king, he's got sheep too. He'll be too busy to come. But I'll invite him any. Ever do that? Oh I suppose we gotta invite Aunt So and so or Uncle So, I don't want them to come. Well why we have it on such and such a day. They can't come on that day. Oh good idea. And then we invite him and we know he's not gonna come That's what Absalom did. He knew that King David couldn't come. He's the king. He's busy. He's got his own sheep to take care of But then he kind of pushed a little too hard. He says, uh, you know, why not send Ammon? Ammon is the eldest, he's the heir, apparent to the throne. If the king can't come, you send your son Ammon. So it's kind of like the Yeah, he's taken your place. He'd be the place of honor. We'd honor him there as a heir apparent, the next king. I think David liked that, but he still said, why just Admon But you see, Absalom had thought this all out. He was ready for that. He said, oh no, no, no. Send all your sons. And David said, Oh, okay. Good. And this is well thought out. This is premeditated murder. He had he knew all the questions and he had all the answers before he ever approached his father David. Perhaps David hoped that this occasion might mend the breach if it existed. But all it did is fulfill prophecy, for Nathan had gone to David and And Nathan said to him that because you had taken another man's wife, because you had killed a woman's husband named Uriah the Hittite That the sword would not depart from your own household. The Lord would raise up evil against thee out of thine own house. And this is just the fulfillment of Scripture. And God can use a wicked man like Absalom. To fulfill scripture. He used Caiaphas the high priest to crucify the Lord Jesus Christ. God can use the wicked. He can bring beauty out of ashes. Something bad is happening this this past week or this last year or something, and you wonder why God's allowing you. You think God is absent? He's hung a vacancy sign out in the universe and he's not around, he's not involved anymore. That's just not true. When we look back on our lives decades from now or from eternity, we'll see God was there every moment, every nanosecond of our life, doing great. and glorious things. The prophecy was that the Lord would raise up evil in David's own household. It must have caused David some real additional pain. Not only did he see what was going on among his dysfunctional children in his household, but they were doing the same sins that he had done. I mean, after all, David had taken a woman that was not rightfully his to take. And now his son Amnon takes his sister. And it's not right for him to take his sister And now he gets the word that what? That Absalon has killed Premeditated, he killed someone. Isn't that what David did? He killed Uriah the Hittite. Wasn't that premeditated? We read go back and look at the story it was. Do you ever, are you ever pained as you look at your children, you see them committing the same sins you did? When you were young. And you just knew that as you got older and you saw the folly of your ways, you saw the foolishness of what you had done, that you could talk to your kids and you could convince them that that's not the way to go And you found that instead of listening to you, your children tend to learn more by experience. Some learn better that way It's some can read it in a book, some can watch it on TV and say, I think I can do that. Some have just got to try it out for themselves, you know And you try to tell them no, but they do these things that not only paint us because they're sinful, but it's because we did those same things. And we know what it did to our lives. And we don't want it to To tear their lives apart as much as it has ours. David and his dysfunctional family. David had been self-centered, had he not? When he went after Bathsheba? Well, what about Ammon? Wasn't he self-centered when he went after Tamar? Of course it was the same sin of David. Absalom, wasn't he self-centered? If I can kill, and think about that, Ammon, the heir apparent of the throne. Guess who's the second oldest child in the family? Absalom. If Ammon is dead, whether it was because of his sister or what he did to his sister It doesn't matter. As long as Avan is dead, Absalom is the heir apparent. He becomes the next king on the throne. It's a win-win situation for him. And so what is Absalom? He's a sinner too, just like his father. And he'll kill somebody. Just like his father. It hurts to see the sins of our children. The same sins that we have done. Well, dad did it, mom did it, they got by, I'm gonna try it too I'm gonna tell you children, young people, you know, children, teenagers, your mom and dad didn't get by with it. They don't tell you the nightmares They still have. They don't tell you the dreams they still have. They don't tell you the dreams that are crushed that they will never have. They don't tell you how it pains them They keep it inside, and that's fine. It's between them and the Lord. But you don't want to do it because mom and dad did it, because I'm going to tell you you're going to be carrying a burden, a weight upon you, and regrets They never go away. The sin is covered. And sometimes the consequences are non-existent as far as what the Lord imposes upon you. But boy, your conscience is just it follows you for to the end End of your days. Idolatry, that was Absalom, that was David, were worshipping themselves in the They were self-centered. Adultery, yeah. That was going on in David's household among his children. Thievery, stealing something that didn't belong to you, that was going on in his family. How about being tipsy? Do you remember what David did? Well, Uriah, I've got to get him down to spend an evening with Bathsheba, so he gets him drunk, right? And what's the story here? Absalom says to his servants, when he's feeling merry with wine, where did Absalom learn that tactic? From his father. Get him drunk. Absalom in verses twenty-eight through thirty, he commanded his servants, When Ammon's heart is merry with wine, kill him. Ammon's drinking habit must have been renowned. He must have known that it wasn't it wasn't a difficult guy to get to tip a few or tip a few extras or tip a couple for the road. He m he must have been known for his drinking habits. Another problem with Ammon wasn't just taking it of his sister when he drank too much. Kill him when he's married, when he least suspects the danger. That's when you want him dead. Kill him when he's least able to resist. That's when you want to strike. Kill him when he's least oh listen to this one. Kill him when he's least able to repent Before entering eternity. I mean he's drunk and he doesn't expect it and he's feeling so good, and someone's coming after him, and the last thing in his mind is to repent and he's entering into eternity Absalom didn't just want to kill his body, he wanted to kill the soul of Ammon. And listen to me, there are people out there right now and they're trying to draw you to this. Things that are dark in this world. Our young people they try to get them into the internet and all kinds of stuff. They're drawing you into darkness. And it isn't because they just want to entertain you. It isn't just because they want to give you some sinful joy. They want to kill your soul And the first thing to tell you you don't have one on the ark this week The science guy. Bill Nye, the science guy, went on. He got a two-hour tour with Ken with Ken Ham. Can you imagine we'd been there last week on the Ark? And Bill Nye shows up and you walk along with Ken Ham and Bill Nye for two hours as they're debating all these different things? And finally they came to the end of it. What a what a play by the way it's all been videoed Bill Nye insisted that it be videoed. Bill Nye insisted on that, and Ken Ham says, I will allow you to video everything I say and do, but I want copies. He's got copies, and those are going to be available soon. But Bill Nye says, I can't stand what you tell people. And he says, um, well what happens when you die, Bill? Nothing. You die and that's it. And Ken Ham said, Well then why does it matter what I tell people? Once they're dead, they're not going to remember. You know? And the people who are are listening right now when they die, they're not going to remember what I Why is it bothering what I teach if after we both die it it doesn't matter because there's just nothingness? He said you'll have to watch the film to see the response of Bill Nye to that one Bill Knight doesn't believe you have an eternal soul. And I suspect if you're here this morning you're and you're going to doing things that are so contrary to the word of God, you're getting to things that are almost that are almost satanic in their nature. And the things that you're being warned about are so seductive and so dark and you and you and you probably really, really don't believe you have a soul. You're not sure Satan already's got you. You're already you've already lost He wanted to kill him just before he could repent and enter eternity. What a dreadful thing to die without an opportunity. to repent. I mean, do you all think you're gonna get an opportunity people you may not get an opportunity. Well, you know, I'm laying on my deathbed and I got cancer or I got uh you know some other disease and And I'm I'm going to turn to God. I hope you do. Sometimes the people are so angry, my brother was so angry, he couldn't. He's dying of cold and cancer. I'm with my brother. I said, Rick, Rick, Rick and I think most of you know my brother. He he was he was gay. He's even married to another guy for several years. And I said to Rick, Rick, you're a sinner. I'm a sinner. We're both sinners. We just need to ask God to forgive us I said, if you've ever lied, if you've ever swore, if you ever took God's name in vain, ever done those things, he said, yes. I didn't even touch on the gay lifestyle. I said, Rick, just ask God to forgive you I didn't even name the one sin that was on everyone's mind. And he collapsed in my arms, he started crying, and he said, I can't. I can't. I said, you can't. Just ask God to forgive you. Short words, oh Lord, forgive me. Four words. And he fell on my arms a second night. He said, I can't, I can't. And he just started weeping. I wept with him. I told him I loved him. I want to see him again. I probably never will. So you think you're going to wait till your deathbed and then you're going to say, Oh God, I'm sorry, I repent. Forgive me. What if you don't have a deathbed? What if it's a car accident? What if a brick falls off a building and hits you? What if it's an earthquake or a tsunami and you have no time to repent? Now is the time, now is the hour, now is the day. Call upon him while he is near. Only opportunity. As you sit here right now to ask God to draw you back to Him. To let the light of the Lord Jesus Christ, who is the light of Lord, come into your heart and in your mind and in your soul. It may never, that opportunity may never present itself again after this moment passes. What a dreadful thing to die without repentance sin. This man, Ammon, had a habit. He liked to drink. Have you got a habit, pilgrim, that the enemy of your soul can exploit for your destruction? Is there some habit you got that nobody knows about, and he's already exploiting it, drawing you deeper and deeper into some habit that he can exploit? It will destroy your soul? Delilah, you read this word Delia and Samson. She loved silver. Judas, what did he love? Judas, he loved money. Demas, he loved the world. Satan knows our habits and our sin habits, and he will use them to exploit us to our soul's destruction. If you've got a habit hidden from mom and dad or husband or wife, or you've got some habit out there that you know isn't right. Repent. And I know you can't, because my brother couldn't So you know what the best next best thing you can do is, Lord, I can't repent. Jeremiah says, Turn me and I shall be turned. Then you ask God to, I can't repent. Turn me, Lord, and I will repent. If you can't repent, ask God to make you repent Ammon told his servants, kill him when he's merry with wine. Kill him, and fear not. I'll take care of you. I'm going to be what? The heir apparent of the kingdom. I can pardon you. I can pardon you for your sin. That is a lie. You cannot pardon a man for his sin. I don't care if you're the president of the United States, and I know presidents are always pardoning somebody at the end of their term. And it's whether they confess, whether they repent or not. They just pardon people. You cannot pardon Absalom, you cannot pardon the people that kill Amnon. Only the Lord Jesus Christ can pardon us of sin. It is a lie, it is a lie, it is a lie, no king, no soon-to-be king, no president, no congress, no can not pardon us for our sins. Only Christ Who shed his blood on the cross has that power. And often uses it. As many you here can attest to. And after they kill him, and he said, I'll beat you, I'm gonna have your back, right? I'm gonna have your back. You kill him, I'm gonna have your back And what happens? It says in verses 38 and 37, and Absalom fled. Whoa, where's the guy that's got her back? He lied to us. We can kill him. He said he'll take care of everything. He'll reward us. He'll pardon us And then he flees, as well as all the sons in verse 29. They all flee too. And the king hears of this in verses 31 through 36, and immediately the king tears his garments. Because he recognizes in the sin of Absalom his own sin. He had gotten Uriah drunk before he had somebody else kill him. And now we got Absalom, he got uh Adam drunk and he had somebody else kill him. I mean it's just step after step. It's also similar to sins of David are visited upon his children as well. And the king tears his garments. Because the news had come that all his sons are dead. I want you to maybe if you don't walk out much today at all. Saved or unsaved, you should be able to walk out this. How many times when the news comes, it's always worse than it really is? I mean, you catch the news, you go, oh my goodness, did you hear what's going on? Oh, it's so terrible. And then a couple years or a couple weeks or months later, it's not so terrible. You know, when I was growing up, I was told The nuclear winter is coming. That the earth is getting colder and colder. We're all gonna freeze to death someday. Anybody else remember that? Nuclear winter, a couple of us And now 40 years later, guess what? Nuclear winter wasn't true, but we were in a panic. I'm taught in the public school. We're all going to freeze. The sun is burning out. It's getting smaller. We're all going to freeze now. It's nuclear winter coming And now they tell our kids, well that one they didn't buy that one. We can't use that one. I know global warming. Oh the hole is gonna burn up. It's getting so hot the temperatures are rising And they lied to us. And how about Ebola? Remember what Ebola was going to do to us uh last year? Oh, the Ebola virus is coming. We're all gonna die. You ever notice on the news? It's just to manipulate you It's hard to make you think things are worse than they are. But they never tell you that if you are steeped in sin, it's worse than you think. That one they won't tell you. Joseph is dead. He was All the sons of David are dead. They weren't. The tomb is empty. They stole his taken his body somewhere. Mary Magdalene, where'd they take his body? Where's the body of our Jesus? It wasn't true. No one had taken the body. But we always envision the worst. And then when you While you're sucking on the bad news and you know with like a blanket and you're sort of like little linus from Charlie Brown and sucking your thumb in your blanket, oh the bad news, the bad news. When the good news comes, he is risen, as he said Nobody blinks. They love the so easy to get people to believe the bad news, it's really hard to get them to believe the good news, the gospel of Jesus Christ. Do you think people would want to believe the good news? But the sin nature, the lost soul doesn't want the the lost soul, it says the Bible says it clearly he loves death And the word comes to David from John Adab, who we talked about before. John Adab says, Am is the only one dead. Absalom was determined to kill him from the very day that Tamar was forced by him. This this guy Jonathan, he he only shows up once or twice in scriptures, and he is one bit of bad news. I mean, this is the friend of Ammon, remember? He's the friend of Ammon. And Jonadab comes to David and he says, Don't worry about it. He said he only went he only kills Adam, he didn't kill anybody else. He has had the stress during him for the last two years Why didn't Jonathan warn Ammon, don't go to the sheep shearing party. This guy's been mad at you for two years and they kill you. Jonathan knew it. Hey, he finally tells, why didn't you go to King David? They don't let your son go. I'm going to tell you something. Absolutely plotting something, premeditating murder. He's going to kill your son. What's with this guy Jonathan? Jonathan could have convinced Ammond to leave his sister alone. He could have convinced Ahmed, don't go to the party, he could have convinced the King David, Don't let him go to the party. But Jonathan, he just keeps his mouth shut. He really wasn't much of a friend, was he? You got friends like that? You like them a lot because they never tell you you shouldn't do this, you shouldn't do that. They don't mind if you drink and drive, right? That's okay Smoke a little weed, that's okay. Steal your mother's uh prescription pills, that's okay. And so John Adab keeps his mouth shut and the folly continues As we'll see in the chapters ahead. He could have prevented Ammon from assaulting the Sizer, could have prevented Absalom from killing him. How good a friend are you? to somebody. Pilgrim, are you a good friend? Then you need to tell others about the Lord Jesus Christ. That's a good good friend. Have you told others not the Holy Scriptures, what they teach? Have you told others the Holy Scriptures teach that you're either a saint or you ain't? That's simple. You either turn or you burn. It's just that simple. Everyone's either going to reject or they're going to rejoice over the glorious truth. It's just that simple Those who really possess the truth that is found in Christ the Lord alone will profess that truth to others. Are you a good friend? That's a good friend. That you share with others that Christ alone is the answer for this God apparently forsaken world. Let's pray. Father, we thank you this day that even through the wickedness of Jonadab, the wickedness of Ammon and Absalom. There are great truths there that shine out, lessons for us to comfort us, to guide us. to renew our souls and and they must they must be grasped and they must be shared with those that we call our friends. That the foolishness not continue. We ask all this in the name of our great God and Savior, Jesus the Christ. Amen.