Well, we're going to look at what I consider to be one of the most important topics actually in all of Scripture, and it's the Day of Atonement. The Day of Atonement. So if you will, turn to Leviticus 16 Leviticus chapter 16, I'm going to read select verses. I'm going to go through the first 17 verses of it. I'm going to skip ahead to verse 34 the last verse in it as well. So I'm going to read those passages and then I'm going to go to the book of Hebrews. Now if you've got little bookmarks for your Bible or two nice thumbs Keep one in Leviticus 16 as I read that, and then we're going to go to the book of Hebrews because we will be going back and forth between the two. And uh I'm going to to read that historical context. You know, this subject is important because we read, for instance, in the book of Corinthians, that Christ died for our sins according to the scriptures. His death, his sin atonement on the cross was according to the scriptures. And in Romans 5 it says, We joy in God through our Lord Jesus Christ, by whom we have now received the atonement. There are churches that name themselves the Church of the Atonement or the Atoning, whatever. I mean that's it is a reasonably well-known word in Christendom. But ironically enough that word only appears three times in the New Testament. Only three times. It's twice rendered reconciliation, and the only time you find that word atonement is in Romans chapter 5 and 5. However, in the Old Testament it's over um roughly eighty times And the book of Leviticus has it quite extensively. So the concept of the atonement is thoroughly anchored in the Old Testament. If you want to know what that word means, God has given you plenty of signs, shadows, symbols, and types and figures in the Old Testament to understand what it means. So that's why it's so important. For those who are scholars and like to compare Greek words with Greek words, you're at a loss in the New Testament because you don't have that much. You're not a total loss. But if you want a full picture, go to the Old Testament. And that's what we're going to do right now. We're going to look at Leviticus 16 Beginning in verse one. And the Lord spake unto Moses after the death of the two sons of Aaron, when they offered before the Lord and died, this is uh his two sons that offered strange fire, and God slew them And the Lord said unto Moses, Speak unto Aaron thy brother, that he come not at all times into the holy place within the veil. before the mercy seat which is upon the ark, that he die not, for I will appear in the cloud upon the mercy seat. So prior to this time as a high priest he could go in often into the Holy of Holies, but after his two sons Did a violation of what God said. He said, nope, only once a year can you come in. So God had put a prohibition, and that was the time when that occurred And now here's the directions as to what he's to do when he does appear within the veil, inside the veil that's in front of the mercy seat. Thus shall Aaron come into the holy place. with a young bullock for a sin offering and a ram for a burnt offering. He shall put on the holy linen coat. He shall have the linen breeches upon his flesh. He shall be girded with a linen girdle And with a linen miter shall he be attired, notice that word linen being repeated a lot. These are holy garments, therefore shall he wash his flesh in water and so put them on. He's got to take a bath before he does this He shall take of the congregation of the children of Israel two kids of the goats for a sin offering, one ram, and one ram for a burnt offering. So he's also got two young goats. Verse 6. Aaron shall offer his bullock of the sin offering, which is for himself, and make an atonement for himself and for his house. And he shall take the two goats and present them before the Lord at the door of the tabernacle of the congregation. And Aaron shall cast lots upon the two goats. So you've got these two animals here, and he's going to cast lots And it turns out that one lot for the Lord, the other lot for the scapegoat. Aaron shall bring the goat upon which the Lord's lot fell, offer him for a sin offering So one has the lot that says, Your lot is to die, and that goat is burnt for sin offering. But the goat on the well he's he's killed for sin offering. There's a burnt offering, a sin offering. Sin was just killed, and the priest would later consume it. Then there's the other goat, known as the scapegoat. But the goat on which the lot fell to be the scapegoat shall be presented alive before the Lord to make an atonement with him and to let him go for a scapegoat into the wilderness Aaron shall bring the bullock of the sin offering which is for himself, shall make an atonement for himself and for his house, shall kill the bullock of the sin offering which is for himself, and shall take a censer full of burning coals of fire from off the altar before the Lord his hands full of sweet sweet incense beaten small, and bring it within the veil. And he shall put the incense upon the fire before the Lord, that the cloud of the incense may cover the mercy seat that is upon the testimony that he die not And he shall take of the blood of the bullock and sprinkle it with his finger upon the mercy seat eastward, and before the mercy seat shall he sprinkle of the blood with his finger seven times. All this very specific things that he's doing that are very curious and very distinct. Verse 15, then shall he kill the goat of the sin offering that is for the goat. Then he shall kill the goat of the sin offering that is for the people. and bring his blood within the veil, and do with that blood, as he did with the blood of the bullock, and sprinkle it upon the mercy seat, and before the mercy seat. So here's this blood being dripped on top of this holy golden box. It was just a box. And he's doing it in front of it as well. And he shall make an atonement for the holy place. It's very specific, it's an atonement for the holy place, because of the uncleanness of the children of Israel, and because of their transgressions and all their sins. So shall he do for the tabernacle of the congregation that remaineth among them in the midst of their uncleanness. And here's an interesting statement here There shall be no man in the tabernacle of the congregation when he goeth in to make an atonement in the holy place until he come out. And it made an atonement for himself, and for his household, and for all the congregation of Israel. And that's another interesting point. His atonement was very specific. It was a directed atonement At times it would be for himself. He had to have his sins purged so that the Lord would accept him. He would do it for the furniture, so that the furniture would be accepted before the Lord. And then he would make an atonement for his house Not his physical tent, but his people in his house, that they would be accepted. He's the federal head, he represents his house, and then for all the congregation. So the atonement was very specific. The last verse of the chapter says this. This shall be an everlasting statute unto you to make an atonement for the children of Israel for all their sins once a year. And he did as the Lord commanded Moses. So I've covered a lot of material, and I'm going to do the best effort as I can to start to unpack it, and I don't want to rush if I have enough for two days, so be it. We'll cover it that way because these are some very important concepts. We've been looking at pictures of Christ, and as we continue in this series, we are looking at pictures and types of Christ and the work and the ministry that he did I find to be so comprehensive and so full that no one illustration serves to capture all the aspects of everything our Savior did. It stands to reason. We are talking Almighty God. He can certainly chop a lot of wood in a very short period of time. He can um plow a pretty significant field. And plow he did. He certainly plowed the depths of our heart and paid for sins. This context that we read here is commented on at length. In fact, it is covered extensively in the book of Hebrews. So that's why I want you to keep your finger in Leviticus. And we're going to turn to the most amplifying and clarifying aspect for this in the book of Hebrews, and it's in the ninth chapter of Hebrews. So put a marker there Leviticus, we'll come back. But we're going to bounce around a lot in Hebrews, but this is the most amplifying passage because it speaks directly to what we just read. It's a direct corollary And it's with apostolic-inspired insight as to what's really going on. And we begin in chapter 9 and verse 6. It says this. Now, when these things were thus ordained, it's talking about the tabernacle, the table, the showbread, the holiest of all, the golden censer, all these the furniture. When these things were thus ordained The priests went always into the first tabernacle, accomplishing the service of God. There were other priests beside the high priest. We know that. There was one high priest and there were other priests. But into the second went the high priest alone once every year, not without blood. He had to have blood. He could not enter in without blood. If he entered in without blood, it wasn't accepted, it was a complete violation. He probably would have been struck dead on the Which he offered for himself and for the errors of the people. Alright, so he makes it very clear what we're referencing. Verse 8, the Holy Ghost, this signifying, alright, so there's our sign, there's our shadow, there's our type. He's giving us a sign that the way into the holiest of all was not yet made manifest, it wasn't revealed, it wasn't clear, while as the first tabernacle was yet standing. which was a figure. Now that literally is the word parable. Spartabolus. Which was a figure. It was a type. It was a shot. It was a parable. A living historical parable. They really did this, but they were acting something greater out Which was a figure for the time then present, in which were offered both gifts and sacrifices that could not make him that did the service perfect. Although he went in once a year, and every time he went in, even if he did it correctly, it didn't perfect him. It didn't perfect him as pertaining to the conscience. You see, it could deal with the external business, but it couldn't purge the conscience. The filth of sin, the external manifestation of sin, that was dealt with, but insofar as the conscience was concerned, the conscience of the heart, of the mind, of the soul, that could not be dealt with. Verse 10, which stood only in meats and drinks and diverse washings. We like to point out to our Baptist friend, that's the word baptisms, the diverse baptisms. and carnal ordinances imposed on them until the time of Reformation. Question. What do you think the time of Reformation was? What was the Reformation? Hint, not Martin Luther. It would be when Jesus went to the cross. Absolutely, yes. Yeah, that was the time of reformation, a reforming of things. And so it's a good rendering of the word. That was when Christ came. And we see that in verse 11. But Christ being common high priest of good things to come, by a greater and more perfect tabernacle, not made with hands, that is to say, not of this building. It's literally the word creation He's going to go to a better tabernacle, neither by the blood of goats and calves, but by his own blood he entered in once into the holy place, having obtained eternal redemption for us. So the book of Hebrews tells us that what Christ did was the fulfillment of what the Old Testament high priest carried out once a year. And so there's many aspects to that. Many, many aspects to that. The first I pointed out is I referenced the holy place, meaning the holy of holies. You see, the that inward Temple, alright, uh, was a cube. That Holy of Holies was a cube. With a little bit of calculation, we can deduce that the wilderness tabernacles, Holy of Holies, uh was about ten cubits by ten cubits by ten cubits. Not about, it was. Uh when the uh uh David's day And the temple was made. Uh or Solomon, David accumulated the material, Solomon built it. That Holy of Holies, we know from uh the scriptures, says it was twenty cubits by twenty by twenty In Ezekiel, you read about one that's 40 by 40 by 40, but in the book of Revelation you read about one that's 12,000 by 12,000 by 12,00 And what God is illustrating there is that this number one is a perfect cube. It's perfect in all its dimensions. It has a plan, it has a purpose, but it was always a picture of heaven itself. that holy, perfect place where God dwells at. So that Holy of Holies was a picture of the very presence of God. That's where he would meet with the people of God. Is over the mercy seat. He would be there. That's where he would meet with them. You don't want to meet with God any place other than over the mercy seat, because if you met with him any place other than that, it was death. You see In Christ, God is love. Outside of Christ, God is wrath. And where you met with Christ, where you met with God was over the mercy seat. You had to have blood sprinkled and you would be accepted. The fact that this business of the Holy of Holies is a picture of God of heaven itself, even his very throne, we read from Psalm 11, the Lord is in his holy temple, the Lord's throne is in heaven. Notice he refers to it as his holy temple, and yet it says it's in heaven, it's his throne. And in Revelation we read, the temple of God was opened in heaven, and there was seen in this temple the ark of his testament. You wanna know where the Ark of the Covenant was? Or is now? It's in heaven. Quit looking for it here on earth, it's been destroyed. It ultimately abides in heaven. So that is that holy of holy place. That is really a figure, a earthly symbol of the very dwelling place and the very throne of God. That's what that typified. Back in Leviticus 16, you'll notice now, keep your hand in Hebrews, because we're going to come back to it, and we'll be back at Hebrews 2. But back in Leviticus 16, I want to start to point out different aspects of what we read. I went through that quickly because I want to give you the overview of where we're going, but there's so much in there that I want to kind of go back over and slowly pick up certain things. We looked at Holy of Holies, and that was a picture of God's very presence. Just the physical structure was illustrating this is where God Himself dwells, typifying that. In verse 3 of Leviticus 16, we see that only Aaron can come into that Holy of Holies. Though it was built and constructed, though it could be moved by other Levites, I believe the tribe of Kohat was the uh allotted the the the business of being the moving service. They're the ones that could move everything. They could There were little staves and little rings and they put a pole through it and they flipped it up and they moved this thing around. Same thing with the Ark of the Covenant. You know, they couldn't touch it with their hand, they had to put a stick through it and and transport it. Uzzah discovered what happens when you touch it in a way that you're not supposed to. He died. But only Aaron could come in there. It was a very special place. And, you know, there were other priests that would minister in the temple. Even so, Christ makes us priests who serve each other. We read in Peter, you're a chosen generation, a royal priesthood, a holy nation, a peculiar people. As servants of God, we believe and teach, and the Bible teaches, and the universal priesthood of believers. We don't need to go to a man. uh who is a dedicated office of priest, for him to make intercession for us, we can come directly, because as sons and daughters of God, we have access. We have access directly to God. There's that universal priesthood of believers. But in Leviticus, it says only the high priest could enter the Holy of Holies. And nine chapters of Hebrews very plainly declare Jesus Christ as our high priest, who alone has access to God. Nine chapters of Hebrews. You'd be amazed at how often God hits this specific point about Christ being our high priest. It's a big deal. You see, if your land didn't have a faithful high priest, you had no access to God. If you had no access to God, you had no way to make atonement. If you had no atonement, your sin stood before you, and if your sin stood between you and God, it did not go well for the nation. So it was a big deal for Israel to have a faithful high priest. You read, for instance, keep your hand in Leviticus, as I mentioned, we'll flip back and forth between this. But Hebrews 2. 17 says this It's the last couple of verses of Hebrews 2 speaking of Christ, wherefore in all things It behooved him, Christ, to be made, or strike that word made, to be likened unto his brethren, that he might be a merciful and faithful high priest. in things pertaining to God to make reconciliation for the sins of the people. Now that word make reconciliation, that's our word atonement. Catalogus. That's that word for atonement. Uh catalogue, excuse me. I'm not a Greek scholar. Um I look it up just like the other Greek scholars do. And after they've looked it up then they memorize what it is and they can stand up there and spout this stuff like they really know what they're talking about. Uh but the fact is we don't have pronunciation guides. So anyway, that is that word atonement. He made reconciliation to make atonement, for in that he himself has suffered being tempted, he is able to succor, to help, to comfort them that are tempted. Verse chapter 3, verse 1. Wherefore, holy brethren, partakers of the heavenly calling, consider the apostle Consider the high priest of our profession, Christ Jesus. There's your second reference. He's that high priest. Skip to chapter 4, verse 14. Seeing then we have a great high priest that has passed into the heavens, Jesus the Son of God. Let us hold fast our profession. We have a high priest. Chapter 5, verse 5. So also Christ glorified not himself to be made a high priest, but he that said unto him, Thou art my son, this day have I begotten thee. Later thou art a priest forever. Hebrews 6. 19, entereth into that within the veil, whether the forerunner is for us, entered Jesus, being made a high priest forever after the order of Melchizedek. Again and again and again it keeps hammering this point. It's in chapter seven, for such a high priest became us. Chapter 8, verse 1, we have such a high priest set on the right hand of the Throne of Majesty. Chapter 9. Christ beingcome a high priest of good things to come by a greater and more perfect tabernacle. We read that earlier. Chapter 10, having a high priest over the house of God. Again and again and again, the book of Hebrews is very excited about the fact that Jesus Christ is that high priest. And if he's that high priest, that means he entered into the presence of God for us. That's what that holy of holies typified. And only he could do it. Only he could do it. Only he had access, and only he could make reconciliation, atonement for the sins of the people. We get back to Leviticus 16. That's a glorious point. I like the fact that we actually have a successful high priest. Muhammad doesn't fit in here. Muhammad doesn't have access. God won't accept Muhammad. If God would kill the two sons of Aaron just for dare coming into the temple with the wrong incense, how much less would somebody with a wrong gospel, a wrong message, a wrong heritage, a wrong lineage And altogether defiled, be considered to be accepted before God. Can't happen. Confucius won't get it. It doesn't matter how smart you are. You had to be born of this lineage. They're not the right lineage. Sorry. God doesn't accept that. Jesus Christ is the Son of God, being God, and therefore is of the right lineage. He's accepted. The Father accepts him. You see this narrowness. The the atonement is actually quite narrow. Yes. Wouldn't that also include the begotten of God? We have to also be begotten of God. Because nobody else is begotten of God, huh? Right. Yeah, he was the only begotten of the Father. Absolutely. Now what's also important about this high priest that God is going to illustrate here in this Day of Atonement, this one special day that the priest would go in As we read back in Leviticus 16 and verse 4. Again, keep your hand in Hebrews because we're going to come back to that. Leviticus 16, 4, I want to ask you, ladies, something. I want you to tell me about a special fabric. Some of you here are seamstresses. Some of you here know something about material and cloth. What is a special kind of fabric? What if you're going to make a special um article of clothing or maybe something to or uh as an uh uh uh as an ornament or something of that nature. I'm I'm not a seamster so I don't know the correct terms. What's a special kind of fabric? I would think of an inner Silk. Silk? Silk. Silk is nice, right? Silk is good because it's very smooth. You could it it holds very colors very vibrantly. And they have silk then. Oh sure, yeah. Mm-hmm. Yeah. Silk would be special. What's another special fabric? What's something that would keep you warm? Wool. Even to this day the US military issues wool clothing to its soldiers because it's the only known natural material that can still keep you warm even when it's wet. It has a unique property to it But what do we see that the high priest was clothed with? In verse four, all over the place it said linen. He said a linen garment. What's special about linen? Keeps you uh cold. Keeps too juicy. Yeah, it doesn't really keep you too terribly warm. You use linen It doesn't wrinkle, though. It does wrinkle. It does wrinkle. Yeah. It's not the clothes you get, Jim. It's not the wrinkle free stuff. This ain't the uh Nordstrom's easy care stuff. All right, but we're not talking about that. Um, it doesn't make you sweat. Well if you work in it it will. If you get to working. It's breathing. It's sorta breathable, but yeah, it stinks. Yeah, bacteria. White? Yeah. I would submit to you that really nothing's special about linen. The cheapest cloth you'll put on your say tablecloth will be a linen tablecloth, right? You can wash it, it's a beater. My point is that linen really isn't the top rank garment. It's a very base garment. It's a very simple garment. It's very Uh if you're going to go to a wedding and you give the bride a linen the poor people can afford linen. Even poor people can afford linen. Yes. It's the cheapest of material, and that's the point here The high priest isn't going in dressed up like an Orthodox priest. He doesn't have all this golden ornate stuff on. He's in some real simple clothing. You remember our Savior took a and girded himself with a cloth, but even more basic than that. was the Son of God came in human flesh. He came in he came clothed in human flesh. Very simple, very common, nothing special. He looked just like any other ordinary human being. And so in fact you read in chapter 2 of Hebrews, chapter 2 and verse 14 For as much then as the children are partakers of flesh and blood, he also himself likewise took part of the same. In other words, Jesus Christ became man in the flesh, begotten of God and begotten of Mary. Corinthians uses this language, though not speaking of Christ, it says in 2 Corinthians 5, for in this we groan, earnestly desiring to be clothed upon with our house which is from heaven. You see, we are in a body that basically clothes us. It's our house. And when someone dies and you come up to that casket, uh, if you have those types of funerals or you've been to those types The person isn't there, you say they've sprung free, the bird has left the nest, or other illustrations that are made. That real person is no longer there. That was just their earthly housing. You can also think of it as their earthly clothing. They were clothed with human flesh. Even so the Son of Man came clothed in human flesh. Very simple, basic flesh. It wasn't exotic. It was functional. It was functional. It worked. What's interesting is we then get to the sin offerings back in Leviticus, and this one is quite exciting. God multiplies his figures quite a lot here in Leviticus 16. We've already seen from the book of the ninth chapter of Hebrews that those things were parables. They signified. They were indicators. And all that Christ did in his work of salvation, his greatest work of atonement, has so many aspects to it. And the first is this that I want to point out. It was the sin and the burnt offerings. And these are really spectacular. Christ'Atonement addresses three requirements for salvation, three requirements in these offerings that Aaron, the high priest, had to bring in. The first is you had a ram or a bull for a burnt offering. A burnt offering. Now, when they did the burnt offering, this wasn't just a steak on the grill that went a little too far. It went a whole lot far. It roasted the animal in its entirety. It was totally consumed. There was nothing left. Nothing left. It would be totally consumed. Alright? And it was burnt on an ever-burning altar. So when he gives them the instructions to burn this bull on the altar, Turn now to Leviticus 6. Again, keep your hand in 16. Hopefully get a thumb or another bookmark in Hebrews Leviticus 6 describes this altar on which the bullock would be offered, and we read about it beginning in verse 12. It says, the fire upon the altar shall be burning in it. It shall not be put out. And the priest shall burn wood on it every morning. And lay the burnt offering in order upon it, and he shall burn thereon the fat of the peace offerings. The fire shall be ever burning upon the altar, it shall never go out. The dimensions of this are interesting. It was five cubits by five cubits, so it was a square, but it was three cubits high, a cubit being a foot and a half. It means it's roughly seven and a half by seven and a half by five and a half feet tall. So this is a pretty good sized. Altar that's always burning big enough to put a whole animal on. But it was always burning And this is picturing, I believe, eternal damnation. It's a picture of hell. The fire that's never quenched. It never goes out. And that bull upon whom the sins of the people are imputed, for him, he has to endure eternity of hell. That's a picture. That's how God would picture that. He has to bear that. That's what's required to pay for your sins. Only one aspect suffering the eternal penalty of hell. That's one aspect. You know, our God, it says, is a consuming fire. And I'm beginning to appreciate this more and more and more in the scriptures about what it means to be in the presence of a holy God. People have this idea that so and so anytime some pervert Hollywood star dies, always in a better place. Oh, he he's gonna keep God happy with his jokes. Oh, he's gonna, you know, all this pagan idea Do you understand that the fire of God, his mere presence, he is so pure, so holy, that I believe he is basically pure light Take the heart of the sun and ramp it up a thousand fold. That's who he is. He is pure energy, pure life. He is holy. There's no darkness, not a stitch or an ounce of darkness, no shadow of turning Who can dwell with everlasting burnings? How can you approach unto the sun and not yourself be scorched? Can human clay do it? Can anything vile do it? It won't happen. He is of a physical, moral, spiritual, eternal character quality that is absolutely picture perfect. Gold can approach that, though it'll boil But it won't burn off. Silver can, precious stones can. Wood hand stubble, not a chance. Not a chance. And when Daniel's three friends were thrown into the fiery furnace, They were tossed in. The men getting near were killed. And yet, lo one walking in the midst, brighter than the flame that was there. Saying I can drive all this stuff away. And they were protected. That's who your God is. He's an everlasting consuming fire. And so it's no surprise that all will bow the knee before him. And when the wicked come before him, they are destroyed. As it says in Matthew, Depart from me ye cursed into everlasting fire. Ye shall go into everlasting punishment. The picture of God, the sight of the Lord, was like devouring fire on the top of the mount in the eyes of the children of Israel when he came down at Mount Sinai. That's where God is. And every eye shall see him, and melt out of its socket. They will see him. So that's the Bram of the burnt offering. They've got to deal with the penalty phase of it, and that has been dealt with. Then there's these very curious two goats that are brought forth. And a little bit of a roll of the dice, it wasn't dice, but casting lots as it were. And one is going to be offered as a sin offering And I would point out to you as we look in Hebrews 9. 26 that all sins in fact do come before God. Make no mistake. They all shall find their destiny here. God lets you walk a broad road of destruction while you're here in this life, if you're not one of his. He'll keep you on the straight and narrow if you're one of his. He'll hedge you in, he'll afflict you, he'll chasten you. Don't go there, whack, whack, whack, not over here, whack, whack, whack. You know, he'll yank your chain. The word of the Lord is uh is a cudgel. But for the wicked, the rod of God is not upon them. They're not corrected. Go wherever you want. Walk in the sight of your eyes. Do what you want. Know this. God will require all your iniquities. All sins come before God. Hebrews 9. 26 says this For then must he have suffered off often have suffered since the foundation of the world, but now once, in the end of the world, that word world is Ion, era or epic Has he appeared to put away sin by the sacrifice of himself, and as it is appointed unto men once to die, but after this the judgment, so Christ was once offered to bear the sins of many. He came to bear those sins. He was consumed. He said, except you eat the flesh of the Son of Man and drink his blood, you have no life in you. You have to partake of him, his life or yours. The penalty phase of eternal damnation paid for. The sin phase paid for, all the sin debt covered. And then there's another marvelous picture. And that is the scapegoat. The English language in the American culture is so embedded with biblical words because our founding fathers knew the Bible. They wanted the Bible used and to be read and taught. And they used many biblical phrases. And even to this day we still use the term scapegoat. And it is uniquely a Biblical Old Testament Judeo-Christian idea, and the concept was fascinating. Because what would happen is the scapegoat is the one who would be uh taken, bound up, put in the hand of a fit man, and carried off into the wilderness in a dry place on a long journey and let go in the wilderness. Now if you've ever been out into wilderness desert areas. I lived in San Diego County for 13 years. Just east of there would be the deserts of Anza Barrago where Joshua Tree was and other places. And you go a little distance over the hills And lo and behold, you got a desert. A lot of cactus. No clouds. Very dry. Sort of pretty in its own way. Very hot during the day, very cold at night And if you're not a lizard, a tiny little mouse, a horny toad, you ain't going to live in the desert, let alone a goat. It's a dry and parched area. And that too is a picture of hell. A dry and parched land, a land that's far away. And he's put in the hand of a fit man who drags him there. You're taken there whether that goat wants to go or not. Come with me, you're going. Bleeding the whole way. His little little old tiny paws scraping against the dirt. You're coming. You're going. And you see in Matthew 22, Jesus gives the parable. Then said the king to the servants, bind him hand in foot and take him away and cast him into outer darkness. There shall be weeping and gnashing of teeth. I'm sure that scapegoat was bleeding the whole time. But that's your substitute. That's your substitute. Cast ye the unprofitable servant into outer darkness. There shall be weeping and gnashing of teeth. That's the scapegoat. That's the substitute. All of that depicting what is satisfied. By the hand of a substitute. And all three of those pointing to exactly what Jesus Christ did for all those who put their faith and trust in him. That's what he did. He was that scapegoat. He was taken, carried away. My God, my God, why have you forsaken me? He was the one offered as a sin offering. He was the one burnt as a burnt offering. Not physically, but all that God required, all that God required had been accomplished at his hands. Then we go back to the elements in the tabernacle. In Leviticus 16, I've got a few minutes left. I might be able to cross the finish line here. There were three things that were noted in verses 12 and 13 in the tabernacle. The first was the incense. He was to take this censor. And he would sprinkle incense on it. He took some burning coals and you put take a burning coal, something very hot, and the sensor so the coal doesn't burn your hand. And then you sprinkle this incense on it, it would send forth a sweet savor into the place You know, bloody animals, Gabriel and I go hunting and he likes to, you know, skin them and all that. And that smell when you first slice open an animal is a little gruelsome. And the incense is there. And it kind of covers things. Psalm look at Psalm 141 in verse 2. Psalm 141 in verse 2 says this. It says, Let my prayer be set forth before thee as incense, and the lifting up of my hands as the evening sacrifice. You see, the prayers of God's people are to God in that Holy of Holies like incense. They're actually sweet-smelling. God likes to hear from his children. Those of you who have had children and know at a time when they're little, the first child comes and it kind of starts to make a crack on that old hard heart. The second one comes and shatters it. The third one, you're just butter. You're just butter. At least it was for me when I was a hardened old engineer. And you're just delighted with your children. You just you want to come home. You want to hear them. You want to hear their babbling. You want to hear, maybe not so much their cries at times, but it's okay to hear them. That was acceptable to you If you're a loving parent, you see, and God the Father desires to hear the prayers of his people. But the one whose prayers are always acceptable to him are those of Jesus Christ. He comes in, and it says in Romans that Christ died, yea, rather is risen again, who is even at the right hand of God, who also maketh intercession. For us. That incense continually goes before God, even now, as His prayers continue to fill Him. And our requests go to Him, and that incense just burns. And there's imagery given in the book of Revelation and some of the other passages that make reference to that as that incense coming up, filling filling that altar, filling that temple. There was also the veil. The Holy of Holies was separated by a veil. And it was very thick. And it separated, and that high priest could only enter into that veil once a year. And it was a veil. The veil hid that way. And we read in Hebrews 10 that it was Jesus' flesh that basically hid his glory. His glory was veiled. We sing about it in one of the hymns. Veiled in flesh the Godhead see. Right? Isn't that uh he's veiled. Hebrews 10, 19 uh says this Hebrews chapter 10 and verse 19. Having therefore, brethren, boldness to enter into the holiest by the blood of Jesus by a new and living way, which he has consecrated for us, through the veil, that is to say, his flesh. His flesh was that veil. That's the thing that kept us from understanding and beholding the glory of God. You see, when The children of Israel beheld Jesus Christ come. Some said, can any good thing come out of Nazareth? Go search the scriptures and see. Others said this man could not. be a a prophet or do the things he did unless he were of God. There was a division among them because of it. They they didn't perceive, they didn't see it. It was veiled to them. It was mysterious. It was darkened That was Christ's flesh, that veiled. And also that mercy seat. Oh, this is the most fantastic part that mercy seat because Christ is our propitiation. Go to Luke 1813 because this is the third place in the New Testament where that word atonement or reconciliation shows up. Excuse me, it's not uh it's not the word atonement, it's propitiation. I apologize, I'm getting ahead of myself. Luke 18, 13. This is the parable. Not the parable. This is the account of the publican. I'll get my P words right in a minute here. Not the republican, the publican and the Pharisee. You know the account. Two men went in the temple to pray. But pay attention to what the publican says, and I want to point out some interesting points about this. Verse 13, publican standing afar off Would not lift up so much as his eyes unto heaven. He wouldn't even look up. He's just down, hanging his head, but smote upon his breast, saying, God, be merciful to me a sinner. Make reconciliation to me. Be propitious to me. That's what he's asking for. God, you be propitious to me. You make reconciliation. Christ is our propitiation. Romans 3 says God set forth Jesus to be a propitiation through faith in his blood to declare his righteousness for the remission of sins that are past. First John tells us God sent his son to be the propitiation for our sins. Those are two big words. Anybody know the difference between expiation and propitiation This is a tough one. Propitiation would mean to satisfy. So does expiation. Expiation does too, but it's something different in that. There is something very different. So let's kind of break it up. One's got the prefix X, the other's got the prefix pro. So in general, what does an X, EX prefix mean? We got some English teachers here. Out Okay, out, like X, exit. Pro is in. And pro is uh in or for. Yep, you're for proponent, you're for something. And that's really the sense of it. Expiation means The judge comes up, he says, okay, you've paid the fine, uh, yep, the the penalty's paid, you're good, you're you're dismissed. That's expiation. The sins are paid for The debt is paid for, go your way, you're fine. Nothing further. Nothing further. Propitiation says not only is the debt paid for But you've paid for it in such a manner that I want to adopt you into my family. What you've done has made me so favorably disposed to you that I want to go above and beyond. I I want to it's an offering that is superabundant. It is a it is a way that makes God actually favorable to you. It's not that he's just no longer not angry But he's not angry and he is favorably disposed towards you. You're adopted. You're embraced. You're held in his hand. That's the difference. That's the difference. So don't hang on or don't believe anybody preaching that word expiation. He made a propitiation because what Christ did made the Father very very, very favorably disposed towards us. Big difference. I'm really glad to hear you kind of break that down, the difference between the two. Because in the days preaching, you get a lot of times they'll say the propitiation. You don't need the big words. You don't need used words like propitiation and in other words kind of dumb it down. Yeah, no thank you. You know, why not as you explained it That's hallelujah. Thank you, Jesus just explains it. So why would you say you don't have to know those type of words to dumb it down to just use your own version of what you want to say? Is and sometimes I wonder if is it laziness and I agree, I agree that it probably isn't a lot of cases. Or just not dumbing down, just that that you can handle the congregation better when they're dumbed down. It could be a mixture of a few things, you know. Um Ben's mentioned the courtroom scenario where someone's paid the price, but they're still considered next con. Yes. But in propitiation, the records are spunged. And placed on an honorable list and a statue made in your honor. Right. Right. Yep, good good point. I'll try to wrap this up. Thank you, Jim, for that. You're correct, but I I I do trust that was a benefit. Hebrews 9, the sprinkling of the blood on the mercy seat, you know, Christ's blood, his life was offered on our behalf. It says in Hebrews 9 That Christ is not entered in the holy place made with hands, figures of the true, but in the heaven itself to appear in the presence of God for us. He's appeared to put away sin by the sacrifice of Himself. This is where the figures are multiplied in the book of Leviticus. He's that high priest, he is that burnt ram. He is that sin offering goat. He is that scapegoat. He is the mercy seat. His blood is sprinkled. You see how the types and the figures are multiplying? He is in all of that. Right? He is accomplishing all that is required for your salvation. Right? All of it And this is but one of many pictures of what your salvation required and what was accomplished on his behalf. And the last point is that he was alone. Aaron was alone. You know, he had by himself purged our sins. There was no help. A lot of time you would read the temple was built and it would be an altar made of stones, but don't put your hand to it. Don't chisel it They're not going to be sound of any work in that temple. You you just put it there, don't put your hand to it. God insists, I don't want your contribution to this business of my salvation. I don't want it It will be inadequate. It's insufficient. If you put your hand to it, it's unacceptable. It's defiled. I won't have it. Do you see how much you need Jesus? Amen. Do you see how there is no other substitute? That there is no other way That all others are absolute counterfeits and they will not be accepted by God? I hope this lesson helps underscore that point. Jim, would you close us in prayer? Two minutes