Turn in your Bibles with me this morning to the book of Colossians and to the first chapter of Colossians. And actually we're going to have three brief scripture readings this morning. One from Colossians chapter 1 and then over to Colossians chapter 2. And then finally a brief reading in John chapter 1. So give you a moment to find your place in Colossians chapter 1, and then we'll have prayer and go into our scripture reading. Let us pray. Gracious Father, now as we approach the Holy Word of God, may your Spirit illumine our hearts. May we rejoice in the glories of Christ, in that which is committed to him by the Father. And then, Father, may we rejoice, be encouraged, and be equipped to serve you As we consider how the things entrusted to Christ are made quick and alive to the souls of thy believers through thy truth. Bless thy truth to us, we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. If you have your place now in Colossians chapter 1, our first script for reading will be verses 16 through 19 of Colossians 1. Colossians 1, verse 16. For by him were all things created that are in heaven and that are in earth visible and invisible, whether they be thrones or dominions or principalities or powers, all things were created by him and for him And he is before all things, and by him all things consist. And he is the head of the body, the church, who is the beginning, the firstborn from the dead that in all things he might have the preeminence. For it pleased the Father that in him should all fullness dwell And then go over to chapter 2, and there we're going to read just verses 9 and 10. Colossians chapter 2, verse 9. For in him, that is in Christ, for in him dwelleth all the fullness of the Godhead bodily. And ye are complete in him, which is the head of all principalities and powers. And then keep your ribbon from your Bible or your bulletin or something in Colossians. We'll come back there. But now turn back to the Gospel of John, John chapter 1. And here we'll read just four verses. The first chapter of the Gospel of John, beginning in verse 14. And the word was made flesh and dwelt among us. And we beheld his glory, the glory as of the only begotten of the Father, full of grace and truth. John bare witness of him and cried, saying, This is he of whom I spake. He that cometh after me is preferred before me, for he was before me. And of his fullness have all we received. And grace, for grace. For the law was given by Moses, but grace and truth came by Jesus Christ. I have an outline this morning, but my outline basically is scriptures that we will consider together But if we were to break down what I want us to take to heart this morning, we would say that we begin with amplification and then end with application What is amplification? Well, in the first instance, we think of to amplify means to make something louder. I don't have any problem with that. I've always had good amplification. Uh my mother could testify to that when I was three, but I've always been able to amplify One of the young girls in Jamaica once said to me, Pastor Joe, your throat can't preach. And by that she meant I wasn't loud enough. And I kind of looked at it and thought, I don't get it. In one sense, we amplify something. We understand to turn up the knob, we make it louder. And that is what we are to do with the truth. We're to shout it louder. Our candle is always to be set on a candlestick. We're a city set on a hill. But also to amplify means to take a kernel of truth and to expand on it. Someone amplifies on an account. They give more the account Someone amplifies on a truth. They explain the truth, and the truth becomes visible and seen. And so, in the first instance, we're going to amplify the glories that are entrusted to Jesus Christ, the second person of the Trinity by God the Father, the first part of the Trinity. But then after looking at what it means that all the fullness of the Godhead dwells in Christ bodily Then we're going to apply that. What does that mean to us as believers today living in a dark, deaf world? Where Christ, the vial is to be turned up. And where Christ, the story, is to be spread abroad. God. And so we find in our text, first of all, that, this is in Colossians 1 verse 19, it pleased the Father, that in him should all fullness dwell. God the Father was pleased To place and manifest the fullness of the Godhead in Jesus Christ. Jesus Christ is in no sense a lesser God or a second God or a copilate God. Jesus Christ is the fullness of God. He is the fullness of the Father, and he was always the Father's delight, we find in the book of Proverbs. In Isaiah 42 in verse 1, God says, Behold my servant whom I behold, mine elect in whom my soul delighteth. God the Father expresses delight in the Son. And it pleased the Father. God the Father was pleased that all this fullness dwell in him. And then we note also that it was in him. This fullness of God the Father, that is expressed in God the Son, and in which God delights, is not simply talking about Jesus Christ as the Creator before, but we find in the other passage that the fullness dwells in him bodily. And so this fullness is found in Christ. What are the fullnesses of God the Father that are found in God the Son? How long do you have? How long is our service today? If we were to enumerate them all, we would be here till next Sunday. So I'm going to take just five of them this morning. And the first one I'd like us to see is that the fullness of God dwells in the second person of the Trinity in creation. Look there at verse 16 of Colossians 1. Colossians 1 and verse 16, for by him were all things created that are in heaven and that are in earth, visible and invisible. Whether they be thrones or dominions or principalities or powers, all things were created by him and for him Jesus Christ, the second person of the Trinity, who we find expressed in the Old Testament as the angel of the Lord. Who we find expressed in the Old Testament as Jehovah Himself, this second person of the Trinity. who is inseparable from God the Father, and yet is wonder of wonders, distinct from God the Father, though they are inseparably one. Is the agent of creation, and all things were created by Jesus Christ. But that's not the end. They were created for Jesus. Christ. They're created by him and for him. In Proverbs 16, verse 4, the Lord hath made all things for himself. Yea, even the wicked, for the day of evil. All things are created by him, and all things are created for him. And so in the verses we did not read there in John 1, we find that in the beginning was the Word. The Word was with God, the Word was God. All things were made by Him. And so think about this. The creating fullness of God the Father dwelt in God the Son, the Creator, bodily. Which means that Jesus Christ, who dwelt in flesh, was the same God who created flesh. What? No, you're not drawn. He created this flesh. Jesus Christ created the temple. That he said to the wicked, destroy this temple, and in three days I'll raise it up. Well, he made the body in which he dwelt. And if the wicked crucified that body, did that mean they had done away with Christ? Jesus Christ created the tree that provided the wood that made the cross. Jesus Christ created the cow that provided the hide, that became the leather that made the scourge. All things were made by him, and they were made for him. They were made for his purposes He created the hand mouth and mouth. Okay, here. I'm He created the mouth and gave the mouth the moisture that spit in his face. That one sounded really good when I put it in my notes and I messed it up when I read it. He created the mouth and gave that mouth moisture, and that mouth spit in his face. And so we find that the fullness of creation had dwelt in Jesus Christ. But then, secondly, when we talk about the fullness of God the Father dwelling in Christ, we find that the fullness of authority is committed to Jesus Christ. And we look again. there at our text in verse 16 of chapter 1 of Colossians. And the last phrase, whether there be thrones or dominions, or principalities or powers, all things were created for him and by him All powers and authorities were created for him to have authority over them, were created for his will. He created the visible and the invisible And he has authority over them. He created the thrones and dominions, and he has authority over them. He created the principalities and powers, and he has authority over them. And so in Matthew 28 and verse 18, Jesus Christ spake unto them, saying, All power is given unto me in heaven and in earth And when Christ says, all power is given to me, certainly we know that he could heal the blind, he can make the lay man walk, he can turn water into wine, he could do all these miracles. But that word power is not the word we find in Acts where we see that ye shall receive power. But rather, when Christ says, all power is given unto me, it's the word authority. All authority is given unto me. In Matthew seven and verse twenty-nine. For he taught them as one having authority and not as the scribes. It's the same word power he taught with authority. And in Mark chapter 1, verse 27, for with authority he commanded even the unclean spirits, and they do obey. He has all authority over all things. When Christ was before Pilate in John 19, then said Pilate unto him, Speakest thou not unto me? Knowest thou not that I have power to crucify thee. And that's the word authority. I have I have authority to do this. I can do this, and no one's going to say a thing about it. It wasn't just that he could command the soldiers, but he he had the authority to do it. And to crucify thee and have power to release thee. Verse 11 of John 19, Jesus answered, Thou couldest have no power at all except it were given thee from above. Christ says to Pilate, you could have no authority over me unless that authority were granted thee. And so all authority is committed to Jesus Christ. He is indeed the ruler. He is indeed the one who can command all men everywhere to repent. In the Old Testament, in Daniel chapter 7, we find these words, verses 13 to 14. I saw in the night vision, and behold, one likened to the Son of Man came with the clouds of heaven, and came to the ancient of days, and they brought him near before him And there was given unto him dominion and glory and a kingdom and all people, nations, and languages shall serve him. His dominion is an everlasting dominion, which shall not pass away, and his kingdom, which shall not be destroyed. Here is Jesus Christ. And he is a babe in Bethlehem. He's wrapped in swaddling clothes, and yet he has authority over Over all the earth. Here is a twelve year old son boy in the temple. And the scribes, the late leaders, they are amazed at his wisdom and his knowledge. And yet his parents come along and read that he was subject to them. He went with them. And yet all authority was given to him. This is the one who said, Come unto me, all ye that labor and are heavy laden, and folks, it was not an invitation, it was a command. That's right. Come unto me, all ye that labor are heavy laden, and I'll give you rest. Look unto me and be ye saved, all ye ends of the earth, for I am God. And there is none else. You see, all authority was committed to him because all things were made by him and for him. He is the ruler. He chose. To subject himself to human flesh. And he chose to be subject to his parents. But all authority is given to him. In the New Testament, we read in 1 Peter 3 and verse 12 who's going in uh who is gone into heaven. and is on the right hand of God, angels and authorities and powers being made subject to him. But then in John 17 verse 2, as thou hast given him power, hence the word authority, as thou hast given him authority over all flesh, that thou should give eternal life to his many. as thou hast given him. And so we find, first of all, that the fullness of God in creation is found in Christ, and the fullness of the Father in authority is found in Christ. But the third one I want us to consider is that the fullness of eternity is invested in Jesus Christ. Look back to our text there in Colossians 1. And verse 17. Colossians 1 and verse 17, and he is before all things, and by him all things consist. In other words, by him all things had their beings. All things were. He's before them. He is the eternal God. In the beginning was the Word. The Word was with God. And the Word was God. In the Old Testament, Isaiah 43, verse 11 and following, I even I am the Lord, and beside me there is no Savior. I have declared and I have saved. I have showed thee when there was no strange God among you Therefore ye are my witnesses, saith the Lord, that I am God. Yea, before the day was I am He, and there is none that can deliver out of my hand. I will work, and who will let it? God will do that which he pleases. And then again, John 17, verse 5. And now, O Father, glorify me with thine own self, with the glory which I had with thee before the world. was. The fullness of all eternity is f found in Jesus Christ the Son. He is from everlasting to everlasting. He is the Alpha and the Omega. How many of you woke up this morning? Okay, I see I see all the hands. S maybe some of you haven't woke up yet, so I don't see your hands. But uh We woke up this morning. Why did we do that? Well the sun came up. That's one reason. Uh my my uh son is is in the basement room right now because his bedroom is otherwise occupied and there's no windows in that room. And he mentioned how well he sleeps in that room because the sun doesn't shine in in the morning. He does you know. We are creatures of time. We are bound by time. We all have birthdays, folks. We're all getting older. These bodies are aging. We all have some kind of timepiece, either on our wrist or on our phone. We are regulated by time because time is our frame of reference. God's eternal. Jesus Christ is not limited by time as we are A thousand years or as a day, and a day is a thousand years. The sun rises at his command, but we read in heaven there'll be no need of the sun, because he's the light thereof. You see, the sun is an element of time. And when we pass into eternity, we are free from time. But Jesus Christ was always free from time. And yet we all know how much babies sleep. He was born in flesh and became subject to time and yet he is the Lord of all eternity. Until the fullness of time is committed to him. Number four. He is the fullness of sustainability. The fullness of sustainability. Look at back at Colossians 1 and verse 17. He is before all things, and by him all things consist. All things exist and continue because he is and because he controls them. All the forces of nature are at his command. In Sunday school this morning there was reference to Sodom and the fact that the the geologists will try to say that Sodom was just a volcano that that covered that area. And yet there's no volcano to be found And yet the evidence of God's hand are everywhere. Why? Well, because God controls those things. You see, we read that fire and brimstone fell on the land of Egypt as well. We find that hail came at God's command. We find God stopping the rain and God sending the rain. You see God controls all things. The climate and atmospheric conditions are under his control. Therefore, global warming is nonsense. I'll say it again. Global warming is nonsense. Oh, Pastor, how can you say something? The scientists off Well, no, I have more than scientists, I have the Word of God. Because Genesis eight twenty-two declares, While earth remaineth, seed time and harvest, and cold and heat, and summer and winter, and day and night shall not cease. They shall not cease. Those things will continue. And so I'm not worried about global warming now called climate change. Because God controls these things. Jesus has the fullness of sustainability. By him all things consist. Why is my heart beating? Well, because of bioelectrical impulses that cause um automatic nerve responses that cause muscle memory that makes my heart go to thump thump. No. My heart beats because God sustains it. There is this big bang, you see, that created the universe. No, no, he upholdeth all things by the word of his power. You see, he is the creator God. He made it, and therefore he likewise sustains it. And that is committed to the Son. He controls all things. That verse I made reference to is Hebrews 1 verse 3, to being the brightness of his glory, an express image of his person, and upholding all things by the word of his power. Why does the world consist? Because Jesus Christ keeps it going. So think about this, folks. Here's a baby in the manger. And he's holding it all together. Here is the Son of God on a cross. Why was there an earthquake when he was on the cross? Well, because he controls earthquakes. Why was the sun darkened when he was on the cross? Because he controls the sun, folks. Could he have turned the stones in the bread? Absolutely. He controlled stones. He reigned bread in the wilderness. He made hungry ravens give up their food. You ever see ravens fight over food? But here ravens bring food to the prophet of God. He controls it all. He sustains all nature. Seismic activity, human and annual animal life, crop production. It's all under his control. Within fifthally, and this is the last lease we're going to look at, and then we'll get on to we'll leave amplification and get on to application, the fullness of salvation. Is committed to Jesus Christ. And this one we're going to the passage there in John 1 that I read. The word was made flesh and dwelt among us. And we beheld his glory, the glory as of the only begotten of the Father, full of grace and truth. And in Hebrews 7, verse 24 and 25, but this man referring to Christ, but this man because he continues ever hath an unchangeable priesthood, wherefore he is able to save them to the uttermost that come unto him by come unto God by him, seeing he ever liveth to make intercession for them The fullness of salvation is him. Neither is there salvation in any other, for there is none other name under heaven given among men, whereby ye must be saved The fullness of salvation is found in Jesus Christ. And if the fullness of salvation is in Christ, then your works won't help. If the fullness of salvation is found in Christ, then another God won't do. If the fullness of salvation is found in Jesus Christ, you're totally empty without it. For it's in him, the fullness of salvation. For by grace are you saved through faith And that not of yourselves, it is the gift of God. And ye shall know the truth, and the truth shall make you free. I am the way, the truth. And the life, no man cometh to the Father but by me. The fullness of grace, fullness of mercy, fullness of sacrifice, and fulfillment of the law is all found in Jesus Christ. The fullness Of salvation is in him. And it dwelt in him bodily. I'd like to read to you From an old commentator that uh I found much blessing in. Don't agree with everything he says. I've I've been disappointed by him at times. But he's very eloquent in his expression. This comes from Adam Clark talking about the fullness of God the Godhead in Christ bodily. Listen closely with me as I read this paragraph. We have a Savior who is in no respect deficient in wisdom, power, and grace to redeem and save us There is nothing necessary to be done in our salvation which he is not qualified to do. There is nothing which we need to enable us to perform our duties, to meet temptations, and to bear trials which He is not able to impart. In no situation of trouble and danger will the church find that there is any deficiency in him In no enterprise to which she can put her hands will there be a lack of power in her great head to enable her to accomplish that which he calls her to do. We may go to him in all our troubles, weaknesses, temptations, and wants And may be supplied from his fullness. Just as if we were thirsty, we might go to an ocean of pure water to drink. All the fullness is in him. And folks, if all the fullness is in Jesus Christ, what else do we need? He created the world. He makes the crops to grow. He upholds us all things by the word of his power. Full and free salvation is in him. The authority is in him, and he is eternal. What shall it profit a man if he gained the whole world and lose his own soul? For the fullness of salvation is in this one. And so that is the first part of our message, which is the amplification. Turn up the volume and hear the glories of Christ. But now may we make application to ourselves, for we've seen that Jesus Christ is the fullness of creation. He is the fullness of authority. He is the fullness of eternity. He is the fullness of sustainability and the fullness of salvation. But now turn back to the passage in John chapter 1. Keep your finger on Colossians. We'll go back there as well. John chapter 1 and verse 16 And of his fullness have all we received And grace for grace. Have you received Jesus Christ? Does he dwell in you? Have you received the fullness of this water? Who while lying in a manger upheld all things by the word of his power While nailed to a cross, controlled the sun and made it dark, who caused an earthquake at his own creation. And then turn back to the passage in Colossians chapter 2, the second of our scripture readings from this morning. Colossians chapter 2, verses 9 and 10. For in him dwelleth all the fullness of the Godhead bodily, and ye are complete in him. Which is the head of all principalities and powers. And then you don't need to turn to this passage, but in Ephesians 1. And insert God the Father, and God the Father, though it's not in the scriptures, is what it's implied, and hath put all things under his feet, and gave him to be the head of all things to the church. which is his body, the fullness. The church is the fullness of him that filleth all in all. The church, which is his body, is the fullness of him that filleth all in all. Who is the church? A building with a steeple and bricks? No, the church is us. We are the church. The elect are the church. And the elect are the fullness of Christ who filleth all things in all. Let me pause here. We're not in the process of becoming God. There are multiple cults that will say, oh, we're all going to be gods in the next life. you know, have a harem of so many virgins and uh we're gonna we're gonna we're gonna all rule planets. The Mormons believe that that you all have your own planet I get enough problems living on this one. No, we're not saying that we're becoming God. That's not what we're saying at all. Don't misunderstand me. But hear the Paul the prayer of the Apostle Paul for the Church of Ephesus in Ephesians 3, that he would grant you, according to the riches of his glory, to be strengthened with all might By his spirit in the inner man, that Christ may dwell in your hearts by faith That ye might be rooted and grounded in love, may be able to comprehend with all the saints what is the breadth and length and depth and height and to know the love of Christ with passest knowledge, and ye might be filled with all the fullness. of God. Now what's all this mean? What do we take from this? Well first of all, Jesus Christ is the fullness of creation. And we by faith in him have received that fullness. Adam! Was created sinless. And when Adam was created, I was in his loins. The DNA of my makeup was in Adam in the garden We find in the account of Melchizedek that Melchizedek received tithes of Abraham, and the passage tells us that Levi, the priesthood, of Aaron, the Levites, the priesthood of Aaron, were in the loins of Abraham when he gave tithes to Melchizedek. Therefore, to make a long story short, Aaron is subject to the Christly priesthood. The point is this: Aaron was in the loins of Abraham when Abraham paid tithes to Melchizedek. I was in the loins of Adam when he sinned. And I sin with him. But Jesus Christ is the fullness of creation. And if any man be in Christ, he is a new creature. Old things are passed away. Behold all things are become new. And so I am created again. I was in the loins of my father Adam when he sinned, but I am in Christ, a new creature. Because my Messiah is the fullness of creation. Jesus Christ is the fullness of authority, and we are in him. Adam was given dominion over the earth. He was told to have dominion over the earth and to subdue it. In Genesis 1. 28. He was to subdue it. He was given authority over creation. But because of Adam's sin, he lost that authority. And now the lion became a vicious predator. Now the raptors, yeah, there were raptors. 6,000 thousand years ago. Not millions. Now they became vicious predators. Now the snake was a danger to him. Now the thorns grow up. Adam lost authority over creation. He lost authority But Christ has returned authority to the believer. First Corinthians chapter six, verse two. Do you not know that the saints So judge the world. Remember when we were talking about authority, it was talking about power. That power and authority. In Psalm 49, 14, we read of the wicked. The wicked like sheep, they are laid in the grave. Death shall feed on them. But the upright shall have dominion over them in the morning. And then again, Psalm 91:13, Thou shalt tread upon the lion and the adder, the young lion and the dragons. Shall thou trample under thy feet? That passage was talking first of all about King David, but then looking forward to the son of David, and it's given to us as well. For a read in the New Testament, Luke ten Behold, I will give you power to tread upon serpents and scorpions and over all power over the enemy, and nothing shall by any means harm you, notwithstanding, in that ye rejoice not that ye the Notwithstanding, in this rejoice, not that the spirits are subject unto you, but rather rejoice that their names are written in heaven. Folks, we have dominion over the earth. Can a lion kill me? Certainly. Certainly. But have you ever heard of stories of missionaries in great peril and God spared them? Terrier a guy named Daniel? See, Daniel had dominion over those lions. Oh yes, it was God's hand. But it was given to him. A dear friend of mine, a man who influenced me as a six-year-old and was greatly responsible for the Lord calling me into missions, into foreign missions told a story of a rogue elephant that was was in the Congo. Um it's not even called Congo anymore, but this rogue rogue elephant had killed many people. And he was one of the only people in the area with a with an elephant gun. And he went out and he shot this elephant, but it didn't kill it. and he hid under a log for eight hours while that elephant's ear brushed against his shoulder. The elephant could smell him but could not see him until the His shirt was gone and his shoulder was raw. He laid for eight hours perfectly still while the elephant's ear rubbed his shoulder until finally the elephant left. But he had dominion. But folks, what difference does that make? What value is there in man having dominion over the earth and subduing it through the power of Christ? There's more here. Folks, there's much more here. For consider this. Daniel 7, verse 22. Until the ancient of days came and judgment was given unto him. Sorry, let me read it properly. Daniel 72. Until the ancient of days came and judgment was given to him to given to Let me slow down. Unto the ancient of days came, and judgment was given to the saints of the Most High. And the time came that the saints possessed the kingdom. We have authority, folks. Remember when Christ spoke as authority and as one having authority and not as the scribes? Because we are in Christ, that authority is given to us. We declare to this age, thus saith the Lord. It doesn't matter, we're not snake handlers. But if God put us in a position like Paul was where the serpent, the adder, bit his hand and he shook it off into the fire, God could give us that power just as that missionary spoke of if he if he wanted to, but we don't need it. But God has committed authority to us. And then again in Matthew nineteen. Ye also shall sit in twelve thrones, judging the twelve tribes of Israel. Revelation 2, 26, and I will give him power over the nations. Since uh Revelation 3. 21, to him that overcometh will I grant to sit with me in my Father's throne, and on and on again. Jesus Christ has authority, and we are given authority as well. Let's move along quickly. Jesus Christ is the fullness of eternity. And we have received of that fullness. Adam was created the eternal soul, but he sinned. We are recreated in Christ. I give unto them eternal life, and they shall never perish, neither so any man pluck them out of my hand Jesus Christ is the fullness of sustainability, and we receive fullness in him. Adam failed to keep his first estate. Adam sinned. He failed But in Jude 1, 1 and verse 24, Jude, the servant of Jesus Christ, the brother of James, to them that are sanctified by God the Father. and preserved in Jesus Christ. I have sustainability because He sustains me I will not fall away. And then again in verse twenty-four of Jude, now unto him that is able to keep you from falling, Jesus Christ has the fullness of sustainability, and I in him have that same sustainability. Adam fell, but we are kept from falling. 1 Peter 1 verse 5, who are kept by the power of God through faith unto salvation, ready to be revealed at the last time. And then finally, Jesus Christ is the fullness of salvation. I have all the salvation I can tolerate. I have all the salvation I need. It's full and it's free. And so we read there in our text that of his fullness we have all received and grace for grace. One of our brethren delights to pray grace upon grace. And that's what it means. We have grace powered upon grace, powered upon grace. The word was made flesh and dwelt among us And we beheld his glory, the glory of the only begotten of the Father, full of grace and truth. And so in 1 Corinthians or 2 Corinthians 6 and verse 1, we find these words, we then as workers together with him beseech you That ye also receive not the grace of God in vain. We've received grace for grace. Folks, the fullness of God dwells in Christ. And we dwelling in Christ receive all the benefits of that fullness. For in him dwell all the fullness bodily. Folks, we have a great savior. Turn up the volume. Amplify it. Expand on the story. And then accept to ourselves the glory in which we live. For the spirits are subject to the church, and with authority we proclaim the truth of God. Let us stand for prayer. Father, we thank you for your grace and truth. Father, we thank you that your word is yea and amen. Father, we thank you that the message is not bound in the lips of the preacher, but your word is effective in all. Your word is not bound Father, take your word this morning and apply it to the hearts of your people for their edification and blessing. Father, indeed, may we proclaim the message Jesus Christ has come to save. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen