Open in your Bibles with me to the first book of the Bible, the book of Genesis, and chapter forty two And we're going to look at multiple scriptures this morning, but all in this same book. So it'll be easy for you to keep up as we turn from passage to passage. But for our scripture reading this morning, we're going to read Genesis 42, verses 29 through 36. And actually the 36th verse will be sort of our text for the morning. I had a dream the other night. I don't put stock in dreams. And after I tell you my dream, you won't put stock in dreams either. I dreamed I was standing at this pulpit. I dreamed we were in this room together, and I dreamed I had just finished the message, and I glanced at the clock on the back wall, and it was one o'clock And in my dream I apologize to the congregations for preaching so long. But I can tell you as a pastor it is a great blessing to preach to a congregation who never feels like I've preached too long. That's an indication of a hungry people. I've often said of buffets, but I've n never lost money at a buffet. Because when I go to a buffet I eat more money than they charge me to get in. This book before us is the precious Word of God. And so it is a delight to look into it in whatever time it takes to look into it well. If you have your place now, I'll start our reading in verse twenty-nine of chapter forty-two of Genesis. This, of course, is the brothers of Joseph when they come back from seeing Joseph who they did not recognize in Egypt. And they came unto Jacob their father, unto the land of Canaan, and told him all that befell them, saying The man, that man of course is Joseph, the man who is Lord of the land, spake roughly to us and took us for spies of the country. And we said unto him, We are true men, we are no spies. But we are twelve brethren, the son of our father. One is not, and the youngest is this day with our father in the land of Canaan. And the man, the Lord of the country, said unto us, Hereby shall I know that ye are true men. Leave one of your brethren here with me, and take food for the famine of your households, and be gone. And bring your youngest brother unto me, then shall I know that ye are no spies, but that ye are true men. So will I deliver your brother uh you your brother, and ye shall traffic in the land And it came to pass when they had emptied their sacks that behold every man's bundle of money was in his sack, and when both they and their fathers saw the bundles of money, they were afraid. And Jacob their father said unto them, Me have ye bereaved of my children. Joseph is not, and Simeon is not, and ye will take Benjamin away. All these things are against me. Let us bow for prayer. Father, we thank you for your precious holy word. May your spirit bless your word to our hearts this morning. May your spirit be the true preacher of truth to our hearts. And Father, may we rejoice in that truth. Teach us, Lord. There is so much for us to learn this morning. And we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. In verse thirty six we find the pitiful cry of Jacob. Joseph is not Simeon is not. Simeon's now a prisoner, a hostage in Egypt. And he will take away Benjamin. You're going to take away my youngest son. You're going to take away the only son I have left of my beloved wife. All these things are against me. Jacob is in crisis. Jacob is at a crossroads. And Jacob is crying to God against his circumstances. But how did Jacob get here? What has taken place before Jacob says, all these things are against me? And folks, I would submit to you that every one of us, at some time or another, and probably a lot of us at many times have looked at all the things that are going wrong in our lives at a particular time in that All these things are against me. And yet we're going to see that Jacob was one of the most blessed men that ever lived. We used to sing a little chorus song, There's sunlight in my soul today. And another one, walking in sunlight all of my journey, heavenly sunshine, heavenly sunshine. But folks, reality teaches us that the Christian life is not a bed of roses. I believe every one of us at some time would come to a point where we would say, in spite of all the blessings of God, all these things are against me. And so I would like to do a survey of Jacob's life. We're going to save the actual outline till later in the message and the application of that point. But what do we know about Jacob? Turn back with me to chapter 28 of Genesis. And in chapter 28, We find that Jacob has deceived his father. Jacob has dressed up in the clothes of Esau. Jacob has gone into his father and presented himself as being Esau. And Jacob, who is the younger brother, has received from his father Isaac The blessing, which by right should have been Esau's. But remember that Esau has sold his blessing to Jacob. And so now, because Esau has vowed to kill Jacob, Jacob has fled for his life. Jacob has run away from His brother. And we pick up our reading in Genesis chapter 28 and verse 10 And Jacob went out from Beersheba and went toward Haran and lighted upon a certain place and tarried there all night because the sun was set And he took the stones of that place and put them for his pillow and lay down in that place to sleep. And he dreamed a dream and behold. Now, as I continue reading to this passage, I want you to take note of the beholds. This word, behold, is found 1,298 times in our King James Bible. It's an arresting word. It's a word that means take note. It's a word that means listen to this. It's a word that means this is not something of no importance. Rather, this is something of great importance. And you better catch the importance. I continue reading there in verse twelve. And he dreamed a dream, and behold, a ladder set up on the earth. And the top of it reach to heaven, and behold the angels of God ascending and descending on it. And behold, the Lord, and you'll notice the Lord is all capitals, Jehovah, the Lord stood above it and said, I am the Lord God of Abraham, thy father, the God of Isaac. The land whereon thou liest, to thee will I give it, and to thy seed. And thy seed shall be as the dust of the earth, and thou shalt bread it spread abroad to the west and to the east and to the north, and to the south, and in thee shall all the seed seed shall and in sorry, and in thee and in thy seed Shall all the families of earth be blessed? That's the prophecy of Messiah. Verse 15, and behold I am with thee, and will keep thee in all places whither thou goest, and will bring thee again into this land For I will not leave thee until I have done that which I have spoken to thee of. And Jacob awaked out of his sleep and said, Surely, Jehovah, surely the Lord is in this place, and I knew it not. Now what has taken place? Well, Jacob has fled from his homeland. He's fled from his home itself. You see, everything that Jacob left behind belonged to him. Yes. He had just received the birthright. He inherited everything. Esau would get a piss. And Esau, when he went into his father Isaac, said, Is there not yet a blessing for me? But Jacob has received the bl the birthright. He's received the family farm and fortune. But now he's running for his life. And God says, I'm going to give you everything anyway. Jacob has fled from his mother as well. He will never see his mother again Jacob was the beloved son, but he has left his mother. Jacob goes from here to his uncle Laban. And his uncle Laban tricks him. On his wedding night, he finds out he's not marrying Rachel, he's marrying Leah. He's tricked. And so he works another seven years for Rachel. And then he works another six years for cattle. And his uncle tricks him again and again. He says, you change my wages ten times. And we talked about that ten times phrase in a message several months ago that it doesn't mean number nine and the number ten, but it literally means you change my wages perpetually again and again and again. You've cheated me at every step. Wait a minute! Are you telling me that Laban gets tricked on his wife, ends up working 14 years for his wives, and six years for cattle? But God was with him all the time? But God was promising all these blessings? Absolutely! Because we're going to see in the next passage that in spite of the problems, Jehovah acknowledges the goodness of God. Twenty years passes, and turn over to chapter 32 of Genesis. In chapter 32, we find that now Jacob is returning to his brother Esau. He doesn't probably know that his mom is dead. Probably expecting to see her as well, but she has died. And in chapter thirty-two and verse nine, and Jacob said, Oh God of my father Abraham The God of my father Isaac, the Lord which said unto me, return unto thy country and to thy kindred, and I will deal well with thee. I am not worthy of the least of all thy mercies, and of all thy truth, which thou hast showed unto thy servant. For with my staff I passed over this Jordan, and now I am become two bands. Folks, what's happened here? Jacob's had a hard time. He's been lied to. He's been deceived. He's been cheated. He's had false accusations made against him by Laban's sons who said, You stole away our father's cattle. You see, Jacob has gone through a 20-year period of horrendous trials and the greatest blessings at the same time. And Jacob said, I'm not worthy of any of your mercies, for I went over this Jordan and all I have is a stick. And now he's coming and he set divides his children and his wives into two groups. And we don't have time to read the passage, but you know the passage where the cattle And the oxen and the sheep and the camels all are sent by great bands ahead. God has blessed him abundantly. But then look down to verse 22 of the passage and following, starting in verse 22 of Genesis. And he rose up that night and took his two wives and his two women servants and his eleven sons and passed over the over the fort of Jaboth. And he took them and sent them over the brook and sent over sent over that he had And Jacob was left alone, and there wrestled a man with him until the breaking of the day And when he saw that he prevailed not against him, he touched the hollow of his thigh, and the hollow of Jacob's thigh was out of joint as he wrestled with him. And he said, Let me go, for the day breaketh. And he said, I will not let thee go except thou bless me And he said unto him, that's the angel, said unto him, What is thy name? And he said, Jacob. And he said, Thy name shall be called no more Jacob, but Israel. For as a prince hast thou power with God and with man, and hast prevailed. And Jacob asked him and said, Tell me, I pray thee, thy name. And he said, Wherefore is it thou? Dust ask after my name. And he blessed him there. And Jacob called the name of the place Peniel. For I have seen God face to face, and my life is preserved. Jacob has just sent his entire family and all the wealth he has accumulated across to his homeland. He owns all that all as well, but Esau now has it Jacob wrestles with a man. And we know by comparing scripture with scripture that he was wrestling with Christ himself. We know that from the book of Hosea. We know it from him saying, I have seen God face to face, and my life is preserved. He wrestled with God. But the significant point is this, his name is changed. He came across the brook as Jacob the Serplanter. But God has changed his name to Israel, a prince, a prince that hath power, a prince that hath prevailed. Now why is that tsunami? Folks, this is the birthright right here. You see, this is the day of Jacob's salvation. This is the day that he got his true birthright. This is the day that he is declared to be a child of God. God is his father. And his name is changed. God gives to his people a new name which no man knoweth. And Jacob asked the question, well, what is your name? And the answer is, why do you ask my name? Jacob Israel, you know who I am. Folks, doesn't it describe salvation? Isn't that the way you were saved? That you met Jesus Christ and you knew who he was No one had to tell you that this new relationship was with God because you knew it. Your whole life was transformed. Your whole understanding. We used to sing the chorus with a new name written down in glory, and it's mine. Oh yes, it's mine. Jacob on the pilot plane of Penil wrestled with God And he was transformed from a surplanter to a prince with God. But folks, this is all before he says all these things are against me. You see where we're leading back to. And so he passes over as one who has prevailed with God, one who has power with man. And his true birthright is given to him. He is now a child of God. And then his beloved wife, Rachel, dies. What? Wait a minute. Hold on a second. Isn't God supposed to bless him? Why does Rachel die? Rachel was the one that he won in the first place. He was tricked out of. He works another Four seven years for Rachel, fourteen years total. Rachel is barren. God graciously opens Rachel's womb. She has Joseph and now He's going to have a second son from his beloved wife, and she dies in childbirth. And folks, we would look at that and say it's not supposed to happen that way. You mean there are tragedies and heartbreaks in the life of those that are so blessed of God? You mean there are difficulties in the life of those who are promised that God will be with them and prosper them and give them the land? You mean there are problems in the lives of those that God says, none of my promises are ever going to fail you? Yes. I mean, not exactly. But the fact that we have heartaches doesn't mean the promises have failed. And then we read in Genesis 35, 19 and 20. You don't need to turn there, but I'll read those to you real quick. And Rachel died and was buried. In the way of Ephrath, which is in Bethlehem. And Jacob set up a pillar upon her grave, and that pillar is the pillar of Rachel's grave unto this day. Israel, Jacob raises up a pillar over his wife's grave. Folks, that's a mark of great mourning. We still celebrate that tradition today by grave markers. But that pillar was a mark of his exceeding grief. One of the most blessed men in the world also was a man of exceeding grief. And then we pick up the story again. And I promise you there will be an outline here at the end. In Genesis thirty-seven, if you want to turn over there, chapter thirty-seven of Genesis. I'll try to give you a little few more t moments to turn. I I cheat. I have all the scriptures printed out for me, so I'm not flipping my pages. But Genesis 37. And starting again in verse 31, we find that Jacob, Israel, has sent his beloved son Joseph out to take food to his brothers who are keeping the sheep, and his brothers who hated Jacob have taken Joseph and they have sold Joseph into slavery. They sold him to the Midianites He is the one that that when they went before Joseph and didn't recognize him. Joseph, of course, was now an Egyptian and would have been wearing the Egyptian garb and probably the Egyptian face paints which you've seen in pictures of the pyramids and different things. They didn't recognize their brother. But here, the brethren Joseph's older brothers come in verse thirty-one of chapter thirty-seven, and they took Joseph's coat and killed a kid of the goats and dipped the coat in blood, and they set the coat sent the coat of many colours, and they brought it to their father, and said, This we have found know ye now whether it be thy son's coat or no. And he knew it and said, It is my son's coat. An evil beast hath devoured him. Joseph is without doubt. There's no doubt. Joseph is without doubt rent in pieces. And Jacob rent his clothes and put sackcloth upon his loins and mourned for his son many days And all his sons and his daughters rose up to comfort him, but he refused to be comforted, for he said, For I will go down into the grave unto my son mourning. Thus his father wept for him. Do you see the errors in that? Not errors in Scripture, but errors in Israel. Understanding? Without a doubt, a wild beast has torn and killed my son Joseph. There's no doubt. He was as wrong as he could be. A beast hadn't killed Joseph. Joseph was very much alive. You see the second great error? Surely I will go down to my grave mourning for Joseph when I join him in death. That wasn't true either. You see, so often when we come to a place like Jacob where we say, All these things are against me, instead of all these things being against thee, all these two things are working together for good. to them that love God, to them who are the called according to his purpose. And then further, now there's a famine in the land. You know, we worry in this country about famine. And uh I know there are people they call preppers that are are storing food And uh I get ads on my computer all the time for this long life food. So I suppose the last seven years and and You know, on and on and on, and you need to you need to buy a one-month supply for everybody in your house. And I'll be quite honest with you, there are times when Penny and I will buy extra canned goods when we go shopping just to put 'em back because we don't know But folks, this was a true, honest, and complete famine. There was starvation in the land. And so Jacob now sends his ten sons He keeps his beloved son Benjamin at home. He sends ten sons to Egypt. Nine come back because Simeon is now held hostage Simeon comes back, or the nine come back. They say, we can't go down there to get more food unless we take Benjamin with us to get Simeon. So they open up their sacks to eat some food And their money's in the sacks. And Jacob says, I'm bereaved of Joseph. I'm bereaved of Simeon. Now you want to take Benjamin. All these things are against me. Do you remember the words that we read from Deborah's song about Sisera? After JL has taken a tent stake and has driven it through Cicero's head into the ground and killed him. And in the song of Deborah, when she rejoices in the victory, she says in Judges 5, verse 20, They fought from heaven. The stars and their courses fought against Sisera. The stars and their courses fought against Sisera. Shelby Foote, the historian, used that verse as the title for his book about Lee's defeat at Gettysburg, the Stars and Their Courses. fought against him. My wife's kind of smiley because there are times when I'll get frustrated. I'll say the stars and their courses are fighting against me. Folks, Jacob has come to a point now where he doesn't know Joseph's fate. Simeon's a hostage. Benjamin's got to go to Egypt, and he's saying all these things are against me. I think most of them have spoken similar words at some time or another. And yet, folks, we know the end of the story. These things weren't against Jacob. Rather, these things were all working for good. There is no temptation taken you, but such as is common to man. But God is faithful, who will not suffer you to be tempted above that year able, but will also with the temptation make a way of escape that ye may be able to bear it. I know both how to be abased and I know how to abound. Everywhere in all things I am instructed both to be full and to be hungry. Both to abound and to suffer hunger, I can do all things, I can suffer all things through Christ with strength of me. And we know that all things work together for good to them that love God, to them who are the called according to his purpose For whom he did foreknow, he also did predestinate to be conformed to the image of his spr Son, that he might be the firstborn among many brethren. Moreover, whom he did predestinate, then he also called, whom he called, them he also justified, whom he justified, them he also glorified. What shall we say to these things? If God be for us, who can be against us? Romans eight, verses twenty-eight through thirty-one. You see All things were working together for good because God promised that Bethel they would. All things could be endured because God promised at Bethel that he could. And all things are common to man. Things are as they should be. And so that is the overview of Jacob's light. But what is taking place here? At this very day. When Jacob says all these things are against me, God was preparing to move Jacob from the middle of a famine to a feast. You see, if Jacob's sons had not sold Joseph into Egypt. If Joseph had not been bought by Potiphar, if Potiphar's wife had not lied about Joseph. If Joseph had not been thrown in prison, if Joseph had not met the baker and the cupbearers of Pharaoh in prison If Jake and Joseph had not interpreted their dreams, and then if Joseph had not interpreted the cupbearer's dreams then Joseph never would have been brought before Pharaoh, and Joseph never never would have answered or interpreted Pharaoh's dream And Joseph would not have become the chief ruler of the country, and the famine would have wiped out the entire country and the entire world, including Egypt. But all of those things, over a period of many years, were working together for this very moment. When Jacob says, All these things are against me. God was preparing to move Jacob from a famine to a feast. But all Jacob could say was, All these things are against me. Secondly, God was preparing to move Jacob from obscurity to being the father of the ruler of the land. Jacob, who said, without a doubt, my son has been torn by a beast, was about ready to find out that that son was the ruler of Egypt. And Jacob, who is a nobody, who nobody knows, is going to die as the father of the ruler. Turn to chapter forty-seven of Genesis. Chapter forty seven of Genesis. Verse 1. Then Joseph came and told Pharaoh and said, My father and my brethren and their flocks and their herds And all that they have are come out of the land of Canaan. And behold, they are in the land of Goshen. Verse 7. Drop down to verse 7. And Joseph brought in Jacob his father and set him before Pharaoh, and Jacob blessed Pharaoh Drop down to verse eleven. And Joseph placed his father and his brethren and gave them possession in the land of Egypt and the best of the land in the land of Ramiz, as Pharaoh had commanded And Joseph nourished his father and his brethren and all his father's household with bread according to their families. Ten of Jacob's sons had come to Egypt as beggars. They had come from a land of famine seeking bread. But now they have been given the land, the best land of the country. Their brother is the ruler, my son is the ruler of the whole country. All these things are against me! No, Jacob. I'm about ready to move you from a famine to a feast. And I'm about ready to remove you from excu obscurity to great honor. But thirdly, God was preparing to move Jacob. From the preparing to move Jacob to the land where he would become a great nation. Remember the promise of Bethel? God's about to fulfill the promise. Look at chapter 46. Chapter 46 of Genesis. And I'll read verses 1 through 4. Chapter 46. And Israel took his journey with all that he had and came to Beersheba and offered sacrifices unto the God of his father Isaac. And God spake unto Israel in a vision of the night and said, Jacob, Jacob, and he said, Here am I. And he said, I am God, the God of thy father. Fear not to go down into Egypt. I will make of thee a great nation. I will go down with thee into Egypt, and I will surely bring thee up again. And Joseph put his hand upon the eye and Joseph shall put his hand upon thine eyes. Okay, so God says, I'm sending you to Egypt. There I'm going to make you a great nation. I will go down with you. I will bring you up again, and Joseph will put his hand on thine eyes. Somewhat of an obscure phrase. Let me explain it to you. Jacob said, Joseph, without a doubt, has been rent by a beast. No, Joseph is still alive. Jacob said, I will go down to my grave mourning for Joseph, and there I'll be in the grave with Joseph. But Joseph was alive. God says, no, you're going to go down to J to Egypt. There I'm going to make you a great nation. And Joseph will put his hands on your eyes. In other words, Jacob, when you die, your son will close That's what the phrase means. Jacob, you're going to die in the presence of your beloved son. Who you said God's taken him from me, God's taken Simeon, now God's going to take Benjamin. All these things are against me. God says, no, no, no. I'm sending you to a place where I will make you a great nation, and Joseph will be the one who closes your eyes after your body has left your soul. All these things are against me? No, all these things are working together for good. I can't take any more. Nobody has my problems. There hath no temptation taken thee, but such as is common to man. I cannot endure this trial. No, I can do all things through Christ, which strengtheneth me. In Genesis forty-six, verse twenty-six, we read these words, and all the souls that came with Jacob into Egypt, which came out of his loins beside Jacob's Joseph's Jacob's sons, wives, and all the souls. were three score and six. Brother Ventz mentioned that in Sunday school this morning. Sixty th sixty-six souls. Exodus twelve, verse thirty-seven. And the children of Israel journeyed from Ramese to the Silkoth About six hundred thousand on foot that were men besides children. Sixty-six souls went down, six hundred thousand men that were footmen, not counting the children, not counting the wives, about two million souls total. God was moving Jacob from a famine to a feast. God was moving Jacob from obscurity to great honor. And God was moving Jacob to the place where he would become a great nation according to promise. And we know that all things work together for good. Now what is the application? What is it that Jacob learned? First of all, Jacob learned submission to the will of God. Jacob learned submission to the will of God. God knows what he's doing. Think about this, folks. God spoke the world into existence. Don't you think he knows how to order your life? God saw that all that he created, he said, what? It is good. Won't that God do me good? You see the creation of the earth was at first without form and void, and God did this, and God did the other. There was a process there. God's process is working in us to conform us to the image of Christ, for whom we did foreknow, he also did predestinate to be conformed to the image of his Son. It's kind of like a rock in a rock tumbler. It doesn't come out polished the first day. But in time, God makes it Jacob learned submission to the will of God. As for God, his way is perfect, the word of the Lord is tried, he's a buckle to all those that trust in him. Second Samuel two, verse twenty uh verse thirty-one Psalm 18, verse 30 is almost word for word the same verse, as for God, His way is perfect, the word of the Lord is tried. He's a buckler to all those that trust in Him. It was through the trials that Jacob learned to trust God. It was through the trials that David learned to trust God. It was through the trials that Job learned to trust God. It was through the trials that Daniel and Jeremiah and Esther and Moses and Joshua and Elisha and John the Baptist and Peter and Paul learned to trust God. And it's through the trials That you and I learn to trust God as well. First application. Jacob learned submission to the will of God. Second application is Jacob learned the comfort of God in grief. His wife died. He thinks his sons died. Simeon's in prison. Now they want Benjamin too. All these things are against me. But he learned that the grace of God is sufficient. He learned that God could sustain him. You see the context of 2 Samuel 22 and Psalm eighteen where David said as for God his way is perfect is this. In 2 Samuel chapter twenty uh sorry in um Psalm 18, verse 4 and 5, from that same Psalm, the sorrows of death compassed me about. The floods of ungodly men made me afraid. The sorrows of hell compassed me about. The snares of death prevented me. When David said, As for God, his way is perfect, he was in great grief. But he had seen God's deliverance from that grief. The con the full context is when he's fleeing from Saul and finally all of his enemies are defeated. He says, I went through all these things, the sorrows and death God had hold upon me, but as for God, his way is perfect, God brought me through the trials and sustained me. The second thing Jacob learned is he learned the comfort of God in grief. Thirdly, and it will move quickly, Jacob learned to trust God with his future. Jacob learned to trust God with his future. God had a plan all along. Back in Genesis 46, verses 3 and 4, when Jacob is there at Penil, I didn't read these verses earlier. Oh yeah, I did read these verses. The the ones I'm looking for, I'm trying to move quickly here. Um Jacob's vow is in is is in Genesis 28, verse 18 to 20. I didn't read this, but this is not actually Penial, but this is when he is fleeing from his brother. This is in the context of Jacob's latter. In Genesis 28, verses 18 to 20, and Jacob rose up early in the morning and took the stone for a pillow, and he called the name of the place Bethel. And Jacob vowed a vow, saying, If God will be with me and will keep me in this way that I go, and will give me bread to eat and raiment to put on So that I shall come again to my father's house in peace. Then shall the Lord be my God. And this stone which I have set up for a pillar shall be God's house. And of all that thou shalt give me, I will surely give a tenth unto thee. Notice what Jacob mentions is thou. He mentions food and raiment. Lord, if if you'll meet my needs, Jacob learned to trust God with his future. Jacob learned that that that, you know, God will take care of this. And when Jacob learned that God would take care of his future, number four, Jacob learned that God would supply his needs. But my God shall supply all your needs. Finally, Jacob learned The reliability of all the promises of God. We find in Scripture God's people saying, Where are the promises of our Father? We find in Scripture people saying, where's the promise of his coming? What we found there in the Garden of Eden was Satan. Questioning the promises of God. God said, do this and you'll live. Do that and you'll surely die. Jacob learned the promises of God are reliable. And folks, I believe we as believers have to again and again and again through trials learn that the promises of God are reliable. Even when it seems like our son's been torn by a white wild beast. And even when we use definite terms, surely, without a doubt, Joseph's dead. There's no way that God can work this out any other way because Joseph's dead. Joseph wasn't dead at all. He learned reliability and the promises of God. God was always with him, even in the darkest days. God gave him the land of promise. God supplied his every need. God brought him back to the land of his fathers. God multiplied his seed of the stars of heaven, and God fulfilled his promise that he sent the Messiah through his line. And so, if you notice the title of the message this morning in your bulletin, the title is Jacob's Blessings and Discouragements. Folks, God is in control. Every one of us at some time or another, I believe, comes to a point where we say, All these things are against me. And yet often the reality is no, all these things are for me. Even though from man's view they seem. to be against me. May God give us grace to trust his promises. Let us stand for prayer. Stand with me, please, as we pray. Lord, we thank you that the promises of God are yea and amen. But we thank you that none of your promises will fail. Father, forgive us for looking at winds and waves like Peter, rather than looking at Christ. Forgive us for our vain pronunciations of doom. All these things are against me. When the reality is you are working all things together for good. Bless your word to your people this day. In Jesus' name. Amen.