Vince and I are doing a Switzerone this morning. So I will have the Sunday school hour and Brother Vince will bring the morning message Let's begin with prayer as we start this morning. Let us look to God. Gracious Father, we thank you, Lord, that you are the God of our salvation, that you are the Creator, God That indeed the heavens do declare the glory of God, and the firmament showeth your handiwork. Father, we thank you for your word. We thank you that your word is yea and amen. It is forever settled in heaven. And it is given to us in our own language, faithfully preserved for us by the working of thy great spirit. And Lord, we thank you that all Scripture is given by inspiration of God, and it is indeed profitable. And so, Father, may we profit from your word this morning. May it be sharp and quick to our hearts. Father, may you give us ready minds. May you open our minds to contemplate thy truth and to learn of thee. And Father, we pray that in all Christ will be honored and glorified. This is indeed the Lord's day. We celebrate on the day of the resurrection because we have a risen Savior. We have the only living God. The gods of the heathen are dead stones and stalks of trees that cannot move on their behalf. But we worship the one true God. Bless our time together. May it be profitable to our hearts and souls. May it be glorious to thee. In Jesus' name. Amen. Well, turn with me in your Bibles this morning to the book of Numbers. I'm not going to uh presume to intrude on Brother Vince's studied Hebrews. So we're going to take a little bit different path this morning. And Numbers 15, if you have a copy of the bulletin, most of the scriptures will be in your bulletin this morning. But I'm going to read a longer passage than is printed for you there. I filled every every line available to me in the bulletin with scriptures this morning So there wasn't really room to put the entire passage. So I'm going to read Numbers chapter 15, starting in verse 22, and I'll read through verse number 31. And if ye have erred and not observed all these commandments which the Lord has spoken unto Moses, Even all that the Lord has commanded you in the land by the hand of Moses from the day that the Lord commanded Moses and henceforth among your generations Then it shall be, if aught be committed by ignorance, without the knowledge of the congregation, that all the congregation shall offer one young bullock for a burnt offering, for a sweet savor unto the Lord. This is with his meat offering and his drink offering according to the manner and one kid of the goats for a sin offering And the priest shall make an atonement for all the congregation of the children of Israel, and it shall be forgiven them, for it is ignorance. And they shall bring their offering, a sacrifice made by fire unto the Lord, and their sin offering before the Lord for their ignorance. And it shall be forgiven all the congregation of the children of Israel. And when the stranger that sojourneth among them seeth all these people, with their w uh people were in ignorance. I'm sorry, I've I've lost the word in there. And it shall be forgiven all the congregation of the children of Israel and the stranger that sojourneth among them, seeing all the people were in ignorance. And if any sins any soul sin through ignorance, then it shall be bring a she-goat of the first year for a sin offering. And the priest shall make an atonement for the soul that sinneth ignorantly, when he sinneth by ignorance before the Lord, to make an atonement for him, and it shall be forgiven him. Ye shall have one law for him that sinneth through ignorance, both for him that is born among the children of Israel, and for the stranger that sojourneth among them But the soul that doeth aught presumptuously, whether he be born in the land or a stranger, the same reproacheth the Lord. And that soul shall be cut off from among his people, because he hath despised the word of the Lord, and hath broken his commandment That soul shall utterly be cut off for his iniquity shall be upon him. Now, we have here two groups of people. One group that sins ignorantly, and then in the last two verses, someone who sins willfully. And so we have two questions that were sent out this week. We'll save the last one to the end of our discussion this morning. The second one, the last one we'll save. Was what about those that have never heard the gospel or who have never heard of Jesus Christ? Are they still guilty before God? But the first discussion question is this. Is ignorance an acceptable excuse before the law? What do you think, class? No. Okay, I hear a no. No. But officer, it was a speed trap. They deliberately had the speed limit go from 95 miles an hour down to 15. And I didn't know. Penny have you ever tried to use that argument? I think I see a few shaking head a lot of times, you know, but I didn't know. I see Penny shaking your head up sure in high school There's a lot of kids. I didn't know that was the rule. Well, did you do you have a copy of the student handbook? Yeah. Did you sign a paper stating you'd read the student handbook? Yeah. And so obviously ignorance is not an excuse for the law. People try to use it frequently, but it's not. But we have here the Case of the children of Israel who have sinned in ignorance. They have not kept all of the law. Obedience to all of the law is expected. Notice the emphasis there on all in verse 22. Observe all these commandments. Verse 23, even all that the Lord hath commanded. There were not exceptions made The children of Israel were to keep all of the commandments. Oh, but I kept 98%. Have I kept the law? No, no, they were to keep all of the commandments. Obedience to all the law of God is expected. It was expected of the whole nation. Uh it wasn't that, well, you know, my parents are wallkeepers, so I'm okay. It was expected of all the congregation, of every individual. You notice here it mentions both the children of Israel and the strangers. Who were the strangers? Not is not Israelites, okay. Remember when they came out of Egypt, there was a mixed multitude that came with them. There were Egyptians mixed in with the children of Israel. When they ate manna, did the mixed multitude eat manna too? Yeah, they did. When the quail came through the camp, did the sojourners, yeah. There were those who were Within the nation of Israel, and nation is probably not the right term because it was not yet national Israel, it was still in the wilderness, but within the company of the children of Abraham, there were strangers. There were some that were not citizens. The illegal aliens, if you want to call them. Though they weren't illegal, they were they were allowed to be there. They were welcome there. But they were to keep the same law of Moses. And there is the uh example there within our text that the ones who are strangers They were to be beneficiaries of the same sacrifice, whether it be the whole congregation that has sinned or an individual that has sinned. But let me ask the question in a different way. We know that ignorance is not a acceptable excuse before the law, but Does that mean that disobedience through ignorance is ever excused? I hear a no? Well what about if they haven't heard of Jesus Well, that's that's actually why we're doing this study this morning. We're gonna get to that point a little bit later on, so hold that one. Uh that that that will be uh towards the end. But before that If I break the law and I didn't know, should I bear the punishment for breaking the law? Yeah, okay. You speed through a school zone. I didn't know it was a school zone. You see a flash in your rear view mirror Uh you should not be punished uh if the law says and if you don't know this law you can't be punished. But if the law doesn't make an exception for ignorance. Uh good pointed. What if the law makes inception? Well if the law makes an exception for ignorance, then there there is an excuse for ignorance. But we find that disobedience to ignorance is not excused, and the reason we know it's not excused is a sacrifice had to be made. There had to be some payment for the offense. And so either the children of Israel could be held to account for the offense, or there could be a sacrifice. God's made a way. Yvonne uh recently recounted an incident as he was uh going through travel in parts of Texas and I had forgotten to inform him that many small towns in Texas have very little sources of revenue other than the speed trap system. And so when the road goes from seventy-five miles an hour through 45 downtown and downtown looks nothing, uh you couldn't tell. The road is still uh four lanes, zipping along fast. And then sure enough, just outside this little unmarked township, and somewhere behind a tree, of course, is the sign posted And it's almost like they're trying to hide the fact that the speed limit drops just so they can get the three hundred dollar ticket. Well the the place still has to pay the ticket The the police cruiser is ten years old and you know it's got a flat tire. We've got to stop somebody and get some revenue here I put some verses there in your scriptures. You'll notice Psalm 19, verse 12, Who can understand his errors cleanse thou me from secret faults? Uh those those things that that I don't understand and you know I've I've done something wrong before the throne of God and it may not even be revealed to my heart. Uh what is meant by ignorance? What do you think? You can look at the notes actually. I've got some suggestions there. Ignorance of sins which we have committed unawares Okay. Brother Vince's illustration, you know, you didn't know it dropped down to 35 and you you go speeding through there. Sins for which my sinful nature did not have conscience. Think about that. If you have been a believer any length of time I'm sure you can think of things that when you were first saved you did and then as you grew in Christ and began to study his word and to to get more earnest in your walk with the Lord, things you used to do, you think, you know That does not edify. That does not benefit my spiritual walk. You know, that was something it used to be I didn't have any conscience about that. I could do that thing No, I'm I'm gonna I'm gonna set that aside. Okay. But were you guilty when you did it even though you didn't have conscience of it yet? Yeah, yeah, sin is still sin. Um to be ignorant in and of itself isn't bad, it just simply means you're unaware. To be stupid is something else Uh and to be a moron is a whole nother thing. There's a twisted mindset, but of the three, ignorance is the least because it simply means you do not know. You can be educated, but you don't know. But Ignorance comes from the word ignore. And there also is the element, and that's what you find there in the last two verses of it, in verses thirty and thirty-one There are some people that know, to him that knoweth to do good and know it and do it and not, to him it is sin. And so there's three points there. I I have a different set of notes, different layout, but the same thing. You'll see there, um sins, number one, sins that I have committed and forgotten about. Okay. Number two, sins I have committed and hidden. And three, sins I've committed and I just ignored it. You know, uh the Lord, that wasn't quite so bad. That wasn't as bad as someone else. Those are also sins of Ignore ads. We ignore what we know. David prayed in Psalm 90, verse 8, Thou would set our iniquities before thee. Our secret sins in the light of thy countenance. Is God ever ignorant of my sin? No. God knows all about it. Your your friends may not know And you may try to hide it from your own conscience, but God knows. And so we find that a sacrifice was required for sin. The need of a sacrifice itself is evidence that ign ignorance is not excuse. This is in verse 25, and the priest shall make an atonement. But it's interesting to note also in this context that they only brought one sacrifice for sin. When the congregation had sinned, they didn't bring a thousand bulls They didn't bring rivers of oil. There was one sacrifice for sin. What do you think it's just one sacrifice? One one bullet cylinders brought for the congregation. Well it's pointing to Christ. One sacrifice. Neither is there salvation in any other, for there is none of the name under heaven given among men whereby ye must be saved. And there are many Trespass offerings that the priests were instructed to bring a multitude of bullocks But this one there is one that is brought. For by one offering hath he perfected forever those that are sanctified. Hebrews ten, verse fourteen. That's also in your notes. First John 1 verse 9, if thou sh uh uh for if we confess our sins, he is faithful. You know what's interesting there? It doesn't say if we confess our sins, the priest is faithful to forgive us of our sins, does it? It doesn't say if we confess our sins, Mary is faithful to forgive us of our sins. No, if we confess our sins, he is faithful. Folks, you don't need to confess your sins to your pastor or to brother Vince. Now, that said, there is an iron sharpening iron and an accountability That often when we have a besetting sin and a sin that just we just battle with and battle with it, it is well and good to find another believer that you can trust, that you can Talk to about your sin and say, hey, can you help me be accountable? Well that's not confessing your sin for the purpose of forgiveness. But rather we're to confess our faults one to another and pray for one another that we might be healed. And so I'm not talking about that. There is there is a element that if you've got a sin that's really bothering you, find a good strong brother to help you overcome it. But for the purpose of forgiveness of sin, there is one sacrifice. If we confess our sins, He is faithful and just to forgive us of our sins. I don't don't uh it's not in your notes, but if you um look in your Bible, the verses twenty-seven and twenty-eight, uh if any soul shall sin through ignorance Verse 27, if any soul shall sin through ignorance. Verse 28, the soul that sinneth ignorantly, there is the individual component to it. Uh it is talking about in the first few verses about the congregation at large, but then it speaks of the individual as well. Disobedience through ignorance is always known to God. This is number three there in your notes. Disobedience through ignorance is always known to God. Um there was this the case where Israel went out against AI. And Joshua only sent out three thousand men against Ai because Ai was a small city and surely they should be able to defeat Ai very easily And the army of Israel was defeated before Ai, and I forget exactly it was either twenty-three or twenty-six men that died in Ai, and Joshua goes and prostrates himself before God of Why, Lord, you promised we would overcome our enemies. And God says, get up off your face. Israel has sinned. Okay, the congregation at large was not aware of the sin, but God knew all about it. And so disobedience to ignorance is always known by God. Numbers 23, uh 33 Psalm two verse twenty-three. Be sure your sins will find you out. Psalm ninety, verse eight, these are all in your notes. Um shalt set our iniquities before thee, our secret sins in the light of thy countenance. Going to the New Testament, 1 Corinthians 4, verses 5 verse 5. Therefore judge nothing before the time until the Lord come, who will both bring to light the hidden things of darkness And will make manifest the counsels of the heart, then shall every man have praise of God. Going back to the Old Testament, Ecclesiastes 8, verse 13. But it shall not be well with the wicked, neither shall he prolong his days, which are as a shadow, because he feareth not before God You know, that's a side note there, but it shall not be well with the wicked. You know, the the question that comes up, why do the wicked prosper? You know, why is it that the people that are so evil don't seem to have any problems? Believe me, they've got more problems than you ever know. And uh it will not be well with them. Isaiah uh says pretty much the same thing in Isaiah 3 verse 11. But woe unto the wicked, it shall be ill with him. For the reward of his hand shall be given him. And so disobedience to ignorance is known to God. It may not be known to us, but it's known to God. The eyes of the Lord are in every place. Beholding the evil and the good. Number four, God has made a remedy for sin. And this is found there in the offerings that are offered in verses 25 and 26. The offering for the atonement, and it's found in Jesus Christ. Jesus Christ is the atonement for our sin. Number five, and this is where we're going to get to to our other question. What about those that have never heard of Jesus Christ? And this is where we're gonna kind of Yeah starting rough I you you You have a very good point there in number four, God has made a remedy for sin. Uh I'd like to change one word, has made one remedy for sin. Okay. And I know you agree with that. Right. There's not a multitude of remedies. Exactly. Uh that's kinda what we were saying back then before. It was one sacrifice. One remedy for some. Yep. Right Yeah, there there's um neither is there salvation in any other, for there's none other name under heaven given among men whereby you must be saved. And um uh what must I do to be saved Believe on the name of the Lord Jesus Christ, not climb up your steps, some steps on your knees, not give a bunch of money, believe. Or not just forget about it. Yeah, or not just forget about it. Exactly. Well said. Thank you, Vince. So what about the person that uh is born yeah, Lisa? Yeah. You want to finish your statement and then I'll I'll I'll say my answer Okay. What what what about the person that is born out in the middle of the Amazon and they've never seen a wheel They have no cell phone, they don't have a computer, they don't have a radio, they have never encountered a missionary, they know nothing of Christ They are born, they live their entire life, and they die. What about that? The law of God is written on their heart. Okay. Good. What else? The heavens declare the glory of God. Okay. So let me ask you a question. Can someone be saved without the Word of God? I'm hearing some nose. That's good. Faith cometh by hearing. And hearing by the word of God. And so we're gonna kinda change gears a bit. We've talked about sins through ignorance. I see another hand, honey. Um Romans talks about that which maybe known of God is manifest in them God has shown it unto them, talking about all men, for the invisible things of Him from the creation of the world are clearly seen. being understood by the things that are made, even his eternal power and Godhead, so that they are without expression Excuse. Did you get in the office and read my notes? No, just so I mean they may not at that point have scripture, but they can see the truth of God and think God's put that awareness in your heart. And I've always loved reading missionary stories after story after story of people in exactly the situation that you thought you did not ignore that nudging of the spirit. There is a God, there's real. And those that sought himself and and God made miraculous ways for the Word of God to get to those who responded to that truth. Yeah. I I get I have received the question when witnessing what about the aborted child or one that was conceived had life and uh that life was past out there I've got the question to put about that. Are you are you adding um that's a good question? Um And I would I would you know, answer a question with a question is not a not the a good way to do it, but um I I would say that am I saved because I decided made the right decision or because because Christ chose me and him before the foundation of the world? And ultimately our salvation goes to the foundation of the world. And that would cover the the aborted elect, I guess is the best way to put it. Turn with me to the book of Hebrews This is not in your notes. I didn't have enough room to put everything in Hebrew in in your notes. But um in Hebrews 10 26. We're going to compare this to Numbers 15, verse 30, and 31. Numbers 15, 30, and 31 are there in your notes. But the last two verses that we read, I think, really answer the question of ignorance for us. So I'll give you a moment to find Hebrews 10, but in your notes you've got Numbers 15, verses 30 and 31. The last two verses of our passage for this morning, but the soul that doeth ought presumptuously Whether he be born in the land or a stranger, the same reproach the Lord, and that soul shall be cut off from among his people. because he hath despised the word of the Lord, and hath broken his commandment, that soul shall utterly be cut off, his iniquity shall be upon him. Okay, so a contrast is made between those that sin ignorantly and those that sin willfully. They knew God's command, they knew what God's law said, and they No, I'm not going to do that. I'm not going to obey. Okay, if you have your place there in Hebrews 10, Hebrews 10, I believe, is referring back to Numbers 15. Okay, I believe the author of Hebrews, who would have known well his Old Testament, who would have known the law This law of the ignorant sin is found here in numbers. It's also found in the book of Leviticus For he that s for if we sin willfully, okay, what do we have there in Numbers 15, 30? But the soul that doth all presumptuously If we sin willfully after that we have received the knowledge of the truth, there remaineth no more sacrifice for sin. Isn't that what's being said there in uh Numbers 15. They're cut off. They're done. Their iniquities upon them. But a fearful looking for judgment and fiery indignation which shall devour the adversaries Hebrews 10 28. For he that despised Moses' law. Okay? What was talked about there starting in verse 15? Well, the law of Moses and the whole law. He that despised Moses' law died without mercy under two or three witnesses. Of how much sore punishment, suppose ye, shall he be thought worthy who hath trodden underfoot the Son of God And has counted the blood of the covenant wherewith he was sanctified as an unholy thing, and is done despite to the spirit of grace. Okay, the law came by Moses, but grace and truth came by Jesus Christ. Did Christ come to destroy the law? No, he came to fulfill it. Have you fulfilled the law? No. Have you sinned in ignorance? Yes. Have you even sinned willfully? Probably. But Christ is the one atonement. He is the one sacrifice to law. Verse 29 of Hebrews 10 of how much sore suppose punishment suppose ye oh I read that one. Verse 30. For ye know him that has said, Vengeance belongeth to me, I will recompense saith the Lord, and again the Lord will judge his people, shall judge his people. It is a fearful thing to fall into the hands of a living God. So we've already talked about um As as Penny brought out, Romans chapter 1, verses 19 and 20, 19, chapter 1, verse 19 through 22, because that which may they be known of God is manifest in them, for God has showed it unto them, for the invisible things of Him from the creation of the world are clearly seen. being understood by the things that are made, even his eternal power and Godhead, so that they are without excuse. Because when they knew God They glorified him not as God, neither were thankful, but became vain in their imaginations, and their foolish heart was darkened. Professing themselves to be wise, they became fools. Let's go back to that person I was using in the illustration. who was born in a jungle village in South America, has never had a phone, never heard a radio, never seen a missionary. Where did his parents come from? And where did his grandparents come from? And where did his great grandparents come from? Ultimately they all came from the three sons of Noah off the Ark and their wives and ultimately back. Absolutely. They had one father They all came from Adam. All of Adam's race was wiped out except for one man and his three sons and their wives. You see, that man in the jungle comes from a line that knew the truth of God. And there was a time in his ancestry when his great great great great great great great great whatever grandfather knew the truth. And willfully turn from it. Willfully despise the truth Willfully numbers fifteen, twenty-five, and twenty-six, I'm sorry, numbers fifteen, thirty, and thirty-one presumptuously Turn from God. And so with that little bit of knowledge, go with me to Acts chapter 17. In Acts chapter seventeen we find the Apostle Paul and he is Preaching in Athens on a place called Mars Hill. Mars Hill was where they had all their gods. And Acts and uh on Mars Hill Paul is grieved by the idolatry, but he uses one little phrase that they've got by one of their idols. to begin an exposition of the truth of Jesus Christ. Acts 17, verse 23 For as I passed and beheld your devotions, I found an altar with this inscription to the unknown God. whom therefore ye ignorantly worship, I declare unto you. Drop down to verse 26. And he hath made of one blood all nations for to dwell upon the face of the earth. And determine the times before appointed and the bounds of their habitation. God determines the bounds of our habitation. Why was I born in the United States in the home of a pastor? in a place where I would hear the gospel. Because God determined the bounds of my habitation. Why was that man born in the Amazon jungle where he would never hear Christ? Well, because God determines the bounds of our habitation. He continues in verse 26, that they should seek the Lord. If haply they might feel after him and find him, though he is not far from every one of us. And this goes right back to Lisa's comment at the beginning. You see, man does not get saved by looking at the stars and the firmament. But the heavens declare the glory of God, and the firmament showeth his handiwork. And a man, just like these people in Athens, may worship the unknown God that does not save them. But a man looking at the creation can say this had to have something to make it happen. There has to be a God, and I must find him And Penny made reference to several missionary stories, missionary biographies, that tell of stories of people walking through the jungle for a week. Because they had heard that there was somebody over here preaching something. And they said, I have to know what that is. I have to find that. And they have trekked through the jungle with nothing more than the ferment to tell them there's some kind of unknown God. Now I've got to find him. And he is the rewarder of them that diligently seek him. And so continuing in Acts chapter 17 verse 30. And the times of this ignorance God winked at. But now commandeth all men everywhere to repent. All men in the United States, all men in the Soviet Union, or the Soviet Union, listen to me, I'm dating myself, all men in Ukraine and Russia. All men in South America, all men in Asia, all men in Africa, East, West, North, and South. God commands all men, everywhere, to repent. At the times of this ignorance God winked at, but now what had changed when Paul was on Mars Hill? Jesus Christ. Jesus Christ had been crucified and risen again. Verse 31, because he hath appointed a day in the which he will judge the world in righteousness. Judge the world in righteousness. What was happening back there in Numbers 15? Well, they were being judged for their sin. But now it's a judgment of righteousness. It's a judgment of finality. Christ is the judge. Judge the world in righteousness by that man, Jesus Christ, whom he hath ordained. Wherefore he hath given assurance unto all men, and that he hath raised him from the dead. And so question number one is ignorance and excuse for the law? No. Question number two, are those that have never heard the name of Jesus Christ Still responsible before God. Absolutely. Absolutely they are. Is God unjust to require them to keep a law that they've never heard? No Because their history is that of a rejection of the truth. You have you even have this in the Ten Commandments, where God says that he would he's visiting the iniquity of the fathers upon the children into the third and fourth generation of them that hate me. And showing mercy in the thousands of them that love me and keep my commandments. So you know this this is a really good question. It's good that it's a simple question, but it's a profound one And it depends on what you know about God. If you perceive that God loves everybody, has a wonderful plan for their life, he doesn't hate anybody, that's a God of your imagination. That's an idol The God of the Bible kills people. He regularly kills people. He has no qualms or issues about killing people. God's angry with the wicked every day. And so it is a righteous thing for God to destroy an entire nation. You think about Nineveh, right? They could have sunk. And they had no hope. God sent one prophet to rescue that place. Why didn't he send it to the Egyptians? Why didn't he send it? Abraham goes up there and the patriarchs. Right. God said, For this cause I've raised you up that I might make my power known God insists, I am greater than all of you, I do what I want to, I don't give an account of my ways, and I'm not guilty in this because I, as your creator, have my law stamped in your heart. It's just all over the scriptures Mm-hmm. Of how much sore punishment suppose ye shall they be thought worthy who have trodden underfoot the Son of God. Those that those that have heard, those that have had the privilege of not being born in the Amazon, of how much sore punishment shall they Yeah. All who sin apart from the law will also perish apart from the law. Right. And then those who sin under the law will be judged by Amen. Excellent. Anybody else? Can't get out of it, can they? You know that's why evangelism exists, right? Mm-hmm. That's why evangelism exists. And back to the abortion question. Yeah. So let's play it the other way. Well, he's an innocent child. He doesn't know he's going to hell. Alright, well if that's the case, don't try to stop abortion. Right. Just if I were a mother, I'd kill my baby. If I knew that that one act would send it to heaven, don't even let it come to this evil, wicked world, just kill it, because I know it'll go to heaven. I actually just don't sound right about that. Right? I I actually saw that argument online as a support for abortion. Oh well they're all all aborted babies go to heaven. No, they do not. Right? No, it's not. I mean when when forty-two children came out and mocked Elisha because he had a bald head, God didn't take kindly to that. He sent a bear to destroy forty-two little kids. God did that God's not mocked. He's pretty tough, I'm telling you, you don't mess around with him. And yes, he is tender and merciful. If there is one of his in the womb, God can save that child Absolutely can't. That's the hope. That's the hope. We're out of time, but any other comments or questions Alright, let's let's close our our Son's Kour uh in prayer. Gracious Father, we thank you that you are merciful.