Open in your Bibles with me, please, this morning to the Book of Galatians and the fourth chapter. And as Mike mentioned, we will be going back during the message to Isaiah 40 as well. But our scripture reading this morning will be Galatians chapter 4, and I'm going to read verses 1 through 7 of the chapter. The fourth chapter of Galatians, beginning with the first verse. Galatians 4, verse 1. Now I say that the heir, as long as he is a child, differeth nothing from the servant. Though he be Lord of all, but is under tutors and governors until the time appointed of the Father. Even so we, when we were children, were in bondage under the elements of the world. But when the fullness of the time was come, God sent forth his son, made of a woman, made under the law. to redeem them that were under the law, that they might receive the adoption of sons. Because if the son, because ye are sons God has sent forth his Spirit into your hearts, crying, Abba, Father, wherefore thou art no more a servant, but a son. And if a son, then an heir of God through Christ. Let us bow for prayer as we begin to look at God's word this morning. Our gracious Heavenly Father, we thank you for your love and mercy to your people We thank you that in the fullness of time you sent forth your Son. Father, this morning I pray that you would edify your people, that you would strengthen us in thee. Lord, bless us by thy word. Father, may you open your word to our hearts and open our hearts to receive your word. And we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Our text this morning is verses four and five of Galatians four. But when the fullness of the time was come God sent forth his son, made of a woman, made under the law, to redeem them that were under the law, that we might receive the adoption of sons. When the fullness of time was come, God sent forth his Son. God is timeless God is eternal. God is not subject to time. Most of us this morning had some means of waking up. For some of us it was an alarm clock. For some of us it was a elbow in the ribs. For some, it may have been just a habit that your body has learned that at a certain time of morning you wake up. God is not subject to that. God never slumbers nor sleeps. See, the keep of Israel neither slumbers nor sleeps It is a little bit dark outside at the moment, but we know that it is day. And we know also without fail that the sun will set and the moon will rise and we will move from day into night. Because we're subject to time. But God is the one who hangs the sun and hangs the moon He's also the one who made the sun stand still. And not just stand still, but go back by degrees. And so God is not subject to the sun as we are subject to the sun. Every one of us had a birthday this year. Some of us claim them, some of us deny them. Some of us have the same one over and over and over again. But we're subject to time. Everything we do is regulated by time. And if your boss messes up your check. Because he didn't pay you for time you worked, you're very upset because you sold him your time and were not paid for it But when the fullness of time was come, God sent forth his son. The God who made all things willingly made himself subject to time. Isn't that amazing? The God who created time made himself subject to the cross time that he had created. When the fullness of time was come, God sent forth his son. This is one of the great difficulties we have with prophecy. Because we think in times of years, but a day with the Lord is as a thousand years, and a thousand years is a day. God sees the whole scope of man's history and all that has happened and all that will happen. He sees it as one. And so the reason we have such difficulty understanding the prophecies of Scripture is because our minds just can't wrap around it. Because we perceive things as A, B, C, D, and God sees the whole alphabet at once. God made himself subject to time. But then we find that God sent forth his son. And on a casual reading, we say, okay, God sent his son, but there's far more here. Because the very fact that God sent forth his son is an affirmation of the eternality of Jesus Christ. God didn't create Christ in the womb of Mary. God didn't suddenly make a son and then put this son within the womb of a virgin. But he sent forth his pre-existing son. He sent forth the one who had ever been his delight, who was with him in the beginning. And we find in John that it was the second person of the Trinity. It was Jesus Christ who spoke the world's existence, all things. were made by him, and without him was not anything made, and the word, in the fullness of time, the word became flesh and dwelt among us. That word send forth that we find here in Galatians 4, it's found two times here. It's found in verse 4 and again in verse 6 where he sends the Spirit. But it's only found a total of 13 times in our Greek New Testament and only translated as said 11 times in our King James Bible. It's a word that is used for sending away. It's also the same word that was used with the sending forth of the missionaries in Acts. It is one sent for a purpose. It is one sent with a mission. The mission was the redemption of God's people. God so loved the world that he gave his son. And so the Son by whom all things were made Became subject to the creature. God sent forth his son made of a woman. Why do we need to mention that That? What is significant there? Who among us was not made of a woman And we find this term used in Scripture, but exclusively here in the context that it's used, John was the greatest of them born among women. And Job talks about all that are born of women have difficulties and trials. And yet, what is significant of the fact that in the fullness of time God sent forth his son Made of a woman. He was truly flesh. He was truly man. We have not in the high priest. which cannot be touched with the feelings of our infirmities, but was in all points tempted, like as we are, yet without sin. And it is very significant and very important that we take note of this fact. He was made of a woman. He took on himself human flesh, the creator. took on him the form of the creature. But not just that, because we find many times in scripture where the Creator had taken on the appearance of the creature. Remember by the wall of Jericho? That was Christ. That was Christ standing there. Remember when Jacob wrestled all night with a man? And then we find that man was God. That man was Jesus Christ. But this is different. This is not a Christophany, an appearance of Christ in the Old Testament in human form like we find there in the Old Testament. But rather, this is a new thing. He was made of a woman, he was born. Of flesh, just as we are born of flesh. In Jeremiah 31, verse 22, how long wilt thou go about, O thou backsliding daughter? For the Lord hath created a new thing in the earth. A woman shall compass a man. Well, that wasn't a new thing. It happened every day. I've heard statistics about how many babies are born And uh I heard that somewhere in China there's a woman having a baby every five minutes and somebody needs to make her stop it. Uh you'll get that later. But this was different. Why would Jeremiah say God's going to do a new thing? A woman shall compass a man. Because this was the Son of God. Born of a virgin. We find also in our text that he was made under the law. Not only did God make himself subject to time, but the lawgiver is subject now to the broken law. The only one who ever kept the law is now made under the law. And remember, we said that word sent forth indicates one that is sent with a mission. And he who made himself under the broken law came to bear the penalty of the broken law. And the penalty of the broken law is death. He came to die for mankind. So he is made of a woman and made under the law to redeem them that were under the law. That we might receive the adoption of sons. But now go back with me to Isaiah 40 Isaiah chapter 40, and I want to look at the first four verses here. And I know we've had some time yet, but we're still in the introduction. We'll get to the message eventually. Isaiah forty and verse one, comfort ye, comfort ye my people, saith your God. Speak comfortably to Jerusalem and cry unto her that her warfare is accomplished, that her iniquity is pardoned, for she hath received the Lord's hand double for all her sin. Oh, what a statement. How confusing it can be if we first look at what's it mean she's received double for all her sin? Well, some people look at this and say, well, double judgment. And we do have in Revelation 18, where God pronounces that on Babylon there will be a double judgment for her iniquities. And there were two captivities, the domination by Babylon and domination by Rome. But I don't believe that's what God is referring to here when he says that Israel has received double for her sin. This concept of doubling is an Eastern concept Today, many of us have mortgages. We we carry debt very commonly today. I don't know if it's a good idea, but we'll get on to that. But in the Eastern culture, a debt was a stigma, and people didn't like to be in debt. We find a lot about how Israel was to deal with the debtors, and at seven years the debtors were to be forgiven their debts. But when one had a mortgage on his house, the bill of mortgage would not be kept in a file, it would be nailed to the door of the house, and anyone walking by could see that this house is under mortgage there There is a lean against it. But when that mortgage was paid, they would take the sheet of the mortgage and they would fold it over. They would double it and drive another nail through it. So all walking by can say, ah yes, John has paid his debt. It is doubled. And so a lot of the commentators relate that back to receiving double. As far as east is from the west, so far as he removed our transgressions. But I love to relate it to Colossians chapter 2, verses 13 and 14. If you want to turn fine, but I'm going to read and keep moving ahead there. Colossians chapter 2, verse 13 and 14, and ye being dead in your trespasses and sin, your dead in your sins, and the uncircumcision of your flesh Hath he quickened together with him, having forgiven all your trespasses, blotting out the handwriting of the ordinance which was against us. which was contrary to us, and took it out of the way, nailing it to his own cross. And this verse relates back to another Eastern custom. Where if a man was accused of a crime, his accusation would be written and nailed to the door of his house. But if he was found innocent, they would take the ink and they would blot it upon the accusation so the accusation could no longer be read. You see the context there Between an accusation and a mortgage on the door of the house. But here we find that Christ has taken the handwriting of the ordinance which was against us Remember on the cross, Jesus of Nazareth, King of the Jews. The ordinance of the handwriting which is against us has been blotted out by the blood of Jesus Christ. And in this reason Israel has received double for her sins, and we have received double with them. For the grace of God that bringeth salvation hath appeared to all men. We have received double for our sins. And that's why I wanted us to sing from that great hymn, Rock of Ages, the first verse. Rock of ages cleft for me, let me hide myself in thee. Let the water and the blood from thy ribbon side which flowed be of sin the double cure. from wrath and make me pure. Not only has Jesus Christ removed my sin, but he has made me his own child. Comfort you, my people, for we have received double for our sin. Scripture also makes references to the firstborn son receiving a double Portion. Elkanah loved his wife Hannah and gave her a double portion. When Elijah asked Elisha, What would you have me do for thee? What shall I do for thee before I be taken away from thee? Elijah said, I pray thee, let a double portion of thy spirit be upon me. Second Kings chapter 2. And so continuing there in Isaiah 40, and I hope I'm not losing you. We are still in the introduction. We'll get to the message here shortly. Isaiah 40, verses 3 and 4, for the voice of him that crieth in the wilderness, sorry, for the voice of him that crieth in the wilderness, prepare ye the way of the Lord. Make straight in the desert a highway for our God. Let every valley every valley shall be exalted, and every mountain and hill shall be made low, and the crooked shall be made straight, and the rough places. Remove the obstacles, clear the path before him, make way, get ready. The promised Messiah is about to appear. Now, what is the fullness of time? We've taken a circuitous path to get back to the question. What is the fullness of time? When the fullness of time was come, God said forth his son. Well first of all, if we look at the context here in Galatians, particularly in chapter 3, but also we see it in these first seven verses of chapter 4 that we read, the context is the law. The law was our schoolmaster to bring us to Christ. When the fullness of the law was come, when the law had fulfilled its work God sent forth his Son. We read in Matthew five and verse seventeen, Christ says, Think not that I'm come to destroy the law of the prophets. I'm not come to destroy the law. but to fulfill. The law was added because of sin. Flip back to chapter 3 of Galatians 3. Wherefore serve the law? It was added because of transgression till the seed should come, to whom the promise was made, and it was ordained by angels in the hand of the meeting In other words, the law was there until the seed would come. Who was the seed? Well, it was Christ. When the law had completed the work that God ordained it to come, it was the fullness of time It was the time for the Messiah to come to appear. Because of the sin of Adam, the law was added. Because of the sin of Israel, the law was added. Because of the sin of all mankind, the law was added. Man needs a moral code Where there is no law, every man does that which is right in his own eyes. And that's what happened in Israel, even though they had the law. Man needs a moral code. Man had lost the freedom of his will in the Garden of Eden. And so man's will being made subject to sin, man needed a moral code. But the law was our schoolmaster. Look at verses 22 through 25 of Galatians 3. But the scripture has concluded, that's a very important word concluded when we're considering that the law's purpose has been served. But the scriptures have concluded all under sin that the promise by faith that the that the promise by faith of Jesus Christ might be given unto them that believe. But before faith came we were kept under the law, shut up until the faith which after should afterward be revealed, Wherefore the law was our schoolmaster to bring us unto Christ, that we might be justified by faith. But after faith is come, we are no longer under the schoolmaster And then one more verse I'll just read to you in Hebrews chapter 10, verse 1, and verses 4 and 5. For the law having a shadow of good things to come, and not the very image of those things, to never with those sacrifices which were offered year by year continually make the comers thereunto perfect. And then Hebrews ten verse four, for it is not possible that the blood of bulls and of goats should take away sin. Wherefore, when he cometh into the world, he saith, Sacrifice and offering thou wouldest not, but a body. And so, first of all, here in Galatians, when we find that the fullness of the time was come, it was the fullness of the time of the law. The law had served its purpose. The law had been our teacher. It had brought us to Christ. Now, we still hang the Ten Commandments, and we still follow God's righteous law. And yet, grace Through Christ has freed us from the condemnation that the law ensured. For the penalty of the broken law is death. But Christ came That we might have life. And so it was the fullness of the time of the law. But not only was it the fullness of the time of the law, it was the fullness of the time of the Jews. It was the fullness of the time of Israel as a nation bearing the truth alone. It was the fullness of the time of the Jews. God promised in Genesis 3, verse 15, that the seed of the woman would bruise the serpent's head. God promised Abraham in Ur the Chaldees in Genesis 12, verse 3, and I will bless thee Bless them that bless thee, and I will curse them that curse thee, and in thee shall all the families of the earth be blessed. Not just Israel, but all the families. And then in Genesis 28 and verse 14, and thy seed shall be as the dust of the earth, and thou shalt spread abroad to the east, and to the west, and to the north, and to the south. And in these shall all the seed of the families of the earth be blessed. God told Abraham, Your family is going to spread all over the earth. How did the wise men know what the star meant? Because the children of Israel were spread all over the In all nations there were Jews. In all nations there were synagogues And when Paul went about preaching, where did he go first? To the synagogues of the Jews. You see, God had been preparing the Jews for such a time as this. And so in Deuteronomy 32 and verse 21, God told Israel, You will rebel against me, and I will use another people. To bring you to jealousy. Deuteronomy 32, verse 21, and they have moved me to jealousy with that which is not God. They have provoked me to anger in with their vanities, and I will move them to jealousy with those which are not a people, and I will provoke them to jealousy, to anger, with a foolish nation. And so God protected Israel. How many times in the Old Testament do we find Israel near destruction? Esther. Egypt, the Red Sea, the Philistines, again and again and again But Israel endured because God had promised in Genesis the seed of the woman, and God had promised Abraham of your seed. It was the fullness of the time. God had been preparing Israel through four centuries. I'm sorry, four millennia. Through four millennia. God had been preparing Israel for the fullness of time. God preserved them. The Old Testament scriptures had gone everywhere. And on the day of Pentecost, Acts 2 and verse 5, and there were dwelling at Jerusalem Jews, devout men out of every nation of the earth. Under heaven, God was preparing them. The incarnation of Jesus Christ could not have happened at any other time in Israel's history For you say he came unto his own, and his own received him not. Think about the blindness of the scribes and Pharisees. Think about the blindness of the chief priest who crucified their own Messiah. What had Israel been doing for 4,000 years? Waiting for the Messiah. And you look when Israel was there in the time of Esther, if God had sent the Messiah then instead of Esther, they would have made him king. If God had sent the Messiah into Egypt, they would have made him king. There was no other point in Israel's history where they would crucify him. There was no other time when he would come unto his own, and his own would not be right, would not accept him. In the fullness of time In God's perfect sovereign will, He sent He sent His Son into the world. Galatians 3, verse 8. And the scriptures foreseen that God would justify the heathen through faith, preach before the gospel unto Abraham, saying, In thee, shall all nations. Be blessed. The fullness of time was the fullness of the Jews. But not only that, this fullness of time was the fullness of the time of the Jews. Gentiles. You see, the time when Christ was born is what we refer to in history as the Paksramana, the peace. The Peace of Rome, twenty-seven BC, the end of the Roman Civil Wars, the It ends with the death of Marcus Aurelius in one eight one eighty. Just that small little sliver in the history of mankind. Why is that important? Because there was no other time in in the ancient history where commerce was so prevalent. And there went out a decree from Caesar Augustus that all the world should be taxed. And this taxing was first made, the first time it ever happened, when Cyrenius. And Joseph also went up out of Bethlehem with Larry, his espouse, while he to be taxed, for he was of the hassle. House and lineage of David. Do you see the miracle there, folks? God's perfect time, the fullness of time. The wicked, godless Romans had come into power. And they had spread their commerce over all the world so they could tax all mankind, and God used that to bring Mary and Joseph and the unborn Savior. To that lamb. The fullness of time. It was God's miracle. But not only that, what are the Romans famous for? Their roads. Their roads. You see, they had to have these roads and able to tax the whole world. They had to get away, have a way to get from A to B. How do you think Mary and Joseph traveled? Roman Roads. How do you think Paul traveled with the gospel? Roman roads. It was the fullness of time. God using wicked, godless Gentiles. To perform his perfect and sovereign will be a few of the But not only had the Romans come to prominence at that time, the Romans brought peace, but the Greeks had brought language. I mentioned earlier, just in passing, that that concept, that term that he was sent forth, is found thirteen times in our Greek New Testament, but only 11 times in our New English New Testament. And we've looked at many words that are that way where we have six or seven or eight different words in English to convey one concept in the Greek. The Greek is one of the most precise. Exacting languages that has ever existed among mankind. What better language for the New Testament It was the fullness of time. And not only that, it was a universally used language. It was known all over the known world. It was the fullness of time and God's perfect time using the Greeks and the Romans to do his will. And then you had the Roman army. Many of the Roman army believed. And they didn't stay in one place. They were sent all over the world carrying their faith with them. And so it was the fullness of the time of the law, it was the fullness of the time of the Jews, it was the fullness of the time of the Gentiles, but then also it was the fullness of the time of prophecy. And I mentioned earlier that one of our great difficulties with the prophecy of Scripture is because we're bound by time. We can't see things the way God sees. We set our schedules and we see things in consecutive orders and A following immediately after B, whereas in God's time, sometimes between A and B, there may be centuries. And then C D and E all happen at one time. We God lets us know what we're supposed to know. And He doesn't reveal what we don't need. gives us everything we need. But it was the fullness of the time of prophecy. Flip with me to Daniel. Daniel chapter 9 and verses 24 through 26. It was the fullness of the time of prophecy. In Daniel 9 and verse 24, seventy weeks are determined upon thy people and upon thy holy city. to finish the transgression, and to make an end of sin, and to make reconciliation for iniquity, and to bring in everlasting righteousness. And to seal up the vision and the prophecy and to anoint the Most Holy. Know therefore and understand that from the going forth of the commandment to restore and to build Jerusalem under the Messiah, the Prince, shall be seven weeks and three score and two weeks, and the street shall be built again, and the walls, even in troubleless times. And after three score and two weeks shall Messiah be cut off, but not for himself. And the people of the prince shall come. And shall destroy the city and the sanctuary, and to the end thereof shall be with a flood, and to the end of the war, desolations are determined. Now I'm not big on prophecy. And I don't preach prophecy because ultimately none of us know exactly what God plans. So we can make our interpretations. However, this passage, those that are scholars in this area, and I'm certainly not But this passage from the command in Ezra to build the temple, and the time a Messiah will be cut off, was prophesied to be seven weeks of years plus 62 years for a total of 490 years. And the Bible scholars that keep calendars tell us that with the adjustment for leap years, the adjustment for changing of various calendars, because mankind has had many calendars, But when you take it all out and put it back together, it comes out 490 years to the week of the triumphal entry, which ended with the crucifixion of Jesus. Jesus Christ. When the fullness of time was come, Jesus Christ was born in Bethlehem at the very second that God Had ordained from the foundation of the earth. And so when the fullness of time was come, God sent forth his Son. Made of a woman, made under the law, to redeem them that were under the law, that we might receive the adoption of sons. It was the fullness of the Father's time. God is not subject to time as we are We all rose this morning with the sun, and we'll go to bed sometime tonight with the moon. It is appointed unto man once to die, and after this The judgment. God has a plan for everything. God knew before He created the earth The very second that Christ would be born, and the very second that I would die God's time has its fullness. Except he repent, ye shall all likewise perish. For God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son. That whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but should have everlasting Life. What is everlasting life? The escape from time. Jesus Christ made himself subject to time that we might be delivered from time. Do you know him? Let's stand for prayer. Oh Lord, we thank you for your sovereign will. We thank you, Lord, that though the heathen rage And the people imagine a vain thing. Our God sitting in the heavens shall laugh and have them in duration. Lord, we thank you that you rule all things, you rule time. Your sovereign will be done among men We thank you that you sent forth your Son in your perfect time to be our perfect salvation. Father, we thank you that we have embraced Christ by faith. Lord, we pray for any here today that may not know the joy of the Savior. Father, may they come to know Him, whom to know aright is life eternal. Bless your truth to our hearts we pray in Jesus' name. Amen