Turn with me in your Bibles, please, to the thirty-fourth Psalm. If we were to choose a key verse from this psalm, it would be the 11th verse. Come ye children, hearken unto me And I will teach you the fear of the Lord. You know that typically we begin our consideration of Scripture with the reading of the Scripture itself. And then prayer and our exposition. I'm going to change things a little bit this morning. Let's begin by considering the psalm itself and why this psalm was written. And then we're going to consider the fear of the Lord. And then I'm going to go through the psalm with you as we read it together. And then Make some applications from the fear of the Lord. Notice the title of this psalm. You'll see there Before the first verse begins, I will bless the Lord at all times, that there is a title. These titles are a part of the manuscripts. They are found in the manuscripts. They are very ancient and they belong to the Psalms. This was not just somebody's opinion as to how this Psalm came about. But it is the ordained explanation and introduction to the psalm. And you'll see that the introduction to this psalm is this A Psalm of David, when he changed his behavior before Abimelech, who drove him away and Departed. What had happened there? Well, in 1 Samuel chapter 21, we have the account. The background is this. Samuel, at God's command, had ordained David, had anointed David to be king of Israel. But Saul was still king of Israel. Saul wanted to kill David. Saul, because of his hatred for David and his desire to kill David, has caused David to flee David runs to the Philistines, and he comes under the protection of Achis. Now it says Abimelech, doesn't it? If you go to 1 Samuel 21, you'll find his name is called Asius. And the naysayers will say, oh, see, here's an error in Scripture, because his name isn't Asius, his name's Abimelech. Well, Abimelech was not the name of the king, it was the title. The name Abimelech, that first part last part of the name is Malek, which means king And just as the kings of Egypt were called Pharaohs, so the kings of Philistine were referred to as Abimelech. And so in 1 Samuel 21, he's called Ashish by his name, but when you come to the Psalms that basically says when David ran from the king, when David fled from Abimelech. And so the background here is that David runs and hides with the Philistines because of persecution. And one of the servants of Abimelech, Ashus the king, says, hey, wait a minute, this is David. Asius was the king of Gath. Can you think of another famous character in the Bible from the Gat from Gath? Well, Goliath of Gath, who David slew. Hey King, this is the guy who the Israelite women saying, Saul hath killed his thousands and David his king ten thousands. And so David, having fled from King Saul, now is in danger again. But how can he escape the corpse of the Philistine king? And so David has to play the madman, and he lets his slobber run down upon his beard and acts like he's crazy. And Aesus, Abimelech King Ashus, says, I don't have any need for a madman. And so it says there in the title He changed his behavior before Abimelech, who drove him away, and he departed. David is driven out. Just been as they've been driven out from Saul. Now he's driven out from Abimelech. You would think that that would cause David to be very despondent. Have you ever been fired from a job? You may have walked out of the building saying, Yay, I'm free! But more likely you left the building stunned. I didn't see that Worried, how am I gonna feed my family? I've got bills and obligations Here, David has not been just driven out from Saul and now driven out from Abimel. He's got no place to go. And yet David begins this Psalm, I will bless the Lord at all times. You know, it's easy to bless the Lord at some times. But David said, I will bless the Lord at all times. And then in verse 11 he says, Come, my children. He doesn't have children yet. Come, my children. I will teach you the fear of the Lord. David could say, I will bless the Lord at all times, even when I'm driven from Saul and driven from Abimelech Because he had learned the fear of the Lord. And in this psalm, again and again and again, we find the fear of the Lord discussed. Don't start looking at your watches, but I've got ten points this morning, folks. This psalm is a psalm about the fear of the Lord But before we can even get into the Psalm itself, what is the fear of the Lord? We find this over and over again in Scripture, but we rarely find it defined. The fear of the Lord for the believer, we're going to look at it separately for the believer and the unbeliever. The fear of the Lord before the believer is that holy reverence which causes the believer to bow in humble submission to the will and rulership of God It is the fear of displeasing the one who is holy. It is not a fear of judgment. But rather, it is a worshipful reverence that comes from the knowledge that God, who alone is holy and righteous, has not judged us according to our sins. But rather has cleansed us in his mercy by the blood of Jesus Christ. A child Raised properly, should fear his parents. Now that doesn't mean that he walks around thinking, I'm gonna get smacked. It doesn't mean he walks around thinking, oh no, they're going to do something bad to me. But rather, a child that is raised well will have a loving reverence for his parents. And folks, it is very similar to the marriage relationship that God has ordained. The wife is to submit herself to the husband And scripture even talks about the wife fearing or reverencing the husband. And folks, the marriage between Christ and the church is pictured in the marriage relationship, and the fear of God is seen in that same relationship. I fear God. I love him because he first loved me. And I willingly and joyously Submit myself to his will, recognizing that he is holy and I am unholy. He knows best and I don't. He is wise and I am a fool without him He owns the cattle on a thousand hills, and I am a pauper before him. And so I fear him. And so the believer's fear of God is not a trembling fear of judgment, but is a reverential fear of his holiness. But the fear of God for the unbeliever is a thing totally apart. For the unregenerated To the unbeliever, he can never know the fear of God unless he is taught the fear of God by the mercy of God The unregenerate man does fear and should fear judgment. And actually my notes say the unregenerate man may fear judgment because there are some that there are There is no fear of God. They don't fear judgment, they don't fear anything. They go through life oblivious. The unregenerate man may fear judgment. But that is a thing apart from the fear of God. The unregenerate man can only learn the fear of God if he is taught by the Holy Spirit. And so scriptures have much to say about the fear of the Lord. Let us hear the conclusion of the whole matter, Ecclesiastes 12, verse 13. Fear God and keep his commandments, for this is the whole duty of man. Psalm 89, verse 7. God is greatly to be feared in the assembly of the saints and to be had in reverence of all those that are about him. 2 Corinthians 7, verse 1, having therefore these promises, dearly beloved, let us cleanse ourselves from all filthiness of the flesh, perfecting holiness in the fear of the Lord. And so with that introduction now, rather than simply reading through the passage as I often do, I'm going to read it, but we're going to stop and make application and pause. And then we'll get to our ten points, and they each will be very brief. Look with me at the first verse of Psalm 34. I will bless the Lord at all times. His praise shall be continually in my mouth. Oh folks, wouldn't it be wonderful if everyone of us could honestly say that's true? I think any one of us that says that this is honestly true of us all the time knows we're lying. But oh, David, who had learned the fear of the Lord, could testify this. David, who had learned the fear of the Lord, could make this his ambition, I will bless the Lord at all times, even when I'm running from Saul, even when I'm running from Abimelech. And his praise shall be continually in my mouth. My soul shall make her boast in the Lord, the humble shall hear thereof and be glad. What has David had to do to escape from Abimelech? Well, he humbled himself about as low as he could be. His slobber ran down upon his beard. Oh magnify Jehovah, magnify the Lord with me And let us exalt his name together. Excuse me, what had happened to David's name in Abimelech's courts? Well, this David, he's a madman. His name is worthless, but let us exalt his name together. I sought the Lord, and he heard me, and delivered me from all my Fears. Folks, this chapter is about the fear of the Lord. Why did David run from Saul? Well, because twice Saul tried to kill him, and Jonathan warned David and he ran. Why does David now have to run from Abimelech? Well, because Abimelech's servants have reminded him this is the guy that killed Goliath. This is the guy that has slain 10,000. David has a lot of reasons to fear. Are you afraid, folks? Are you afraid Fearful? Do you look at the future with with concern? What's going to happen to my family? What's going to happen to this nation? What's going to happen with my employment? What's going to happen to my savings? What What's gonna happen to these bills? What's gonna happen to my health? Yep We can we can pile up quite a bit of fears, folks. But even in the fields we need to bless the Lord at all times, and his praise should be continually in our mouths. I sought the Lord, he heard me, and delivered me from all my fears. That doesn't sound like the words of a man who's afraid of men, does it? It doesn't sound like the testimony of a man who, or it does sound like the testimony of a man who has learned the fear of the Lord. Verse 5. They looked unto him and were lightened, their faces were not ashamed. Do you think David's face was ashamed when there was spit on his beard? When he's having to humble himself to run, but they looked to the Lord and they were not ashamed. David has just played the madman. David has humiliated himself before his enemies. David looked to God, and the darkness was made light, and he was not ashamed. Verse 6, this poor man. That word poor man there is not talking about monetary It's a word that indicates one who is humbled, one who is low, one who has lost all esteem of man. This poor man cried, and the Lord heard him And saved him out of all his troubles. Folks, David's got troubles. You know, we worry about losing the things in this world. David's lost all of them. We worry about the esteem of man. David's lost all of it. We worry about losing our lives. David is in danger of losing his But then look at verse 7. And this is just amazing. Considering the context, considering what David is going through, the angel of the Lord encamp round about them that fear Asius. The angel of the Lord encamp round about them that fear Saul? No, it's not what it says at all The angel of the Lord encampeth round about them that fear him and delivereth them. David doesn't claim that he was delivered because he was smart enough to act like a madman. David acknowledges that the angel of the Lord was camping around about him when Saul threw a javelin at the wall. The angel of the Lord was encamping around about him. The angel of the Lord was protecting him. And it was the angel of the Lord that delivered him. From all his troubles, because the angel of the Lord is campeth around about them that fear him You know, sometimes God has to make us afraid. Sometimes God has to put us in the trouble that we'll fear Him. He has to remind us of our own sins because the fear of the Lord is our is a holy hatred for our sin. In light of the rev holy righteousness of God. David acknowledges that he was not delivered because of the ro as a result of his own cunning. David declares that he was delivered by the angel Jehovah, who was with him when he ran from Saul, and who was with him when he ran from the Philistines. Verse 8. O taste and see that the Lord is good. Blessed is the man that trusteth in him. Folks, when you have run into great problems, have you ever said the Lord's good? On the worst day of your life, do you drive home thinking, oh the Lord's so good? I venture to say we don't. But here David declares, Taste and see that the Lord is good. Blessed is the man that trusteth in him. And that word trusteth is not the same word as fear, but it is a companion word. Hmm. The trust in the Lord and the fear of the Lord are very, very similar concepts. And so yet again we find that concept here in this passage. Verse 9. Oh, fear the Lord. He is saints. For there is no want to them that fear him. David has lost everything, folks. He has run for his life twice. He has lost it all. But there is no want to them that fear him. The young lions do lack and suffer hunger, but they that seek the Lord shall not want any good. thing. I was the youngest of of three brothers. And so I was the last to leave the nest, the last to leave the household. My eldest brother was married when I was fourteen. And I moved into the bedroom that he had had, and on a three by five card on the mirror was this verse. The young lions do lack and suffer hunger, but they that seek the Lord shall not want any good thing. And so from the time I was 14 to the time I went to college, I saw that verse every morning. How true it is, young person. Are you wanting a career? Are you wanting a family? Are you wanting an education? Are you wanting direction? Are you wanting to know God's will? It's all here. The young lions who are strong and can provide for themselves, they lack They suffer hunger. But those that seek the Lord shall not want any good thing. Nothing good will be withheld from those that seek the Lord. And then there's central verse, verse 34. Verse 11 of chapter 34. Come, ye children, hearken unto me. And I will teach you the fear of the Lord. Who wrote this verse? David. David. Where did he get it from? God. David didn't have any children yet, folks. This is the voice of the Heavenly Father speaking through the inspired prophet. Come, my children. Now are we the sons of God, and it doth yet appear what we shall be. Come, children, I will teach you to fear me. Just as the loving father who properly trains his son teaches the son to fear him, not in a fear of my dad's going to kill me I think most of us know our teenagers have thought that. But not that kind of a fear. But this is my daddy. I love him And he loves me so much, and he wants everything that is good for me, and he will do everything that is good for me, and he will lead me and guide me. Oh, I love him in a loving, reverential fear. Jehovah says, Come, my children, my son David, when you're running from Saul, I'll teach you the fear of the Lord. When you're running from Abimelech, I'll teach you the fear of the Lord. In every trial, in every situation, my dear child, I will teach you. The fear of the Lord. What man is he that desireth life and loveth long days, that he may see good? Why did David run from Saul? Oh, he desired life. Why did David run from Abimelech? Oh, he desired life. And loveth many days that he may see good. Keep thy tongue from evil and thy lips from speaking guile Depart from evil and do good. Seek peace and pursue it. The eyes of the Lord are upon the righteous, and his ear is open to his cry. God knew exactly where David was when he was running, from Abimelech and from Saul. The face of the Lord is against them that do evil, to cut off the remembrance of them from the earth. King Saul had a vast family, but King Saul's vast family came down to one crippled grandson who lived at the mercy of David. And what of Abimelithus? What of this great king of Gath? History doesn't know anything about him. He's gone. But contrast that with verse 17. Verse 16, the face of the Lord is against them that do evil. Verse 17, the righteous cry. And the Lord heareth and delivereth him out of all his troubles. Look back to verse 6. This poor man cried, and the Lord heard him, and saved him from all his troubles. You see the verse 6 And verse 17 are a repetition. He says it twice. The Lord is nigh unto them that are of a broken heart. And save us such as are of a contrite spirit. That's a humble spirit. We've seen humility tied with the fear of the Lord throughout the passage. Verse 19 Many are the afflictions of the righteous. I thought it was supposed to be a bed of roses. I thought that I now have been anointed with oil. The oil is run on my head from the From the cruise in Samuel's hand, and certainly it's all going to be easy from here on. It's going to be greedy, brother. No. Many are the affliction of the righteous, but the Lord delivereth him out of them all Then folks, come to verse 20. He keepeth all his bones. Not one of them is broken. What is the significance of bones? Well, they make up the skeleton. They're that which gives our body structure. Not one of them is broken. He knows the number of the hairs of our head. He keeps our life, our soul in life. He maintains our form. And folks, if that's all this verse was talking about, it would be glorious enough. But folks, the reason we have eternal life is because of Christ. The reason we have entrance into this righteousness is because of Christ. The reason we can learn the fear of the Lord is because of Christ. And when Mary was praising Jehovah at the conception of the Messiah, she quoted from this verse. Folks, this verse points directly to Christ, that not a bone of his body would be broken. Evil shall slay the wicked, and they that hate the righteous shall be desolate. The Lord redeemeth the soul of his servants, and none of them that trust in him shall be desolate. So folks, that's the chapter we're considering. But now for the ten points. And we will go quickly. If you want to write them down, you've got to write them quick because I'm not going to spend a lot of time But what does Scripture teach us about the fear of the Lord? What are the blessings of being taught the fear of the Lord by the Spirit of God? Now folks, the fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom. You know the passages. Proverbs 9, verse 10. The fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom, and the knowledge of the holy is understanding. Psalm 111, verse 10. The fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom, and a good understanding have all they that do his commandments. His praise endureth forever. Job lost everything except his wife, and she was a thorn in the flesh. And yet Job could say in the 28th chapter, the 28th verse And another man he said, Behold, the fear of the Lord, that is wisdom. And depart from evil is understanding. Job's friends thought they had wisdom and understanding, but they were filled with evil. But look at verses four through six of our text this morning. Psalm 34 verse 4. I sought the Lord and he heard me and delivered me from all my fears. They looked unto him and were lightened. And their faces were not ashamed. This poor man cried, and the Lord heard him and saved him out of all those troubles. You know what it means to be lightened? It means to be instructed, to be taught. Come my children, I will teach you the fear of the Lord. God, I'm in this darkness. It's all going wrong. The fear of the Lord, and we are light, and we understand that God is God has a purpose. Number two, the secret of the Lord is with them that fear him. Look down to verse 11, our text. Come, ye children, hearken unto me, and I will teach you the fear of the Lord. You know before we're taught something it's a mystery. I'll be honest with you. Algebra is still a mystery to me. I never learned that one. Uh but before you learn a language, it's very mysterious. Come, my children, hearken to me, and I'll teach the fear. Oh, it's mysterious, but the Spirit makes it plain. Again, the secret of the Lord is with them that fear him, and he will show them his covenant. Psalm 25, verse 14. I'll give you the reference again. Psalm twenty-five, verse fourteen. The secret of the Lord is with them that fear him, and he will show them his covenant. His covenant. Well, his covenant is a secret thing. It's not made known to everyone, but it's it's the covenant with the Lord. Deuteronomy twenty-nine twenty-nine The secret things belong unto the Lord our God, but those which are revealed belong unto us and to our children forever, that we may do all the words of the law These stupid Christians that want the Ten Commandments all over the place. What's wrong with them? Well, the secret of the Lord has taught us his law. He's taught us his covenant. 1 Corinthians 2, verse 14, But the natural man receiveth not the things of the Spirit of God. For they are foolishness unto him, neither can he know them because they're spiritually discerned. They're taught they're discerned by the Spirit. Come, my children, I'll teach you the fear of the Lord. The secret of the Lord is that intimate knowledge of God. The secret of the Lord is friendship with God. He will show his covenant. Folks, this is nothing less than the election of God. Showing us his covenant. Number three, the eyes of the Lord are on them that fear him. Look at verse 15 of our text. Psalm 34, verse 15. The eyes of the Lord are upon the righteous. And his ear is open to their cry. God sees me! Oh, God sees the wicked as well. But God sees me in a totally different way. Any of you that have had children that played sports have probably had the experience watching them from way up in the grandstand, and here's a whole field full of kids. Whether they be, you know, three-year-olds in pee-wee soccer or whatever event. But the whole rest of the game doesn't mean anything to you. You're just watching this one little kid Doesn't matter if he has the ball, doesn't matter if he's tripping over his shoelaces, doesn't matter if he's picking up daisies instead of playing the game. You're watching him! Yeah, you see all the others and what they're doing. That's where your attention is. What's the first is saying? The eyes of the Lord are on them that fear him. Psalm 33, verse 18 and 19, and I have slow written beside this verse to remind me not to read it fast, to read it slow. Behold, the eyes of the Lord are upon them that fear him, upon them that hope in his mercy. To deliver their soul from death and to keep them alive in famine. Ah, folks Elijah's out beside a brook and the birds are bringing him food. A widow only has a handful of meal and a little oil and a cruise, and yet they ate well through the famine. We saw in prayer meeting a a poor widow woman whose sons were about to be taken to pay off the father's debt, and they start pouring oil out of a one vessel into an empty one And they ran out of vessels. The eyes of the Lord are upon them fear him. He keeps them alive in famine. 1 Peter 3, verse 12, For the eyes of the Lord are over the righteous, and his ear is open to their prayer, but the face of the Lord is against them that do evil. Luke 12, 6 and 7 are not five sparrows sold for two farthings? And not one of them is forgotten before God. But even the very hairs of your head are numbered. Fear not, therefore, ye are of more value than many sparrows. Ah. The eyes of the Lord are on them that fear him. Number four. We saw this already, but the angel of the Lord encampeth round about them that fear him. Folks, I I can testify that my wife and I have known this very personally. And I'm sure many of you have as well. But you've been in a situation where there's great danger. And yet you knew that you were safe. My father used to say to me, Joe, you are safer on the mission field than you are here in the States. You are safer on the mission field in God's will than you are here in the US, out of God's will. The safest place on earth is the center of God's will. Daniel was safer in the lion's den than anywhere else that night. The angel of the Lord campeth round about them that feared him. Psalm 121, 3 and 4, I will not suffer thy foot to be moved. He that keepeth thee will not slumber. Behold, he that keepeth Israel shall neither slumber nor sleep. Isaiah 54, verse 17: No weapon that is formed against thee shall prosper. Every tongue that shall rise against thee in judgment shall be condemned. All that gives me peace, folks. I, like everyone here, have been accused of all kinds of things I didn't do. But the tongue that rises in judgment shall be condemned. This is the heritage of the servants of the Lord, and their righteousness is of me, saith the Lord. And again, you know, Psalm four verse eight is a psalm that we prayed every night when we went to sleep in Jamaica, and I ought to be praying it every night here in the States as well I will both lay me down in peace and sleep, for thou Lord only makest me to dwell in safety. Number five, there is no want to fear him. We probably could have included this along with uh the verse we read there in Psalm thirty three where he'll keep them alive in famine. But if you look at verses nine and ten of our text, Psalm thirty four verses nine and ten Oh, fear the Lord ye of saints, for there is no one to them that fear him. My God shall supply all your need. The young lions do lack and supper hunger. You know, folks, the lion's pretty swift He can he can catch the the deer, he can hunt for himself. He's the king of the jungle, as they say. But the young lions, not the old lion whose teeth have rotted. The young lions do lack and suffer hunger. But they that seek the Lord shall not want any good thing For my God shall supply all your need according to his riches and glory. Folks, what limit is there to the riches of God and glory? I have been young and now I'm old, yet have I never seen the righteous forsaken. And his seed begging bread. Psalm 37, verse 25. Number six, God's mercies on them that fear him. Look at verse 18 of our text. The Lord is nigh unto them that are of a broken heart and saveth such as are of a contrite spirit. God's mercy is there. Psalm 103, which we read for our responsive reading, verse eleven and verse seventeen. As far as the heaven is above the earth, so great is his mercy toward them that fear him Folks, how high is the heaven above the earth? There there's some astronauts stranded on the space station right now. They were supposed to be eight days and it's gonna be eight months if they get home then. But God's mercy is higher than they are, folks. They're only like two hundred and eighty-some miles above the earth. God's mercy extends throughout the universe. As high as the heavens above the earth, so great is his mercy toward them that fear him. And verse 17, but the mercy of the Lord is from everlasting to everlasting upon them that fear him, and his righteousness unto children's children. children. Number seven, the fear of the Lord. In the fear of the Lord there is victory over evil. David has escaped all kinds of earthly evils, but you look down to verse 21 and 22 of Psalm 34. Evil shall slay the wicked. And they that hate the righteous shall be desolate. Shall be desolate. The Lord redeemeth the soul of his servants, and not one of them shall be desolate. And that word desolate Means condemned. It means offending. It means guilty. They're desolate. Desolation. A desolate place. It means to condemn. It means to find guilty. It is a word that means offending. It doesn't come across as well in our English word desolate. But it's an idea of spiritual desolation. A spiritual wasteland. Proverbs sixteen, verse six But the mercy uh by mercy and truth iniquity is purged And by the fear of the Lord men depart from evil. In Proverbs eighteen, verse thirteen, the fear of the Lord is to hate evil, pride, and arrogancy in every evil way, and the forward, forward mirth do I hate. Folks, there's victory over sin in the fear of the Lord. You know why a lot of Christians continue in sin? Because they don't really know yet the fear of the Lord. And see, the fear of the Lord is that reverential fear of his holiness. I do not want to offend the holiness of God, just as a child does not want to offend his father's will. Second Corinthians 7 verse 1 Having therefore these promises, dearly beloved, let us cleanse ourselves from all filthiness of the flesh and spirit, perfecting holiness in the fear of the Lord. You see the consistency of Scripture? There is therefore now no condemnation to them which are in Christ Jesus who walk not after the flesh, but after the Spirit. Number eight, we're almost done. Those that fear the Lord are blessed. They are indeed blessed. David has been driven from his home. He's been driven out by Saul. He's been driven out by Asius. But look at verse 1. I will bless the Lord at all times. His praise shall be continually in my mouth. Here's a man that's truly blessed, folks. He's got all kinds of earthly problems. But he's blessed. Verse 2, my soul shall make his boast in the Lord, the humble shall hear thereof and be glad. Verse 6, this poor man cried, and the Lord heard him and saved him out of his troubles. Verse 17, many of the afflictions of the righteous. But the Lord delivereth him out of them all. That sounds like a man's blessed, doesn't it? Sounds like a man that is not swayed by the problems of this life. It truly is blessed. And folks, that that word blessed, some might say, well, that means happy. Well, it does about five percent. But it's so, so, so much more than simply being happy. I mean a lot of people give her happy over a birthday gift. But what God gives us is so much more. Number nine, the fear of the Lord will give long life. Verse 11 and 12. Come ye children, hearken unto me, and I will teach you the fear of the Lord. What man is he that desireth life? and loveth many days, that he may see good. Psalm 10, verse 20, or Proverbs 10, verse 27, The fear of the Lord prolongeth days, but the years of the wicked shall be shortened You know, the world says that the aim is to um what is it, die young and leave a pretty corpse. He that has the most toys when he dies wins The world has all kinds of crazy ideas. But the fear of the Lord gives many days. Proverbs 1923. The fear of the Lord tendeth the life, and he that hath it shall abide satisfied, he shall not be visited with evil. And then finally, those who fear the Lord have God as their children. Back to our text verse. David's not speaking here, folks. It is David's lips and God's words. Come, my children. Come, ye who were chosen in Christ before the foundation of the world. Come, ye elect sons of God. Come, God's children, and God will teach you the fear. Or come, God's children, hearken unto God. And God will teach you the fear of the Lord. Folks, I was very blessed to have a godly father on earth. Yes. I know that many of you have not had that privilege. I was blessed, folks. God didn't love me more than he loves you. God brings different circumstances into the life of his children to mold us. And to the godly men that he wants us to be. But those that know the fear of the Lord, remember we began with that contrast between the believer's fear and the unregenerate's fear Those that know the fear of the Lord, the greatest blessing of all, God is their Father. And we read there in Psalm 103 this morning, like as a father pity his children. So the Lord pitieth them that fear him. For he knoweth our frame. He remembereth that we are as us. As for man his days are his grass, as the flower of the field is flourished, and the wind path is over it. And it is gone. Come, my children, let us hearken unto God and learn His righteous fear. Stand with me for prayer. Father, we thank you that by the mercies of Christ you have delivered us from fear of judgment. As the old hymn says, was grace that taught my heart to fear, and grace my fears relieved. And Lord, you often use the fear of judgment to bring your children to the fear of God, and we thank you for that. But O Lord, may we be careful to hearken unto thee And O Lord, teach us thy fear. Father, we know not what trials may come. We may be driven into the woods just as David was. But Lord, if we learn thy fear, oh how blessed we are. Bless us, thy people. Bless thy word to our hearts. Bless Mission Bible Church. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.