Opening your Bibles with you this morning to the book of Matthew, Matthew's Gospel. I had Brother Anton read. Along with you for the responsive reading from Zachariah's prophecy at the Circumcision of John the Baptist. And this morning from the 11th chapter of Matthew, we're going to consider One of the events in the life of John the Baptist. If you have your place now in the book of Matthew, Chapter eleven. I think the bulletin says one through seven, but I'm actually going to read one through eleven. I I tend to send the information to Brother Vincent and continue working and not send him an update. So I'm going to read through verse 11 of the 11th chapter of Matthew. And it came to pass when Jesus had made an end of commanding his twelve disciples, he departed thence to teach and preach in their cities. Now when John, this is John the Baptist, now when John had heard in the prison the works of Christ He sent two of his disciples and said unto him, Art thou he that should come, or do we look for another? Jesus answered and said unto them, Go and show John again those things which ye do hear and see. The blind receive their sight. The lame walk. The lepers are cleansed. And the death hear, the dead are raised up, and the poor have the gospel preached to them. And blessed is he whosoever shall not be offended in me. And as they departed, Jesus began to say unto the multitude concerning John What went ye out into the wilderness to see? A reed shaken in the wind? But what went ye out for to see? A man clothed with soft raiment Behold, they that wear soft clothing are in king's houses. But what went ye out for to see? A prophet Yea, I say unto you, and more than a prophet, for this is he of whom it is written. Behold, I send my messenger before thy face, which shall prepare the way before thee. Verily I say unto you, Among them that are born of women, there hath not risen a greater than John the Baptist Notwithstanding, he that is least in the kingdom of heaven is greater than he. Let us bow for prayer. Father, now as we approach your Holy Word, we pray, Father, that the Holy Spirit would be our teacher and our guide We pray that the words spoken today, though I will endeavor to expound upon thy word, that then my words would not be the true message. But Father, may indeed the true message that goes forth this morning be that which is solely found in the Word, not in man's comments That is solely expounded by the Spirit of God with the aid of man's comments. And so, Father, may your Spirit teach us great and valuable truths this day. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. In the second and third verse We find that John, John the Baptist, in prison, sends two of his disciples to Jesus and asks this profound question. Are you the one that should come? Or should we look for another? John the Baptist had a doubt. John the Baptist is asking a question And I think with many times with our children they ask a question that we've answered again and again, and I've already answered that. I've told you once and I'll tell you again. That was my grandmother's line. I'll tell you once, I've told you once and I'll tell you again. I hadn't even thought of that phrase for years, but my grandmother used to say that all the time. Here we find John the Baptist with doubts. Are you really the Christ? Or do we look for another? And so I'd kind of like to break the message into two parts today. The first part being a consideration of who it is that has this doubt and a recognition that if someone of the caliber of John the Baptist could have doubts, it is certain that we will at times have doubts as well. And then secondly, the second part of the message, I would like to look at how the doubts of John the Baptist were dealt with. And before we even begin and talk about the caliber of the man that had these doubts, let's understand that we're not making excuses for doubts. Because doubt is sin. It is sin in my heart when I doubt. It is sin in your heart when you doubt. And it was sin in John the Baptist's heart when he dealt it. And so we're not going to make excuses here. So don't take anything that's said as an excuse for sin, but rather Thereby as thy servant warned. May the example of John the Baptist stand to us as a warning against doubts. And so, first of all, we find that this doubt is coming from a man who was born of a miraculous birth and raised in a godly family. Turn with me to the book of Luke. We read there from Luke 3 for our responsive reading, but Luke chapter 1. And verses 5 through 7 tells us a little bit about the birth of John the Baptist. Luke chapter 1 and verse 5. There was in the days of Herod, the king of Judea, a certain priest named Zacharias, of the course of Abi, and his wife was a daughter of Aaron, and her name was Elizabeth. And they were both righteous before God, walking in all the commandments and ordinances of the Lord, blameless. And they had no child because Elizabeth was barren, and they were both now well-stricken in years. Folks, this is quite a testimony that were given here of the family of John the Baptist. They were both righteous. They were both walking in the commandments and in the ordinance of God. They were blameless. They had a testimony that was above reproach. And so we find that John the Baptist family was a very godly family, and we find that Elizabeth, his mother, was barren, she could not bear. That was one of the greatest trials that any woman could face in this day and age to be barren. And we find that not only was she barren, she was well stricken in age, Her body had passed the years of childbearing. But the angel Gabriel appears to Zacharias's As he ministers in the temple, as he's burning incense in the temple, the angel Gabriel appears to him beside the altar of incense and tells him, You're going to have a son You're going to name the son John, and you're going to be dumb, not able to speak until the child is born. And as Brother Anton mentioned to us, the dumbness was removed from Zacharias when John was named there at the circumcision. And so the first thing we find here is that John the Baptist grew up with the best possible spiritual upbringing. He had parents that were righteous before God, walking in the commandments, and blameless in the ordinances. And yet we find that John the Baptist has this doubt. And folks, I believe, this is my personal belief. I believe that children that grow up in Christian homes are sometimes more prone to those doubts than those that are saved later in life. Because we grow up in an environment where we are taught the scriptures from birth. We grew up in an environment where we are surrounded by a godly family and by other believers, brought up within the community of believers and the people that are our parents' friends. are godly friends. And the children we play with are children of godly families. And our parents protect us from playing with strange children, as we saw last Sunday. And we have God's word poured into us from childhood, and we accept all these things to be true because it is our spiritual upbringing. But I know many believers that are brought up in that environment that reach a point when they suddenly say, is this really true? Or is this just my family's tradition? Is this really true, or is this just what I've been taught? Is this my parents' faith? Or is it my faith? And so the first warning here is to those of you who may have been blessed and privileged to have a home like that of John the Baptist. Be careful. Be careful, because you may be more subject to doubts than someone who lived in the world. And didn't have the advantage. Someone who was a first generation believer as opposed to a second or third or fourth generation. Someone who came to these truths. On your own rather than being led to them by your parents. And so that's the first thing I'd like us to notice about John is that he was born of a miracle and he was raised in a godly family. But the second thing that we would notice about John, who has this great doubt, is that John was a man who was a Nazarite from birth. We find this also in the first chapter of Luke and verses 14 and 15. And thou shalt have joy and gladness and many gladness, and many shall rejoice at his birth. For he shall be great, this is talking about John the Baptist before his birth, for he shall be great in the sight of the Lord, and shall drink neither wine nor strong drink. And he shall be filled with the Holy Ghost, even from his mother's womb. From his mother's womb, this child will be filled with the Holy Ghost. Folks, this is not this is not a typical child. This child is a child that is filled with the Holy Ghost, spiritual understanding. And our brother mentioned that we oppose the doctrine of the age of accountability. Compare an age of accountability with one who's filled with the Holy Ghost from the womb. It doesn't fit. It doesn't match. Children are accountable to God the day they're born. But here, John the Baptist is one filled with the Holy Ghost from the womb. Folks, there are only in Scripture three Nazarites that were Nazarites from birth. Samuel, Samson, and John the Baptist. There are other Nazarites in Scripture. We don't find them named, but these three were Nazarites from birth. And yet that did not protect John the Baptist from the plague of doubt that came upon him. And so, folks, be warned. Number three, this doubt is expressed by a man who was himself the fulfillment of prophecy. It's the fulfillment of prophecy. In Luke 1 and verse 16, many of the children of Israel shall be turned to the Lord, and he shall go before him in the spirit and power of Elias. To turn the hearts of the fathers to the children, and the disobedient to the wisdom of the just, to make ready a people prepared for the Lord. There was the prophecy in Isaiah, that there would be the voice of one in the wilderness crying, Prepare ye the way of the Lord, make it straight, every valley shall be exalted, every mountain shall be made low. And the glory of the Lord shall come upon them. And then in chapter 3 of Luke and verse 3, we find John the Baptist preaching. And in Luke 3 and verse 3, and he came into the country round about Jordan, preaching the baptism of repentance for the remission of sins. As it is written in the book of the word of his words of Isaiah the prophet, saying, The voice of one crying in the wilderness Prepare ye the way of the Lord. Make his path straight. Every valley shall be filled. Every mountain and hill shall be brought low. The crooked shall be made straight, and the rough way shall be made smooth, and all flesh shall see the salvation of God. Folks, I don't think any of you are the fulfillment of prophecy But John the Baptist was. And yet, folks, a man of that godly character A man who God's hand was so mightily upon from the womb was still a man. He still had a simple heart. And that heart was subject to the sin of doubt. And so folks, again, we're not making an excuse for doubt, but understand that you can fall into the pit of doubt. Number four. This doubt comes from a man, is expressed in a man who is a fearless preacher of the gospel. And friends, I can tell you myself that I had had periods of doubt. And I can tell you that in the fellowship among pastors you will find many that have just come into a crisis of doubt and begin to question, have I wasted my whole life? Is this really what God has sent me to do? Am I somehow preaching the message wrong? Why aren't there multitudes being saved? And find that John was fearless before the Pharisees. You don't need to turn, but I'll read it to you from Matthew 3 in verse 7. But when he saw many Pharisees that John saw many Pharisees and Sadducees come to his baptism, he said unto them, Oh generation of vipers! He didn't commend them. Remember what we read about the Pharisees? They loved to stand in the street corners for the praise of men. John says, you're a bunch of snakes. Oh, generation of vipers, who have warned you to flee from the wrath to come? Bring forth therefore the fruit of repentance. You need to repent. Think not that you have Abraham for your father, and he goes on to say that Axe is already at the root. See the fearless among the Pharisees To preach the truth. And then we find that he was fearless in preaching before wicked kings. We read there in our passage in Matthew that he was in prison. when he sent to Christ in Matthew 3 verse 19 But behold Herod the Tetrarch being removed by or being reproved by him that's reproved by Herod Herod by um John the Baptist, being reproved by him for Herodias, his brother Philip's wife, and for all the evil which Herod had done. And yet there ab Added yet this above all that he shut up John in prison. So here you have the wicked king who's taken his brother's wife to be his wife. And John didn't say, uh he's the king, I'm not gonna deal with that one. Uh he has the power to throw me in jail, and he has the power to take my head No, folks, John has been a very bold preacher of righteousness. He was not afraid of spiritual wickedness in high places. He was not afraid to stand against wicked religious leaders and say, look, these guys are snakes. He was not afraid to stand against political leaders who had the power to put him in jail and take his head If he was subject to doubts, certainly we may be as well Number five. John the Baptist was one who had seen the Holy Ghost in visible form. He had seen the Spirit of God. This is in Luke chapter 3, verse 21 and 22. At the baptism of Christ, he saw the Spirit descending bodily as a dove and lighting upon Christ. And not only that, he heard the voice of God saying, This is my beloved Son, in whom I'm well pleased. Hear ye him, certainly, this one would never doubt that Jesus was Messiah. And yet we find him sending to Christ. And then finally, this is the one who had himself proclaimed, Behold the Lamb of God that taketh away the sin of the world. But now he is wondering, is this indeed The Lamb of God that taketh away the sin of the world. Folks, these are not excuses for our doubts. But rather be warned, because your adversary, the devil, is a roaring lion, walketh about seeking who you may devour. Satan will try to put doubt in your heart. Sarah laughed at the promise of God. Moses doubted that God was able to deliver Israel from Egypt. Elijah doubted God in the cave. David expressed his doubts in Psalm 13, verse 1. How long wilt thou forget me, O Lord? Forever. How long wilt thou hide thy face from me? Asaph poured out his doubt in Psalm 77, verses 7-9. Will the Lord cast off forever? Will he be favorable no more? Is his mercy clean, gone forever? Doth his promises fail forevermore? Has God forgotten to be gracious Hath Ian anger shut up his tender mercies? Folks, did you ever say deep in your heart, has God forgotten to be gracious? I think many of us have. Peter, Matthew fourteen, thirty thirty-one And immediately Jesus stretched forth his hand and caught him and said, O thou of little faith, wherefore didst thou doubt? Thomas, who had been with Jesus for three years, Thomas, behold my hands and my feet. Folks, be warned. We are all subject to doubt Folks, I believe there's much to teach us here. Because I'd like us to spend the rest of our time examining how John dealt with his doubts. And folks, I believe this can instruct us as believers. It is very likely you are going to run into doubt someday too. What do you do about it? What do you do? And we find, first of all, that John's doubt occurred in a time of great trial. John's in prison. Elijah's doubt came in a cave when he was running from Jezebel. These doubts come at the worst possible time of our life. They come when it seems like our world has collapsed. It seems like everything that possibly could go wrong will go wrong. Um what of my I don't know how to put it. Intemperate. Let's put it there. What about my intemperate s things is what next? You know, and my family would tell you, they've heard me say, what next? You know, because it seems like everything is falling apart. What next? You know, when when's the next one gonna fall Folks, that's the time that Satan will assault you. David, at the death of Abner in 2 Samuel chapter 3 verses 38 and 39. And the king said unto his servants, Know ye not that there is a prince and a great man fallen this day in Israel? And I am weak this day, though anointed king. David said, I'm the anointed king of God. God's anointing is on me. But I'm weak. Abner's dead. What next? We find that when John Face these doubts, and this is actually the beginning of the next section. When John faced these doubts, he addressed his doubts to the right source. When John in prison thought, is this really the Christ or do we look for another? He sent his messengers to Jesus. Folks, when you have doubts, address them to Jesus Christ. Oh Lord, you made my heart. You redeemed my heart. You must convince my heart again. He sent his doubts to Jesus Take your doubt to the only one who can assuage your doubts. Jesus Christ is the refuge of the soul. Casting all your care upon him, for he cares for you. But not only do we find that John sent to Jesus, he sent to Jesus by two of his disciples. He used the advantage of the counsel of other godly men. He did not go to the internet. He didn't have the internet. But folks, if you go to the internet with your doubts about God, you won't find any help. He didn't go to a psychologist. But he did take advantage of the iron sharpening iron nature of other believers. If you're having doubts, first of all talk to the Lord about it, but then find a brother. And talk to your brother about it. We find in 1 Samuel 23 that David is in the wilderness and David is Though it doesn't say it directly in the passage, David is in trial, David is in crisis, David is in a time of doubt. And in second 1 Samuel 23, verse 16, and Jonathan Saul's son arose and went to David in the wood and strengthened his hand in God. And he said unto him, Fear not, for the hand of Saul my father shall not find thee. Thou shalt be king over Israel. And I shall be next unto thee. And that also Saul, my father, knoweth. Folks, when you run into doubts, don't go to the world to try to assuage them Because the world would just push you further away. Talk to the Lord about it and find godly counsel among your brethren Strengthen ye the weak hands, and confirm the feeble knees. Say unto them that are fearful, be strong, fear not. Behold your God will come with vengeance Even God with recompense, he will come and save you. Isaiah 35, verses 3 and 4. Hebrews 10, verse 24. Let us consider one another to provoke one another to love and to good works And then of course Proverbs 27, 17, iron sharpeneth iron, so a man sharpeneth the countenance of his friends. And so, first of all, when John had these doubts, he went to the right place with his doubts. He went to the Lord and to brother. Secondly, we find that when John's disciples came with these doubts, the doubts of John were compared with the prophecies of God. Compare your doubts with the Word of God. Compare your doubts with the fulfillment of prophecy. Look again there at Matthew chapter 11. And verses four and five in our text. Jesus answered and said unto them, Go and show John again those things which ye hear and see. Folks, when you begin to doubt the Lord, look back at what the Lord has done with you, done for you. The old song, Count your blessings. When upon life's journey your tempest toss, when you are discouraged, thinking all is lost, count your many blessings, name them one by one, and it will surprise you what the Lord has done. Folks, when it seems like your whole world is collapsed, realize that everything that collapsed was unnecessary. But everything that falls apart. What is this life? What is the vapor? What is our treasures? Well, our treasures are on earth What is our aspirations and our dreams? My home is in heaven. Seek ye first the kingdom of God. You see, God Allows us to enjoy these things here, but these things here are not the point. When you run into doubts, compare your doubts with the blessings of the Lord. that John's doubts by Christ were compared with what God was fulfilling. Tell John again Remind John again the things that you see and hear. The blind receive their sight, the lame walk, the lepers are cleansed, the deaf hear, the dead are raised up, and the poor have the gospel preached unto them. Folks, man could not accomplish any of those things. And folks, if you look at your life, you realize that no, this isn't accident. My life is the work of God. Step by step, day by day. He has met my every need. He has soothed my every injury. He has taken my every burden. He has been with me. He has never left me for sake nor forsaken me. It's all about him. And he is responsible for every blessing I have ever received. John's doubts were compared with the work of God. In John chapter 20, verses 30 and 31, we read, And many other signs truly did Jesus in the presence of his disciples But they are not written in this book. In other words, Jesus did an awful lot of miracles that didn't get written down. But these are written that ye might believe. And that m that that you might believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God, and believing you might have life through his name. Isn't that exactly what John was doubting? That Jesus was the Christ, the Son of God? These are written. That you might believe. When the doubts come, compare them to the Word of God. But also we find that John's current trial was contrasted with the power of God. And this is closely related to the previous one. And again, verse 5, the blind receive their sight. Folks, we have all kinds of medical procedures. And I realize that there are things that could be done for blind people today that could not be done in generations path. But folks, for the blind to see, God does that. The lame walk, the lepers are cleansed, the deaf hear, and the dead rise. And the poor have the gospel preached unto them. And that poor there is blessed are the poor in spirit. It is the lowly, not the Pharisee class. But the common people had the gospel preached unto them. John's trials were compared, contrasted with the power of God. Jeremiah 32, verse 17 through 19, and then verse 27, Ah Lord God. Behold, thou hast made the heaven and the earth by thy great power, and stretched out arm, and there is nothing too hard for thee. Thou showest life and kindness unto thousands, and recompensest the iniquity of the fathers into the bosom of their children after them. Great, the great, the mighty God, the Lord of hosts, is his name. Great in counsel and mighty in work, for thine eyes are upon all the ways of the sons of men, to give every one according to his ways, and according to the fruit of their doing Verse 27, Behold, I am the Lord, the God of all flesh, and there is nothing, and is there anything too hard for me? Folks, when you begin to doubt, look around and see the mighty works of God and understand that only God could do this. The idols of the heathen could not do these things. And the last thing we see about John is that his victory was won, though his life was taken. Let me say it again. John's victory was won, though his life was taken. John won the spiritual battle. He could say with Paul, I finished my course, I've kept the faith. But both John and Paul lost their heads. John won the battle. But lost his life. And folks, again, it's not about this life. Keep the faith. Keep the faith. Keep the faith. Herodias said, Give me the head of John the Baptist. And in Mark 14, 10, and he sent and beheaded John in prison. But look down to verse 11. Of our text there in Matthew. Jesus is speaking. Verily, verily, I say unto you. Or I'm sorry, one verily. Verily I say unto you. Folks, when Christ says it, he means it. When Christ says it, it's true. Verily I say unto you Among them that are born of woman, women, there hath not risen a greater than John the Baptist. Christ says of John after he's been beheaded, John's the greatest there ever was. John's the greatest of prophets. Not the greatest above Christ, obviously. But of the prophets, John's the greatest prophet. John had doubts But Christ still said he's the greatest of prophets. Not an excuse for John's doubts, but it's an indication of John's victory. But look at the last part of the verse. Notwithstanding, he that is least in the kingdom of heaven is greater than he, greater than John the Baptist. Do you have doubts? Folks, the least in the kingdom of heaven is greater than John. And so folks, the question is this, when you run into a period of spiritual crisis, when you run into a spirit of doubt, what will you do with it? Will you go to the internet? No. Or go to unbelieving friends? No. Or go to the world? No. Go to Christ. Go to godly brethren and understand that we have not a high priest which could not be touched with the feelings of our infirmities, but was in all points tempted like as we are, yet without sin. Christ did not have doubts. But Christ did pray, if it be possible, let this cup pass from me And folks, we have in the Word of God these godly examples. And so Christ said, fear not them which kill the body But are not able to kill the soul. But rather fear him which hath which is able to destroy both soul and body in hell. Don't fear man, fear God. Are not two sparrows sold for a farthing, and one of them shall not fall to the ground without your father? But the very hairs of your head are numbered. Fear ye not, therefore, ye are of more value than many sparrows Whosoever therefore shall confess me before men, will I confess before my Father, which is in heaven. But look finally, one concluding verse, at verse six of Matthew 11. Blessed and blessed is he whosoever shall not be offended in me. And folks, I believe that offending that Christ is talking about there is not having doubts. Blessed is he who is not doubtful. Blessed is he who has the faith of a grain of mustard seed. May we be blessed not to fall into doubt, but deliver ever in the confidence of faith in the Lord. Let us stand for prayer. Father, we thank you for your word. We thank you for the beauty of it. Father, we thank you, Lord, that uh if if man were trying to write a book and claiming it was written by God man would have written a book about perfect people. If man were to try to uh make a make a uh a hoax And claim that God had written it. It will be full of people who perfectly worship their God. But follow the very fact That your b Your word, the Bible, gives us these examples of godly men and shows us their failings is evidence that it is true. And Father, we thank you that all scripture is given by your inspiration of God and is profitable. And Father, learning from these godly men and their failings is indeed profitable to the warning of our own souls. Thereby is thy servant warned. May your word this day be a great encouragement, blessing, and warning to our hearts. In Jesus' name. Amen.