Well, Second channel talk to twelve Beginning at verse twenty-one. Remember we left off two weeks ago with uh David's son, the the son that uh Bathsheba had produced from their adulterous affair had just died. In verse twenty one Then said his servants unto him, What thing is this that thou hast done? Thou didst fast and weep for the child while it was alive. But when the child was dead, thou didst rise and eat bread. And he said, While the child was yet alive, I fasted and wept. For I said, Who can tell whether God will be gracious to me that the child may live? But now he's dead. And wherefore should I fast? Can I bring him back again? I shall go to him, but he shall not return to me. And David comforted Bathsheba his wife, and went in unto her, and lay with her, and she bare a son, and he called his name Solomon. And the Lord loved him. And he sent by the hand of Nathan the prophet, and he called his name Jerediah, because of the Lord. So here we get a second name for Solomon. And Joah fought against Rahab. It's kind of a change of thought here, something tacked on the end, and or something else that's going on at at this time, or perhaps previous just previous to the story of the death of the child. But it says Joab fought against Rabba of the children of Ammon and took the royal city. And Joab sent messengers to David and said, I have fought against Rabbah, and I've taken the city of waters Now therefore gather me, the rest of the people together, and encamp against the city, and take it, lest I take the city and be called after my name. And cities are often called after the conquerors. Alexandria, Egypt is named after Alexander the Great, who took the city. And David gathered all the people together, verse 29, and he went to Rabbah, and he fought against it, and he took it. And he took their king's crown from off his head, the weight whereof was a talent of gold, with the precious stones And it was set on David's head, and he brought forth the spoil of the city in a great abundance, and he brought forth the people that were therein, and put them under the saws And under harrows of iron, and under axes of iron, and he made in the pass of the brick kill or the fiery furnaces. And thus did he unto all the cities of the children of Ammon. So David and all the people returned. Onto Jerusalem. Title of the Message this morning, The Lord Loved Him. In verses 21 through 23, his servants had said to David, Why didst thou fast and weep for the child while he was alive? But when the child was dead, thou didst rise and eat. And they expected now the mourning would really kick in. Now that he was dead, there'd be even more fasting and more weeping. Instead, David rises up, showers, he goes and worships, and he eats. And they don't understand this. They thought it'd be the exact opposite. And he said, While the child was alive, I said, Who can tell if God will be gracious? Merciful. Let the child live. But now he's dead. Wherefore shall I fast? What good is fasting going to do now? What good is prayers going to do now? Can I bring him back? Have you prayer requests this morning that were never fulfilled? I know people tell you, you listen to some of these uh preachers on the radio, you don't have enough faith, you didn't pray in enough earnest, you didn't give it your all to God, or it'd have been answered. Well, the commitment to prayer was pretty good here. David had laid all night. We read back in verse 16. He had laid all night on the dirt, in the dirt on his face And talk about the earnest of his prayer. He was fasting and weeping, it says in verse 21. You can fast and weep, and you can lay in the dirt all night long praying to God, and your prayer may not be answered Because Christ has a better plan for your life and what you're asking for, and it will bring him and his father greater glory. So, yes, you've got prayers this morning that haven't been answered But God has a better plan for his sheep. You might also notice her from what David has said that I can't bring him back, he's dead. What good is it Do to fast anymore or pray anymore or lay on the ground anymore, there's no good. He's dead. And so what David is teaching here and taught throughout the scriptures is the fact that contrary to Roman Catholic doctrine Where they sell mass cards and sell prayers for the dead. Contrary to Roman Catholic doctrine and mass cards and the tradition of the Catholic Church, the scriptures instruct us that praying for the dead is useless And that's what David says here, what good will it do? Well when you go to a funeral home, there's always a little mass tree Over in the corner, filled with mass cards that people have paid good money for. And the priests promise that they will pray for the dead. And it will help them Prayers that will do no good will get them of a place that doesn't exist, and the more you pay, the quicker they'll get out of the place that doesn't exist. I always spell mass cards. I take But that is contrary. The scriptures are contrary as it's taught right here with David However, the death of David's child does encourage him to live a holier life. life. You will never see David make this mistake again. And you know what? For the most of us who love the Lord or familiar with the scriptures You'll never see us make this mistake. Who wants one of their children to die because of some sin that they have committed? This is a forewarning to us The sins of the father may be visited upon the children, and that's what had happened here to David. The sins of David had been visited upon his child And David will never commit the sin again, and I exhort you and admonish you, don't you commit such a sin lest you pay for it You know, people say to me, well, if God wants to get evil with me, slap me around, take me out in the woodshed. That's fine with me. I deserve it. I can take it. You can't take the death of your child The death of a child is something that no parent ever expects in their lifetime. It's a horrendous blow. But this encourages David to be holy. Pastor Robert Murray McShane, he said his congregation's greatest need His congregation's greatest need, McShane said, was that I maintain my personal holiness. That was his congregation's. You thought you had other needs? Your greatest need is to pray for me, that I maintain my holiness, that I don't blow it, that I don't destroy the testimony of Jesus Christ. Oh this holiness of pastors ought we not to also wish and pray for it upon our politicians. Have a holy man in the White House. To have an Amaziah, to have a King Azariah, to have a King Hezekiah, to have a King Josiah. What a blessing that would be If we were to have not just holy ministers, but holy men in the office of Congress and the Senate and in the White House, men that really love the Lord Jesus Christ, a holiness Something else about David. He not only will not commit the sin anymore, but he begins to write some very, very memorable Psalms. One we read in response to reading this morning and then saying again. You wouldn't have that Psalm unless David had gone through the sin and the repentance of that sin And so not only will he not commit ever, you'll see through scriptures again, this sin ever again, and hopefully we won't either, but he writes some memorable Psalms because of the sin. Psalm 51, Psalm 32. All tied into this moment in 2 Samuel chapter 12. In Psalm 119, we're not sure who wrote it. They believe it was David, but it sounds like David. It has a it has that same uh emotion has that same uh feeling of David. It says, before I was afflicted, he says, I went astray, Psalm 119 And verse 67. Before I was afflicted, I went astray, but now have I kept thy word. Say, how about that? When you go astray, God afflicts you. And then you begin to keep his word. David said, it was a plus that when I went astray, it was a plus that God afflicted me. And then he says again in verse 971 of 119, I have been afflicted that I might learn thy statutes. Boy, there's nothing that helps us to learn more than a little bit of pain. Although we had people in all Office who had been afflicted. That we had people in the office that would appreciate the affliction, and from that affliction, that they might become holier people, that they might learn God's statutes, to not only to learn them, but to love them and to live by them I would ask you some morning, Perilgrim, are you praying that God might afflict our politicians today? That God might afflict our politicians until they keep his word What's wrong with that? Father in heaven, afflict the politicians in Washington, D. C. , that they might learn and keep your laws, your commandments, and your statutes What is wrong with praying for that? David prays for this. David continues in verse 23. I shall go to him, that's the dead child, but he shall not return to me David finds comfort believing that he would see the child again in paradise. Now, this is not a proof text that every baby that dies in this world goes to heaven by any Any stretch. But it does give believers in Christ a hope for the stillbirth that they may have had, the miscarriages, the crib deaths, etc. It gives them a hope But this we do know about children. Even beyond the hope, this we do know. The unborn can be saved in the womb. As is evidenced in the Old Testament. See, I wouldn't say that unless I had a Bible verse for that. Jeremiah was just such a one that was saved in the womb. He writes in 1 Jeremiah chapter 1 and verse 5. Before thou cameest forth out of the womb, God said, I sanctified thee, I made thee holy, in other words, and I ordained thee a prophet. So Jeremiah was born again before he was born He was strengthened by it. He was made holy in his mother's womb. Ah no, that's Old Testament. Boy, I hear people say that. Okay, New Testament John the Baptist. Luke 1 and verse 15. It says of John the Baptist, he shall be filled with the Holy Ghost, even from his mother's womb. That's pretty early in life, isn't it? Filled with the Holy Ghost. That's salvation, folks. That's sanctification. You can be saved at a very, very young age. You can be saved in the womb But that doesn't mean all young children are saved. There are times when young children Especially those ordained for hell, they live long enough to prove it. They live long enough to prove they deserve it. We have the story in 2 Kings in the days of Elijah When forty We don't know how many children came out of that city, but it says of those that came out, forty and two of them were out there chanting, or maybe more than that were chanting, but they were chanting, they were mocking The prophet Elijah, go up thou bald head, go up, thou bald head. That's not nice. But they were also referring to the fact that Elijah had just gone up About twelve verses earlier. He'd been some people call it the taking up. God took him up, took him up alive. Maybe a a pre a shadowing of the of the rapture, the be being caught up in the clouds to meet the Lord that we talk about in the end times. So here they are making fun of of whether you believe in a pre-turb rapture, mid-term rapture, post-terb rapture, or whenever. But there is going to be a catching away of the saints up into the air to meet the Lord in the clouds. And and I I like to term that the rapture. But here they are, they're making fun of God, catching up a saint alive into the heavens by a whirlwind. And so they're mocking him. These these uh these children are mocking Elijah, the man of God, they're mocking the word of God They're mocking the miraculous windmill, or rather the whirlwind of God that lifted Elijah into heaven. And they keep repeating the phrase, go up thou bald head, go up thou bald head. And the Bible says that these were young children. They brought young children, came out of the city, and it says that two she bears as as Elijah Elijah rather cursed them, two she bears came out and they tore a Asunder forty and two little children. Because they mocked the prophet of God They mock the Word of God. They mock the r miraculous whirlwind of God. You've got people out today that they they mock what the scriptures say because it just doesn't sound possible. They mock that the catching of Elijah up into heaven and they'll get a mocked idea of oh you're gonna get caught in heaven and the twinkle and eye and they all they'll wink at you like oh the twinkle like the wink They make fun of the idea of being caught up in the heavens to be with the Lord. They make fun of uh in Isaiah talks about the flying serpents and the flying chariots Chariots can't fly. They got the wheels and they're heavy and they got horses. But the Bible says that the horses of Israel and the chariots of God they came down and you know these things can fly. And flying they don't believe this stuff. They mock it all the time. And people they mock the idea that God will come someday and destroy the new heavens, the the heavens and the earth and create a new heavens and a new earth. I got a question for you. Next time you run into a a professing Christian and he says you know that he believes that God created the heavens and the earth in about six billion years or twenty billion years. Ask him if he believes God's going to destroy the heavens and the earth and give us a new heavens and new earth. And they'll say, Well, yeah, sure. I believe that. I'm a Christian. I believe that. Okay, here's the second question you ask him. Will it take six billion years? How long is it going to take God to create the new heavens? I mean, if He destroys the old earth, the old heavens at the end of the tribulation, the book of Revelation, and now he's going to create the new heavens and new earth, how long do we have to sit around and wait for the new heavens and new earth? Do you think he can maybe do it in six days or less? Or do you think he's gonna still need another billion years or twenty billion years to do it again? See how people mock the scriptures and and the and the the trouble they get into by not believing The miraculous? And these children, they didn't believe the miraculous, the whirlwind of God. Go up thou bald head. Go up thou. Yeah, we heard about the taking up or the catching up or the rapture of Elijah. We don't buy it, and it just mocks the whole idea The scriptures mocking them. What does your life say about the condition of your soul this morning? Children? Little children? Little children. What does the condition of your life say about Do you think you're gonna live to be eighty or a hundred? Forty-two of these children didn't live to be teenagers. didn't live to be big kids. Didn't live till they reached the, I don't believe in this, but the age of accountability. They were little children and they were gone You think you're safe till the age of accountability? That some make it twelve, some make it eighteen? Our government thinks you're never accountable And there are also young ones, we know, also little children, that are bound for heaven. We know that because it says in the New Testament, Matthew nineteen 1914 and Mark 1014, they brought young children to him. And some believe that this was uh pay the in the Greek it's Pado, meaning it were some more almost carried the mothers brought them uh by hand or perhaps some of them carrying them. And you can carry a a child two or three years old, we know that But said they brought young children to him. And Jesus said, Suffer these little children to come unto me. For such is the kingdom of heaven. of the kingdom of God. These little children, some of them are they are exactly what you will find in heaven. Wow. So I would just submit to you this morning that the God who can reach a child inside the womb could also reach the soul of a young little child outside the womb. And that is a comfort for many of us. to know. So if you're a young child this morning you say, well I'm going to wait till I'm older to get serious with things of God, you may not ever get older. And we know that you're responsible as a young child. In fact, it says there in Mark and Matthew that they were they were little, little young children And Christ said, Self them to come to me, they need to know me. They need to know some of them may not live to be seven, eight, or nine years old. They need to know me now. Before the she-bears come out Or Satan who goes about like a roaring lion and scarfs him up So how possible is it that we can comfort another who's lost a loved one? Well, that's tough. I gotta tell you right now, and I haven't been in the situation that some of you have been in where you've lost a spouse. Or maybe a child. Only God can give you the peace that passes all understanding. That may come through a Bible verse that someone shares with you. But for you to find magic words, you know, you ever read some famous person dies in the papers and the news media and all these television shows are just full of the accolades of what a wonderful person he was, what a great person he was. But you want to know something in the background? Mother, brother, father, and sister, they're still weeping and they're not comforted. It's only God that can give you the peace that passes all understanding And so here we find how you comfort David and we find that David was in Psalm 32, and in Psalm he was comforted And now we find in verse twenty four that David went to comfort Bathsheba and he was successful in comforting her. And we have to wonder what did he do? And it's not relayed out all of what he did that comforted her, but I would submit to you that Here is a woman who had lost a husband that she loved, Uriah the Hittite, and then on top of that she slammed again with the loss of a child, and on top of that, she is slammed with the loss of a child that she knows has died Because she has committed the sin of adultery and she's blaming herself for what has happened to this child. How do you comfort a woman like that who knows that she's responsible for the death of their child It's like somebody backing up a car in the driveway and running over their kid on a tricycle. How do you comfort a father who does that? They're responsible for the death of their child. But verse twenty-four, it's in scripture, it's inspired of God God, you have to believe it, David comforted Bathsheba. And I I have to believe that maybe David from his past experience knew how to comfort And perhaps he played his harp as no one else could. And as he played the harp, he probably sang to her Psalm 55 To let her know that God had restored unto him the joy of his Salvation and that she could have it too. First Samuel 16 23, David had learned by playing the harp and singing the Psalms that it even refreshed King Saul. Surely it would work on someone that would And not only that, but we read in verse twenty four that God also intervened And he gave her another son, Solomon. I want you to note this morning that When people say that God is chastening and God is afflicting me and and I don't and what's going on, sometimes we don't realize that's God doing it. We want to blame it on Satan. We want to blame it on the world, we want to blame it on the in-laws, you know the things that are going on life, we want to blame it on somebody when in fact perhaps we've brought the affliction upon ourselves. And w it's it's a gracious thing that God does if we have sin and God afflicts us because it drives us back to where we begin to love and read and Follow and live his commandments. But he may first chase them. We talk about the grace of God. The grace of God is where we also always think of it as the mercy and the love. But the grace of God, it is preceded by his driving his sheep to their knees. It's preceded by his driving his sheep on their faces and weeping over their sins. That's the grace of God that afflicts you until you repent. That's the grace of God. And then the mercy arrives later if we've learned to repent. You want examples of that? You see Nebuchadnezzar crawling around, he is out of his mind. eating grass, his nails or fingernails are growing long like claws, and he finally finds himself on his knees in a position where he can look up and he prays out and cries out to God and he gets saved And then, you know, that's the mercy. But it was the affliction against Nebuchadnezzar that drove him that way. It was the affliction of the Lord Jesus Christ on the road of Damascus that drove Paul down in the dirt, blind and he could not see. And then he began to see with a spiritual heart. But it was the affliction. It's a gracious God that will afflict us when we sin. That in repenting the mercy might arrive. How about the city of Nineveh? Nineveh was nothing but a bunch of Gentiles that Jonah was sent to preach to And to give him the gospel, and Jonah didn't want to go. We know the whole story. But finally he ends up going there when the fish barps him up. And he heads out over to Nineveh and he preaches the gospel, and they uh they uh they just feel afflicted by the he's talking about their sins and he's telling them but they deserve hell and damnation and and for all eternity and instead of the people running them out of town or tarring and feathering them or stringing them up we read of the people of Nineveh beginning with the king all the way down. Beginning with the king all the way down, we find him crying out and fasting in sackcloth and ashes Dear friends, the grace of God had afflicted Nineveh, and they repented, and the mercy of God came upon them, and it was a revival What is wrong with asking God to afflict our leaders in Washington, D. C. , from the president on down, that we too might see a revival in this country, because that's what it's going to take. Some have referred to God's grace and the severity of God in afflicting his people as the hound of heaven pursuing them. Until they repent. And then eventually instruct others about the holiness of God and how they might live Christ like. And you, some of you Sitting here, you've been there where God has pursued you and shaken you and put you in the dirt and on your face and praying and weeping over what you have done, and He just pursued you and pursued you. He wouldn't let go of his sheep. Until they had their hearts. And it would seem that God had Bash You ask anyone, who wrote the book of Proverbs? Well, basically Solomon. In fact, in the first chapter, first verse, it says these are the words of Solomon. Chapter 10, the first verse, these are the words of Solomon. Chapter 25, verse 1, these are the words of Solomon. Solomon. Solomon wrote the Proverbs, but it's interesting when you read in Proverbs thirty-one one through three, it says, The words of his mother taught him So now Solomon is quoting what his mother taught him. The words of his mother taught him: give not thy strength on the women, it destroyeth kings. Bathsheba had seen what David said. Sin had done to him. He was never quite the king in the eyes of Israel that he had once been God forgave. God put the sin as far as the east as from the west and blotted it out. God made it as white as snow and white as wool, but the fact is the people of Israel They didn't quite, they didn't admire him the same. They didn't look up him. He wasn't quite the hero he once was as it got out what had happened And so she's instructed Solomon in Proverbs 31:1. The words of his mother, Bathsheba, she taught him: Give not thy strength unto women, it destroyeth kings. If it destroys kings, gentlemen, what will it do to you? If it destroys powerful people Some of you are too young to know, but I'm gonna tell you, President Bill Clinton was one of the most charismatic presidents. this nation ever had. And he was people loved him. He was humorous. He was the Democrats Ronald Reagan basically. He was humorous, he was gifted, he was a nice looking fella. I mean, there was just, it looked like he would go on. Even when he retired as the president, everybody thought he would still be in the limelight forever. And a woman Into the White House, has has blackened his name forever. And it still shadows his wife as she runs for the president of the United States. Gentlemen, if it'll if you give your strength And what will it do to you, gentlemen? You're not even kings Solomon God had opened the wombs we read in Genesis twenty nine. And Genesis 30, 22. We know a womb isn't open, a child isn't conceived unless God opens that womb. And here we've got a marriage built on murder and adultery. I mean, can God forgive for that? People were all sitting here this morning where thinking I didn't murder anybody. But you've done things you think God can't forgive you for. But here we got a A king and and you're more responsible when you're a king. In fact, we got a king who is saved. He's a he's a godly man, he loves the Lord, and we got a king and a and a and a woman Bathsheba and on on the On the foundation of murder and adultery, God mercifully opens her womb and gives her a son, Solomon The word Solomon means peace. God God had named this child, by the way. We don't know about that until we go to 1 Chronicles 22 and 9. But God comes to him and God says to David, and Bathsheba that they're to name uh the child. His name shall be Solomon. You know, he thought David picked that name Solomon. God picked the name Solomon. I'm going to open your womb that you can have a son, and this is my sign, my token, uh between you and David and myself. Peace has come into your household. You now have peace with God, and you're at peace with me. And I'd ask you this morning, are you at peace with God? Is God at peace with you? He is now at peace with David and Bathsheba. And we can all say, wow, that he could, the guy could be that merciful and that gracious. But is he at peace with you? Have you repented of your sins Have you cried out to God on your knees? Oh, I don't think we have to go that far for God to forgive us, do we? Oh, I'll tell you what, I would question my salvation if God hasn't brought you to your knees at some time in your life, and you haven't wept and cried out to him, enough with the affliction, take it away. I'm a sinner, take it away Behold, his name shall be Solomon. It was not only a promise that it would peace the land of Israel from from all the wars as when Solomon was king, but it was also a promise from God that peace had arrived in the household of David and Bathsheba In verse 24, we also read that not only of Solomon whose name means peace, but in verse 24 it's of Solomon. The Lord loved him. Now I may be found in disagreement with some folks this morning, and uh I read a lot of commentaries and I guess you can get the Pastor Byrd commentary this morning, but you know what I read verse 24. Solomon, the Lord loved him. And you know what I think? I think God loved him. I think God loved him. And I also think God doesn't love everybody. Genesis 17 and 9, the real Lord's Prayer, he says that The Lord prayed, Oh Father, I pray for them that thou hast given me, Lord, but not for the world. Christ doesn't even pray for those he doesn't love. He prays for his own, he prays for his sheep, he prays for his flock. And if someone says that God loves them, then God loves them. And I can't help but think that little salmon multiplied himself wives and concubines by the hundreds. He lived a horrible life. Eventually he writes in ecclesiastics, Vanity, all is vanity. And I believe Solomon, because he was loved of God, he eventually returned to God and he was a saved man. I can't imagine God reaching down to the angels of time and and have sixty six books to read and he decides, I'm gonna have three books written by an unsaved, ungodly man. Solomon writes Song of Solomon. He writes Ecclesiastes. He writes Proverbs. God is using him to write these books because he now has repented under the infliction. And because God loves him, he repented. Because God loved him, he was used to write these books. It reminds me of the rich young ruler, not a ruler, but a rich young man that came to Christ. He said, what have must I do to inherit eternal life? And Christ said, You kept the commandments. Oh yes, I've kept this one, I've kept that one. And Christ said to him, Go and sell all you have Give it to the poor and follow me. And it says the man went away grieved. And when you read that verse, it says there in Mark 10, 21. And Jesus loved him. Boy, there's a great study on that verse. Walter Chantry wrote a book on that. There were seven points in his sermon. I can remember two or three of them, of why the rich man who went away grieved was saved. He says his first point was He went away grieved. And godly sorrow worketh repentance under salvation. 2 Corinthians 7. 10. He went away grieved because He was sorry and repenting, and he was going to give the money away. And the second point I remember is that it says, I know the man was saved because he was grieved under salvation, and I also know the man was saved because it says Jesus loved him Man, that's all I want to hear when I get on the other side is that Jesus loved me. Well done, thou good and faithful servant, because Jesus loves you. I don't need anything else. There's nobody in the fires of eternal hell that Jesus loved. Esau's there. Why? Jacob and loved Esau by hated. God hates Some I believe God hates Hitler and Judas And the third reason why I know that God loved Solomon unto salvation, and the reason that this Jesus, the Lord Jesus Christ, loved this rich man. Who went away greed? The third reason I believe not is this is he loved him, but what's the separation of the love of Christ? Isn't that what you read in Romans eight and thirty? Revive. What was it? There is nothing you can do that the Lord loves you. Oh, he'll take you to the woodshed, he'll chase you, he'll afflict you, you'll say whom the Lord loveth, he chaseth each and every one of his sons That will take place, but if you are truly saved or you are truly loved to God, you can't lose it. You can abuse it, and you'll pay dearly. In verse 25 it says they sent Nathan the prophet. And Nathan came and said, You know something? We have a new name for it. You're going to call him Jedediah. Do you know what the word Jedediah means in the Hebrew? Loved of God. Loved of God. So we got up above, we got Uh Solomon, the Lord loved him, and then we got a new name, Jedediah, loved of God. We got a double affirmation here of God's love to Solomon and to his parents. I mean, if you've got a child and God says, I love your son I mean the product of this marriage, and this marriage, the foundation of this marriage, is pathetic, horrendous, it's sinful, but the product of your marriage is, I love that son. And ipso fact is that he must have he's forgiven us and he loves us too. And by the way, I'm gonna give him a second name, it's gonna be loved of God, Jedediah. And this is a double affirmation that God really loves Solomon, I believe, and that Solomon was really saved, and that he had really forgiven, and he really loved David and Bathsheba. And they saw in the naming of Solomon and in the declaration of love to Solomon that God loved them too. And gave them such a son. Do you have a hard time this morning believing that God can forgive you Have a hard time believing that God can even love you because of the things you have done. I'm hard pressed to find in Scripture something other than blasphemy the Holy Ghost, and I've never met anybody that's done that King Manasseh. Do what King Manasseh did. King Manasseh took his children. and put them to the fiery furnace to the God of Molah. He sacrificed his own children to the fires. That was King Manasseh. What a horrible person he was. And he practiced witchcraft and even took images of un godly idols and put them put them in the temple of God in the house of God he's a horrendous man and God afflicted him as he should have and he turned And fell on his knees and turned to God, and he was saved. And we read about that in the Chronicles of the King Oh friend, there's no reason for you to believe that God can't forgive you. There's no reason to believe that God can't love you. There's no reason to believe that there' Anything you've ever done that isn't forgivable, and that you can't in the sight of God be lovable. There's a double affirmation here today David and Bathsheba the God loved him. And how about Christ dying for your sins? What does that tell you? He would die for your sins And adopts you the household of faith. He adopts you. He dies for you. He adopts you. He gives you the gift of eternal life. He gives you mansions in heaven, etc. , etc. etc. We have far more than a double affirmation. That the Lord Jesus Christ loves his sheep, his own, his beloved, those who repent. The side note to all of this is verses 26 through 31. Many believe that this was taking place parallel while Bathsheba was pregnant and things were moving. On in Psalm thirty one where David says, I'm God's beaten, I mean, beaten, I mean and I'm I'm just suffering through what I've done to your riot and not Bathsheba. And they believe it's this is kind of a parallel of what took place. But we find that Joe was fighting against the children of Ammon and David fought against them and he took it and they brought forth the people and put them under the saw, cut them in half. axes and made them to pass through the brick tail or through the furnaces. This is the most severe treatment you'll ever see anyone of the Hebrews give their enemies. What on earth got into David that he'd do something like this? Probably this was during the time when he had not yet received the forgiveness of God. He didn't know the mercy of God. He didn't think he was due to the mercy of God. As perhaps some here think that you're not due to the mercy of God. God wouldn't be merciful to you. God will be mercy to anyone. Drop your knees. But here's how there's a time when David is under Psalm 31, he's just struggling and he's And he he hasn't yet felt the mercy of God and the joy of his salvation returned unto him. And besides the Ammonites, they they were Amos 113, they'd rip up the wombs of the women with child They're a horrible bunch of people. They would pass their own children through the fires of Moloch and sacrifice their own children in 2 Kings 23 and 10. They even demanded peace Of a city they surrounded in Israel said, We'll give you peace. We surrounded you, we could destroy you. We'll give you peace if you pluck the right eye out of every man's head. I mean the Ammonites were a horrible, horrendous people, and besides that They had killed David, could say, My friend Uriah, and I've got to avenge Uriah for what the Uriah, the Hipnite, for what they've done to Uriah. And so he's got to put on this front And he comes in there and he cuts them with saws and with axes and passes them to the furnaces. The same furnaces they put their own children through Avenging the death of Uriah. Oh, how he must have been on his high horse at this moment, that no one would know that he had anything to do with it Had David been reconciled to God, I don't believe at that moment he would have done that to the Ammonites. He would have been more merciful having received the mercy. At the birth of Solomon, Christ taught us: Blessed are the merciful, for they shall obtain Mercy. Matthew 5 and 7. How merciful are you, pilgrim, to others that have offended you Hurt your egos. How merciful are you to others? God's mercy to us will be reflected in our mercy to others. And if people don't see you as a merciful person, They'll question your salvation. May we be as merciful as God has been to us towards the rest of those In our life. Let's pray. Father, we thank thee this day again for the scriptures inspired and errant and preserved for us. That we might know this day that thou art a God that demands judgment for sin. And send us the antidote in Christ Jesus. That you also Oh, you demand of your people that they live holy lives and you will afflict them and you will afflict them hard. You also will send mercy. Oh Lord, without the story of David and Bathsheba, how could we ever expect for our own sins that we oftentimes see as so dark, so dirty, and so deep? How could we ever expect them to be forgiven? And for us to be so welcomed and loved without the story of David David and Bathsheba. Lord, we thank you for these inspired scriptures. We thank you for preserving them. That 3,000 years later we are still being blessed. We thank you in Christ's name. Jesus' name, our God, our Redeemer, our Savior. Amen.