Good morning everyone. Nice crisp fall morning. Lovely, lovely weather this time of year. All right. Um We are in uh the book of Hebrews, but we're taking a little break in between chapter 9 and 10. I came across this uh passage listening to Dr. Peter Masters, who is pastor at Spurgeon's old um church and the uh tabernacle what's it called the Metropol Metropolitan Tabernacle in London. I listened to him in the Sunday evenings. Uh someday we look forward here at Mission Bible when perhaps we're co-located have a facility. We can have evening services from time to time. That would be nice. But uh I listen to him. I really enjoy his messages. He's an older fellow. And uh he he had one, he just hit on a topic that I thought, this is dynamite, and I started to explore it further. So I take no credit for um uh the uh the basic spine of the text, but um but I hope you enjoy it today. So it's a little little variation. It was something that uh I I just really was blessed with all week But let's start with my question before we look well actually let's start with scripture and then we'll look at our question here. In Luke chapter eleven, if you have your Bible, you'll turn there. I don't have the entire text in your bulletin handout, but in Luke chapter eleven. Jesus in the 14th verse is casting out a devil from an individual. The man is dumb, he can't talk. After he cast him out, he could he could speak. And some said, verse 15, He casts out devils through Baelzebub, the chief of the devil. So this is the accusation that's being laid against him. He's casting out demons by the power of the devil himself. And so he makes a comment on that. Jesus says in verse 17, Every kingdom divided against itself is brought to desolation, and a house divided against a house falleth. If Satan also be divided against himself, how shall his kingdom stand? Because ye say that I cast out devils through Beelzebub. Uh then he uh uh we then we go down to verse twenty-one here. When a strong man armed keepeth his palace, his goods are in peace, but when a stronger than he shall come upon him and overcome him He taketh from him all his armor, wherein he trusteth, and divideth his spoils. So that's just part of the conversation. I didn't want to read all of it and get into a larger discourse about casting out devils and things of that nature. But anytime Jesus gives insight in the spiritual world, I find it interesting. It's just very interesting to me. So we have our opening question, which I hope and trust you received an email. What do you think? Why is it That everybody gets away with everything except the Christians. What's up with that? How come? Why is it they don't seem to have you know, the biblical grade problems that some believers do. Any ideas? Why does this even happen? Well sure they don't know God, but everything goes well for them. Yeah, that's why they're wicked, but how come everything goes their way? Is that the better way? Maybe we should just forget knowing about God so it'll be easy for us. Yeah, so why is it they have such an easy row at it? Why is it so easy for them? Alright, so God's just letting them pile up sin ever sin. Any other thoughts? Well in scripture, many are the afflictions of the righteous. The Lord delivereth them out of all. Okay, so it's appointed to the believers to have affliction, right? So why do the wicked prosper? How come they can get away with almost anything? I mean you see it Right. They're f they're carefree, okay. Nothing happens to them. Yeah, nothing really happens, so they're carefree. How is it that nothing can happen to them? That's their reward. God has given them what that's it. That's it for them. Okay, that's the reward? But like the Psalm says, when we see the end of things I'm paraphrasing badly. But uh you know, now we know we we would have understood that wasn't the right reason Yeah, you're making an allusion to Psalm 73 where the uh wicked kind of go along, they seem to have everything great, but then lo and behold, at the very end, calamity, catastrophe. One of the tenets of American jurisprudence is that justice delayed is justice denied. However, um in the sense of the wicked, though their justice seems to be delayed, it's delayed for a short time on earth, but then the retribution lasts for So yeah, that answers all the reasons why the wicked I mean it may seem to be going well for them now, but it doesn't work out that way. But right now Right now what they have they're fine. I think we see it mainly in government now. Okay. I can't imagine. Really? Really? Do tell. Do tell. That's just my opinion. Well, I'll take your opinion. But you know, I have friends who say, well, why don't we do the things that they're doing to us And my answer is we're not supposed to. You know, we're supposed to follow God. And I don't know why they get away with everything, but they do, because we cannot fight back in the same way. That's very good. Um uh that uh they I think you've kind of hit the nail on the head here is that at least as far as my line of questioning is gonna go, because I'm gonna try to labor from the text to maybe give you some additional insights. It certainly was to me when I first heard it, but it seems they can get away with everything. You know, when I was unsaved, and I can report sadly some of these times My friends would say, Vince, you can get away with anything. They would be amazed. I I I I'm not going to stand up here and aggrandize myself, but I look back on it and I go Yep, I should have been busted for that, should have been busted for this, should have been uh I should have had my chops taken out for that. I uh how did I get away with these things? How is that that I could get away with some of these things And you see it, you know, uh to this day I think Jane Fonda, Hillary Clinton, and a whole bunch of others should be imprisoned. Why are they still around? I mean I think they're gonna make a monument to these people. They seem to just have it going fine And Christians were like, well, let's do it too. Well, no, we can't. We can't use what they use. We know that would be wrong. That would invalidate our message. So what is going on? What's really going on? So this is why I was so fascinated by this passage and the message, if I were to give it a title, and I'm going to try to make this interactive, although it's hard to not just roll right into preaching. The title is Wrong Peace. The wrong kind of piece. Look at Luke 11. 21 very carefully again because I want to narrowly laser focus on Luke 11. 21. When a strong man armed keepeth his palace, his goods are in peace. And I just want to stop right there because that frankly is the s is the verse for this Sunday school lesson for our consideration today. Who is the strong man? Look at the context. We read it. In the context, who is the strong man? Any ideas? Well, look back at verse 18. It says, if Satan be divided against himself, how shall his kingdom stand? It must be Satan. It would have to be Satan, yes. Satan is the strong man in the context. He is a strong man. And in fact, that really is consistent with what the rest of Scripture teaches concerning Satan He's no match for you and I. Don't be flippant about the devil. He is far more powerful than you can imagine. He's not as powerful as God, don't get me wrong. And I'm not even putting him on the same level. It's not a chess game between God and the devil. Satan is a rook on the chessboard. God is way above the chessboard and all. But for instance in Job, let me just list some scriptures for you that show how strong Satan is. Job 41 is a marvelous passage. And I believe it's using language about a creature that Job saw, but he uses language in there that describes, this is the Elihu speaking here, that describes Who God is. Actually, I think this is God speaking in this cat passage. Job 41, verse 1. Canst thou draw out Leviathan with the hook? That Leviathan is a word that would refer to like a sea serpent of some sort. He says in verse 8, lay thine hand upon him, remember the battle, do no more. In other words, you're going to tackle with him once and go, nope, not doing that again. People don't go hunting bears in the woods with 22 pistols. They just don't. That's stupid. Verse 10. None is so fierce that dare stir him up. Who is able to stand before me? Again, God speaking. Verse 33. Upon earth there is not his like, who is made without fear. This is a creature that doesn't have any fear. And then the reason that I think this is referring to the devil is the very last verse in Job 41 that says Speaking of Leviathan, the sea serpent, he beholdeth all high things. He is a king over all the children of pride. Oh, interesting. He's the king. And you know one thing about people who can get away with everything. They tend to be very proud, aren't they? Nothing can touch me. Don't mess with a fill in the blank of the president's name is currently in office. Don't mess with me. I'm impressive. Isaiah 27, the Lord with this great sore, strong sword shall punish Leviathan The piercing serpent, even Leviathan, that crooked serpent, he shall slay the dragon that is in the sea. There's a dragon in the sea. He's talking about Leviathan. He's talking about a dragon, of course you know from Revelation 12. Who that dragon is? The great dragon that was cast out, the old serpent called the devil, and Satan, which deceives the whole world. He was cast out into the earth. And his angels were cast out with him. So don't kid yourself. Satan is a strong man, and that's the strong man that we're talking about in Luke 11, 21. Alright, so let's go back and look at it again. When a strong man, when Satan armed, keepeth his palace, his goods are in peace. Well, what are his goods? What are the goods that are in Satan's palace? Any ideas? The souls of people? Yeah. The souls of men The souls of people. Think about that. What the devil has in his palace are people. The unsaved. The ones you and I look at and go, how come they can do all this stuff It's the souls of men. You see that from, for instance, Acts 26, it says, this is the Apostle Paul's commission. Spee said, I'm going to send you to the Gentiles, unto whom now I send thee, to open their eyes, to turn them from darkness to light, from the power of Satan unto God. So he says, Paul, I want you to go not to the Jews, you're going to go to the Gentiles. Why? Because I want you to deliver, to bring out Gentiles, men, who are in the power of darkness, the bonds and the grip of darkness, basically in the house of Satan. I want you to bring them out from them. Colossians 1. 13 says of Christ who hath delivered us from the power of darkness and hath translated us, believers, into the kingdom of his dear son. We've been taken out of the house of the devil and brought into the house of God. It's a different household. It's a different family. And so what's striking to me about this, these unsaved, is they're but chattel property. They are just property. I I they say in a you know when I first got married and I um we opened up all of our uh uh wedding gifts and uh we had quite the generous outpouring of gifts and and Angela did a marvelous job. I tell you the key in any wedding is the gift register. I mean, forget the prize Chris. If you do the gift registry right, you have a fully furnished house when you're done. It's a really nice deal. And we did. It was very well furnished. I said, that's great. We're we are totally furnished. And I had an older fellow, older Christian, look at me and says, You think you're done, son? Oh no. There's a whole lot more coming. And then someday you get to a point you walk around and say, I can't remember where I put stuff. I used to remember everything I had and where it's at, and now I have no idea. I'd be stumbling around in the basement looking for stuff. Ah, that's where this thing is. I didn't have any idea we still had it. Satan's house has got a lot of stuff in it, and it's called people. He's got a lot of people. They're just articles of furniture to him. They're just, it's his house, it's his stuff. It's all there. You know, generations of people are born into this evil house. He has free access to them. I can walk over to that piano and I can tap a few keys. I can go to that bookshelf and take a book out and put it back in. The devil has free access to the souls of men. Free access at any time. That was one of the very first parables the Lord Jesus gave. It's a parable of the sower Just let me read this one explanation that the Lord gives. Same book, Luke 8. Those by the wayside are they that hear, then cometh the devil And taketh away the word out of their hearts, lest they should believe and be saved. If I walk over to my mom's apartment. I'm tromping around the grass, wet grass. I get leaves on my feet and I just come walking through her place and leave a bunch of leaves on the ground and then go back into my side after I've cleaned off my feet in her side. What is she going to do? Well, I don't have to guess. She's going to bark at me first, and second she's going to pull out a broom and she's going to get those leaves and cast them out of there. When the word of God is put in the hearts of men, the devil says, oh no. Oh no, no, no, no. Don't have that filth in here. Get that filth out of here. And he goes and he sweeps it up out of their heart and he casts it away. He has free access. Don't put that in my house. He's Johnny on the spot, right on top of it. He doesn't wait for a moment. He has free access to their heart. He'll send a minion. He'll do whatever it takes to clear it out. Don't let that word in their hearts. Get it out of here. Just get it out of here. I can remember a high school friend of mine, we were at the mall, just wandering around like we used to do in my generation, and there was this one news shop there. They had all kinds of black light posters. That was the thing back in my day. And they tended to not have the most God glorifying pictures in there. And so he wanted to go in there. I said, Well, it looks kind of devilish to me. I think the Bible's against that. I think I mentioned Bible or Christianity to him. I'd still attend the church. He says, Oh, you don't believe that stuff, do you? Oh, I didn't want to lose my friendship. Okay, I didn't say yes or no, I just kind of said, mm-mm. And went in there with it. That was the devil, sweeping the word away. Sweep it away. You don't want to do that Generations of people are born in this house. Jesus said to some, you're of your father the devil. They had the devil as their father And then he said later to them, Woe unto you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites, you compass sea and land to make one proselyte. When he's made, you make him twofold more the child of hell than yourselves. There's generations born in this evil, wicked house that's ruled by the devil. He has free access to their hearts and minds. He makes sure the gospel doesn't get in there. He sweeps it away. And they're in his house. And Because they are in his house, because they are in his palace, because they are in his kingdom, he keeps them at peace Don't let anything disturb them. Look again in our text, Luke 11, 21. It says, his goods, his souls, the people he keeps, are in peace. You see, the children of the devil, otherwise known as the unsaved, the wicked, they're at peace. They have a wrong kind of peace. It's not a peace that's going to endure, but they're in peace. They're in peace because there's a strong manned armed. It's his palace, and he's going to protect it. I survey the house, the lawn, my property. Going in and out, taking out trash, getting the mail, going to the backyard, doing different things in the house, up and down. I survey it. If there's something out of order, I'm gonna straighten this out. I'm gonna take care of this. I'm gonna put this over here. I It's in peace. I'm roaming around. This is my domain. Like Fred Sanford used to say. My empire. Jesus says if a kingdom be divided against itself, that kingdom cannot stand. That's Jesus' whole point here. If Satan rise up against himself, meaning if, this is not a possibility, but if If he rise against himself and be divided, he can't stand. He has an end. I I don't start fighting with my house. I don't start throwing things. I don't start taking the chair and chucking it in the lawn I don't start throwing things. I don't do that. Why would I tear apart my own house? That makes no sense. Jesus says basically if devil is going to tear apart his house. He's doing my work for me. Why am I here? He'll just destroy him. So he doesn't do that. He keeps his goods in peace. And that's the reason why the unsaved seem to have everything just fine. Because the devil makes sure that everything is just fine. He keeps them in peace. Don't disturb the peace. Leave everything alone. I'm going fine. I have I witnessed one time to my uh uncle, he was Rudy In a car we were going someplace and I started to have some gospel conversations with him. He says, you know, I'm not interested in changing religions. He was content with Roman Catholicism. By the way, the devil has a little corner in his house called Roman Catholicism. He's had a lot of souls trapped in there Oh he loves false religion. He loves that. You want a little religion? You can have it. He's got a broad road. He's got every color under the rainbow painted in his house. All are welcome in his house. He keeps them at peace. They're all at peace. And he wants them and their descendants to remain in his house until they all wind up in hell. Proverbs says, There is a way that seemeth right unto a man, but the end thereof are the ways of death. He keeps them there. You know, um I um have a certain fascination with uh civil engineering uh particularly uh just in different fields, one of which is in the food industry. I'm frankly amazed that I can sit at my table and year round Eat a wide variety of food. It's really impressive to me. Yes, I'll get some seasonal foods, but if I want strawberries in February, I can get strawberries in February. I'm amazed by that. That's just amazing to me Chickens. Beef. One of the fascinating things I like to watch is how they process cattle. Thousands of animals are in a pen. And these pens are very well engineered. There's actually a lot of engineering that goes into the holding pen for cattle at a slaughterhouse. Matt, you probably know about this. And so there's this large pen, and they've got this chute that narrows down, and it's got to go straight for a distance, and then it curves. And they'll they're attracted to that because they think it's going to take them back to where they were. But it goes on a blind curve. And then it goes along another little way and they're and now they're climbing up. They've got to climb up for the equipment And they come around, and then they get to this, this is going to get a little gory, but I'll try not to make it gory. They get to a point where they walk and all of a sudden, bloop, they fall into this big Basket. It's a big basket that holds them. It's made of uh heavy cloth or leather or something. Their legs are dangling down and they're lifted up. And they kind of go along until they get to a machine that's going bang and it hits them in the head and then they're dead. And then they go through a series of knives and blades and. Animals go on one side, product, glue, leather goods, pig feed, you name it, comes out the other side. Nothing wasted. It's a machine. And that's the unsaved. They're following the crowd like ignoramuses right into the slaughterhouse. I'm telling you, Christian, you don't want to follow the crowd of unbelievers There is a way that seems right unto a man, but that end is death. And that's exactly where they're going to. Let's talk about this peace that winds up in destruction. You know, the devil effectively says, there's so much to like here and now. There's so many fleshly entertainments. You've just got everything to enjoy here. Comfort thyself with a morsel. Have a little something to eat. A little something to drink. Take in a vile movie. Take in some rough language. Just have everything seem normal. The unsaved have a strangely peaceful conscience. Nothing bothers them, even when it's pointed out. You know why? Any any ideas as to why they have a strangely peaceful conscience Seared. Seared. It's seared. It's seared with a hot iron. You know, first and second degree burns, though painful um are not catastrophic to the extent that when it does heal you can still feel things. It may look different. But third degree burns, no, you can't feel anything. It's permanently numb. That's their conscience They can't feel it. They're beyond feeling. They've given themselves up to lasciviousness. There's no feel they don't, it doesn't. He said, doesn't your my conscience would bother me terribly. Doesn't their conscience bother me? No, it doesn't No, it doesn't. They don't have the slightest reluctance at murder, lying, their conscience is feared with a hot iron. What is the text who being past speech? Yeah. They're past feeling. Yeah, they're third degree burns. Hmm. Horrible state. They seem oblivious to their problems. They think their legacy is going to last forever. God describes this in Psalm 49. He says Their inward thought is that their houses shall continue forever, speaking of the wicked who happen to be rich, and their dwelling places to all generations. They call their lands after their own names. Nevertheless, man being in honor abideth not. He is like the beast that perished, just like that cattle, like that cow going around the corner. Oh, this is the way. Going around the corner. Boy, we're going someplace now. Look, we're climbing up. We're getting higher than the other cows. We're doing good. Until bang. And it's all over. Isn't that amazing? When they die, it's just sudden The the wealthiest, one of the wealthiest men in the world, Charlie Munger, is a joint partner, was a joint partner, Berkshire Hathaway. I think he had $750 billion in cash. Just cash. That wasn't even in the market. The rest of his money was in the market. Insane amount of money. And he just peacefully dies in his sleep. No no cost from people sit at his feet that investors from JP Morgan to Fidelity to Schwab to all these big money houses. They go to their shareholder meetings and they're just like he's an oracle. The angel of the financial market to answer all their questions. And his advice is not Not even relevant to you and I because he's at a totally different grade. He's trying to figure out where to part $75 billion. I don't have that no maybe Mrs. Ross has that problem, but I don't have that problem. I don't know where to put all this money. I don't have that kind of money But they think there's going to last forever. He says, nope, you don't abide. They have a peace, a peace in this world. What's the old saying? Ignorance is bliss. They're bliss. They're just absolutely ignorant and therefore they're bliss. Psalm 82 says, they know not, neither will they understand. They walk in darkness. Ephesians 4. The Gentiles walk in the vanity of their mind, having the understanding darkened, being alienated from the life. of God through the ignorance that's in them, because of the blindness of their heart, who being past feeling, have given themselves over unto lasciviousness. Do you want that kind of peace? I mean ignorance is bliss. Some people venture into some things in a foolhardy way and it's happy. And thankfully God allows for some people, allows them to reap early. so that they might be warned, so that they might realize, oh, no, I better start to rethink this. God will open the understanding. It's a good thing. When you're reproved in life, it's a good thing. When God throws the brakes and when he puts a monkey wrench in your plans, it's a good thing. Because God is causing you to stop and think. I don't want that kind of peace. Do you covet and desire that kind of comfort, that free pass to enjoy all that's bad or evil and seemingly get away with it? There's peace in it, but it's the wrong peace and it's the wrong way. But it is a type of peace You might say, well, surely something would wake these people up that they might want to escape the palace I mean, surely they want to run. How do they, how is it that they're they're kept in a palette? You know, if you've seen pictures of Europe. What do they feature? Lots of palaces, right? These medieval palaces. People say I'd like to live in a palace. Well not me. Didn't have central air and heat, no toilets. I'm not into palaces. But what do you see? These large, thick brick walls. Huge moats and drawbridges and very defensive. That's kind of how defenses operate in that day. Our text says a strong man is armed. He's armed. He's got armor. What are the weapons? Any idea? What's the armor of this strongman? What are these weapons that this strongman has? Any idea? Lies Lies. False. A lie. Lie is a big one. That's a very, very big tool. It's a very powerful tool. It's an effective tool. Especially if it's subtle. Especially if it's subtle. Mix a little truth in. We don't mind if there's a little bit of truth in it. A bald-faced lie with zero truth behind it. Well, our American politics seem to get away with that too. But you mix a little bit of truth in it, and it's effective. It goes a long way You know, Jesus said in John 8. 44, year of your father the devil. It's a long passage, but I just want to focus on this part where he says, of the devil, he is a liar. And the father of it. Let's look at five types of lies that the devil uses. Very effectively. Very effectively. These are effective tools in his arsenal. Remember, he's armed. This is how he keeps him in the house. Misinformation is number one. Folks, misinformation is as old as Genesis chapter 3. It has just been around. Misinformation. They'll say God has a way, but it's very painful. Yeah, you don't want to follow God's way. That's painful. That's just too much pain. It's nice here. It's comfortable here. Come, you don't want to miss out. I mean everybody else is having so much fun. Your parents, your kids get older. Why can't I go with this other family and their kids to such and such a place? It's so much fun. I'm missing out. That's the siren call of the devil That's the siren call. Misinformation. The other thing he uses is overt deception. Overt deception. He is speaking in a manner, in a way, to intentionally deceive you. There is no God. There was a campaign that occurred years ago when Dawkins was attempting to push his evolutionist atheistic agenda. He says, you don't need God to be moral Another one said, There's no God, so enjoy. Live and enjoy. Those are some billboards he had. Overt deception. Just flat out putting it that way. Or this world is all there is. That was a statement that was made by Carl Sagan. All there ever has been, all there ever is, or all there ever was, is the cosmos. That's a divine, that's a statement of divinity. That's all there is, the cosmos. Which is the Greek word for the world, the universe. There's no such thing as devils. This is the crazy thing. He even denies his own existence. You're not in a palace that's being armed. You're not being you have all the will you want. Why you can go from this room to that room. You can change lanes on the broad road of destruction. The devil don't care. And that's what happens at Alcoholic Anonymous. They trade, you know, drinking for drugs, or they trade drugs for wife beating, or for, you know, you name it for something else. There's a broad road that least is true. He has no problem with that. He denies his existence. It's crazy. But it works Or he tantalizes you, UFOs, they're from another planet. Don't you want to go visit them? Ooh, that would be interesting. He twists logic. This is the third way that he likes to go about things. He twists logic. Evolution as the answer to our origin and our end. It's scientifically proven. Folks, science doesn't prove anything. Science was never made to prove anything. It gives you a proposition that, given enough information, may lend you to believe it But it doesn't prove anything because it can always be re-evaluated in light of new information and reassessed and tuned and tweaked and updated. For years, Newtonian physics ruled the Our understanding of the universe. Until hundreds of years later, Einstein came along and said, well, there's actually something called special relativity. And he made some predictions that somewhat tweaked it. Evolution is the answer. He twists logic. He'll twist it. He'll make you look at things and he has a twisted form of logic, and evolution is chock full of it. I've encountered this personally at the University of Texas. They said, you see these layers? We're on a hiking trip doing some field geology work. See these layers? We know by the presence of this fossil that it is 60 million years old. Because this is a keystone fossil. If you find these fossils in here, you know you're dealing with something 60 million years old. And it's called the XYZ layer. I don't remember it now, it doesn't matter. We'll call it the bubble layer Might as well be the bubble layer, order Vision or something like that. I don't know. And then when you know and Try to date the fossil? Well, how old is this fossil? Oh, well, we know it's 60 million years old because it's found in that layer. Wait a minute If the standard is what determines the age of the layer, how can you say the age of the standard is because of the age of the layer? That's That's a tautology that's pointing to itself. It's a twisted logic. You can't do that. You may have to think through that a little bit, but it's totally twisted. You can't have it both ways Fourth thing, he mocks spiritual things. He mocks spiritual things. We have one such mockery coming up soon. We make a holiday out. We call it Halloween. Little ghosts and ghouls and goblins. And oh, we dress our kids up as little devils. Isn't that cute? Isn't that fun? We just make a mockery of it. Oh, he's a cute little devil. Oh, I love my little devil. And we just make a mockery of it. I say we, you know what I'm talking about, the human race. It's a mockery. There is a spiritual world. It's very real. It's very real. And the fifth thing that he uses is an abriation. He'll get you drunk, sometimes physically, literally, but he'll get you drunk with success. He'll get you drunk with the lusts of men gone wild. He uses inebriation. Men get inebriated in these things. And the first thing that goes, it's very interesting. The first thing that goes when you're drunk is your judgment. It's shut. And that's exactly what the devil aims at. He doesn't want you to have good judgment. He wants you to remain in darkness. He wants you to remain stupid. He likes that, I say, you, the unsaved. The second tool in the devil's armor, he's very strong. Lies are very effective. But if he has to drag out the brass knuckles, he'll pull out number two, and that is murder. John 8. 44, he says, You're the father of the devil, and the lust of your fathers you will do. He was a murderer from the beginning, and abode not in the truth, because there is no truth in him. Murder. He's not beyond murder. Look, you start to disrupt things too much, I'll take you out. I'll just take you out. I'll have you killed. You you you you start to mess with it too much? And the thing he likes to kill, the the ones he likes to kill the most are the saints. Any idea why he likes to kill the saints? You know why he likes to kill them? Any ideas? Shut 'em up. Why does he need to shut 'em up? Because you're the light of the world. They're the light of the world? He needs they need to be shut up? You're alright. I wanna I wanna pull this thread Because they're trying to enter into a strong house. They're trying to enter into the strong house. To do what? They have the truth in these They have truth, he's the father of lies? Yep. They have Stop the Life giving gospel. Stop the life giving gospel? They are disturbing the peace. He's got lies, you've got truth. You're disturbing the peace. Don't be messing with my lie. It's working fine over here. He's a house in a palace of darkness? Shut that light off. The only place where he has no electricity. His electricity is free because he didn't turn the lights on. What a great deal! It costs money to keep the lights on. That's a parable. He kills the saints because they disturbed the peace. They're trying to take the furniture out. They're trying to knock down the door and rescue people. He doesn't like that. He doesn't take too kindly to it. And if you become a little too effective, he'll come at you. Absolutely. Absolutely. That's the reason they kill Christ. Envy. They were envious. They didn't they didn't like that he was getting more attention than they were. You see how the Bible peels back the layers and lets you understand what is really going on. The devil is an armed man, he's strong, he has a palace, and there's only two houses in this universe, the house of the devil and the house of the Lord, and you're dwelling in one of them. You're a member and a citizen of one We have a going out and a coming in. We go out of this house to try to rescue people. God keeps them safe. God keeps his people safe. I'm not saying you go into the dens of iniquity to commit iniquity. But we operate in this world. Look at the death of the saints. You find this in Revelation 2. 13. He says to this one church, I know thy works. Where thou dwellest, even where Satan's feet is. Amazing. This is a New Testament Apostolic Era church, and here the devil has already propped up a chair. Can you imagine? Thou holdest fast my name and is not denied my faith, even in those days wherein Antipas was my faithful martyr, who was slain among you where Satan dwelleth. That's amazing to me. You see, Satan, folks, is not omn omnipresent. Don't think of the devil as omnipresent. Oh, the devil made me do such and such. Yeah, he has his minions and he sends them along, but he's one individual in one place at one time. If I were to take, if I were to venture a guess as to where Satan might be currently located at on this planet, and again this is surely a guess, but if I were to look, where would I narrow my search? I would look for the most upright seminary in the land that I could possibly find, or the most upright Bible congregation church that I could find. And plant him there. Oh, but they would know because he would look so evil. No, he's transformed as an angel of light. He looks very righteous. Very righteous Because he has a gospel of works, another deception, another lie. In Revelation 6, I saw under the altar the souls of them that were slain for the Word of God. Revelation 12, 3, I beheld a great red dragon. We know who that is. And the dragon stood before the woman which was ready to be delivered for to devour her child as soon as it was born, and that's a tremendous lie of the devil in this land today. Young mother, oh young mother, you're you're pregnant, you've got a wedlock, you don't have a job Here comes the lies. You can't handle that, baby. You can't handle that. That's too much for you. You can't do that. Kill it. Get rid of it. He's a murderer. He has no restrictions. He's after the the seed. He doesn't want godly seed coming forth, so kill them at their most innocent state. You know, pregnant women and women close to deliverance, you know their hormones are starting to go wacky You know. And hormones control a lot of your emotions and your feelings. And boy, you get to a woman at a vulnerable time. I'm angry with the hospital system. We have far too many C-sections in this land. I'm going to go off a little tangent here. This is a freebie bonus track. There's no reason for a woman to have a C-section unless there is an extreme emergency. I'll tell you why they do it. Number one, the doctors get more money. Number two, they can predict the time. And number three, it keeps it convenient for them. It's over and done with. First-time labor takes forever. And the doctor's got to hang around and wait, like, uh, this is a drag, I want to go home. And so they force they oh I don't know your baby's heart rate is increasing. Yeah, so is mine. Oh, well you you don't want to hurt your baby I think we should have a C-section. Right when she's vulnerable. You know, C-sections are not without risks. Epidurals, and that can really mess up some women. It's major abdominal surgery. It takes a long time to recover from that That's a free track. Devil's lie. I don't buy it. So he kills because they try to disturb the peace. They're trying to break into his house, steal his goods, and his goods are the souls of man, the souls of the unsaved. So when the Lord Jesus Christ said to Peter, and the gates of hell shall not prevail against thee The gates of hell are the gates of the devil's doors. And gates, by the way, folks, are defensive mechanisms. When he says the gates of hell shall not prevail. It means we're going to pound on those doors and we're going to get in. Why? Because we have the truth. And the truth is stronger than a lie. And truth is more powerful than a lie. And when a light comes on and you find out this is a this is a disaster. When the light came on for Lazarus, man, I'm in a tomb. I don't want to hang around here. This is a filthy place. Get me out of here. He'll do whatever it takes to get out When the light comes on, there's no light, no interest. Light gives life. So the unsaved folks have a false sense of peace. They are in peace. They need to be awakened to their spiritual reality. And only the Church of God, only you here in this room and others who believe the truth, have that They need spiritual eyes and ears to perceive that they're in prison, they're without hope, they need to be persuaded that service to Jesus is a whole lot better than being the devil's chattel property. You have to pursue the peace that Jesus gives. He says, peace I leave with you, my peace I give unto you, not as the world. gives. So why do these people go along and nothing seems to happen? Because they have the peace of the devil and it's not working. I can just expand one one second marvelous but thank you. Christ declared that the his own are in his hand and no man can pluck them out My Father which gave them me is greater than all, and no man is able to pluck them out of my Father's hand. You mean Gabe would not dare try to take a soul soul from Christ's hand So you talk about s Satan's property being the souls and the believers in the Father's hand and no man. The man there is Satan is able to pump them out. That's right. Because he's greater than all. Mm-hmm. Greater than them all. Absolutely. Thank you. I I did not see those verses in the context of the thing. Isn't that amazing? And if you continue your study looking on the power of that word truth That's also a weapon for the child of God. The breastplate, the armor, all of the armor that you read. It's a spiritual warfare we're in. We've got to understand. So the next time you see insanity going on in the news And people sucking up these lies, now you know why. They're in the house of Satan. That's why a lie works with them. They're in darkness. And the solution is they've got to have the gospel. That's the only thing that'll fix it. The only thing that'll fix it. So we close there. Gilbert, could you close us in prayer? Heavenly Father Lord, I would thank you for the preaching of your word.