Open in your Bibles with me, please, to the Gospel of Mark and the tenth chapter. The tenth chapter of the Gospel is recorded for us by Mark. And our scriptural reading will be verses forty-six through fifty-two. Mark chapter ten. Verse forty six through verse fifty two Here reading from the Word of God. And they came to Jericho And as he went out of Jericho with his disciples and a great number of people, blind Bartimaeus, the son of Timaeus, sat by the highway's side, begging. And when he heard that it was Jesus of Nazareth, he began to cry out and say, Jesus, thou son of David, have mercy on me. And many charged him and told him that he should hold his peace. But he cried the more, a great deal. Thou son of David, have mercy on me And Jesus stood still and commanded him to be called. And they called the blind man, saying unto him, Be of good comfort. Rise, he calleth thee. And casting away his garment, and he casting away his garment, rose and came to Jesus. And Jesus answered and said unto him, What wilt thou that I should do unto thee? The blind man said unto him, Lord, that I might receive my sight. And Jesus said unto him, Go thy way. Thy faith hath made thee whole. And immediately he received his sight and followed Jesus in the way. Hallelujah. Let us pray. Father, now we thank you for this glorious account in thy word. Of the glorious power of Christ Jesus, both to heal and to save. Bless your word to our hearts today we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. Blind Bartimaeus. That is how we know him. He doesn't end the story as blind Bartimaeus, does he? He ends the story as the seeing Bartimaeus. But Bartimaeus was blind Barnamaeus was a man who had a great need. I can't imagine what it is to be blind having my sight. However, I have been in a few circumstances in my life, and I imagine probably most of you have as well, where you couldn't see a thing. I have been in caves and turned off all the lights, and it's just absolute pitch darkness. You can't see a thing As as I've told you many times, I'm an avid scuba diver and I love diving at night. But scuba diving at night, even when you turn off the lights, there will be some light somewhere. There will be uh Creatures in the sea that give off light almost like lightning bugs in the air. Or there'll be a little bit of moonlight that penetrates the water. Even that is not pitch darkness But here we find Bartimaeus, he's blind, he cannot see. I had surgery on one of my eyes uh many years ago now, and my eyes were bandaged for about a day. And to not be able to see is a terrible thing. I'm sure all of us at some time or another have been frightened in the dark. Why is it that we're afraid of the dark? There's nothing there. But the imagination begins to come up with all kinds of fears, and I remember once in particular Not as a child, but as a man, I was in the woods and just suddenly I was frightened. Because of the unknown. Well here, Barnamaeus, he is truly blind. He cannot see a thing. And because he is blind, we find he's begging. He's a helpless man. He cannot work. He cannot provide for himself because he is lacking in sight. In in Jamaica, we would see beggars from time to time and there are various kinds of beggars. Uh if you pull up to a red light in most cities there'll be people begging and many of them are begging because of their own Sin. Because they've gotten themselves involved in in drugs, because for some reason they they have uh made poor choices that have led to them begging There are others that beg simply because they're lazy. But this man Bartimaeus, he's blind. He's begging because he is absolutely helpless. He cannot provide for himself. But not only is he blind and begging, society looks down on him. He is a man who is at the very lowest rung. If you like to turn to John 9. Uh if you don't need if you don't turn, I'll just just read it for you as well, but you're welcome to turn if you'd like to. In John 9, we find the count of another blind man, not Bartimaeus, but a different blind man In John 1 and verse John 9 and verse 1, it says, and Jesus passed by, he saw a man which was blind from birth And his disciples ask him, saying, Master, who did sin? This man or his parents? You see, Barnabas lived in a day and age when if someone was blind, they were kind of suspect by society. Well He must be a pretty wicked man. Somebody has sinned that Bartimaeus is here and he's blind He must not be a very good sort. And of course Jesus said of that man, Neither he nor his parents sinned, but that the glory of God may be seen. And there, again in John 9 John 9, later on in the chapter, the Pharisees asked him, Well How did you come to see Jesus? Certainly he's a sinner, and the man replies, whether he's a sinner or not, I don't know. But this one thing I know, I was blind and I can see. Bartimaeus was a man who was looked down on by society. But even beyond that, Bartimaeus lived in a day when man couldn't help him. There are some elements of blindness in our own day that our medical capabilities today may overcome. But in Bartimaeus Day there was no cataract surgery. There was no cornea transplant. All the procedures we have. His only hope was found in this one, Jesus of Nazareth, who was going to pass by. But not only is Bartimaeus blind in his eyes, Bartimaeus is blind spiritually. Mankind without Christ are blind. Oh, they see the sun and they see the moon and they see the trees, but they lack spiritual sight. Bartimaeus was not there beside the gate of Jericho by accident. Now we could say, well, he was there because he hoped that he would receive some sort of alms, that someone would give him money. But Bartimaeus was there by divine appointment. He was there on that day to meet with Jesus Christ. Just as the woman at the Well of Samaria was there to meet with Jesus, just as Saul was on the road to Damascus to meet with Jesus, Just as Andrew or Nathaniel was under the tree, he was there to meet with Jesus. Bartimaeus had an appointment with the Son of God. He didn't know it when he woke up that morning. But oh, what a glorious day it was. Because Bartimaeus receives more than just sight to his eyes. Bartimaeus receives sight to his soul. We find that Bartimaeus was a man who had faith. Look at verse 47 there in Mark chapter 10. And when he heard that it was Jesus of Nazareth, he began to cry out, saying, Jesus, thou son of David, have mercy on me. Why doesn't Barnamaeus say, Oh, Jesus of Nazareth, have mercy on me? But rather he says, Jesus, thou son of David. And in the Luke passage in Luke 18, which gives us the same story, Luke even says that Bartimaeus asked the people around. He heard commotion and people talking, and he could tell it was a big crowd. And he said, What's going on? And they told him, Jesus of Nazareth. Is passing by. But Barmaeus doesn't say Jesus of Nazareth. He says, Jesus, thou son of David. You see, Jesus of Nazareth was his human title, but son of David was his messianic title. And here, Bartimaeus recognizes this is not just a man born in Nazareth. This one coming is the son of David. This is the prophesied Messiah. And if you will, turn over to the book of Luke in chapter 4. Luke chapter 4. And there we'll start reading in verse number 16, the fourth chapter of Luke. In verse 16. In Luke 4, 16, it says, He, that is Jesus, he came to Nazareth where he had been brought up. And as his custom was, he went into the synagogue on the Sabbath day and stood up for to read. And they delivered unto him the book of Isaiah, the prophet Isaiah. And when he had opened the book He found the place where it is written, The Spirit of the Lord is upon me, because he hath anointed me to preach the gospel to the poor. He hath sent me to heal the brokenhearted, to preach deliverance to the captives. and recovering of sight to the blind, to set at liberty them that are bruised, to preach the acceptable year of the Lord. You see, the prophecy had been that when the Son of David comes, when the Messiah comes, he'll give sight to the blind. And Bartimaeus knew that. He was aware of the prophecy of Isaiah. And so when Jesus of Nazareth passes by, he says, Jesus, son of David, Jesus, Messiah, this is the one. I'm blind, I can't see a thing. I'm helpless, I can't provide for myself. I cannot even get the food I eat on my own. There's no doctor that can help me, but Jesus, the son of David, is coming. I must call to him, because the scriptures tell me that he gives sight to the blind. And so Bartimaeus knew the Old Testament scriptures. And then turn with me again to Matthew and chapter 12, the 12th chapter of Matthew. That's the first book of your New Testament, Matthew chapter 12, and there we'll look at verse 22 and following. In Matthew 12 and verse 22, then was brought unto him, again that's Jesus, one possessed with a devil, blind and dumb. And he healed him, insomuch that the blind and the dumb both spake and saw. And all the people were amazed and said, Is not this the son of David? Is not this the Messiah? And so we find that this Barmaeus was a man who believed. He was a man who had faith. When he called out to Jesus, he absolutely believed that Jesus could give him sight. He was a man who had faith. So then faith cometh by hearing. And hearing by the word of God. Isn't that beautiful? What could Bartimaeus see? He could not see a thing. He was blind. But he heard a commotion. What is the commotion? Oh, Bartimaeus, it's Jesus of Nazareth coming. Jesus of Nazareth. He's the son of David. He is the only one that can help me But without faith it is impossible to please him, for he that cometh to him must believe that he is, and that he is the rewarder of them that diligently seek him. Bartimaeus was a man You believed. But you know what? Bartimaeus had enemies. Bartimaeus had opposition. Bartimaeus had those that would hinder him. And uh brother Vince mentioned in Sunday school this morning hindrances and that the job of the preachers was to remove the hindrances, the lawyers that would keep men from truth. If we look at verse 48 of Mark 10, it says, and many charged him that he should hold his peace. But he cried out the moor, a great deal. Thou son of David, have mercy on me Here Bartimaeus is crying out to the son of David, and the crowds say, shh. And the disciples are saying, Shh, we've got Christ here. Listen to him. You be quiet. And the Pharisees are saying, Shh, he's not the son of David. Don't you call him that. And the multitude is saying, you be quiet, Barnabai. We want to hear him. We want to get closer to him. And how often it is when someone is under conviction and they begin to realize that Jesus Christ is my only hope, and their family begins to say, Oh, you don't want to be a religious nut. Or or at work people say, oh my, he's he there's goes the Bible boy. And people begin to pull at your soul and no don't don't listen to that you don't want to go to church oh really it's good religion is good on Easter and Christmas but but you don't want to you don't want to get too deep into that Oh, how many there are that would discourage us from coming to Christ. And Satan himself whispers in the ear, you're good enough. You do this and this and this and you'll be fine. But the bottom line was this: Bartimaeus was blind He was blind. He was blind. Give him a flashlight. It will not help. Light him a candle It does him no good. We don't have any candles burning in our worship. But there was one that could help him And it was Christ. He faced opposition. Remember the exhortation of the Apostle Paul, read it for you in Acts 14. And when he had preached the gospel to that city and taught many, they returned again to Lystra and to Iconium and to Antioch. confirming the souls of the disciples and exhorting them to continue in the faith and that through much tribulation they must enter the kingdom of God Oh, how many things there are that can hinder us. Christ's own word, he that taketh not up his cross and followeth me is not worthy of me. And so, Bartimaeus, he had a lot to stop him. He had a lot to hold him back. My brother and I were speaking yesterday about a lady we knew that was in a wheelchair, and she made the comment that she didn't believe that God would send anybody in a wheelchair to hell. Oh, how sad is the blindness of men? Every man born is born blind. And remains blind until Christ opens their spiritual eyes that they might see that He is the Son of David. He is the Messiah. We find that when Bartimaeus realized that the son of David was passing by, nothing was going to stop him. Not his blindness, not the crowds that told him to be quiet, not anything. He was a man who had learned importunity He cried the more a great deal. Jesus help me Jesus help me, thou son of David, have mercy on me. Nothing was going to stop him. And rem remember the story in Luke 11 of the man with importunity Who a friend came to visit him late in the evening and he had nothing to set before him, and so he goes to his neighbor and he knocks on the neighbor's door and he says, Give me some loaves. And the neighbor says, I'm in bed, and my children are in bed. Leave us alone And the man knocks again and again. Open the door. And Christ said, though he won't open the door because he's a friend, yet because he keeps knocking, he's going to open the door. Right. Here. Thou son of David, have mercy on me. Thou son of David, have mercy on me Oh my friend, just as we saw in Sunday school this morning that there were cities of refuge, but the condemned had to flee to the city of refuge. So Bartimaeus is not going to let anything stand in his way. Oh, he's going to grab on to the son of David, and he will not let go until his eyes are opened. He was determined to get to the Savior. In Genesis 32, we read that Jacob wrestled on the plain of Penil. There he wrestled with Jesus Christ before he came in a human body as as he was in the manger of Bethlehem He wrestled with the pre-incarnate Christ, and the day was breaking. And the angel says to him, Let me go, for the day breaks. And Jacob says, I will not let you go except you bless me. So Bartimaeus gives us a beautiful picture of one who says, No, I will not be quiet. No, I must call out to the Son of David. For I'm blind. And he is my only hope. And we recall again The testimony of Hezekiah that's recorded for us in 2 Kings 18. And again I'll read it to you 2 Kings 18 verses 5 and 6, and he, that is Hezekiah, he trusted in the Lord God of Israel. So that after him was none like him among all the kings of Judah, nor any that were before him, for he claived to the Lord. And departed not from following him, but kept his commandments, which the Lord had commanded Moses. Oh, the testimony of Hezekiah is he clay to the Lord. That's not a word we use that much anymore that he claved to something. We say cling instead He was clinging to Jehovah. He was holding on to Jehovah. Just as we find Jacob on the plain of Paniel, hanging on to the angel. He would not let go until he was blessed. And so we find Bartimaeus, who would not be quiet. He called out to the passing Jesus Christ. He called out to the Son of David, have mercy on me. You see, we don't have that kind of determination to seek out Christ until we realize our condition. Blind. I cannot help myself. I'm a beggar. I cannot provide for myself. Though the world looks down on me, though the world tries to silence me, though my friends try to hinder me, I must go to Christ. For He alone is my help. But isn't it glorious that in verse 49, Bartimaeus was a man whose cry was heard? There's a big multitude there. There's a lot of people calling, and the crowd is trying to get Bartimaeus to be quiet. And I'm sure Barmaeus was not the only one crying. We find Christ entering into Jerusalem and the crowd crying, Hosannah, blessed is he that cometh in the name of the Lord. And I'm sure this is a pretty boisterous, noisy crowd And yet Bartimaeus is crying and crying, Have mercy on me, have mercy on me. But oh how glorious is verse 49 of Mark 10. And Jesus stood still. He stopped his forward progress. He's not gonna pass him by. He's not gonna leave him blind sitting beside the highway. And in it it said says there um in verse Verse 1, he was the son of Timaeus, the last by the verse, sat by the highway's side. I like the word that it doesn't say he sat by the highway. It says he sat by the highway side It kind of doubles it there. There he is. He's sitting beside the sa highway, and Jesus comes and he stops. He's not going to pass him by. And Jesus stood and commanded him to be called. And I like that word command too. It doesn't say, what's going on there? No, he commands him. Call that man. Bring that man to me. He commanded him to be called. And they called the blind man, saying, Be of good comfort. Be of good comfort. Rise. He calleth thee. Oh, what a glorious message to the heart of a sinner. lost, blind, on the verge of an eternal hell, and Christ says, Be a good comfort. Rise. Come unto me, all ye that labor and are heavy laden And I will give you rest. Rise. In verse 50 it says, and he, casting away his garment, rose and came to Jesus. Casting away his garment. If you look over to uh verse twenty eight of Matthew or Mark ten prior to where we're reading in verse 28, and Peter began saying unto him, Lo, we have left all and followed thee. He cast away his garment. Think about that. How's he gonna find it again? Blind. It's blind. If Christ doesn't heal him, never find it again. Think about this. There's a big multitude there. He cast off his garment. And it's going to be trampled on. It's going to be destroyed by the feet of others around. Think about this. It might be stolen. Someone might take it. And then consider this. That coat was probably all that he owned. You see, this was a day in which which the garments on people's back were sometimes all they owned. We talk about the the shirt off your back. It was a day when, remember the crucifixion of Christ when the soldiers gambled over his garments And remember Paul in his letter to Timothy when he says, Bring my coat with you when you come. You see, it was a day and age when clothing was not disposable as it is today, but it was passed on because it was very value and it was very precious. Lydia, the seller of purple, well, her whole income was by producing dye for clothing, for garments. You see, when blind Bartimaeus cast off his coat to get to Jesus, he is leaving everything behind. He's throwing it all away with no assurance except his belief that Jesus is going to open his eyes. And oh again, what a beautiful picture of the sinner coming to Christ. Lord, none of this means anything. None of this has any value. None of this has any worth. If thine eye offend thee, pluck it out. For it is better to light to enter into life blind. Than having your eyes to go into condemnation. Paul's testimony in Galatians 1 This verse in verse 15, but when it pleased God who separated me from my mother's womb and called me to his gre by his grace to reveal his son in me that I might preach him among the heathen, immediately. Immediately I conferred not with flesh and blood. You see, when they said to Bartimaeus, Rise, he calleth thee. Bartimaeus didn't say, well, let me get my affairs in order. He didn't say, well, you know, give me a minute. I'll be I'll hang on. No. Cast off his coat and he went. Behold, now is the accepted time. Behold, today is the day of salvation. Immediately he cast off his coat. But did you notice in the call to worship I read this morning from Revelation 3, it spoke of those that are blind and receive ISAV. The Isav there is a reference to Christ. And in that same context, Christ says, buy of me white raiment. You see, Bartimaeus was casting off a coat. To receive white raiment. He was casting away the raiment of this world to receive a heavenly garment. Be of good comfort. He calleth thee prize. You see, Bartimaeus was calling Jesus, but the reality was that Jesus was calling Bartimaeus. Rise, he calleth thee. No man can come unto me Except the Father who just sent me, draw him. And remember back in the beginning when we were talking about his blindness and his beggarliness and so on, his helplessness. We said back there That uh he was not there by accident, but rather Jesus knew he would be there. And Jesus comes out of this gate of Jericho and calls to him, Come unto me, all ye that labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. Call unto me, and I will answer thee, and show thee great and mighty things which thou knowest not. Whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. Have you called on the name of the Lord? Have you been told Jesus of Nazareth is passing by Oh yeah, I know about him. He's in the Bible, and they say he was a good man, and they say he did has done good deeds. And he set a good example for us. That's Jesus of Nazareth. I've seen a picture that's supposedly of him. Or are you told, Jesus of Nazareth is passing by, and your heart says, the Son of God, I must believe in him? Jesus of Nazareth is passing by. Oh no, no, not just someone born and raised in a city of Nazareth, but Jesus, the Son of God. Thou son of David, have mercy on me. And isn't it glorious that Bartimaeus received far more than he asked for? For Barnamaeus, when he's asked what you will, in verse fifty-one, Jesus said unto him, What wilt thou that I should do unto thee? The blind man said unto him, Lord, that I might receive my sight. You see, all Bartimaeus had on his heart and mind was the immediate. But Christ thought of far more. For it says there in verse 52, and Jesus said unto him, Go thy way. Thy faith hath made thee whole. In other words, Bartimaeus. You've received your sight. Your faith has made you whole. Go about your business. But is that what Barmaeus does? Go thy way, thy faith has made thee whole. And immediately he received his sight and followed Jesus. He didn't go his way, he went Jesus' way. He didn't go on about his life, he became a disciple. And he followed Jesus. Oh, my friend, today can you see? Oh, I'm not talking about seeing the light of the sun. But can you see that Jesus of Nazareth is the son of David? Can you see that this one born in Bethlehem is not just some picture that people put on a wall Is not just some good example. But he is indeed the very Son of God. For God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son. That whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life. Bartimaeus, what a glorious story of the healing of the body. But also a story of the healing of the soul. Do you know Jesus? Let us stand for prayer. Father, we thank you for this glorious account of this one Bartimaeus who was not there by accident, but there because Jesus was passing by to heal his eyes. But more importantly, to save his soul. Father, bless your word to our hearts. Father, save the lost sheep for whom Jesus is seeking. And we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Please let it be a little bit more than a little bit.