To begin in the book of Hebrews, as I had uh promised some time back, but as I glanced in Hebrews chapter one, I looked back at this lonely little book called Philemon, tucked in between the end of Titus and the beginning of Hebrews. And I said, well, I don't know that I would ever make a trip back to discuss Philemon, so why don't we just take the time to do it now? It's always a bad idea to try to cover an entire book of the Bible, no matter how short, in one study. And generally it's a bad idea because the scriptures are very dense and very thick But this letter of the apostle to a church and to a man in particular, I find to be quite interesting, and I believe we can get at the thrust of what he's trying to address. and maybe have a little discussion along the way. Uh I won't cover every single verse in great detail, but I believe there's a lot of meat here that we can gain from. But I I do want to open, try to set our minds off of traffic, off of lunch, off of dessert, off of pain, off of all the stuff that got you here. And let's just stop for a moment and think. So just kind of pause for a moment, take a deep breath, and think. Have you ever had a situation in your life Where you had to go to bat for someone. You know what I mean by that term, you have to go to bat for someone. You have to step in for them. You have to kinda Imagine a situation where somebody else needs you to help them with a rather serious matter. How far would you go to help them? Anybody have something like that? Where you've had where you've had to help somebody? All right. I go as far as I need to. Okay. As far as you need to. Okay. Would you disobey the law of the land to help somebody? A bit. Alright, a bit. I don't always agree with the law. Depends on the law. It depends on the law. If it's just a reasonable law, probably not. If it's an unreasonable law, then I would consider it. That's what I said. It depends on the law. Not sure. Not sure. Okay, so if you want an example, you had the I'm just looking for personal examples. Yeah, okay. Yeah, yeah. We'll get to the theoretical later. Sorry to cut you short, but I knew where I could tell where you were going. It's like I've I've time limited so I'll have to pull the reinu in. Have you been in charge of something? Maybe you're on a project, your project lead And you've had to negotiate peace between two subordinates, but they're not in the same building as you. They're off-site. They're further away. You have that kind of situation. They've ever been a boss and you've had to corral a coworker, the two co-workers that weren't getting along too well Alright, you're shaking your head, yes. Yeah. Describe that situation to me. If you're if you're able to. In general, just people who were not getting along were not seeing things the same way. One person put forth a project and the other person didn't like it, but they waited until the last minute to come in and then everything had to uh yeah. Personalities became involved and stuff. Okay, so personalities are involved, conflicts of interest, I touched upon a law, maybe there's some legal issues. What would be what was your approach to that, to resolving some of these issues where You're going to bat for someone. How do you, you're standing in the stead of another or you're trying to intermediate between two. What was your approach to it? How did that play out? I'm always very direct. Very direct. Yeah. Just that's right. Right between the fore the right between the eyes. Aim right for the center of the forehead. Okay. That's one approach. Personal communication Honesty. Okay. Um taking time to seek out the truth. Mm-hmm. So you're not just acting on supposition. Yep. Okay. Yep, not hearsay. Willing to extend yourself to make things right. Yeah. Yeah, get your fact pile together before you just blunder into it with rument and hearsay. Offer a solution Offer a solution. That's a good one. Yeah. Well, we're going to see some elements of that here as the Apostle Paul is apparently been thrust into a similar situation and how he's going to negotiate this. Now Philemon is very brief. It's only 335 words in Greek. It's very short. Um do you think you could have resolved your situation in 335 words? You think about how short that is. 335 inspired words maybe. Yeah. Yeah. You know, the Lord's Prayer is 66 words. Um Psalm 23 has only 117 words in English. There's a lot to be said for brevity. There's a lot to be said for brevity rather than packing two thoughts into 14 paragraphs. Bloatware in writing is to be avoided. Gettysburg Address, 272 words. There's a lot to be said for brevity. There's also a lot to be said for sensitivity. There's a lot to be said for truth and honesty. There's also a lot to be said for just leaving some things off, to not even getting into some things. You know, what you don't say can communicate as much to an individual as what you do say. In other words, we're not going to talk about this over here. We're going to set that aside. You know, the Book of Philemon is a book that has been abused, I believe, because it touches on the topic of slavery And the sad fact of the matter is that on both sides of the dividing line, the Mason-Dixon line in America, the North and the South both had Christians? I'll call them Christians with Bibles in their hands. And both of them would point to Philemon to justify their case. One would say, Paul is commanding the slave to return to his master. The other side would say, oh no, this is a letter of deliverance. This is a matter of rescue and redemption. And I'm really not going to plow deeply into the topic of slavery because frankly, Paul doesn't go on a rant or a tirade About slavery. He doesn't really begin to go into the evils of it because it was evil in his day, and it was evil in the Civil War. It was manstealing, basically. And it continues today, if you naively think slavery has ended, in our land and in our time it has not, and I'm not talking credit card debt. I'm talking about human trafficking. I'm talking about little children. They're being trafficked and sold off as slaves. That is alive not well and active in our land, so it's still a plague and has always been a plague throughout human civilization. And sadly you would think Christians would be leading the forefront to get rid of it But some uh who hold the Roman Catholic Church up as some optional Christian uh umbrella has not been forthright about uh dealing against slavery. In fact They've supported it and have supported it for some time. And if you really want to read more about that, there's a book from John Robbins called Slavery and Christianity. You can get a copy from Dr. Elliott at Teaching the Word or at the Trinity Foundation. It goes over the book of Philemon as an example of that, and there's some notable quotes which I would have gotten into today, but for press of time I'll omit that. And uh it's uh it's sad that uh you've had such confusion on this matter. Well let's look now at the book of Philemon, and I'm going to march my way through, as I said, not necessarily verse at a time, because I do want to draw out some first things. So some first principles and try to extract it from that. Because really this is a fine example of one of the finest examples of written communication that you can read in all of Holy Writ. Fact of the matter is I think people read it so quick they say, I don't understand it. Because they're used to sound bites. They listen to the news all the time and all they get is sound bites. Something you can digest in 30 seconds like a like a piece of popcorn, like a little piece of candy. And boy, off they go in a tizzy And they n and they and they've not exercised their mind to critical thinking and to listening. Listening skills are shot today Could you rewind what I said and repeat what I said for the past three sentences? Would you be able to do that? Could you repeat what I just said the past three sentences? Your listening skills were shot. I know one individual who could. Brother Bernie He would ask me, could you repeat that? I said, I don't even know what I said. He says, well, I think you said this. And he would repeat to me everything I said, skipping the word he didn't hear and go forward. Listening is going to be crucial if you're going to get anything out of Philemon because he's very careful and nuanced. He starts off in verse 1. Look at your Bible. Paul, a prisoner. Of Jesus Christ. You know, he doesn't introduce himself in his epistles this way very often. A prisoner. He always says Paul an apostle, or Paul the servant of Jesus Christ. Here he calls himself as a prisoner. Someone in chains. Why would he mention that? I'm just fascinated with the very first word. Right off the gate, Paul, a prisoner of Jesus Christ. Oh, how poetic. Yeah, I know you're in prison. Why would he even mention that? Because he goes along with slavery Okay. Talking about one sumus or whatever. Yeah. How do you say that? Onesimus. Onesimus. Yes. Mm-hmm. Yeah. Onesimus was a fugitive slave from his master Philemon If Paul says, I'm a prisoner, Lord, why would he mention prisoner? You said it attaches to slavery. Okay. Can somebody expand that for me? Yeah, I it attaches to what to what benefit or to what detriment? What why would he s even bring it up? So that may be a Lehmann would see things from Onesilus' perspective. Oh, very good. Yeah. Well, he's kind of putting himself right alongside Anyshimus. Here's a slave, and guess what? I'm a prisoner, too. But wait, you're the Apostle Paul! I love you. I respect you. But I'm a prisoner. But he says he's a prisoner of who? But who was he a prisoner of politically? Rome. Rome. He was in a Roman prison cell. Why didn't he say I'm a prisoner of Rome? It's true he was, but he didn't say that. No, he really wasn't. He was really there because of Jesus. Ah. He was really there because of Jesus. That's interesting. So right out the gate, those two words get you to thinking Finally, then knew where he was. The apostle's rotting in a prison somewhere. He's been held up because of the gospel. He says, I'm a prisoner. And number two, that Jesus Christ is the one who's in control, not Rome. He would have no power at all against them unless God had given to him. Peter was freed from a prison. He was released by an angel no less, led right out. It wasn't his time to be hauled out in prison. So Paul is already at the gate telegraphing certain truths just from his introduction. He uses the introduction not as some general platitudes, some feel-good sound bites. He's appealing to this man. I'm a prisoner, not of Rome, but of God. Right out the gate, he's getting into it clearly. He's setting the tone. He's setting the stage. He's not letting his words fall to the ground. Do you see what masterfulness this is? He's very wisely using it. And then he says, and Timothy, our brother. Now he's referred to Timothy in the past as his son in the faith, but now he's elevated him as A brother, unto Philemon, our dearly beloved and fellow laborer. So He's writing to who? Philemon. He's basically a Gentile. Paul is a Jew. And Timothy is a mutt. He's half Greek, half Jew. You got a real mix of people. How does slavery tend to divide? Isn't it along racial lines? So here he's just listed Three races, if you will, three mixes? He says we're all in the same boat. Already he's tying some people together. What's the common bond? Is it not Jesus Christ? He addresses it in verse 2 to a Christian named Philemon who has a house church and to someone called Athea. Now Athea is feminine, it's female And um and another fellow named Archipus, our fellow soldier, and to the church in thy house. So Philemon has a house church. I know something about that. And Archipas, we find out in the book of Colossians, is a minister. So Philemon is the host, Archipus is the preacher. Now apparently Archipus, who had a house church at Colossae, and we would suppose that Aphia is the man's wife. I can't imagine why he'd be writing in prominence to some other woman at the church other than his wife. They would be together in that ministry. That's the only way a house church works. The wife has to be on board And he then gives his greeting in verse 3: Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. Now, that is a standard Pauline address. He says that in a great many epistles, grace to you and peace from God the Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. He says that very often. It's a standard greeting. It's not an alarming greeting like he wrote to the Galatians He had a very alarming one to the Galatians. It was much sterner. It was much more stiff. He stood in doubt of them. I was apostle, not of men, but of God. You know, he really was footstopping his authority for the Galatians. Here, not so much. Because some matters are more serious than others. And so a gentle touch is required. There's no reason for him to deviate from a standard gracious greeting. He still holds this man in great esteem, in great honor. He's still very gracious And then 4 and 5, he lets the man know of the Apostle Paul's prayers on the behalf of Philemon, this house church host, this slave owner He lets him know, he says, uh in verse 4, I thank my God, making mention of thee always in my prayers. I I don't think he's lying. You know, have you ever had somebody asked to pray for you? Oh yes, I'll keep so-and-so in prayer. Yes, I will keep so-and-so in prayer. I don't say that You know why? Because I don't keep so and so in prayer. What I do say is upon every remembrance, I will pray for them. Now that is true. When I think about such a one I'll say, yes, I'll pray for that individual. They come to my mind, yes, I'll pray for them. Well, technically that's always, but conscientiously I can't say that. Because the only one I know who's always praying is the Lord Jesus Christ I don't think the Apostle Paul is kidding. I think he does make mention of him always in his prayers. He's very diligent to pray for these house churches, the care which come upon me daily, the care of the churches. He is deeply concerned. So I do believe he is, making mention of him always, hearing of thy love and faith which thou hast towards the Lord Jesus and toward all the saints. He says, Philemon, you love All the saints. Did you catch that phrase? Well, first of all, what's a saint? Is Mother Teresa a saint? Some would say she is. What is a saint in the Bible? A true convert to Christ. Somebody who's truly a Christian. Yeah, Mother Teresa wouldn't qualify. Now, the Roman Catholic Church may claim her as one. Certainly she did many notable deeds, no doubt. But she would tell the Muslims, you know, be a good Muslim. She would tell the Buddhist, if you're believing Buddhism, be a good Buddhist. Well, that's not true That's not pointing people to the gospel. That's not doing them good at all. That's doing their soul evil. You may help their flesh, but if you point them a different direction A saint is somebody who's truly saved. A saved individual, individual from God Almighty, somebody whose heart God has cleansed. You know, Corinthians says, you know, uh it it talks in 1 Corinthians 13 um or 14, excuse me, he says, uh no, it's thirteen. He says, um Though I have all faith so that I could remove mountains and have not charity, I am nothing There are actually individuals who have some kind of faith that can move mountains, but they don't have charity. They don't have the love of God. They don't have the gospel, which is the love of God in Jesus Christ, preached, proclaimed, and declared There are individuals that fit the qualifications that though they do things, as Jesus said, why they call me Lord, Lord, why do you not do the things that I command you to do? He says, Many will say unto me in that day, Lord, Lord, have we not done many miracles and many mighty works? He says, Depart from me, ye that work iniquity. I never knew you. It's Matthew 7, 21. Jesus himself says there are many who are doing lots of nice things. He says, but they don't know me. That's a shocking statement. Now the Apostle Paul understands this. He wrote about these things. But he says, you love all the saints. Well what's the implication? You love all the saints? And that might include another fellow who you know who just became a saint. We know you love all the saints. He goes on. He says in verse 6, Your love towards all the saints, that the communication, the sharing of thy faith This is his prayer. I make mention of you in my prayer. I hear of your love and faith. You've got it to all the saints, of course the Lord Jesus as well. That the communication of thy faith may become effectual, effective, by the acknowledging of every good thing which is in you in Christ Jesus. Let's unpack this here By Leman, I've heard a lot of good things about you. Now I want to see them made effectual I want to effectuate it. I want it to become a reality. I want to see this blossom. I want to see it become real Again, he's laying the foundation. He's not buttering him up. He's acknowledging the good things he does find in him. He does see great faith. He does see love. He does love many saints. He's a Gentile and he's opening up his house to the public. I mean, that's pretty loving. And yet, he says, now I really want to see this thing come to life. 1 Corinthians 16 puts it a little differently, and I think it can be helpful to us. uh as that it's kind of got similar type of language. 1 Corinthians 16 verse 17. The apostle wrote this, he said in 1 Corinthians 16, 17, I am glad of the coming of Stephanus and Fortunatus and Achaicus, all fine Roman names. They all end in U. S. For that which was lacking on your part they have supplied, for they have refreshed my spirit and yours, therefore acknowledge ye them that are such. This is the same concept here. I want you to acknowledge this. I want you to uh uh the I want you to acknowledge every good thing and I want this to be effective. Well what is this good thing he's gonna get at here? He continues to point out some points to Philemon, the good traits that his love refreshes the saints. He says back in Philemon verse 7. We have great joy and consolation, great comfort in your love. We are consoled in your love. Because the bowels, the the That inward part of the saints are refreshed by thee, brother. They're refreshed. You ever know a Christian that You when you're in their presence, they just are really a great source of refreshing. They're not a burden, they're not a drag But they're such a great source of refreshing. Yeah, I I think Libby Byrd, frankly, is one who's a great source of refreshing. Pastor Keith is real. Some individuals, you're just in their presence, they're just That's not to dismiss any of you, but I'm just speaking of our older brother in the Lord, who is just such a great source of refreshing to many of the saints. He says verse eight, Wherefore, though I might be much bold in Christ, to enjoin thee that which is convenient Yet for love's sake I rather beseech thee. Now, what's going on here? He says, you know, Philemon, I'm so refreshed by you, brother, but I don't want to command you to do something. That word enjoin normally is translated command. It's an old English word. It's a pretty good word, and enjoin to to to latch on to or to attach to some legal command. I don't want to tie you to a law. I don't want to force you to do this. Did the Apostle Paul have any kind of ability to force something on Philemon? Did he have that ability? He didn't have apostleship. Okay, he's an apostle, and who's he writing to? A church leader. He's an apostle. He's writing to the church in their house. Archipels is the minister. He has some authority. You better believe the apostles had authority. Oh yeah. Absolutely. They had apostolic authority. They could do miracles. We knew God was with them. They gave us the canon of Scripture. And when they gave instructions, sometimes they would say, you know. Now the Lord didn't cover this. I'm paraphrasing, the Lord didn't cover this, but I now am. And so he would bring and address certain things. Yeah, the apostles had great weight. Peter said his bodily presence is weak, but boy, his letters are weighty. So he had weight. He had tremendous weight. And so he says here, he doesn't, he's not going to footstamp his authority. I'm not going to do that. But rather he says, I'm going to beseech thee. Yet for love's sake I rather beseech thee. I'm doing this. I I want to approach you, I want to approach you on the basis of love. I want to approach you and have you in a loves sake mind here. He uh uh I mean frankly, the apostle could have said, um, if he were crass, he says, you know I have every right to force you to do this, but instead I'm gonna appeal to your good senses. It doesn't take the arrow right, you know, the the bullet between the the eyes approach. Um was told something years ago that has held true, and the apostles are actually demonstrating this right here. It's the hamburger analogy when you go to confront somebody So uh the American approach, which actually has been based on a lot of scriptural principles, has a hamburger approach. There's the German approach, which is just the hamburger, no buns, and then there's the Japanese approach, which is the buns, no burger. So the hamburger approach is so nice to see you. I hope everything is going well. Hear nice about you. We have this issue to deal with, the meat of the topic. You know, we've got to deal with this. I'm really concerned about that. And then the back side of the bun I'm sure you'll correct it. Everything will be fine. You're in good standing with the company. So long, let us know how it goes. And if you need anything, that's the hamburger approach. That's kind of what Paul's doing here. The Japanese approach, and I've had this before, because our company pitched a product to an oriental company, and their approach goes something like this. So nice of you to have us out here. We appreciate it very much. You have an interesting product, and we look forward to hearing more about it in the future. That was a disaster message. If you know anything about the Japanese culture, it's a disaster message. There was one word in there that was that was the killer word that sunk you. Guess what word that was? Interesting. If the Japanese tell you your product is interesting, that means it stinks on ice. They hate it. And you're dead and they have no interest and they figured it's a complete waste of time and they're seeing if they can book a return flight earlier to get back home But they won't be so crass as to give you the hamburger. It's all bun. It's all bun. The German approach, ah, we have an issue with you. This sta there is no bun. There's no good. It's all bad news right up front Very hyper direct, no padding to it whatsoever. It's just a spear in the side. The latter two the apostle does not use. He has acknowledged the excellent qualities that Philemon has, and he's honest about it. You have to be honest in this. It's not made up. You can always find something good to say about someone. You really can if you look for it. And then you can politely get into the issue and resolve it and try to identify it And that's what the apostle here is doing. In verse 7, he's basically saying, you know, there's one saint in particular, I wish to be refreshed by you also. As another saint, I want to be refreshed, and I want to hear that you're refreshing them as well. 8 and 9, he's asserting apostolic authority in a very subtle way. And this is really a fine example of humility in writing, isn't it? In his introduction, he calls himself a prisoner. He's made himself lowest. On the chain, on the org chart, the others are elevated higher. Folks, this is a fine example of humility in writing He doesn't address his letter as Reverend Dr. Sounding Brass. He doesn't start off with a highfalutin title. It's not the great Apostle Paul, though that would have been true. But he twice now calls himself Paul the prisoner. He also says in verse 9, Paul the aged And I think that's a good rendering of it. It's also the word elder. He is the ultimate elder, older brother, but he's the aged at this point because he is older in life. And then he openly states his infusal to rejoin, normally translated command Philemon. He says, I'm not going to do that. You know If you ever, people, if you ever young people, college and career age people, if you ever find yourself in a position of authority, in a position of leadership, Um and I found myself in that as a young supervisor. I was asked to be in charge of a project and I was in charge. Woo-hoo. I was in charge. And I had somebody under me who was two and a half, three times my age But I'm in charge. Guess what the favorite tool of a young person is? That authority button. They love that stick. They love that authority. And you can read about it in 1 Kings 12 the differing advice of the old uh advisors versus the young advisors to King Rehoboam. You know, the people came and said, Your father's yoke has been so heavy, you know, please lighten it up and we'll you know, it we really could appreciate that. And the Old advisors came and said, you know, if you do that, they'll serve you forever. And the young people said, Nonsense! Make it harder on 'em. Come down hard. Boy, it really didn't work out well That's exactly what the Apostle. That's the opposite of what the Apostle Paul is doing here. He's not coming down hard on him. In fact He's kind of laying it out. I don't want to do this without your mind, and I think that's one of the most important passages we have here in verse 10. Look at verse 10 now of Philemon. He says, I beseech thee for my son. Onesimus. Now this is the shock word that shows up when Philemon is going to read this. Finally, Philemon is now told what this is about. That fugitive who fled from his duty oh so many months ago. You know, it's a long way from Colossae to Rome in old times. And conversion doesn't take place overnight. You have to hear the Word of God. And somehow Onesimus, this runaway slave, has come under the hearing and the tutelage of the Apostle Paul and become saved, truly saved, insomuch that the Apostle Paul has him as a fellow laborer. It's probably been months at this point in time since Onesimus has been away. You know, in the olden days Businesses got things done on the backs of the slaves, the servants. Abraham had 317 servants, born in his house They ran the cattle, they fetched water, they claved wood, they did all kinds of tasks. And so Philemon has been shorted Some support, some benefit. There's been some loss of business and venture because of this man's absence. And now Paul has the audacity to write to him about uneasiness. You know, we'll get to this part a little later, but I want you to keep that in mind that now when Onesimus is brought up to Philemon's attention, It's going to set him back a little bit. But it's that word that comes after it that ought to also set him back. What does he say of Onesemus in verse ten? Or v the the phrase, the two words just before Onesimus? He called him what? Called him my son. What does that mean? Why would he call Nisimus my son? He's a son in the faith. Obviously, Paul's not a woman, not going to give physical birth to him. Paul probably didn't adopt him If he brought him into his service, he would have been said, now Anissimus my servant. In fact, he could have called Anissimus his servant. Because we find out later that he was serving and helping and ministering alongside with the Apostle Paul. He doesn't call him my servant as if though to compete. He calls him what? My son. I can look at somebody in the audience and call them my son. I have two sons. It's a wonderful thing By saying that, when he plainly states Onesimus as his son, that implies another son in the faith we read about, Timothy. Timothy was called a son of the faith. So by referring to him as my son, he's now placed on this. In the same category as Timothy, who was a minister at one point in Ephesus and was a sidekick of the Apostle Paul for a good while. You see how he's using he's choosing his words very carefully. And everything in this, because on this, just like when you get a letter about a sensitive matter, do you read it once and stick it in a drawer? You may stick it in the drawer, but you pull it out and you read it again. Because you're going to read it again and again and again. And writing remains a very good way to communicate to people if your words are chosen carefully. And that's what English teachers are all about. Get rid of the trash words that add nothing to what you're writing. Get rid of all the fluff. Get rid of the ings, ing words. Put make it active tense, I get all my proposal writers, I tell them again, I give 'em gr grammar lessons, how to write an active tense. They comp completely ignore me and I got tired of fixing it so I hired a proposal editor to go through and one voice everything get rid of all that stuff. It's nice when you can hire somebody to do all that stuff. Um I had that luxury once. Normally I was the guy that did all that. But it's a he's very careful of his words here. See, Paul's not converting anybody. He's not literally his son. Unless of us can't call him his father, Jesus says, call no man on earth your father, meaning no man on earth is capable of converting you, but there are spiritual midwives And we are, and some of you probably have been pleased and been uh blessed of the Lord to see someone come to faith Because of some sharing or some work of the scriptures and the ministry from your hand. God's pleased to use his church to bring in people. He's chosen the foolishness of preaching to save them that believe. And so he calls him my son Onesimus. He's placing him in the same family. And he says here in verse 10, notice, whom I have begotten in my bonds. Even when I was chained, this man became a convert. And what he's pointing out is that the word of the Lord is not bound. Even though I was here in prison, maybe I was here to convert this man. There's still ministry going on. By Lemon, you're in the business of working a house church, Archipus, whom he's going to have share this letter with. You're busy about saving souls. Rejoice. The Apostle Paul has confronted an individual whom you know And has been converted, even though I'm in prison. Indeed, the word of the Lord is not bound. And so he says the ministry is still productive. He knows that's going to resonate. Every minister wants to hear about positive outcome for the Word of God that somebody has come to faith. And then interesting in verse 11 is this play-on word. You see here he says, Onesimus in time past was to thee unprofitable. But now profitable to thee and me. So there's a couple of things going on here. One is, of course, that in time past, meaning Since he ran away. He hasn't been very profitable to you. That's a very polite way of saying I know he's not been in your service and duty. But there's another interesting play going on here because the word onesimus means profitable The very name of Anesimus, if you boil it down, means profitable. And so here he's saying, I know profitable in the past was to you unprofitable, but now, but now, he says uh is profitable to you and to me. How is he now profitable to the apostle Paul and to Philemon? How is that going to be He has become a teacher also. He's at least become saved also, yeah, and somebody who very much could be in a position of sharing the Word of God. He's a teacher also now Uh why do you think what do you think that because uh he's being used and what else would there be? I mean just being saved yourself is only one person. But if you're teaching others, then a lot of people. Okay. So you're you're seeing that there is a larger impact. Yes. Okay. Uh I would agree with that. I would agree with that. Uh The teaching part I I might take exception to. Uh we don't have an immediate indication of that, although certainly I'm sure he's going to be speaking about it. But it says he was ministering, he was laboring, people can be profitable to the mi you're profitable to the ministry of the of the of the of the work at Mission Bible through sending things out. That's helping. So that's all part and parcel of the mission. Yeah, th there were numerous people mentioned in scripture that were assistants to Paul, that they weren't necessarily the men preaching, but they were involved in the ministry, travel companions, organizers There's a lot that can be done besides the speaking office. That's not the only way to serve Jesus. And so, to your point, yes, he is now very profitable. He's engaged in the ministry. Absolutely, he is. He very much is. And so He uh uh he's stating this. When he says, I beseech thee, that's the word paracleo, he's exhorting uh, I'm coming alongside of you. Again, this this um uh fatherly approach to him. Uh the son Onesimus, uh who's was no no longer profitable And he doesn't get into all the issues. He doesn't know we history it's lost in history as to why Onesimus left. And you know what? If the Apostle Paul was content to leave it off So should we. Sometimes some former past things that saints have done that were harmful and injurious, or dead spouses have done that are harmful and injurious, sometimes it's good just to Leave those go. Just let them go. Let them be dead and don't even talk about them anymore. It's not profitable. He doesn't ring up Whatever reason, lease and slept, he just leaves it off. He says, yep, it wasn't profitable. But now, but now, but right now. He's very profitable. To thee and to me. He continues. He says in verse 11, and we keep reading verse 12, whom I have sent again. I find this fascinating. He sends Onesimus to Philemon. So the one knocking on the door is Philemon himself and handing him this letter. Why in the world do you think Onesimus would do that? Because he's been changed. He's been changed? He knows that what he did was wrong. So he's gonna go and need to make amends personally to find He's going to personally make amends? He is would he have done it without the apostles' letter? I know that's speculation, but Certainly the apostle's letter helps a lot. This helps a lot. Yeah. And he says to him, verse 12, Therefore receive him, that is, mine own bowels. Receive Onesimus. It's as if though he's a bow from my own bowels. It's as though he is my son. Again he's echoing, he's my son. He's wrapping his arms around Onesimus and letting everyone know that he is one who is very close to his heart, a son of the ministry. And thirteen through sixteen he says whom I would have retained with me. In other words, I would have kept him back, that in thy stead. In other words, I would have used Onesimus instead of you. So now he's equating Onesimus with Philamon. That he's just as profitable and useful to me as you are, that he might have ministered unto me in the bonds of the gospel. Again, He doesn't show that his chains are of Rome. He's in bondage to the gospel. He is in prison because Jesus Christ put him in prison. And if Christ hadn't put him there, we wouldn't have had this letter. We wouldn't have had a lot of letters. Paul wanted to preach, not write. But it was writing that God wanted. The business of talking to people is just to sharpen the sword, sharpen the iron, uh to to get it to the point. So that he could write it, so that we could have it. And 14, I think, is one of the most powerful verses in this entire book. He says But without thy mind would I do nothing. That thy benefit should not be, as it were, of necessity, but willingly. I tell you, folks. This is your leadership verse that you need to hang on the wall of your office. You want to be a leader in the company? At some point, if you're going to advance in any organization of men If you're going to ever advance, you're going to have the word manager, director, supervisor in your title. If you get to that stage, print this verse and stick it on your wall. Without thy mind would I do nothing. That is so true. People have to want to work for you You can't force anybody to do anything. Is that right, Mrs. Rose? How many people have succeeded to force you to do something you don't want to do? Didn't go very hard They have to want to do something. That is true of Christians, very much so. To effectively run a ministry, a church, a house church, people have to want To work for you. You can't constrain anyone. It doesn't work. And the apostle is taking the very same approach here. Without thy mind I do nothing. There was a church I knew that was uh had a very successful strategy. They said if the elders were not all on the same page, the church would not go forward. I thought that was a wise move, because without all their minds, they would do nothing And the second they deviated from that is the second they fell apart. And this is such an important passage. It's a biblical concept. And he says, he continues in 17, If thou count me therefore as a partner, receive him as myself. And he goes on to go even further. This almost brings me to tears. And this is another great passage in Philemon is verse 17. Verse 18. If he have wronged thee or owes thee aught, put that on my account. Just put it to me. I'll take care of it. I'll pay it. I, Paul, have written it with my own hand. You have it in writing. What you lost, Fayleman, you tell me If you find a difference between your profit loss sheet for that month and what's in your back pocket, you send me the difference, I'll get it to you. I'll cover it. Would you be willing to go to bat for somebody that far? You know, I want to share with you a little bit of the risk that the Apostle Paul has, and I have to close out here because according to Roman law. Runaway slaves were punished by branding. You know what branding is? You take an iron, stick it in a hot fire until that thing is red hot And then you just sear it into them. Some part of the flesh, I don't care what part it is. Branding. Maiming. Maiming means you're pretty much losing the use of a limb. Or death. Just flat out kill them Make a public example. And worse yet, those who harbored, aided, and abetted fugitive slaves were liable for civil damages, reimbursing the slave owner for all lost income due to the slave's flight, plus severe criminal penalties. And do you think Paul's taking any risks? Is Paul taking any risks here? I think he is. What if Phylemon changes his mind and says, no, I I this is too much of a loss? Call the Roman author call. I mean, after you get in touch with the Roman authorities, Paul would be imprisoned greater. Paul's putting himself out there for this man. He really is going to a great extent. But he's doing it not just for anybody. He's doing it for a fellow Christian. He sees this man's a real, no-kidding, convert. And that's what the Church of God does. We go to bat. for one another. We have to have each other's back. And so this marvelous little epistle I think has some real gems in it that are relevant for our day and I trust that the short overview of it gives you something to think about and as you go through and read it on your own time you'll appreciate it even further. Pastor, would you close this in prayer please? That's very gracious, Father. We thank you, Lord, for your marvelous love. And Lord, that indeed uh Paul's example in many ways is a reflection of the example of Christ who uh rescued us for from bondage to sin and uh joined this Lord to a new master. And indeed Philemon was to be a new kind of master because he was a Christian, not as an unbelieving master, but as a believer Father, you have yoked us together for the service of Christ and given us great privilege, and we thank you for it. Lord, I thank you for these small little books that often are overlooked and yet have so much edification for us. Father, bless this morning. I pray. Bless us in thy word. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Gabriel, keep recording for a sec. Did Philemon do all that Paul said? Scripture doesn't say, but archaeologists found an ancient inscription in Laodicea near Colossae Dedicated by a slave to the master who freed him. The master's name is Marcus Cessius Philemon Interesting. Could be, we don't know, but I think it's an interesting find. All right, thank you.