Take the cap off. Okay. Looking at Mark chapter three this morning. This story is also told in Luke chapter six and in Matthew chapter three. 12. Interestingly enough, people like to say there's contradictions in the Bible. There are no contradictions in these three stories. Actually, There's just additional information that's given uh from one book to the other. One of the interesting uh to me at least Interesting additions you find when Luke is describing the man with a withered hand. Luke being a doctor gets a little more specific, and Luke says it was his right hand. And most people are right handed. So this man was not only crippled in a hand that was withered, shriveled up, but it was his right hand, implying that it was the one that he would have used most commonly. So if some uh commentators believe he was a bricklayer, or if he was a surgeon, or something like that, that was very, very detrimental to the well-being of his household and the upkeep of his household. And so when we look at Matthew, Mark, and Luke, there are things that are different, but not contradictory. So let's look at Mark chapter 3, a responsive reading. This morning we did Matthew, and we might be referring back to that a little bit, Matthew twelve. But let's just look at Mark chapter three and verses one through six. And he that as Christ entered into the synagogue, and there was a man there which had a withered hand. Which hand was withered? Anybody remember? The right hand. Okay. That's the right hand. And they watched him whether he would heal him on the Sabbath day that they might accuse him. Not that they would cheer him or glorify him, but that they might accuse him. And he saith unto the man which had the withered hand, stand forth. In Matthew, he says, rise up and stand forth. And he saith to them, is it lawful to do good on the Sabbath days? Or to do evil, or on the Sabbath day to save a life, or to kill. But they held their peace. The Pharisees did not answer his question And when he looked round about on them with anger, yes, the Lord gets angry sometimes. Being grieved for the hardness of their hearts, he saith unto the man, Stretch forth thy hand. And he stretched it out, and his hand was restored whole as the other And the Pharisees went forth and straightway took counsel with the Herodians. That's Herod's party, uh political party, all the Herodians that supported Herod. These are the the people who were inclined to uh cut the head off of John the Baptist. They weren't nice people. They went straight away to took counsel with the Herodians against him, that's against Christ, how they might destroy him or how they might kill him And so we find here in this first verse, they entered the synagogue and there was a man there which had a withered hand. Does anyone here know somebody with a withered hand? I knew somebody physically with a hand, Mike did, uh or does, uh Vince. Uh we'll probably see me more and more of that as men come back from Afghanistan. and Iraq, people with a withered hand. But actually all of you here know somebody with it with a withered hand. Because there are people out there who cannot Clasp both hands together and pray. They don't realize they've got withered hands, but they just cannot pray. It's just not in their heart. to pray. They've never clasped their hands together in prayer. They don't want to. They've got two with their hand, actually. And with that they've also got a withered soul. And with that they've also got a withered heart, a dried-up heart, uh a dried up soul. horrible condition although they seem to have two hands that work very well, but they don't work well enough because they never, never Pray to the God of the heavens and the earth. Christ speaks to this man, and he speaks to our heart as well. And uh people often want to listen to what Christ has to say. Uh but they usually they just want to listen and hope that by listening they can avoid hell That's the big thing for them. They want to avoid hell. And they want to avoid hell at any cost. But they don't want to change a whole lot of their life. They're willing to admit that they're sinners, they're willing to admit that they are bad people, that they do things wrong, but they don't want to give up their sins. They don't want to give up those pleasures they have with those sins. They just want to be able to say, I believe in Jesus, and I've confessed my sins. and I know that uh he will keep me out of hell and take me to heaven. But real salvation, real praying, clashing the hands together, if they're not accompanied by a withered soul and a withered heart, real hands will pray to God. Take the pleasure of sin from my heart. And that's something that many don't want to pray. Job would instruct us and declares, God maketh my heart soft. Have someone here sitting here this morning, has someone here a heart Hard heart, a stony heart, a heart like rock that just cannot be penetrated by those who speak to them about being a gentler soul, uh having more compassion for others to read the Bible and to pray. Such a hard heart. Job says in 2316, God makes your heart soft. If God does not make your heart soft, It will remain hard for all eternity. And if God does make your heart soft, if you pray this prayer, God maketh my heart soft, as Job had obviously done many, many times. And for the soft hearts for his own children. If we do not pray that, it will stay hard. And if we do pray that, we will know, and everyone else will know, that our withered heart, our hard heart Our stony heart has become a soft heart. Don't know that because observing us that we are a people who now stand in awe of the Word of God. And I know that many of you have experienced that. You'll hear a verse quoted that you've read the Bible maybe several times through, or a certain book several times through, and someone will quote a verse in that Bible and you'll go, Oh I don't remember that verse. Oh, where did you say that is? We stand in awe of God's word. It means something to us. It's changed our life. And so Christ comes in into the synagogue where the man with a withered hand is in verse two, and it says that they watched him. Now probably that they in some respects are his family who knew Christ had been healing and they watched him to see if they might heal their father, their uncle, their brother, whatever the relationship was to this man But for the most part, they did watch him, it says here, they watched him whether he would heal him on the Sabbath day. Whoa The Sabbath day, the day in which they're not supposed to do any work. And they watched him and he might see if he had healed on the Sabbath day that they might accuse him And by the way, the breaking of the Sabbath day in those days, the punishment was death. If you can accuse somebody of breaking the Sabbath day And the Pharisees and the scribes had all these additional laws that they'd added. You couldn't walk more than two miles on the Sabbath day, you couldn't start a fire on the On the Sabbath day. It was considered work. And they were going to consider his healing a work and they would accuse him Uh governments make laws sometimes that can get a Christian in trouble. Remember when Daniel, when the law was passed, that you would not pray to any other God And Daniel, we read about that in Daniel chapter six, verses nine to eleven. No one for thirty days was to pray to any other God. And Daniel was renowned for going and sitting before his window, with a window open for a fresh breeze, and probably facing Jerusalem. That's what they did when they were in Babylonian captivity Face Jerusalem, he'd look out that window and he'd pray on his knees out that window. Renowned for that. And the law was passed for 30 days, nobody prays. And then they watched Daniel to see what he would do We're being watched today too. You know, there are people who have not only been watched but have been arrested and charged and fined. They lost their business or homes because they watched them to see whether they would bake a cake for the wedding of a pair of sodomites. They watched them to see someone would come in and would print the bulletins for that wedding or a banner. uh just you know over the the front of the building where the wedding was to take place and those who would not print the banners have lost their businesses They've they've contacted families and and they've uh who own businesses and they said, Will you photograph this wedding of the sodomites? And they said no Now that might seem a little harsh that someone wouldn't just take a picture of two guys or two ladies standing or cutting a cake. My brother was a sodomite And my brother got married to a sodomite. And he sent me his wedding pictures. They were pornographic. His bridesmaids were men with goatees for long blonde hairs dressed up like the Dallas cheerleaders. And that's all I'll tell you about the pictures But I can understand why a Christian photographer would not want to do the photography work of a gay marriage. I'm always wondering why they don't ask the Muslim photographers or the Muslim bakeries if they would. They probably want to keep their heads. But so we have it here. They watched him to see if he would break a rule. We're being watched too to see what rules we might break, aren't we? They watched to see if he might break the Sabbath. These Pharisees, I want to point out to immediately that they lacked compassion for the man with the withered hand. They lacked compassion for this man. It was in their heart, at the very least, to say he has suffered with the withered hand, which is which was Withered and dried up and may have been very painful as well. He was suffering with this, and on the Sabbath day the healer, the great physician, was there who could take away all the suffering, restore all the health this man, he could go back to providing for his family. The pain would be gone And the Pharisees, so full of compassion, they pray on the corners, they pray long prayers, but the Pharisees say it in their hearts and openly, let him suffer one more day. And actually, as you read through the story and you study the Pharisees, they didn't want that withered hand to suffer for one more day. They wanted that withered hand to stay withered forever if it meant being restored by the Lord Jesus Christ. Christ. They would not have been happy if it had been on a Monday or Tuesday or third. If Christ restores the hand, they are not happy. So it's not just on the Sabbath. It's not just uh you must you must have that with an arm and hand for one more day, and then he can restore you. They didn't want him ever restored if it was at the hands of Christ. They envied so much and hated so much how Christ was eclipsing their ministries and placing them in the shadows, leaving them in the dark as it were, for they were in the dark. Let him suffer another day. These Pharisees have not a tender heart towards this man or towards his family. And I would ask this morning, do you have a tender heart? Towards your wife, your husband, your children? Do you have a tender heart towards others? How do you speak to one another What do you do for one another? Do you have a tender heart? Or are you a little bit like a Pharisee? Let him suffer. You have a heart that's not tender towards your spouse or your children or to others, it won't be long before you'll be found sneering not just at your children or your spouse, but sneering at your your scriptural duties. It won't be long before you'll find yourself berating the brethren who go to church all the time It won't be long before you, if you haven't got a tender heart, you'll be criticizing Christ's saving work as if it's the only way to be saved And as if he's the only one who brings salvation. You'll find people sneering at that, and soon they will be sneering in hell. Because they never had a tender heart. A tender heart. The physician here looked around about him He says here he watched whether he would heal them on the Sabbath if they might accuse him. And he spoke to them. And the accusers watched what he would do. And he saith unto them, these who are about to be his accusers, in verse 3, he saith unto them, And and to the man which hath the withered hand, stand up, rise up, stand forth. Let all clearly see just how disfigured that arm is. You're sitting over there in a corner or you're in one of the back rows and and some of the people know you and they've seen you before, but Stand up and come forth so that everyone can see what this arm looks like. And when I restore it, so they can see it restored before their very eyes. There's no tricks There's no deception. You'll see it for yourself what I'm about to do. He brought him forth as we brought the two young men forward today for the baptism He brought the man forth that everyone can see beyond a shadow of a doubt this man's hand was really withered, and beyond a shadow of a doubt that there was nothing, no trickery here involved And as he stood there with that withered hand, a hand so gnarled and dried up It should have moved even a Pharisee. But it didn't We all see things sometimes that we're moved by. It might be a some scene on television, the news at night, some somebody being burned to death by the Muslims. over in Somalia or someone crucified. I mean they're they're doing horrible things to Christians over there right now, the Muslims are. And it it tears your heart out. You don't know the person's name. You don't even know whether they were a true Christian or not, but they were Christian enough that they got crucified or or burned alive. And and it it it ought to move your hearts to be praying for those people And it's coming to a town near you soon. You look at the streets last week again, where the vehicle ran to the streets over the tops of bodies? That's becoming an everyday habit, isn't it? What did we what did we used to do for a drunk driver if he hit one person? And they're they they mowed down eighty and ninety people now. And you watch the news commentators calm, cool, collect, not a tear in their eye, just coldly reporting the news, they have no tenderness. their heart. They ought to be weeping over what's going on and a stop ought to be done that very day. You ever notice how after the fact they know the guys' names, they know where they live, they raid the houses, they collect the mothers, the fathers, they know these people They raided a couple homes and they they raided one with a bomb factory in it that blew up. They raided another one where the bombs didn't blow up. They know all the stuff is going on, but until they do something, that's not a tender heart Their hearts so hard that they can stand before the parted sea and then give that order to charge through and to kill the Jews. Boy, that's not a tender heart. That's a hard heart. There are hard hearts that can stand outside the tomb of Lazarus and see him come forth, resurrected after four days of even stinking And their next plot is how to kill Lazarus in Christ. That's a hard heart. There are those out there that now they can run to the parted Red Sea and and plots to kill Lazarus and Christ outside the grave, but there are those out there that that when Christ comes back as we read in Revelation, when he comes back on the cloud before the world, that that makes no good impression upon them They just want the rocks and the mountains to fall on him, to get away from him. There are some people that are not impressed by anything Christ has done or is doing or will do. That's a hard heart It has a hard heart that will not read what Christ has done. It's a hard heart that does not want to know what Christ is going to do. It's a hard heart that does not want to know where they're going. In eternity and why. It's a hard heart that won't sing hallelujah to Christ and shout, Amen. It's a withered heart. And they have withered hands. Their hands are so withered They can't open a Bible. Their hands are so withered they can't turn a page. Their hands are so withered they can't place their finger on John 3. 16 and read it. Withered hands, withered hearts. Christ will not make a good impression on them even when he returns Nor did Christ's words make much of an impression on these people here. He saith in verse 4 unto them, Is it lawful to do good on the Sabbath day or to do evil? Think about that for a second. You young people, I want the young people to answer this one. Is it okay to do good on the Sabbath? Yeah. Is it okay to do evil on the Sabbath? No. It's not okay to do evil on any day And it's okay to do good on any day. Children know the answer to that question. But the Pharisees said nothing. Oh, there's lots of questions these children can ask. Children? I have a rock in my hand. If I said it here, how long will it take before this becomes a piranha able to swim in the waters somewhere? Is that ever going to happen? Okay, now how about will it ever become a peacock? Maybe it'll become a peacock someday, right? It's going to evolve into a peacock, right? Well at least it's going to evolve into a person, right? No. Children know these answers that the professors at Towson University don't know the answers to. And the Pharisees don't know the answer. The questions are so simple that a child can answer these questions This rock will never become a person or an ape or a monkey or an alligator or a flower or a peacock or a perch or a parade. It never will But we've got people with Ph degrees that say, oh yes, it will. And we've got other people out there, if you ask them this question, you know what they'll say? Well, I don't want to get into politics and religion. So they don't say nothing But they know the answer. And these Pharisees, they knew the answer too. And these a child could have answered the question, the Pharisees would not Oh, I've got another one for your children. Can everything come out of nothing? I mean does nothing ever produce anything? No. If nothing never produces anything, does nothing actually produce everything? No Only God can make everything. A child knows the answer to these questions. But you go to college and some of these colleges and you get this four-year degree, and the toughest thing you ever discover is why is there air? And it's not just a blow-up volleyball is like I mean you spend four years in a college and you come out and you don't know if this rock can become Something living? And so like the Pharisees, some of us take that position. We shouldn't talk about religion and politics. Let's just not get involved. Let's just not even talk about that. Things that a child can answer before they go to college. In the story of Matthew 12, which We get a little extra here when Christ was talking to these men and and they're not answering the questions. Will you not lift it out? And we know that yeah they would. If if they're out there uh and they're out there you know watching their sheep, as shepherds would do, and if if there was a large pit that it opened up and the and a sheep falls in it, the shepherd immediately he drops down. carries the uh the the lamb out, make sure his legs aren't broken. Uh if he leaves them there, you know, a wolf will come in at night when the 'cause the herd the the the the sheep they'll move on, the flock will move on and he leave the little one in the hole. Oh the wolf will find them for sure or a fox You don't do that. No, they they even it's on the Sabbath day, they'll jump down and they'll pick the sheep out of the pit. And Christ said, Will you pick a sheep out of the pit? He that's in Matthew twelve. It's the same story with some additional things like learning that it was the right hand. And then he says, is a man better than a sheep? Oh, is a man better than a rock? Is a man better than a sheep? Is that a tough question? Young people, is a man better than a sheep? Before God's eyes, what's more valuable? I mean it takes four or five sparrows. He says we're more we're more valuable than four or five sparrows. Do you think a man's more valuable than a sheep? Do you think the Pharisees knew the answer to that one? Is man more valuable than a sheep? If you'll pull a sheep out of the pit, surely you would help a man on the Sabbath. And what did they say? They said nothing And so he says again in Matthew, is it lawful on the Sabbath to save a life? Wow. Think about that. If you're a doctor, you have a chance to save someone's life. Someone just comes in the hospital, this guy's dying. You say the doctor, this guy's dying. You've got to do a tracheotomy on his throat. He's suffocating. And the doctor says Boy, it's Sabbath until sundown. I can't touch 'em for another twenty-five minutes. No. It's okay to save a life on the Sabbath, isn't it? And Christ says it's okay to save a life on the Sabbath, and they just keep quiet. And then he concludes with, is it okay to kill or plot the murder of someone on the Sabbath? And that's what they were doing. They were watching him to accuse him, and they went out and got together Herodians and they wanted to destroy him. It's not okay to heal him on the Sabbath, but it's okay for us to plot to kill you. No wonder they didn't answer the questions These weren't hard questions. They're not hard questions, are they? The children here already asked all of these But they were plotting to destroy Christ. So they held their peace, it says. They held their peace. They said nothing. They acted neutral. Didn't want to get involved with politics and religion. They didn't want to talk about it. They'll hold their peace about everything. You know people like that. Don't talk about politics. Don't talk about religion. Well usually the politics is religion. That's why they don't want to talk about it Don't y you start talking about how in the days of the Pharaoh they were they were killing the the babies as soon as they were born, you know, infanticide, uh and sometimes people you know or aborting the babies in the in the ninth month, you know, of of gestation. Well you're getting an apotic. No, I'm talking about the Bible. The Bible says y when when Christ was born, what what did Herod do sign up the decree? You know, to kill all his children Two years and under that meant the wombs the babies that were in the wombs two years and under? That's not politics, that's historical uh facts, and it's it's it's it's dealing with religion And they call it politics. Well, okay. We have talked about politics or religion sometimes. And here they are. They're they're just uh so hateful towards the truth that they just say nothing And we have people that we know all the time they just hold their peace about everything. They don't want to create any discomfort in the family gathering. They don't want to create any discomfort if that's some kind of a a rally or or if that's some sort of a party. They don't want to create any discomfort, so they have no opinion about anything And especially they have no opinion and don't want to talk about anything that deals with the Bible and the Lord Jesus Christ. They're neutral They have no opinion. Well, they got an opinion alright. You know what their opinion is? If I say something, oh boy, I'm gonna start something here. They got an opinion. I don't want to start nothing here I'm going to have no opinion. They have an opinion, but they won't express it. Revelation 3. 16. Easy to remember, John 3. 16, Revelation 3. 16. People of no opinion are lukewarm, and God says he'll spew them out of his mouth. Wow. There's no mansion for you in heaven. There's no reunion for you in heaven if you remain silent. You're lukewarm. He'll just spew you out of his mouth. And so don't hold your peace if you profess to be a Christian. The Lord will open doors and opportunities for say something. Don't hold your peace Christ in verse 5, he has the man standing in front of him. Everybody's had a long time to gaze at the withered hand. Some have seen it for months or maybe years. They recognize it. And the man is just standing there and because he's up front, you know, you're not supposed to stare at people who are handicapped, right? But Christ brings him up and he says, Stand forth, let him see. So the people stare and go, oh my goodness, I never really got that good a glance at it before. That's really pretty sad And it says that Christ looked round about because the crowd had gathered around and gotten closer in, and Christ was surrounded. by many who were going to be his accusers. They surrounded him. And he, it says, looked round about upon them. With anger. So, envision, you're in the middle of the crowd. The crowd's all around you. And here's Christ, and he's about to heal this man. And he looks around Eye contact with every face and family, especially the accusers. Because he knew what he's about to do was going to really irritate And he looked right in their faces. He knew the hearts. He can read your hearts I can't. But he could. And he looked round about him as he will at his second coming, at all those who are here And he'll know what's in their hearts. And he will look upon some with anger, won't he? And some with joy and pleasure. This is the holy anger that Christ displays here. The Bible tells us, be angry and sin not. Let not the sun go down upon your wrath. Ephesians 4:26. We can be angry about things. You know, if someone breaks into the house and and and shoots your son, you can be angry about that. I mean if you're not angry about it, don't call the cops. If you're not angry about it, don't take them to court Of course, we can be angry about things and sin not. We are to be angry about sin. We're to be angry about the violations of God's word. David calls it a righteous indignation. Christ isn't sinning by being angry. These men are plotting his death. And these men are plotting that this man's withered hand stay withered. Because they don't want Christ to heal it ever. And there's nobody else that's going to heal it. So let him stay handicapped for the rest of his life. Christ that says here was grieved for the hardness of their hearts, and he saith unto the man with a withered hand, Stretch forth thy hand. And he stretched it out, and his hand was restored whole as the other. This man with a withered hand, in obedience to Christ, How can he do something in obedience to Christ unless he is saved? This man no longer has a withered heart when Christ said stand up, rise up, and he did. When he says, come forth, and he did. Let him see your withered hand and he did. This man is obedience to Christ He's not only restored his withered hand, but his withered heart. It's a double miracle here. And when he when the hand is restored, imagine this withered, shriveled hand every ten minutes Every ligament, every muscle, every vein, every artery is swollen to proportion of the other hand. In the very view of these people, like like Taking a balloon and blowing it up. They saw that hell that hand gorged with blood all of a sudden and take on color and and ligaments and they saw the man lift it and be able to touch the thumb to the index finger. and to make a fist and to move all the fingers and to finally clasp his hands and pray. He saw all of that. And he didn't have to go to rehab, you know, to get its strength and like you know you have surgery, you break your hand or your arm and you put it in a cast, and six weeks later then they send you to rehab so you can get the strength back. You gotta Squeeze the ball and pull the rubber band. You've got to go all through that. And then they have other things you got to do, you know, do it with your fingers touching buttons, and you gotta get the dexterity back. But when Christ heals, it's perfect There's no having to regain the strength of that hand. There's no dexterity. There's no rehab. This is what's so wonderful with Christ. He doesn't just restore things. Brand new, you know, off the assembly line. But when Christ restores it, it doesn't need any tweaking at all. Car comes off the assembly line Maybe it doesn't start the first time, they gotta check some wires or magnetos or whatever. But when he restores a hand, no rehab, no dexterity problems A man could have done surgery the next hour with that hand if he was a surgeon. Christ, if you notice In this double miracle of the heart, the withered heart and the withered hand. If you notice here that Christ doesn't touch the man, the man comes up. You never read that Christ touch the hand. You never read that Christ uh bent down the dirt and spit in the dirt and made some sort of an ointment and rubbed it on the hand and started rubbing it and massaging it until the blood started to flow. He didn't touch him. There was no ointment involved, there was no massage involved In fact, he doesn't even say, be thou healed. Not a syllable says, be thou healed. He just says, Stretch forth your hand. You have to wonder what work Christ did here. I mean, you know, in observation, if you're recording it, if you've got it on film, if you've got an audio of it How do you convict a guy? He didn't say be thou healed on the video. He just says stretch forth your hand. Now if he had touched him, if he massaged him, if he said, I now heal thee and made a pronouncement, I think it's gonna be a hard case to even prove he did anything But we all know he did. They accused him This man who now has a new hand and a new heart. And they all recognize where it came from, from the great physician. Oh, it irritated me. them. God's given us a lot of gifts in life, hasn't he? Now you can say this God hasn't given me any gifts in life, oh yes he has He says he reigns in the just and the unjust. So if you're not saved and you're unjust and you're and you're going to hell, he has given you things. He's given you health, he's giving you prosperity, he's giving you intelligence, he's given you good looks. God has given you a lot of things. But if he hasn't given you a new heart. You you are short something that you may not desire, but you need very much. You need a new heart. I'm not talking about the heart where they can open up your chest and give you a heart transplant. Do you know when you get a heart transplant that's not a new heart? That's some forty-year-old person's heart that doesn't need it anymore. You know? I mean the doctors don't give you a new heart. And when you get the new heart, boy, there's lots of rehab involved. And when you get the new heart, it doesn't give you, it's not a tender heart. It's not a compassionate heart. It's just a beating heart. What you need is a new heart, a compassionate heart, a tender heart, a heart that that loves the Word of God, loves the Lord Jesus Christ, can't wait For the next free time he's got to read his word. His word is our milk and uh is our drink and our meat and life. That's a new heart. Has God given you a new heart? If God has given you a new heart, you never sought it. This man wasn't going to synagogue that day to get healed. He was just there like he always was. You got a new heart you didn't it wasn't sought. You couldn't you couldn't buy it. It couldn't be bought or sought. It's a gracious God that gives us who once had a withered heart, a soft, tender, compassionate heart of flesh And so here the Pharisees, they're so irritated, they didn't realize how fast the time was going. But the Pharisees, they went forth, it says in verse 6. In fact the Lucas said they went forth filled with madness and straightway they took counsel with Herodians against him how they might destroy him The charge, breaking the Sabbath. He broke the Sabbath. This fact, everybody remember it. Christ said, Is it okay to do this I mean there's no precedence. You go back to the Old Testament. There's no precedence. Anybody ever healed anybody in the Sabbath? So I want to know what's the precedence. No precedence. Was it okay if I do it? No one says anything So he does it, and then they accuse him, and they want him put to death, they want to destroy him. How fair is that? None had ever healed in the Sabbath, so nobody knew it was a crime. Is it a crime? They won't answer him. This is new territory. If it's wrong, somebody let me know. But none of the Pharisees would let him know I know what we'll do. Let's be fair. Let's go over and ask the man with the withered hand. You know, the guy standing out touching all the fingers and he said, excuse me, sir. The Pharisees had no comment a few minutes ago. We'd like to ask you, is it okay that Christ healed you on the Sabbath? Well, yeah, you know. I mean, what did the kids say a few minutes ago? Of course it's okay to do good on the Sabbath. Okay, we should be all right here. But we're not going to be alright here. They hate the Lord Jesus Christ. They're looking for something to accuse him of, some crime They are not happy for the man that's been healed. You would have thought they'd ran up and shook his hand. Let me be the first man to shake your hand and congratulate. This is wonderful. This is great. They are not happy. Because they are without natural affection. They are unmerciful, Romans 131 tells us. It isn't breaking the Sabbath that has angered the Pharisees. It's if Christ has exposed their sickness, their disease, their sinfulness. Have you ever known someone that just seemed to turn over new leaves sometime? Have you ever known some of the reaches behaving themselves like they've gotten maturity? They're not going out and getting drunk, they're not doing drugs anymore, they're not speeding up and down the highway all the time uh you know road raises. You ever known something that the they returned over New Leaf to start behaving themselves? They start living a clean and sober life and and showing uh compassion to their children and their wife and their and their friends. You ever known someone like that? And the world is just really happy to see the change in that person, aren't they They're really happy to oh this guy used to be a real rebel rouser and then the neighborhood and then boy nobody wanted him dating their their daughter or their son. I mean they were terrible persons. We're really happy to see the change in his life And you say, isn't it one of my oh it's great. I mean it's really nice to see that some people grow up, you know? And you say, and you know what, you know what, how this all transpired? No, how did it all transpire? He met Jesus Christ, the great physician. They're all people like to see you turn over a new elite, they like to see you grow up, they like to see you get mature, they like to see you know living a respectable life again and and and an asset of the community, but not if it is Christ-centered. If it's Christ-centers changed your life. They are so offended they don't want to hear that. Don't give Christ the credit and they'll be happy with the change. But you give Christ the credit and they're unhappy. They don't want to hear that that person is the they get closer and they find out that the reason he's turned over a new leaf, the reason that he he's become a respectable citizen, the the reason that he's become an an addition to society is because he's following Jesus He's courting Christ. He's looking up to Christ. He's living for Christ. The great physician exposes the decadence, the depravity, and the darkness of the spiritual diseases called sin, and they don't like that part The demonic world hates the only cure for sin. The demonic world hates The only cure for our recklessness and our deviousness and our sinfulness, they hate that. Christ, they hate Christ. And they hate all those who promote the good news that the only cure is Christ And the gospel of Christ. And they hate the fact that when Christ does change us, we begin displaying what He has done in our life What he has done in the life of those who previously had withered hands and withered hearts, and they hate the great physician. Who changed it all. They don't mind you changing, but oh please don't tell me he's a Christian You got a withered heart this morning? A withered hand? It's not a big book. It could change it all. You read it. Let's pray. Father, we thank you this day that you are a God that takes pity On just a hand that's not right. Oh Lord, we're so grateful you take pity on a heart that is so wrong. And you don't have to touch us. You don't have to massage our heart. You don't have to massage our hand. You can do it from your throne in heaven while you are seated and looking around and oh God, look around today. If you see a withered heart in this congregation, be merciful. Oh Lord, give that stony hard heart a heart Heart transplants, a new heart. And we ask this in Christ's name. Amen. To close the service today, I ask if