Our gracious God and Heavenly Father, it is always such a blessing and privilege to gather with your people. Father, we rejoice that you have given to each of us present the health and strength to be here this morning. Father, that is a gift from you. It is an answer to prayer. to see some of our dear ones walk through the doors that we have not been able to see in person for the last uh several weeks. And we rejoice in that. Father, indeed, every good and every perfect gift cometh down from above. And indeed, at this season we celebrate God's wonderful gift. That God gave his only begotten Son for the redemption of your own people. Father, this morning, we pray that the season would not interfere with our worship of thee. That the time of year and the hecticness of the Christmas time would not infringe upon our fellowship with thee Father, today, may all that is said and done redound to the glory of God. May we indeed return unto thee the worship and the praise the glory that is due unto thy name. Father, we pray that this afternoon's fellowship would be a blessing. Lord, that we may not perform to any audience but to the heavenly. For Father, when we sing, we sing unto the Lord. When we praise, we praise unto the Lord. And so, Father, may that heart be deeply impressed upon thy people. Bless us this day, we pray, through the preaching of thy word. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Reading our call to worship from Isaiah chapter 9, very familiar verses, for unto us a child is born Unto us a son is given, and the government shall be upon his shoulders, and his name shall be called wonderful Counselor, the mighty God, the everlasting Father, the Prince of Peace. Of the increase of his government and peace, there shall be no end upon the throne of David and upon his kingdom to order it and to establish it with judgment And with justice, from henceforth, even forevermore, the zeal of the Lord of hosts will perform this. Amen. Amen. Good morning, everyone. We'll turn to our opening songbook, We Three Kings, number 221. We Three Kings, Orient R. Delightful tune. I think fondly of the time when a number of men were able to sing this at a church not too long ago. uh together as a uh as a Christmas edition. I learned much about how to arrange the music to uh paint it. Uh Uh and this is a marvelous song for that. We three kings of Orion R number two twenty-one all five stanzas. We bring the glory and far every year. We traverse the war, healing thousand more and mountain, following under store. Where's my leading still proceeding by us to like perfect mind or king? What half what way? All I bring to crowd him again, we need forever ceasing ever for us. Star of wonder star of night star with glory of beauty Praise this sense to offer I send so dead in prayer and praise it only praise. Anything worshipping God will die wonder. Scorn with joy of duty right when we're leaving still constantly Still my perfect time is mine is finger perfume Peace of Light of Gallery Star wonder, star of night, star with joy, you'll be bright. Brothers, but we'll bring me I could make you insurance resurrection. Vain oly, anentoria ja öytin päättäkään. Oh no, Under the star of night star with joy opening bright whereas my meetings still cross Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Please be seated. Now I'm going to comment on that song because it turns out yours truly is up here next. Anton was unable to make it today. But Uh if you send me an email I'll remind as a reminder, I'll try to remember to send a link. There was an interesting uh episode from the Associates for Biblical Research. There is uh some archaeological evidence concerning the identification of who these three kings might have been, or at least the magi. And it absolutely does a very fine job of refuting some other commonly held ideas uh that uh discuss that. It's about a twenty two minute episode. Very, very fascinating, very sober minded individuals. I I appreciate them uh greatly. Uh but if you're interested, uh somebody send me an email to remind me and I'll send it out because I find it to be very, very Very helpful. Well at this time, please turn to the back of your bulletin for the confessional reading today. The back of your bulletin contains our confessional reading. Again, coming from the Belgic Confession and the 32nd article of the first part, the Order and Discipline of the Church. Christian, and what do you believe? In the meantime, we believe, though it is useful and beneficial, that those who are rulers of the Church institute and establish certain ordinances among themselves. for maintaining the body of the Church. Yet they are studiously to take care that they do not depart from those things which Christ, our only Master, hath instituted. And therefore we reject all human inventions and all laws which man would introduce into the worship of God Thereby combine and compatible conscience in any manner whatsoever. This is a uh An interesting confessional point because it strikes, I believe, a very good balance on what is otherwise a tightrope. Maybe you've heard of some churches that have the mantra, no creed but Christ In other words, we're we're not confessional. Uh you write down a confession and uh it just it it replaces the Bible. I used to have somewhat of a sympathetic view to that. And the reason I did is because when it came to difficult church topics or maybe some heresies that were beginning to come into the church. What came out first? Well it wasn't the Bible, it was thus say it the confession. And that turned me off to it really. Shouldn't the argument first be What saith the scriptures? Shouldn't that be the first line of defense? And then if you wish to buttress it with perhaps some confessional statements of old, shouldn't that come in But this is not intended to replace uh the Bible. Uh the thought process here is that um It is okay for the church to decompose some applications of scriptures into your present situation. This is a difficulty that I think Christians have keeping a good balance on. On the one hand, we do not refer to our confessions as a primary set of teaching. The scriptures are primary Any confessions that we might hold out as good examples of our understanding of scriptures would be called secondary or substandards meaning they're useful to look at. We're not the first human beings who've encountered the Bible. Others have, and they've written about it, and they've actually written some pretty good words and they can capture the phrase in a nice way. But there are other things, I believe, that are being spoken of in this confessional statement beyond a confessional reading. This idea of decomposition, I think, can come to us from two places in Scripture. So let me give you some scriptural support for this. In Nehemiah we read that they read in the book of the log distinctly and gave the sense and caused them to understand the reading. There are people that are gifted by God to be able to explain what you're reading, because scriptures can be complex. Even Peter says Paul writing in them some things hard to be understood The Apostle Paul in fact himself indicates, he says in 1 Corinthians 15, 1. Moreover, brethren, I declare unto you the gospel which I preached. And here's the phrase, which also ye received wherein ye stand. And then a sentence later he says this, I delivered unto you first of all that which I also received And then he goes on to give a confessional statement, how Christ died for our sins according to the scriptures. And he keeps talking about the various points. of a confession, as it were, that he received, and it was a biblically supported one. So, you know, the problem I think I have is that some churches don't write anything down if they say no creed but Christ. They write nothing down How are you to evaluate what these people believe? You have to sit in there for a long time, many years, develop relationships, establish those connections, only to find out that they don't believe certain things the way you do. They're unbiblical And now you've invested all this time, where's the transparency in that? Where's the honesty? Where's the openness? I mean, if people aren't even going to buy a stupid automobile, which has nothing to do with eternal life, without reading all the specifications Great day they get into bore length and how big the cylinder is and all that. Seriously? I mean Car Salesman over here says, yes, that's important. But I mean how much more for the church of God that we ought to document what we believe. Isn't that a benefit? Um you know, uh can you map what you do back to the Bible? Why are you doing certain things? Is what are your practices scripturally? You know, uh now I'm not trying to, you know, plant our flag too much for the moment, but you know, we do document quite a lot of what we believe and why we practice what we do on our church's website. For instance, we have a music policy which says why we sing the songs we do, and our guidelines for selecting, say, a new hymn book, or if there's a new song that comes along, how we would evaluate that. We have a process for that. That's and it's biblical. It's got biblical citations. We actually have a privacy policy. What do we do with your information? You know, uh prayer requests. Well, they don't go out over the internet. Why? Because it's biblical to keep that uh in close hold to maintain privacy, uh, as people would like that. We have a health policy. I'm sick. Should I come to church or not? We published that. We actually put it together as a result of COVID, but it gave us a rule, a a biblically based Love your neighbor as yourself, kind of rule that applied to that particular situation. Because people want to know how do I apply this. We have articles of association that write down how we are assembled and managed. You know, you're donating your money. Okay, well, who's signing for that check? Who's writing the checks? Who are these people? Do you have it written down? Does the government recognize it? Well yeah, we have it in writings to an Article Association. We have those for compliance as obey the government. Well, the government would like to know how we're organized because Contrary to what you may think, they're really not against churches. They're just against people pretending to be a church. There's the church of the the holy weed smokers, right? They're just pushing marijuana through claiming to be a fire. I'm not making this up. They're just claiming they're washing their money And they're claiming to be a church and that's all part of their ceremonies. Nonsense. Thank God the federal government cracks down on that stuff. So they crack down because they don't have a document. They don't have it writing what they're actually doing. So what we write it down, so we're in compliance with the law You know, if if in the future we should grow, I think there's some other important things we should write down. We should write down a gift acceptance policy, uh, you know, on uh what c tax implications if the church should receive large gifts or to the donor. What are the ramifications there? Uh children's nursery is a big deal right now. In fact that's a big point of insurance Do you have a written policy for how you have people in the nursery? They say you gotta have two people, you better have a camera, you better do background checks. Why? Because of the horrible things that occur to children in churches nursery Case in point, just down the street, a church had this notorious issue where a deacon was uh busted for uh inappropriate photographs of a minor. Uh and he was a photographer and it just busted up the church. It just it went down from a t a tendence of six hundred to one hundred. So do you think writing this stuff down is important? I mean I think it's exactly what the confession's getting at. So Yeah, it is good and useful to write down things. And it also has a hedge, not to compel your conscience, right? We're not trying to to to to put you know we're not trying to make a Jim Jones deal out of this where you've got to drink the Kool-Aid. That's not what we're after here. We're we're trying to maintain the peace and purity of the church by this. So the confession makes an allowance for that and I think it's a wise a wise thing to consider All right, that's the consideration for today. Thank you, really events. Yes, everything everything that any Church, religious organization, preacher, does, must be measured by Scripture. There's no new scripture. It's it's what it is. Uh it cannot be added to and there's a curse for trying. Um and so you know it it's just It it's an unamendable constitution of of the church. And so everything we do is measured by that standard. In fact, the the term we use canon Oh canon is a measuring stick. And the the scriptures were were measured and found to be accurate. Thank you, brother. Well, I I as I mentioned earlier, I see some answers to prayer in front of us. And we're glad to have some folks with us uh both in this room and I saw some coming in that are over in the over in the more comfortable seating in the first class section in in the uh the in the other room. Um but welcome to all Um and uh we don't often say this, but thank you to the Clue family for their hospitality and and making such a comfortable uh home. Any of you that have ever hosted um understand. That it is a blessing and a privilege, but it also is a lot of wear and tear and a lot of work just to be ready week after week when we were missionaries we hosted constantly. And it it is a lot of a lot of work that goes involved. So it is very much appreciated. But uh anyway, I rejoice to see all of you here today. And pardon me if I say I rejoice to see some of you more than others because we see a few today That we've been praying for many weeks that the Lord would give them the strength to be here today. And it is a indeed an answer to prayer. Uh but I rejoice to see you all. Let us pray. Gracious Father, great King of heaven, God of the universe, sovereign of all things, we come before you this morning with worship and praise and thanksgiving. For Father, it is of your mercies that we are not consumed. They are new every morning. Great is thy faithfulness And Lord, though this morning we rejoice to see some who have been and continue to be enduring long illness that are able to be with us today. Yet, Father, we realize that it is no more a miracle that they are here today than it is a miracle that any one of us are here today. For we have been told in your word, boast not thyself of tomorrow, for thou knowest not what a day may bring forth. And Father, the only reason that any one of us is alive this morning is because you keep our soul in life. And Lord, we know that to live as Christ and to die is gain, and that to be absent from the body is to be present with the Lord. Yet, Father, we thank you this morning that we are present in the body, that you have spared our lives unto this day. And Father, we thank you for the privilege we have to gather around the precious, holy, inspired, and preserved Word of God. We thank you, Lord, that we're not coming to discuss philosophy. We're not coming to discuss some man's idea. We thank you that your word is authoritative and reliable. It is the final arbiter for all questions. It is the final rule of faith and practice. And so, Father, we pray today that as we open thy word together, that thy Holy Spirit may indeed be our teacher and our guide to show us wondrous things out of thy law. Father, we do rejoice for those that are able to be with us this morning, that in your providence, Lord willing, we'll be able to remain this afternoon as we enjoy a Christmas service together. And Father, we recognize that every time we meet together may well be the last time that we are all assembled in one place. And yet, Father, we thank you in our recognition that this life is not the measure of your mercies. This life is only an extension of your mercies. And Father, we, as we prayed many times before, we rejoice in the reason we're together. For Lord, indeed, if it were not for the saving grace of Jesus Christ, It is unlikely that most of the people in this room would have ever met the other people in this room. But Lord, we know one another because we know the same Savior. We know one another because we're the servants of the same God. We love one another because you've made us your disciples, and our love for one another is the token and the demonstration of that discipleship. And Father, we we thank you, Lord, that that fellowship and that communion goes beyond even this very room. For Lord, you have brought together a body of believers that spans across the country. And we rejoice in that. It is of thy mercies, it is of thy hand. And Father, we often think of the words of the old hymn, which was so precious to my family and I when we were missionaries and Separated from family and friends over holidays and many times, though sundered far by faith we meet around one common mercy seat. And Jesus Christ is indeed that mercy seat. He is that place of fellowship, for he has told us that where two or three are gathered in his name, he's in the midst. And Lord, those sundered far by faith, we're gathered in the midst with Christ. And we rejoice in this. Father, we thank you as we approach the end of 2025. For the abundance of answered prayer that we've seen this year. Father, in things that are small and in things that are great. Lord, we thank you that you give us our daily bread and that you supply all of our need. And those two things, though similar, are different For our daily bread is the need today, but you provide our needs so far beyond that. And Lord, we just rejoice in who you are. We rejoice in how you are. Lord, indeed, you are a good and kind and gracious and loving God. Father, we rejoice in the children that you've given to this congregation. And we rejoice in the prospect of more children on the way. And Father, we pray for them each one. Lord, we pray for the children that are able to worship with us here and the children of our far-flung families as well. Oh Father, may you save them. May you save them, everyone. May there not be a rebel or a reprobate among them. Father, we pray for the loved ones of this congregation, the children's, the parents, the nephews and nieces, the brothers and sisters, O Lord, the the son-in-laws and daughter-in-laws that do not profess the name of Christ And Father, we pray that you would save them, O Lord. Father, we we find throughout Scripture and throughout our own experience how often you work within families. How often there will be one or two in a family that are brought to saving faith. And then another, and then another, and then another. And so, Father, we pray that as we approach a new year, you might allow us to see even more of our families, of our loved ones, brought into the fellowship of Jesus Christ. Father, we pray about the apostasy and the iniquity of this season. Father, we pray that the commercialism that has become so much a part of the season would be set aside that men might look unto Jesus Christ. That men might, as the the saying goes, keep Christ in Christmas. Lord, that our young people might Understand that it's not about some fictitious fictitious character, but it's about Jesus Christ. And Father, this afternoon, as we worship together, as we read thy word together, as some of the Christmas hymns are played and sung in our hearing, And as we sing them together, may our hearts and minds be turned to the babe of Bethlehem. And may we worship him in spirit and in truth. Father, we pray for the persecuted church. We often fail to pray for them in public, but we pray for our brethren abroad. That do not have the privilege to worship in the freedom that we enjoy. Father, we pray for this nation where uh Islam and so many false prophets are rising up that are uh denying Jesus Christ, we pray, Lord, that your power and might would set them aside, that they may not be a hindrance to the church Father, we pray for our poor nation, which so deserves thy wrath and judgment, and yet, Lord, has been at one time a nation that truly feared thee. We pray, Lord, that you would grant us a true revival. O Lord, you are good and you are kind. Father, if you had dealt with us in justice, we would all be in hell right now. And we would have no reply against your judgment. But O Father, you have dealt with us in mercy. He told Adam and Eve that in the day they sinned they would surely die. And because of the sin of Adam and Eve, death passed upon all men, for they all have sinned. Father, we thank you for the promise in the garden that the seed would bruise the serpent's head. And so that seed was born in a manger in Bethlehem Born to be a king, born to be our acceptable sacrifice. And so, O Father, we rejoice in Christ this day. In Jesus' name. Amen. Today our responsive reading will actually be a unison reading where we are going to turn to the book of Revelation, the third chapter. Revelation chapter 3. And together we will read verses 7 to 13. Alright? So it's a little different than what we've done before. Revelation chapter 3 and verses 7 through 13. If you have that located in your Bible and are able to, please rise for the reading and hearing of the Word of God. Revelation chapter 3, beginning in verse 7. Altogether. And to the angel of the church in Philadelphia. These things saith he that is holy, he that is true, he that hath the key of David, he that openeth and no man shut. And shutteth, and no man openeth. I know thy works. Behold, I have set before thee an open door, and no man can shut it For thou hast a little strength, and hast kept my word, and hast not denied my name. Behold, I will make them of the synagogue of Satan Which say that they are Jews and are not, but who lie. Behold, I will make them to come and worship before thy feet, and to know that I have loved thee Because thou hast kept the word of my also will keep thee from the hour of temptation which shall come upon all the world to try them that will dwell upon the earth Behold, I come quickly, old facts which thou hast, and no man take thy crown, him that will I make a pillar in the temple of my God And he shall go no more out, and I will write upon him the name of my God and the name of the city of my God, which is the Jerusalem, which cometh down out of heaven from my God. I will write upon him my new name. He that hath an ear, let him hear what the Spirit saith unto the churches. Thus ends the reading of God's holy word. Thank you. Turn now to your red psalm book. For our sermon Psalter, number 89B is the tune we will be singing today. The tune of Noel, lively tune. Number 89B In our red Psalter book, adaptation of eighty-ninth Psalm, verses six to fourteen, eighty-nine B We will sing all four stanzas followed by the Amen. With the Lord can be compared. In all the lofty sky, and who among the sons of might It is like the Lord host within the council of his saints Oh God to be renewed from all them surrounding him Most greatly to be Yeah, God opposed to his Like be the Lord of mine, surrounding me on every side. A faithfulness and ride for all the smelling of the sea Thou rulest thy will, and when it's searching will Christ Thou willest then be still, and thou hast rehab rules like one Be stressed with mooning blow, thou with the arm of thy great strength Has gathered all thy clothes, the heavens all belong to thee. The earth is all by home, the world with all an instant Hast thou said of the Lord, thou hast created north and south From the table and thou turn books Free to listen by great name, thou hast an arm of string thy hands. Is strong thy right hand I God right hand just distress thy front While grace and truth are not. Thank you, thank you. Please proceed. Open in your Bibles with me this morning, please, to the Old Testament book of Isaiah. and the 22nd chapter, Isaiah chapter 22. I always enjoyed the preaching of Dr. Ian Paisley. Uh and I re always whenever we come to Isaiah, I remember that he always pronounced it with the Irish Isaiah instead of Isaiah, uh great preacher of the past. It was a great blessing to my heart many times Isaiah, the 22nd chapter. And I'm going to read from verses 15 through verse 25, 15 through the end of the chapter. The reading of the scripture is the most important part of the sermon. Frother Vince mentioned earlier that God has enabled men to expound upon his word and to comment, and we remember with the uh eunuch of Ethiopia that he could not understand unless some guide him. But I have nothing inspired to say. Neither does any man have anything inspired to say, except for the reading of this book. And so may we give very close attention to the reading of God's Word. Isaiah chapter 22, beginning. with verse 15. And notice how this verse begins. Thus saith the Lord of hosts. Go, get thee unto this treasure, even to Shebna, which is over the house, and say What hast thou here? And whom hast thou here? That thou hast hewed thee out a sepulchre here as he that heweth him out a sepulchre on high, and that graveth and graveth a an habitation for himself in a rock Behold, the Lord shall carry thee away with a mighty captivity, and will surely cover thee. He will surely violently turn and toss thee like a ball into a large country. There shalt thou die, and there the chariot of thy glory shall be the shame of thy Lord's house. And I will drive thee from thy station, and from thy state shall be He pull thee down. And it shall come to pass in that day that I will call my servant Eliakim, the son of Hilkiah. And I will clothe him with thy robe, and strengthen him with thy girdle And I will commit thy government unto his hand, and he shall be a father unto the inhabitants of Jerusalem and to the house of Judah. And the key of the house of David will I lay upon his shoulder. So he shall open and none shall shut. And he shall shut, and none shall open. I will fasten him as a nail in a sure place and he shall be for a glorious throne to his father's house, and they shall hang upon him all the glory of his father's house. The offspring and the issue, all the vessels of small quantity, from the vessels of cups, even under the vessels of flagons. In that day, saith the Lord of hosts, shall the nail that is fastened in the sure place be removed? And be cut down and fall. And the burden that was upon it shall be cut off. For the Lord hath spoken it. Let us pray. Father, I thank you this morning. For thy word. I pray this morning for the exposition of thy word. I pray, Lord, as we pray so often, O Father. That you would protect this congregation from the heirs of man. That you would protect the congregation from the preacher. That this congregation may not be afflicted with words after man's wisdom. But, O Father, these people assembled are your sheep. These people assemble are your people, and so may they not fail to receive a message from thee. May they not fail to receive insight granted into thy word by the working of thy Holy Spirit. Father, grant utterance, I pray, to thy servant, that I might be able today to clearly Expound and explain a somewhat confusing and difficult passage. But O Father, may thy word go forth to the glory of thy Son. And to the edification of thy people. In Jesus' name. Amen. I'm sure most of us that have read the scripture through a multitude of times have actually read this chapter many times before. Have you ever contemplated it? A side note, we have new reading schedules for 2026. uh they're on the table. Um well they'll be on the table. I see my wife looking down at she still has them. Uh but we'll have reading schedules on the table Uh every other year we encourage the congregation to read the Bible from Genesis to Revelation in one year. And the reading schedule gives you a little monthly calendar to check off each day as you read through the Bible. So those will be available for you. But this is a chapter that is a marvelous Christmas chapter. That I'm sure many of us have read many times before, and yet I raise my hand with you. Yes, I've read it, but uh have I really ever read it Have I really all ever contemplated this chapter in understanding You will notice that 22nd verse, which is the key to the whole chapter, and there we read, and the key of the house of David will I lay upon his shoulder. So he shall open, and none shall set shut. And he shall shut, and none shall open. And you remember from our responsive reading where we read Christ speaking, and Christ declares to the Church of Philadelphia, I have the key of David, and none shall open. and none shall shut. What is the historical context? Well we find Shiva here in this passage Shibna, his name itself means youth or the tender youth. The alternate meaning of his name is gone into captivity or one who is carried. into captivity. Shebna was the steward of Hezekiah. He was sort of like a prime minister, sort of the position that David, sorry, that that Joseph had the Pharaoh in Egypt. There was the king, the Pharaoh, but then there was the one who really handled the day-to-day and and ran the store, so to speak. And that was the position that Shibna had in the kingdom. He was the king's steward We also find in scripture that he's called a scribe. He was the recorder for the kingdom. He wrote down the uh things that the king did and kings that the same said king said, not inspired scriptures, those records are gone. But he was the one who would have been writing down things We also find that he served sort of like a Secretary of State. He was a negotiator when the uh company was sent to negotiate with Rab Shachem when King Senecherib was uh was invading, when he was besieging Jerusalem. We find Shebna's name. He was one of the men that was involved in that. He's mentioned frequently. I don't have a word count, but we find him 15 or 20 times in the book of Isaiah. His name comes up. And so we find this man, Shebna. But also we find Eliakim. And Eliakim's name means God sets up, or whom God hath established. What I want to do this morning is go through this chapter, these the not the old chapter, but verses 15 through 25, and just take it apart. Uh th this week I took apart a carburetor and and cleaned all the parts and worked with it and I lost a part on the garage floor and ended up buying another carburetor because it wouldn't work without the tiny little piece that Uh not to get too far off subject, but I was sitting in a chair in the garage frustrated and the garage floor is wet because of snow and Penny comes in and I says, stop, don't walk There's a tiny spring here on the floor, and neither of us found it. So, but I'd like to take the passage apart. Line upon line and digest it. And see the glorious truth, the glorious foreshadowing of Messiah. The glorious allegory of redemption that is given to us in this chapter. Verse 15. Thus saith the Lord God of hosts. Wow! There's a sermon in itself. God said it. The Lord, God of hosts, said it. Thus saith the Lord, don't miss it. This isn't the word of somebody that's just come along recently. This isn't the word of somebody that had a great idea This isn't the word of some prophet lost in history. This is the word of the Lord God. Thus saith the Lord God. Get thee unto the treasurer, even to Shebna, which is over the house of the Lord, and say, What hast thou here? And whom hast thou hear that thou hast hewed thee out a sepulchre here as he that heweth him out a sepulchre on high, that graveth an habitation for himself in the rock. Shibna, you think you're pretty good. You think you've achieved something. Your name is mentioned multiple times in the inspired word. But Sheitna, what do you have here? Sheibnah, what have you truly accomplished? Shibna, we find, had made himself a glorious sepulcher. Interestingly, in 1870 Archaeologists found a stone sepulchre not far from Jerusalem with the inscription of Shebna Yahya. And they believe that it probably was the sepulchre of this Shivna archaeology confirming the words of Scripture. But this Shibna was a very important man and a very godless man. We find that he favored going to Egypt for help when Rabshakem and Senecherib were coming in. And of course, if you go just a few chapters over in chapter 31 of this same book of Isaiah, in 31 verse 1 Isaiah under inspiration says, Woe to them that go down to Egypt for help, and stay on horses, and trust in chariots because they are many, and in horsemen because they are very strong But they look not unto the Holy One of Israel, neither seek they the Lord. Shebnah was a man who thought he had accomplished something. He was a man who thought he was the measure of men, and he thought it was a man who thought he had more wisdom than the prophet of God. And so he wanted to go to Egypt for help. Shebna's great sin was pride. To ever walk through, I know our brother enjoys walking through cemeteries, and so do I. And you find some gravestones that are very humble and very God honoring. Then you find others that boy they just can't praise themselves enough. How you know, how great I am. Is the chorus of their life. Well that was Shibna. Shibna's great sin was the sin of pride. Look at verse 17. Behold, the Lord will carry thee away with a mighty captivity and will surely cover thee. And then I love verse 18. He will surely violently turn and toss thee like a ball into a large country. There thou shalt die. Do you ever see a ping-pong ball just bouncing around all over the place? Well, that's that's the way that God describes Sheepnah. You're gonna be going to the captivity, you're gonna bounce around like a ball in a football stadium There thou shalt die. And there the chariot of thy glory. Remember we just read from chapter 31. chariots of his Egypt. The chariot of thy glory shall be the shame of thy Lord's house. I will drive thee from thy station, and from thy state shall he pull thee down. Now, on first reading, what we have here is a historical account of Shivnah and Elkiah, who replaces Shiva. But folks, there's far more here. Because Shebna stands here as a type of Israel. Israel was God's people. Israel was established. And yet Israel had been warned: if you turn away from Jehovah, you will be cast out of your land. And so Israel is building their monuments. They've got their Lincoln Memorial, they've got their Washington monument, they've got their Jefferson monument, and they've got their grave of Shebna. And they have written their name upon their place, and none can move them, but they have rejected God. They have looked to Egypt for help, and God says, you're going into captivity. And so it wasn't just Shebnah that was going into captivity, it was all of the people. They have rebelled against Jehovah. Verse 22. And it shall come to pass In that day, that I will call my servant Eliakim, the son of Hilkiah, and I will clothe him with thy robe And strengthen him with thy girdle. And I will commit thy government into his hand. And he shall be a father to the inhabitants of Jerusalem and to the house of Judah. So, Shibna is losing his position as Prime Minister, and El Kina whose name is God shall saddle establish or God shall set him up is going to come in his stay in his stead. But how is it that a simple man Can be a father to the inhabitants of Jerusalem. Remember that Shibna here is standing as a representative of Israel who is being rejected. And Al Kana, uh uh he is standing, sorry, sorry, El Eliakim is standing as a representative of someone else who is being established by Jehovah. I will clothe him with thy robe, and strengthen him with thy girdle, and I will commit thy government into his hand, and he shall be a father to the inhabitants of Jerusalem and to the house of Judah, for unto us a child is born, unto us a son is given. and the government shall be upon his shoulders, and his name shall be called wonderful, counselor, the mighty God, the everlasting Father. the father to Jerusalem, of the increase of his government and of his peace, there shall be no end upon the throne of David and upon his kingdom to order it and to establish it with judgment and with justice from henceforth even forever. The zeal of the Lord of hosts shall perform this And here we find that Eliakim is described as having the key of David And we've already seen from Revelation chapter 3 that it is Jesus Christ who declares, I have the key of David. And so we come to verse 22. And the key of the house of David why lay upon his shoulders, the government shall be upon his shoulders. So he shall open, and none shall shut. And he shall shut. and none shall open. I am the way, the truth, and the life. No man cometh to the Father But by me. Jesus Christ alone can open the way of heaven, and Jesus Christ alone shuts the way of heaven. Revelation 3 and verse 3. And the angel of the church of Philadelphia write, These things, saith, He that is holy. He that is true, he that hath the key of David, he that openeth, and no man shutteth, and shutteth, and no man openeth. Verse 23 of Isaiah Twenty-two And I will fasten him. I will fasten Christ I will fasten him as a nail in a sure place. Who can take Christ out of his place? Satan tried. I will fasten him as a nail in a sure place. And he, that's Christ, shall be for a glorious throne to his father's house. Yes, certainly, Eliakim was glorious when he replaced Shebna. But who? Who is a glorious throne to his Father other than Jesus Christ? Verse 24, and they shall hang upon him the glory of his father's house. The Old Testament Israel looked for the coming Messiah. They looked for the glory of Israel to be restored. They looked for marvelous and wondrous things. They had such great hopes for the Messiah. They hung glory on him because he was going to overcome Rome, so they thought They shall hang on him the glory of his father's house, the offspring and the issue The offspring and the issue. Who is the offspring of the issue is Christ is the offspring of the issue. He is the Father's Son, his only begotten son. They shall hang upon him the offspring and the issue All the vessels of small quantity, and the vessels and the cups, even to the vessels of flagons, keep that in mind. They're hanging the vessels upon Christ. We'll come back to that in a second. The word was made flesh and dwelt among us, and we beheld his glory, the glories of the only begotten of the Father, full in grace and truth. And now, O Father, John 17. Glorify thou me with thine own self, with the glory which I had before thee with thee before the world was. And so the vessels are hung upon the one who is a nail in a sure place. The vessels are hung on Christ. But then verse 25. In that day, saith the Lord of hosts, and you know it's Jehovah, it's all capitals, the Lord of hosts, shall the nail that is fastened in a sure place be removed. The impossible happens. The nail that cannot be removed is somehow removed. Who could kill Christ? No one No man taketh my life from me. I have the power to lay it down And I have the power to take it up. Again, you see the glorious allegory, the glorious foreshadowing of Messiah that this 22nd chapter of Isaiah is giving us. In that day, saith the Lord of hosts, shall the nail that is fastened in the sure place be removed, and be cut down, and fall. And the burden that was upon it shall be cut off. What is the burden that was upon the nail? Well, they hung the vessels. They hung the cups on the nails. Folks, the vessels and the cups are our sin. That were hung on Christ. And Christ, the nail in a sure place, was removed. He died. And look what happens there. The burden that was upon it shall be cut off, for the Lord hath spoken it. The burden of my sin, which was hung upon the nail. When the nail was cut off, the burden was cut off with the nail. The Lord hath laid on him the iniquity of us all. He was wounded for our transgression. He was bruised for our iniquity. Yet it pleased the Lord to bruise him. He has put him to grief when he shall make his soul an offering for sin He shall see his seed, he shall prolong his days, and the pleasure of the Lord shall prosper at his hand. He shall see of the travail of his soul and shall be satisfied Folks, this is talking about Christ. Christ is the nail in a sure place that cannot be removed. And all of our sins were hung upon that nail. But the nail was removed. And my sins were removed with him. The key of the house of David will I lay upon his shoulders. Revelation 1. 18, I am he that liveth and was dead, and behold, I am alive forevermore, amen. And have the keys of hell and death. These things saith he that is holy and is true, he that hath the key of the house of David Did you ever wonder why we sing in the Christmas carol? Oh come, thou key of David, come Open wide our heavenly home, make safe the way that leads on high, and close the path of misery. He opens and he shuts Rejoice, rejoice, Emmanuel shall come. And so folks, that's what this 22nd chapter of Isaiah is saying. Yes, it is a historical account of the removal of Shebna and the establishment of Al-Kaiah. But it is also a further picture of the removal of Israel and the establishment of the church through the removal of the nail. who rose again for our redemption. And so what is the application of this passage? What are we going to make of it? Well, first of all, We've already seen the identity of the key of David. Who is the key of David? It is Jesus Christ our Lord. He is the way, the truth, and the life. No man cometh to the Father but by him. And in John eight, verses twenty-three and twenty-four he said unto them, Ye are from beneath, I am from above Ye are of this world, I am not of this world. I said therefore unto you that ye shall die in your sins, for if ye believe not that I am He He shall die in your sins. Folks, follow anybody in the world you want, but only one will lead you to heaven. Follow who you want, but they'll all lead you to hell except for one. Because the cups and the vessels, both the small cups and the big vessels. were all hung upon one nail. And there was only one nail that was in a sure place. No one could take his life. Anybody could have taken Sheepna's life or Al-Qaeda's life. But there was only one who could only be removed by the laying down of his life. And there's only one that died for sin. So this key of David is Christ Reading from Revelation again in verse chapter five, we find this, and I saw in the right hand of him that sat on the throne a book written within and on the backside sealed with seven seals. And I saw a strong angel proclaiming with a loud voice, Who is worthy to open the book and to loose the seals thereof? And no man in heaven nor in earth, isn't that interesting, no man in heaven nor in earth, no man in earth could open the seals. Neither under the earth was able to open the book, neither to look thereon. And I went much because there was no one found worthy to open and to read the book, neither to look thereupon. Verse 5 of Romans Revelation 5, and one of the elders said unto me, Weep not. Behold, the lion of the tribe of Judah The root of David hath prevailed to open the book and to loose the seven seals thereof. And then verse 9, and they sang a new song, Thou art worthy to open the book. How is it he opens the book? He has the key of David. He is in possession of the key. He has that which can open. And so the identification of the key of David is Jesus Christ. Do you ever try to roll open a lock with the wrong key? There's only one key of David. Secondly, the typology of the key, and here we're going to spend a little bit more time. What do we learn from this truth that Jesus Christ alone is the key of David? First of all, we find his authority. We find the authority. Because Jesus Christ is the key of David, he has authority Matthew 7 verse 29, for he taught them as one having authority and not as the scribes. There are a lot of people that spout off a lot of nonsense But there's one that has authority, and that is Christ. Matthew twenty eight verse eighteen And Jesus spake unto them, saying, All power is given to me in heaven and earth, and that word power there is not the word dunamis. that we often think of, but it's the word authority. All authority. It's the same word in Matthew 7. 29 and in Matthew 28. 18. All authority is given to me in heaven and earth. In the prophecy we find in Deuteronomy, when Moses prophesied of the Messiah, in Deuteronomy 18, verse 18 and 19, and I will raise to them a prophet from among their brethren. Like unto me, and I will put my words in his mouth, and he shall speak unto them all that I command him. And it shall come to pass that whosoever will not hearken unto my words, which he shall speak in my name, will I require it of him Moses said, on behalf of God, I'm going to send one with my words and my authority. You need to listen to him. Who is that other than Jesus Christ? That's not any other man That's no one but Christ alone. And then Philip testified of that in uh John chapter 1, verse 145. Philip findeth Naniel and saith unto him, We have found him of whom Moses and in the law and prophets did right. Jesus of Nazareth, the son of Joseph. This is the one that Moses was talking about. We found him. And then again, Peter testifies the same thing in Acts 3, 13, 18, and 22, three verses there. And the Lord God of Abraham, of Isaac, and of Jacob, the God of our fathers, hath glorified his son Jesus, whom he delivered up and denied him in the presence of Pilate when he was determined to let him go Verse 18 of Acts 3. But those things which God before showed by the mouth of all his prophets that Christ should suffer So he hath fulfilled. Verse 23, for Moses truly said unto the fathers, A prophet, shall the Lord your God raise up unto you from of your brethren, like unto me, him shall ye hear in all things whatsoever he hath said. Folks, anyone other than Christ is false. There is one prophet. And so we find, first of all, because he has the key of David, we find his authority. You better listen to him. But secondly, because he has the key of David, we find his legitimacy. Ever hear about a political coup? Or some politician that comes along and he doesn't really, he isn't really the rightful ruler, but he kind of takes over anyway. Well, we find the legitimacy of Christ. He has the key. The government is laid upon his shoulders. Isaiah 11, verses 1 and 2 And verse 10, and there shall come forth a rod out of the stem of Jesse. We know who that's talking about. And a branch shall grow out of his root, and the spirit of the Lord shall rest upon him, the spirit of wisdom and understanding, the spirit of counsel and might, the spirit of knowledge and of the fear of the Lord And in that day there shall be a root of Jesse, which shall stand for an ensign of the people. To it shall the Gentiles seek And the rest shall be glorious. He is the only legitimate ruler. He has the key of David. Number three, when we find Christ has the key of David, we find his supremacy. He is above all. Philippians 2, wherefore God also hath highly exalted him. and given him a name that is above every name, that it's the mouth of that the name of Jesus, every knee should bow, and every tongue should confess. Remember when we read there in Revelation 3 When it talked about those that say they're Jews and are not, and God says, I'll bring them to worship at your feet. Folks, that's talking about all the false prophets. They claim something that they're not And God said, I'll make them of the house of Satan, who claim that they're Jews and are not. God's hottest judgment is on them, for they're making a claim that they have no right to claim to. But God there in Revelation 3 said, I'll make them come and worship at your feet. And he was saying that to the church of Philadelphia. He was saying that to God's people. We find his legitimacy and his supremacy. But number four, because Christ alone has the key of David, we find his approval. We find his approval. Think about the keys to your house. Do you give the keys to your house to a stranger? Do you give them to a drug addict? Give them to the the the bum on the street. No, no. But you will give the keys to your house to someone you trust. Someone who you approve to come in. But what is the significance of this key? It opens the door to heaven. And it op it closes the gate to the kingdom. Who does God give that authority to other than Christ? I open and no man can shut. I shut and no man can c can uh cl can open Matthew 17, verse 5, while he he yet spake, behold a bright cloud overshadowed them, and behold a voice out of the cloud which saith, This is my beloved son, in whom I am well pleased. Hear ye him But not only does the fact that Christ is given the key of the King of David Tell us of his authority and legitimacy of his rule and the supremacy of his nature and the approval that he received from his father. But that he has the key of David shows us his finality His finality. There is not another. There is no more to come. It's over. It's done. It's finished. It's complete. We find this in Hebrews. Hebrews chapter 1, the beginning of the book. Hebrews 1 and verse 1: God, who at sundry times and in diverse manners spake in times past unto the fathers by the prophets. This is how I used to do it. This was the revelation throughout the Old Testament. God, who in time past spoken to the fathers by the prophets, hath in these last days spoken unto us by his son, whom he hath appointed heir of all things, by whom also he made the world. See, that's that's the end. The message is finished. The apostles who knew him and walked with him in person wrote down and recorded his truth. But after those apostles died, there was no further revelation. It was done. It was finished. Matthew 5, verse 17, think not that I am come to destroy the law and the prophets. I came not to destroy But to fulfill, to fulfill what Moses said about the coming Messiah, what Isaiah said about the coming Messiah John 1. 17, for the law was given by Moses, but grace and truth came by Jesus Christ Luke 24, verse 44 and 45. And he said unto them, These are the words which I spake unto you while I was yet with you. that all things must be fulfilled which were written in the law of Moses and in the prophets and in the Psalms concerning me. And in interesting there in Luke he says the Psalms. He talks about the prophecies in the Psalms as well. Then he opened their understanding that they might then open he their understanding that they might understand the scriptures. Understand the scriptures. This is it, the finality of Christ. And so we've seen who this key of David is as Christ. We've seen five elements that show us that it is Christ, five things about it, five applications. But finally, the necessity of the key of David, why we need it. Folks, Christ said that he was the door of the sheep. All that tried to come up other ways were thieves and robbers. Thieves and robbers don't use a key. They try to break in some other way. But the necessity of the key. I am the way. The truth and the life. No man cometh to the Father but by me. Heaven is described as a place where neither moth and rust doth thrupt, and where thieves do not break through and steal. You see folks, Christ unlocks the door, Christ locks the door, and you cannot break his lock. The necessity of the key. Because neither is there salvation in any other There's none other name under heaven given among men whereby ye must be saved. I am he that liveth and was dead, and behold, I am alive forevermore, amen, and have the keys of hell and death. Deuteronomy 32, verse 39 and 40. See now that I, even I am He And there is no God with me. I kill and I make alive. I wound and I heal Neither is there any that can deliver out of my hand. For I lift up my head to the my hand to heavens and say, I live forever. He that is our God is the God of salvation. And unto God the Lord belongeth the issues from death. Psalm sixty-eight, verse nineteen. Folks Do you have the key of David? Do you know the key of David? What a glorious Christmas message. In a passage that we don't often think of as a Christmas passage. Jesus Christ is the key of David, and no other key will work. Stand with me for prayer, please. Father, we thank you this morning. We thank you for these glorious types and shadows and figures that you give to us in thy word. Father, we thank you that in setting aside Israel because of the rejection of Messiah, you opened the door with that key of David to the Gentiles And we believe in Christ by faith. Father, we thank you that you've not left us to wonder. We thank you, Lord, that we have your word And that your word gives us all things that pertain to life and godliness. Bless thy fruit to our hearts this day. In Jesus' name. Amen. Amen, amen. We turn to our closing song in our blue song book. Closing song, O come, all you faithful one hundred and eighty-nine 189 in our blue songbook, O Come, All Ye Faithful, and was saying all three stanzas. Try me or join me to deal. Hold him for the king of angels. Oh come on so come by Sing our Single Christian to be holy. No niin, tarkamme. Let us all come let us all come let us go. Jesus Now it flesh of the common Oh come let us all glory, oh come let us not go in cry. Amen, Amen. Please be seated