I think we don't have to be free. Turn with me this morning to Second Samuel chapter six. If you were not here last week or you did not catch the message on the internet, uh Later on, there's just not enough time to cover what would need to be covered to catch you up to where we are this morning. Let me just say that we're talking about the Ark of God. It was shaped about as wide as our communion table, about as high, and about two thirds the length. And we know that last week David wanted to bring the Ark of the Covenant uh back into the city of Jerusalem and put it in a tabernacle. And they didn't move it according to scripture, didn't move it appropriately. They just put on a wagon like the pagan Philistines had done. And when it almost fell off the wagon one of the priests jumped up to stop her from falling to the ground and he was struck dead. And that brought quite a bit of terror among all the people. Why would God strike a priest dead who was trying to keep the ark the comes from falling on the ground? We went through all that And so I can't give you all of that again this morning, but at least it puts you to where we are this morning, and it says in verse 9, and David was afraid. Here's a man, uh, the the priest lying there before him dead on the ground for uh seemingly trying to do something good. And David was afraid. Nothing wrong with God fearing men, by the way There's nothing wrong with a healthy fear of God, a reverential fear of God. And that's what David had here. He must have thought perhaps I'll be struck dead next. I'm the one that said, let's bring the ark. of the covenant, the Ark of God, uh where the presence of God is known to be, uh the Ark of the Covenant which wherein uh the ten commandments written in stone are contained inside the ark of covenant. I want to bring the ten commandments the word of God back to the word of God carved with God's finger back to Jerusalem I want to bring God and God's presence and God's word back to Jerusalem. But now it says he was afraid to go any further. And David was afraid, verse nine. of chapter 6 and 2 Samuel. Afraid of the Lord that day, and said, How shall the ark of the Lord come to me? Or how shall it come to Jerusalem? And David would not remove the ark of the Lord unto him into the city of David. But David carried it aside into the house of Obed-Edom, the Gidite. And the ark of the Lord continued in the house of Obed-Edom the Giddite three months. And the Lord blessed Obed-Edom and all his household. And it was told King David saying, The Lord hath blessed the house of Obed-Edom, and all that pertaineth unto him, because of the ark of God. And so David went and brought up the ark of God from the house of Obed-Edom into the city of David, that is into Jerusalem, with gladness. We hear so much about the fear of the Lord and and we hear a lot about how God is a holy holy God and that's the reason to be fearful of him because we're not so holy ourselves. Today we're going to talk about the blessings of God and the joys of God and the gladness of God. And here he brings it from the house of Obad Edom into the city of David or Jerusalem with gladness, or an abundance of gladness And it was so that when they that bear the ark of the Lord had gone six paces, he that is David sacrificed oxen and fatlings. And David danced before the Lord with all his might, and David was girded with the linen Ephod. And so David and all the house of Israel brought up the ark of the Lord with shouting and with the sound of the trumpet. I want to talk today about the blessing or the blessings of Obad Edom and the blessings that came upon David and upon the city of Is of Jerusalem. David rightfully so was afraid of the Lord that day And he said, How is the ark going to come to me? How is it going to come to Jerusalem? And he had it carried into the house of Obed Edom, verses 9 and 10. The Ark of God, the Ark of the Covenant, as it was called, it contained the Word of God It was the source yet of disaster to many. You would think bringing the Word of God in the presence of some people would always be a blessing, but it had been a source of disaster to the pagan Philistines who brought it into the land and put it before the the God Dagon, and we remember there what happened, the God of Dagon fell down, is broken in pieces. So the the Word of God, the source of God, the Ark of the Covenant, it can be a source of disaster to the unbeliever. It was a source of disaster to the pagan Philistines. It was a source of disaster to the backslidden Beshemites, who were Israelites, by the way. And we talked about that last week as well. And it was a source of a disaster to the careless uh Uza, the priest, where he touched the ark that should have been covered in badger skins and and it should not have been on a cart, and we aren't going to go through all that again today. And so now David is also afraid. So bringing the Word of God before a body of people, it can be a source of disaster. But we're going to find today that was also a great source of gladness to have God's Word Now we find this taking up the household of Obed Edom, and if we're to read in 1 Chronicles 15 17, 18, and 21. Those verses we would find that Obid Edom was a Levite. And so the the Ark of the Covenant, when the Uzzah was struck dead, it was taken up and put in the house of another Levite that was very, very close by And this Obad Edom, he opens his home to the ark. Now you would think after what had happened to the Philistines, what had happened to the Beshemites, what had happened to us of the priest What had happened, you know, David's fearfulness, you would say, who on earth would want this thing around them or in their house? But Obed Edom was a God-fearing, courageous Levite. He knew how it should be treated. He knew what the scriptures said about it, and it was carried into his home, not on a cart and dragged by oxen. He knew God. He knew his word better. He revered the Ark of God. He revered the Word of God that was contained in the Ark of God. And he took it into his house. And a blessing followed. Blessings. Blessed are they that hear the word, we read in Luke 11 and 28. In fact, you could read this differently. but receive the word. Or better yet, blessed to hear the word, not just we're all sitting here hearing it, but are we really hearing it? Are we really taking it in? Are we really taking it in. Oh but Edom, he not only received the word of God into his house, he took it in. And he had taken in the Word of God before that Ark of the Covenant ever arrived at his house. And that's the importance of it. Blessed are they that Take in the Word of God. And Obed Edom, he takes in the Word of God, and he is blessed. It says he and his household are blessed. It says all that pertaineth unto him was blessed. And yes, that probably means he was financially blessed, spiritually blessed, uh psychologically blessed. I mean, any way you can be all that pertaineth to him was blessed, including his entire household. Anyone here in need of a blessing this morning? Boy, I look out over at this particular group and I can't imagine one person here. That wouldn't want to have a blessing. I think everyone here has got some real struggles, some painful moments, discouragements. If you're in need for a blessing Then take this home with you today. God's word must first find a home in your heart if you want a blessing. God's word found a home in Obad Edom's household. And he was blessed. You want God to bless you, but you don't really want Him to reign in your heart, to reign in your household, but you want His blessing. I remember some many years ago saying everyone wants the fruits of the Spirit, the fruits of the words of God. We just don't want the roots, the obedience And so it is the same with the Lord Jesus Christ. Christ is called the Word incarnate, right? In the beginning was the Word, the Word with God, and the Word was God. Christ is the Word. And we read about the word that we should if you want a blessing from Christ, then Christ must He must be in your home We must receive him. We must take him into our hearts. And do we read of Christ who is the word that he should be our chief cornerstone Undergirding us as a cornerstone does of a foundation of a building. He should be our chief cornerstone, undergirding us, and if he undergirds us, it blesses us. If he's enthroned in our heart, he'll be a blessing. If he takes up residence in our heart, if we've taken him into our heart, Christ will be a blessing to us. Or he can be a stone of stumbling, 2 Peter 2 and 6 and 8 says. And he can be set for the fall of many. Luke two and thirty-four. If if people are going to ignore the word of God, Jesus Christ, if they're going to ignore uh the and abuse the the words of God As the Philistines did, the Ark of the Covenant contained the words of God, and as the Best of Mites did, if you're going to abuse the word, it's like kicking against the pricks, recorded in Acts 9 and 5. So you want a blessing this morning? In God's word, the Lord Jesus Christ, he must find a home. A home in your heart. Take up residence there. Here we observe that the ark of the Lord was in the house of Obed Edom in verse 11. He was only there three months. It didn't take long for the blessings to start coming. In fact, by the end of three months, the blessings were so great it had already blessed Obad Edom, it had already blessed all of his whole household in just three months. I mean when you have a a real conversion, a solid love for the Lord, and and He really takes up residence in your home and in your heart and in your life, it doesn't take long before the blessings start to arrive Before the joy and the gladness is felt, and it spreads throughout the whole household. In fact, it said it spread to everything that pertaineth to the life of Obad Edom in just three months. So, does the Word of God, Christ being the Word, in Incarnate, does the word hold a place of reverence and sway in your home? That's really important. We can have ten Bibles in our homes. We can go to church. We can send our kids to church. We can send them to Christian schools. Um we can quote the Bible when we're out with other people. We can sing songs when we're in the car. But does Christ really, really have a place of reverence and sway? in your home. Kids will pick it up right away if Christ doesn't rule there. If the Word of God doesn't really rule there But I suspect as we see from Obad Edom and all his household, they knew that Obad Edom not only was serious about the things of God and about the Word of God, but what the Word of God said ruled, it held sway in every aspect of that house, and it wasn't long before they all fell in line with him and they were all blessed by it. You'll know if the Word of God has sway in your home because whenever an argument or discussion or something comes up, whether it's uh politics or or whether it's the economy or or whether it's uh what your what your um uh allowance should be from your mom and dad or whether we should get the new car or whether we should buy a different house. You know, all these discussions come up. But the thing is the conclusion of the matter ought to be what saith the word. Let the Word of God direct us on all our decisions. That should be the conclusion of the matter. You'll know if God's word, you'll know if Christ holds sway in your house, has pre-eminence in your house. You'll know that if the conclusion of the matter is What saith the words of God? Nevertheless, Paul says, what saith the word? What saith the scriptures? And you also know that the Word of God and Christ holds sway in your house when when He is first sought in the decisions that you're about to make, not last sought. People often say, well, if all else fails, we can always pray. That's not first seeking God. That's last seeking God. But if he holds sway in your household, he'll be first sought. And everything that's in the Word of God will outweigh all the other considerations that people bring to the forefront. We can we can talk about creation evolution until a cow comes home. But you uh maybe you don't have a cow to come home, but y that's the saying we have her until a chicken comes Come home and ruin. But here's the problem with that. If the word of God holds total sway in the home, then it outweighs all the other considerations. So ask yourselves does the Word of God Christ hold sway in your house. Is there a place of reverence? If so, your household will be blessed. It will be blessed. Laban was blessed, it says of the Lord, for Jacob's sake. Jacob revered the Word of God, upheld the Word of God. And we read of that in Genesis 30 and 27. Potiphar, he wasn't even saved, but his household was blessed to the Lord because of Joseph's sake. We read again in Genesis 39, 1 through five. The widows there, she was blessed the Lord for Elijah's sake, first Kings seventeen and twenty three. I can go through this a whole litany of people who are blessed because within their household was summoned who who the word of God held sway, was first sought in their lives. The conclusion of the matter was always what saith the scriptures. I I can give you a whole lady of these from From Laban to Potiphar to to the widow Zarephath, but how much more blessed do you think we might be this day if if our home is where Christ and his words have prominence and sway We're just talking about Jacob's words or Joseph's words, but with the words of Christ, with the word incarnate, when he has the sway, when he has the promise, when he is first sought, when the conclusion of the matter is Jesus Christ said, or Jesus Christ taught Wow, you want a blessing in your home? That would be quite a blessing. There'll be a lot of joy. And there'll be a lot of gladness no matter what you're going through. And this blessing to Obed Edom, and this blessing to his household, and this blessing to all that pertaineth to him. It says in verse 12, it was told King David. The Lord hath blessed the house of Ob and Edom and all that pertaineth unto him because of the ark of God, or because of the presence of God, or because of the the the Ten Commandments carved with God's finger into the into the Stone is in that Ark of the Covenant because of the Word of God is present, the presence of God is present. He is blessed, David. They came and they told King David this in verse 12. And we learned five things Immediately from just this verse. And here's the five things quickly. We learn five things. First, honoring God's word in the home blesseth all the occupants. Doesn't mean they all get saved, but I'll tell you what, these young kids they grow up in your household and they leave the household and they get married and they start having children and they start reflecting upon Boy, I never realized what mom and dad went through all those years taking care of me. They really worked hard. They were really good. Man, oh man, compared to what I'm going through and how I'm handling it, I had a I had a blessed home and I never even realized it how blessed my home was. You young people, it won't be long before you'll be the parents. You'll have the children and you'll start reflecting on what a blessing your home was. And so the first thing we learn here is honoring God's word in home, it blesses all the occupants eventually. The second thing we learn is the Lord's blessing. It will be evident to others. Obed Edom was blessed. His occupants of his house were blessed. Everything that pertaining him was blessed. And it was observed by the outside world that he was a man blessed of God. The third thing we learn here is that those who observe the word Or Christ's blessings. Those who observe it, and they observe that nobody eat them's house. When they observe it, they will tell others. You can't hold them back. You can't keep They are just taken back. I mean we've got we've got the pagan Philistines laying out their dead and rotting corpses. We got the Beshemites laying out their dead and rotting. We got Uzda laying out their dead. We got David scared to death out. He doesn't know what to do. And Ob and Edom, he's blessed You can't keep that quiet. You when you see people blessed of God, it it just people just talk about it. Not just the saved people, but the unsaved people. They're just taken aback by how a man's good fortunes can change so much. All the things that pertaineth unto him. So you honor God and your occupants of your house are blessed. You honor God, you honor his word, and it's evident to others. You honor God and you find the others are going to tell others And the fourth thing you're going to learn here, or rather when they tell others, another example in telling others, we have one in Acts 4 and 13, so we're not just Old Testament telling others In Acts 4 and 13, telling others, when they saw the boldness of Peter and John, these are the ungodly priests and scribes in Jerusalem, when they saw the boldness of Peter and John, they took knowledge of them that they had been with Jesus. You see, you don't have to be saved to see the blessings. Where do these men learn to speak like this? Where did they find this boldness like this? They've got all this boldness, they've got all this knowledge. Where did all this come from? They had been with the Word of God incarnate, Jesus Christ. Those are the four things you learn. Or actually the three we've covered. The fourth thing is you probably, as you sit here this morning, you probably will have no idea of the immense impression God's blessing makes upon us. Others. You know the impression that God's blessing makes upon you and on your household. I think sometimes we have no idea of the blessings on us The impression it makes on others. Not only do they go out and tell others, but you don't know the impression it makes on some of those people get saved, they get curious, they start attending church, they start reading their Bible, they want some blessings, they want that joy that you have, they want that gladness that you have. I don't think we have any idea. We've often said sometimes the only book that the people out there who aren't saved will ever read is your life. Your gladness, your blessings, your joy. You have no idea how people will be touched by that. The fifth thing I want you to note here is that it was told King David, the Lord had blessed Obad Edom. The fifth thing I want you to note, Satan would have you to believe that there are no blessings. in a compliance with the Holy Scriptures. It's just going to be a drag. It's going to be boring. You're not going to have any fun. That's what Satan wants you to believe Compliance of holy scriptures, it bears little fruit. It just creates aggravation and agitation in your life and in your life with others. That's what he'd have you to believe He's a liar. Satan is a liar. He's the one that said, Hath God said. Remember in Genesis 3. 1? He's also the one we read about in Job 1 and verse 11. He said Touch all that he hath and he'll curse you. Well Job didn't. He was a liar again, wasn't he? Satan is a liar, but he would have you to believe that if you are in strict compliance to the Holy Scriptures, you're going to church, you're reading your Bible and you're praying, it's going to bear little fruit and just lots of aggravation, agitation among the people that are out there. Well it's true that there will be some aggregation agitation and aggravation But the blessings are far, far greater. Pilgrim, do you fear the aggravation? Is that why you're missing the blessing and the joy and the gladness? It's going to agitate family and friends. The truth is, Satan is lying to you. The truth is that having God's word in your home, having it find a home in your heart, it brings much joy. Much joy for so many others. There's not a parent out there who's got a uh a kid that's Strain, a prodigal son as it were. And when that child, the word of God, touches his heart, there's not a parent that says, Oh no, my alcoholic son Oh no, my prodigal son, he's come home with a Bible in his hands. Oh, what am I going to do now? No one's going to be upset with that. They're going to call it a blessing. David brought the ark into the city. Read in verse twelve. And it says he brought the ark into the city of David. with gladness. He was glad. He was filled with joy. The whole city of Jerusalem was excited. Here comes David with the word of God. They were in, oh my goodness We got a person, he's ruling our nation, and he's a Bible thumper. He's bringing in the Ark of the Covenant, he's bringing in the Ten Commandments. Is he going to rule by the Ten Commandments? Oh, I can't believe it. This is just terrible. Who would want a ruler that rules by the Word of God Me. Another one over there. Another one over there. Another hand here. Did I see another hand? No. We can have a salvation call right here I mean, this is what they've got. And as Jerusalem is set that the man coming in, the king coming in, is bringing in to his administration the Word of God, the Ten Commandments carved in stone. They are glad. Wow. David brought it in with gladness in verse twelve. And he brought it by a thorough compliance to the Holy Scriptures. It's not recorded here, but if we go over to 1 Corinthians and we read chapter 15, we find how he brought it in. I'll just give you a briefing of it He said, The Lord made a breach upon us, for we sought him not after due order, David said. So now the Levites will bear the ark upon their shoulders, and with the staffs inserted into the rings on the ark That's in Chronicles. That's how we brought into Jerusalem. And Samuel doesn't tell you how, but in Corinthians it it breaks it down. And David, by strict compliance to the word of God, brought the word of God, the Ark of the Covenant. that contained it into Jerusalem and there was gladness. David had learned, hadn't he, from his sinful mistake. Foremost, he had learned, don't neglect the Holy Scriptures in your life. David had learned that. Don't neglect the holy scriptures in your life. In fact, he writes in Psalm 119 in verse 67. Before I was afflicted, I went astray, but now have I kept the law David learned from his sinful mistake. Pilgrim, pilgrim, pilgrim, have your sins taught you anything today? Have they taught you to search the Word of God? Have they taught you to seek out Christ for direction? Have they taught you to seek out the Lord God for forgiveness? Have they taught you that if you do all this, that there will be joy and gladness in your heart? There's so much that we can learn from our sinful heirs. And the question is, do we? And have we learned from our sinful errors. David had. And he brought the Ark of Covenant up to Jerusalem, carried on the shoulder of the Levi to the poles through the Ark. He did it right. That was of course what you'd call strict compliance to the Word of God. We'll read to you for that today, aren't we? Oh, he's such a legalist, they say, such a Bible-suffer. He is so rigid. He is so narrow-minded. But it blessed David. I mean I I've had people that would tell you, well I'm gonna rip out that chapter, I'm gonna rip out that chapter, and those chapters they're not important. You know, I they they would end up with a Bible if you talk to some people who claim to be Christians, that's about how thick their Bible would be. In fact, they'll say, oh, that's old test. You ever say, oh, that's Old Testament? Well, okay, that takes a chunk out of this one, right? That's a big chunk over there. Oh, that's Old Testament. People profess to be Christians. Strict compliance to every jot and every title of the word of God brought the Ark of the Covenant into Jerusalem with gladness. With gladness, with joy. Initially, David was in the darkness of what was going on. Who's this dead? Why is he dead? What went wrong here? I don't understand this. I'm trying to bring the word of God to the people of Jerusalem. I'm trying to Create a revival as a word. Get the people on the right foot, you know, get them stepping off in the right direction with a good foundation. What what's wrong? Why is he dead? What's the priest making the ground dead for? We can't make Jerusalem like this. He must have been the dark at first. And he says he was fearful over the death of Uzzah. But eventually, his fears Drove David to the scriptures. And he discovered in the Old Testament how the ark was to be kept. carried. And it resulted, look what it resulted in. The man who was in darkness that didn't know what was going on by going to the scriptures It enlightened him. It's the light of the world. Christ is the light of the world. The word of God is the light of the world. It's a lamp onto our feet, right? To guide us. It enlightened he's in darkness and now he's enlightened. And his enlightenment of what the scriptures taught in it this situation, it blessed Obed Edom. It blessed Obed-Edom's household. It blessed all that pertained to Odom Edom. It blessed David. It blessed all the city of Jerusalem. Isn't that great? So, it says here that there was an abundance of gladness in Jerusalem in verse 12. Are you in the dark this morning as to what God is doing in your life? I think we've all been there. Why is God doing this? What's going on? I don't understand it. I keep praying, I keep reading. I I just don't know. Keep praying. Keep reading. Fear in darkness, God will enlighten you. We can sometimes be so absorbed in our misery that we cry out like Martha and Mary, if you had just been here, Lazarus wouldn't have died. You don't hear that one sometimes. Or you hear, well, if there was a God, this wouldn't have happened. If there was a God that really cared, that's misery. That's someone in darkness who isn't looking to the The word. There are others who've been through those dark clouds in their life and they've had those horrible disasters take place in life instead of saying, If you'd only been here if there's a god that really cared, rather when they're in this Dark, cloudy moments of disasters and pain. They fling themselves into the arms of God Like he was their father. And they say, so the Lord. Let him do what seemeth him good. And there is a peace that comes with that in time. We need to look to his word. We need to look to Christ when we're going through dark times, hard times, painful times. We read in scripture, Psalm 30 and verse 5, weeping may endure for the night. Or when we're in the darkness, we weep, we struggle. Weeping may endure for a night or for a through those dark moments, but joy cometh in the morning. That joy cometh in the morning. If you look up the words in the language of the Hebrew, it also can say, weeping may endure for a while in the darkness or in the night, but blessings come. In the morning. Note also this the severest trials of a follow-up of Christ, and we can look at some pretty severe trials in scripture. Jacob thinking Joseph is dead for decades. Tough trial. Abraham losing his wife Sarah. Tough, tough trial We can list a lot of them, but the severest of trials, James being beheaded in the New Testament, the disciples Probably thought, we're on top of the world, we've got the Holy Spirit, we we God's gonna take care of us. They can't touch any of us. And then they cut. John the Baptist head off, they cut James's head off. Some severe trials can come in our lives. But those trials for the followers of Christ, they'll make you stronger. They'll make you sweeter. They'll make you more inclined to give to others to understand what others are going through. They'll also make you more sacrificial for the glory of God. We find here with David that When he finally realized what was going on in his life, it says that when they had bared the ark and had gone six paces, they're at Obed Edom's house. They come in and say we're about to remove the ark. Gonna do it right. Make sure it's covered in the uh holy of holies cloth and the and the badger skins and and put the poles through the rings on the ark. Uh Levite priests, you're the ones are gonna lift this, get 'em over here. They're gonna lift it up, they're gonna be the ones that carry it out, nobody else. And they lifted up on their shoulders, and it says they went one, two, three, four, five, six paces, and David said, Stop. He said, we don't know if he said exactly this, but he had to observe, he said, so far, so good. Nobody's dead. Let's offer sacrifice to God. They couldn't have been out of the yard of Obed Edom. But he said we go on six paces, nobody's dead. So far, so good. Let's offer a sacrifice to God. And they do that, and they they sacrifice oxen and fatlings and so forth. I wonder here if anyone here has ever given sacrificially on the Lord when they recognize some God's sin. mercy because that's what David saw. He thought lift the pole lift it. No one's dead. Step one. No one's dead. Two. No one's dead. Three. Oh, set it down. Sacrifice to God. God is merciful today. We're moving it right, according to Scripture, and he sacrificially gave unto God that day. Has anyone here ever been given sacrificially on the Lord? For some God sent mercy. And I know we've all had some answers to prayers and blessings and so forth. And what did it incline us to do? And here for David inclined him to sacrifice unto God. We find in Nehemiah 12 and verse 43 as they'd come out of Babylon captivity and he was told he could rebuild the walls of Jerusalem. And in chapter 12 and verse 43, Nehemiah says, Stop This is great. This is going good. No one has stopped the rebuilding of the walls. We had fears of Samullah, Tobay, and get some of the Arabian. But hey, it's going good. This is great. Let's sacrifice to God We see that in Nehemiah. Noah. He's built the boat. They're on the boat. It's rained for forty days and forty nights. It's been a storm for another 150 or so days. And they finally are told they can open up the ark and they can step out on the ground. And what are they going to find? What on earth are they gonna find? A lot of dead carrion animals and and uh you know it's it's probably a stench in the smell and everything else, and we're gonna step out on the ark and I mean they've been hearing hurricanes and tornadoes outside the boat and they have no idea what's going to be out there. And they finally they step off the boat or off the ark and Noah says, whoa One, two, three, a couple pages. So far? So good. Let's sacrifice the mercies of God. We've survived the destruction of the world. And they sacrifice We can say the same thing of Jonah. When Jonah's on the on the ship and these and the men are saying we're in the storm and it's the storm just came up and it's the worst we've ever seen and what are we going to do? We we pray to all of our gods, it doesn't do any good, and you're down here on the bottom of the uh the ship and you're sleeping like there's no problem and and what's going on and Jonah said, Well it's my God you need to be praying to. It's my God that sent the storm because of what I've done. And if you throw me off the ship Everything will be okay. And they said, We can't kill you. We can't murder you. We we hardly even know you. That would be so inappropriate. He said, I'm telling you, that's what you gotta do And they say, boy, what kind of a God have you got? But you keep uh this sa your God with a human sacrifice? Looks forward to the sacrifice of Christ, right? human sacrifice. He said the human sacrifice will take care of all your problems. And these sailors and and others that were on the ship, they said, We just can't do this. We just can't do this. He said, Well, you're going to have to. And they throw Jonah off the ship. Bam! Peace. No storm. No waves. No winds. And you know what they did? They sacrificed. They saw the mercy of God in Jonah's God and that he had spoken the truth and they sacrificed. Do you ever sacrificely give for a blessing that God has given to you? Have you ever done that? It should incline us to do so. So David sacrificed oxen. And now he sacrificed oxen. Well it says here he danced before the Lord with all his might. Verse 14. You know the world thinks that reverential fear of God Suppresses our joy. It does not. Reverential fear of God stimulates our joy. Stimulates us to gladness with the blessings and the mercies of God. People turn their back on God because they think it's such a stiff, boring religion. It's a religion of gladness and joy and of blessings, and it stimulates us a reverential fear of God. It brings us gladness Psalm 2 in verse 11 says, rejoice with trembling. There is rejoicing in reverential trembling and fear of God. We still rejoice. I mean, we we got a songbook full of rejoicing to a God that we fear in a reverential way, right? This is amazing. We got a book that causes us to fear God in many ways, but tells us also to enjoy Him, and that there is gladness, and another book too almost the sick of all the songs. So we sing and rejoice. And so it says, rejoice with trembling. But only those who are born again. Can understand Psalm 2 and 11? What do you mean? Rejoice with trembling. That's a concept hard to grasp. I mean, it's a concept even fearing and loving God, how do you love someone that you're afraid of? It's a represent reverential fear. fearing and loving God with all our heart and all our soul, it says Deuteronomy 10 and chapter and verse 12 That's a concept the unsaved can't understand. Only the born-again, blood-washed, Bible-believing Christian understands how you fear and love God. Talk about a love. David, he is so filled with gladness and joy and the blessings that no one is dead and the ark is proceeding towards Jerusalem. that he's out there in verse 15 dancing and shouting with the sound of the trumpets. Yes, David's dancing. That is scripture, by the way. Scripture instructs us to dance. Psalm 149. 3 says, let them praise his name in the dance. Now it's not a sensual dance. It's not the kind of dancing you're going to see on TV or for the most part. This is there were special dances we don't really have any idea of the exact form, but it was a reverential dance It was a dance of gladness and of joy. Um I think the closest thing I could probably come to that today in in our modern vernacular would be the um what are the the dances that the the cowboys do at the the No, they dance in a circle. Can't think of the right now. It's a square dance. That's a happy dance, right? A glad dance. It's a happy slappy dance, you know. It's not it's not sensual. It's it's it's just a uh you know, that's But it was not done for their happiness, it was done to praise God. And so David dances and he said, Well that's that seems kind of unusual. Well, not if we look at the Bible. Exodus fifteen and twenty, after the Red Sea closed in upon the Pharaoh and all his men, it says Miriam and the lays, they all danced before the Lord and praised him. When Goliath was killed in 1 Samuel 18 and 6 and the word returned, it came back to the people of Israel that Goliath was dead, and the champion David had killed him. It said they all came out and they danced before Saul, King Saul and Gael. David. In Luke 15 and 25, she tell me, oh they dance, but that's the Old Testament. People just say, oh, that's the Old Testament. I just love this. Well, let's go to the New Testament. In the New Testament, chapter 15 of Luke And uh chapter twifteen of Luke and verse twenty-five, when the prodigal son came home and they killed the fatted calf, gave him the ring, and put shoes on his feet, and they danced, it said. And when the son, the older son came home, he heard the music and the singing and the dancing. They danced for joy because God had blessed their prodigal son and had brought him home to the faith. It was worth Reverential dancing before God. And that's what David does here. And he not only danced before God, but he danced before God with all his might with all his might. And anything we do for the Lord Jesus Christ, it ought to be performed with all our might. Our Christian duties as Christians It ought to be performed for Christ with all our might. Christ says in Matthew twelve or Mark twelve and thirty, Love the Lord your God with all your heart, all your soul, all your mind, and all your might, or all your strength. It is not Christ is not suitably exalted by lukewarm lectures. stuffy sermons, puny, paltry praises. People walking, oh, praise the Lord. That's not exalting God Let's hear some heart in it. It isn't the lukewarm lectures, the stuffy sermons, of puny, paltry praises, or the reading of prescribed prayers. Or the half-hearted singing of hymns. Let me say that again. We don't praise them. You talk about a worship service? A worship service is not a service where everybody sings to God. It's a worship service If the songs are sung half-heartedly, half-hearted singing of hymns, that is not worshiping God with all our might. We ought to blow with the windows closed, the neighbors ought to be complaining about this church on Sunday mornings. But I'll tell you what, later on today, my wife and I'll be walking around the neighborhood. It's cold, all the windows are closed, and all the neighborhouses, they're closed. But we will hear shouting and screaming and praising over the Super Bowl. But why is that nobody ever complains about this church or most churches anywhere singing too loud on Sunday We ought to praise God with all our might and praise God if the neighbors complain through our closed windows We should be like the first disciples in the first century, the first faithful leaven disciples. It said they rejoice and they praise God with a loud voice. Luke 19. and 37. Is there a joyful spirit in your heart this morning? Are you pardoned? Are you blessed of God? Oh pilgrim, oh pilgrim, the joy of this world is a mirage. The joy of this world is a fantasy. The joy of this world is a counterfeit. The joy of this world is a bogus imitation that cannot compare to the joy and the gladness found in the Lord, found in the Lord Jesus. Jesus Christ. It just cannot compare. If you are settling for the joy of the world, you are settling for something that's so far, far less than what you can have in Christ. Don't settle for the joy of the world. Turn to the Lord Jesus Christ. Don't hesitate to turn to the Lord Jesus Christ. Christ is not only the only Savior, and I'll say that again, he is not only the only Savior. He is the bishop of souls. He is the bread of life, and he is the blessing of Obed-Edom today as well. Do you want the blessing of Obed-Edom? And give Christ sway in your heart and your homes. And praise Him with a loud voice. And you got a chance today, because we're about to sing a song. Let's pray. Father, we just turned you today, and we're so grateful that these words have lasted down to the millenniums and that people have gotten a blessing from reading Reading them, standing by them, sharing them with others. And may this not be the last generation in this country who is so fearful that the next generation will totally ignore the words And lose the blessings. Oh Lord, may we may we pass on to our children before we die the gladness that we know, the joy that we have, the blessings we've experienced. It never die out in this nation. And now as we close the service, Lord, may we praise you as loud as the early disciples did. And it's in Christ's name we ask. Amen.