And I'm going to read the entire psalm as we begin our consideration this morning. I hope you're enjoying learning some of the new psalms. from our Psalter. That one in particular just has so many lines that uh are a a real blessing to the soul Uh not that there's any part of the Psalms that do isn't a blessing to the soul, but uh that one in particular I believe is very edifying for us to learn. Psalm 46, and I'll read the entire Psalm as we begin. God is our refuge and our strength, a very present help in trouble. Therefore will we not fear, though the earth be removed, and though the mountains be carried into the midst of the sea. Though the waters thereof roar and be troubled, though the mountains shake with the swelling thereof, Selah. There is a river. The streams whereof make glad the city of God, the holy place of the tabernacle of the Most High. God is in the midst of her. God shall help her, and that right early. The heathen raged, the kingdoms were moved. He uttered his voice, and the earth melted. The Lord of hosts is with us. The God of Jacob is our refuge. Selah. Come, behold the works of the Lord. What desolations he hath made in the earth! He maketh wars the cease unto the end of the earth. He breaketh the bow. He cutteth the spear in sunder. He burneth the chariots in fire. Be still, and know that I am God. I will be exalted among the heathen. I will be exalted in the earth The Lord of hosts is with us. The God of Jacob is our refuge. Selah. Let us bow for prayer this morning, beseeching our great Heavenly Father to open His Word to our understanding and open our hearts to receive His truth. Our gracious Father. As we discussed in Sunday school this morning, we come before you in Jesus' name. We come before you through the one mediator between God and man. We remember that Moses could not see the face of God. We remember that a veil had to be put over his face because he had been in the presence of God and had beheld the glory of God. And we read in Scripture that we see through a glass darkly, but then face to face. And yet, Lord, it is a glorious truth that we see the face of Jesus Christ in the Word. As we read this inspired book, That has been given to us and preserved for us. We thank you that it is the revelation and it is the testimony of Jesus Christ. Lord, we come before you today as your people. We come before you as your own elect. We come before you as the sheep of your pasture. And Lord, this day we pray that the great heavenly shepherd would lead us beside still waters and make us in thy word to lie down in lush green pastures Father, fill us this morning. Feed us your people. Set aside all of our thoughts of other things and the distractions. Of our busy lives that so quickly intrude into our thoughts and minds. Father, in this time we had to go this morning, may we watch with you one hour as We think of the disciples who slept. May we in this hour feast upon the word of God, not on the words of man, but on that which your word teaches our hearts. Bless us, your people. We pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. This sixty or forty-sixth Psalm, excuse me, this forty-sixth Psalm obviously is a psalm for times of trouble. It's a time, a psalm for times when our hearts are distressed. And to be quite honest with ourselves, that's a good bit of the time, isn't it? The joy of the Lord is our strength, and yet how often the cares of this life and all the things that intrude upon us press us down and we know that our adversary the devil is a roaring lion. He's always hungry to devour. And he he cannot devour God's elect because the angel of the Lord in campus round about us And yet we find many prophets, and often David himself, discouraged and pressed down. God is our refuge and our strength. A very present help in time of trouble. How often in times of difficulty and stress and trouble he said all alone Like Elijah. I'm all alone. They've all forsaken me. And God says, no, I've reserved me 700 that haven't bowed the knee, that haven't called on the name of Baal But God is our refuge. God is our strength. But that fourth verse in particular has such glorious truth for us. There is a river, verse 4. The streams whereof make glad the city of God. Remember this psalm, the context is our refuge, our strength. We've got trouble going on, Lord. I'm depressed, I'm discouraged, I'm beaten down by the world. There is a river, the streams whereof make glad the city of God The holy place of the tabernacle of the Most High God. There is a river of God's blessing and God's joy that flows to the people of God This river makes glad the people of God in the midst of any trial we face, in the midst of this world in which we dwell. And notice it is the city of God, the people of God are the city of God. Just as this building is not the church, we the people are the church, and we talk about the city of God, but There is a heavenly city where we will dwell, but what good's an empty city? The city of God is a glorious place because God dwells there. And it's a glorious place because we dwell there with him. And this city of God that's spoken of here is a dual reference. It is the city of God in heaven. For to be absent from the body is to be present with the Lord. But also God dwells with us. He makes this tabernacle within his people. And we, the body of Christ Are the citizens of this city of God? And there's a river, a glorious river. That flows to the people of God. There is an unfailing source of strength and joy for God's people. Just by way of introduction, I want this one everyone to look at the blessings that flow in this river. But by way of introduction, first of all, there is a river. It exists! It's there! We may not always see it, but there is a river. And it's a river It's not a stagnant pond. It's not a cistern where water has been collected to store it up. But it's a river. It flows. It's ever fresh. The water that is in front of us today will be miles down the river tomorrow. And the water we will enjoy tomorrow is yet miles up the river. And so are the blessings of God. There are trials now in front of us, and there are blessings to overcome the trials, and those trials will be miles down the river tomorrow. And there's some more trials up the river coming, but there's God's blessing coming along with them. It's a river. It's not a stagnant pond. And then we also notice that it's a river with many streams. There is a river the streams whereof make glad the city of God. There are so many means of blessing. The blessings of God flow into this river from all sides, from all about us, from all around. It has many streams. Certainly we have many trials, but God is sufficient. And God's supply is there for every stream. The tributaries of God's mercy are all around us. And then notice also that the city of God is made glad by these streams. It says nothing of the wicked, does it? It says nothing of the unbeliever. Ah, remember when the psalmist said I was jealous when I saw the prosperity of the wicked? Surely they'll set them in slippery places. They should be cut down as the grass and wither as the green herb. But this river of the blessings of God, it makes glad God's people. It is a blessing that the unbeliever does not know, nor can he comprehend. The unbeliever says, God bless you. Or what's the other one that's popular today? Yeah, be blessed, and so on. But have a good one. But the unbeliever knows nothing of these blessings, because these blessings make glad the city of God But then notice also in this text that the city of God is the holy place of the tabernacle of the Most High. Ah, it is not a place. It is not a place of this world. And our blessings don't come from this world. It is not joys of this world, and our joy is not in this world. The things of this world are constantly failing, constantly passing away. But it makes glad the holy place, the place where God dwells with his people. We find in Scripture That a river is a place of refuge. And that's what's spoken of here. God is our refuge. Do you remember Moses? A little baby? It's gotten to three, four months old. Pharaoh has decreed all the babies to be killed to be destroyed Pharaoh's spies are everywhere, and Moses' parents have raised him, but he cries in the middle of the night. He's hungry. He's an infant And his voice is heard, and they try to keep his quiet, but finally they can hide him no longer. And they put him in a basket and put him out in the river. It was the safest place for a crying baby. There's crocodiles in the river! The river's not a safe place for a newborn. It's a dangerous place But it was a refuge for God's chosen child. Oh, how often our river seems to be, Lord, why? But it's a place of blessing. Look at verse five. Look at verse five. God is in the midst of her, she shall not be moved. God shall help her, and that right early Miriam was sent to watch the basket. But God was in the basket. God was with them. And here, this wicked king wants to destroy all the babies. And what does God do? He sends the daughter of the wicked king. To rescue the baby. Never would have happened at home, folks. But in the river. in the basket. You see a river. God's blessing. It's a place of refuge for his children. It's a place where they are safe. Elijah, running from Jezebel. Where did he hide? Ahab has his people everywhere looking for Elijah. Where is he? There's a drought! He's by the book Chirith. He's fired a small river, and God is sending ravens to take care of him. Israel is running from Pharaoh They get to the Red Sea. The Red Sea stands in front of them. They are trapped. They have mountains on both sides. They have the Red Sea in front of them. They're ready to be destroyed. God opens the Red Sea and they walk through on dry ground Pharaoh's army decided, if they can do it, so can we. This river is a blessing for the city of God. It's not a blessing for the heathen. That same river into which they went ri see, into which they went for refuge from the army of Pharaoh was the destruction. Of the army of Pharaoh. This river is a place of refuge. The river of God's blessing is a place of refreshment. Have you ever gone to a river on a hot day and stuck your feet in? I think probably every one of us have at some time or another. In Jamaica, there was a place called Paradise Park Beautiful little place. A friend of mine actually owned it. And we would call one of the Elementary Homeschool families and say, are you almost done work done today? Let's go to the river. And we would meet down there, and our kids would tube down the river while the missionaries sat on these rocks that were perfectly positioned, and we would pray and fellowship, and we were refreshed. All the cares of the world were washed away, not by the river, but by the fellowship of God's people as iron sharpened iron. A river is a place of refreshment. There is a river, the streams whereof make glad the city of God. In the time when our soul was weary and we just feel like, Lord, I can't live another day. What I can't take it anymore. The river of God's blessing refreshes God's people. It makes us glad. It brings joy to our heart. Look at verse 7. The Lord of hosts is with us, the God of Jacob is our refuge. Look at verse nine. He maketh wars to cease to the end of the earth, he breaketh the bow, he cutteth the spear in sunder. He burneth the chariots with fire. All those things mentioned there in verse nine are things that stand against God's people. And in one verse the Holy Spirit just wipes them all out, doesn't he? Takes care of them all What else are you going to bring, Satan? They're taken care of. There's refreshment there. The Lord refreshes his people. He leadeth me beside the still waters. He maketh me to lie down in green path. Pastures. A river is a place of refreshment besides still waters. In Psalm thirty-six, verse eight, we read, They shall be abundantly satisfied with the fatness of thy house And thou shalt make them the drink of the river of thy pleasures. A river is a place of relief. It's a place of relief. Remember when the evangelist Philip was out in the desert evangelizing the Ethiopian eunuch? And they came to a little pool of water, and there the eunuch Was baptized. There's refreshment there. Ever been very, very thirsty? And you finally got something to drink. I remember in Jamaica we had had a hurricane that had devastated the island and uh 2011, Hurricane Gilbert, 2012, had devastated the island. And there was no electricity anywhere, therefore there was no refrigeration anywhere And for a period of about three or four weeks, everything that Penny and I had drank was lukewarm. And it puts fluid in your body, but it's warm. And after the road was cleared and the trees were gone and the telephone poles and all were off the road, I was finally able to get into town. And there was one little store that had a generator, and they had a freezer, and they had these juice boxes that were frozen And it was the first time in almost a month I had anything cold. And I can't describe how pleasant that was. And I bought as many as I could, and I took them home to penny, hoping they wouldn't get warm by the time I got home. It was so Refreshing. The river of God's blessing refreshes the soul He restoreth my soul. I had fainted, unless I had believed to see the goodness of the Lord in the land. Ah, this river that flows to the city of God, it refreshes the soul, it makes us glad. When all we have left is the sadness of this world and the sorrow that's around us. Our gladness is in the holy city. And we're glad because of who dwells there. It's the place of the tabernacle of the Most High God. Isaiah described the coming of the Messiah in Isaiah 35 and verse 6: For in the wilderness water shall break out, and streams in the desert. Streams in the desert. Streams in the dry place. Streams in the place where there is no water. God gives streams in the deserts of our life. Psalm 63 begins this way. Let me read the title to Psalm 63 and then the first verse. A psalm of David when he was in the wilderness of Judah. And then the verse begins O God, thou art my God, early will I seek thee. My soul thirsteth after thee, my flesh longeth for thee in a dry and thirsty land where no water is. I think most of us know the feeling, the heartbreak, the longing of a dry and thirsty land where no water is. But there is a river, the streams whereof shall make glad the city of God, the place of the tabernacle of the Most High God. There's refreshment here. A river is a place of cleansing. It's a place of cleansing. In in countries where they don't have water like we have, the ladies go down to the river and they wash their clothes in the river. They cleanse them there. Naaman the leopard dipped seven times in the Jordan River. John baptized in the river Jordan, repenting of sin. The river doesn't remove sin. The baptism didn't remove sin. But throughout Scripture, we find this typology of a river as a place of cleansing. When a leper came to the Old Testament priests, they were to take two doves, and they were to slay one of them over running water. It was a picture of that cleansing. It was a picture of the removing of sin. That running water there in Leviticus literally is fountains of water over fountains of water. You know, there's a continual cleansing for the people of God. Paul had to die daily. If he ha if Apostle Paul had to die daily, I think the rest of us need to die every five minutes or less. Uh because we walk through this world and the filth of this world and uh Lot vexed his righteous soul in seeing and hearing and the things of this world and the sin of this world and O wretched man that I am, who shall deliver me from the body of this death, and all the the good I would I do not, and the evil I would not that I do, all the things of this world are constantly sticking to us And they weigh down the soul. They steal the joy of the salvation. They rob us of our assurance in God. The things of this world rob us of the assurance of His presence, and that's what it's talking about here. He dwells with us. But this glorious river of God's blessing is a place of cleansing. If we confess our sins, He's faithful and just to forgive us of our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. Wash ye, make ye clean. In Zechariah 13 and verse 1, again speaking of the day of Messiah, it says, In that day there shall be a fountain open to the house of David and to the inhabitants of Jerusalem for sins and for uncleanness. And uncleanness. There's a fountain that has been opened by our great Messiah, by Jesus Christ. And it's a great, mighty river. Throw a stick into the river, and what happens? There it goes. There's a great river of God's blessing, and it's a place of cleansing for God's people. A river is a place of life. When I was in Kenya a few years ago, out in uh Katui, where Billy Johnson has labored for many years, there was a very harsh drought. Very strong drought. Everything was dry and dusty. The road, if you kicked your foot, it was it was like an inch of dust everywhere. And a vehicle would go by and it would take uh literally an hour sometimes for the dust to clear. I visited one little town called Batini and I I have pictures of that town. The town looks like smoke, and it's actually the dust from all the vehicles. You know, you had to cover your mouth, you're breathing it in. And when we got back from there, we were absolutely muddy because we were sweating with the heat and the dust was clinging to us. But you would drive along and come to where there was a river. No water, just a dry riverbed. And yet along that dry riverbed there were lush green trees. And the children were out there and they were digging down sometimes four and five feet into the riverbed. And down there, there was still water. You could not see the water. But if you dug down deep enough, you would hit the water because it was still there under the riverbed. And that's why the trees were green. He shall be like a tree planted by the rivers of water. But there where there was water, there was life. Where there is water, there is life. And we, ye, who were dead in trespasses and sins, hath he quickened. Where does our life come from? It's from the water of God. And from the water of God alone. He is our life. How often do we find in Scripture God's people wanting to die? Take down my life from me, I'm no better than my father's. I think most of us at some time or another life at some time or another have despaired of life. God keeps us in life. But there's more than that I give unto them eternal life, and they shall never perish. Oh many times the trials were facing her because of the roaring lion, but he cannot have me He walks about seeking whom he may desire, but he may not desire, may devour, but he may not devour the child of God. Because I I have life. A river is a place of life. This probably seems pretty obvious, but a river is a place of water. It's it's a place of water. There's water there. Even that river I talked about in Kenya, if you dug down, there was still water underneath of it. A river's a place of water. Why is that significant? Well The medical profession tells us that the human body, if it has water, can go without food three or four weeks. If there's no water, They can't do that. That's why Christ's fasting 40 days and 40 nights and other prophets fasting 40 days and 40 nights is miraculous. They they survived it and seemed to have the vigor to walk out. Whereas most people, if they are without food and water for a few weeks, they're they're they're alive, but they're flat. They can't move. They've lost all strength. But the human body can go three to four weeks without food if it has water. The human body can only go three to four days without water. It needs some kind of water, or we die. This river of God's blessing is water, is life to his people, because it's the place of water. It's a place for what we need. And I'm so often blessed by Elijah who is running from Jezebel. Jezebel says Well God do so to me and more also if I not make not thy life as one of them by this time tomorrow, referring to the prophets of Baal that Elijah has just slain on the mountain And Elijah goes in the wilderness. He lays down by a juniper tree and he prays, Lord, take my life from me, for I'm not better than my father's. Lord, kill me. I've had enough. I want to die. An angel shakes him and says, Wake up. And there is a cake and a cruise of water. He goes back to sleep again. Angel wakes him a second time. Another cake, another cruise of water. The point is this: Elijah asked to die, but God gave him what he needed to live. Live. And oh, when we're at the end of ourselves and ready to die, ready to Quit. God gives us what we need to live. This glorious river is a place of water. It's a place of blessing. For God's people. A river's a place of miracles. You know God still does miracles today. Oh not in the Charismatics and you know these TV charlatans and so on. That's not what we're talking about at all. But a river is a place of miracles. God opened the Jordan River for Joshua and the children of Israel to cross Remember when the sons of the prophets were building a house with a borrowed axe and the head flew off and went into the water? Oh, my father, it is borrowed, and iron did swim. A river is a place of miracles. You know the salvation of Moses, Moses rescue by the daughter of Pharaoh, that was a miracle. Moses took his rod and he touched the Nile River and it became blood. A river's a place of miracles I have some people here today in this congregation that are alive, and that's a miracle. We have some people here this morning that could have been in a car accident on the way here and been killed. But the Lord, in some miraculous fashion, diverted that, and you're here and you're alive. Young people. Teenagers, children, there are some of you here today that are here alive, and it's a miracle. Because the doctor said you would never be born. The doctor said there was no way that your mother would ever have a child. But you're here, and that is a miracle. This river of God's blessing is miraculous in what it can do for God's people. Is there anything too hard for thee? You see, God is our refuge and strength, a very present help in time of trouble, and it doesn't matter what the trouble is. Because there's a river of blessing that flows to the people of God. God is still doing miracles on behalf of his people. A river is a place of peace. Did you ever sit down by a peaceful river and just relax? You see, the psalmist is talking about a time of trouble, a time of chaos. It says here in the chapter, he maketh wars to cease. It says he burns the chariots with fire. Verse after verse after verse of this psalm talks about trouble and problems and difficulty. But in the middle of all the troubles and problems and difficulty, there's still a river It still exists. It's there for God's people. And then that river is peace. And of course our minds go to Isaiah 48. I'll give you peace like a river. And that context there in Isaiah 48, 17 and 18, is that the children of Israel had sinned. They had done wrong. They were in rebellion against God, but God says, If you just obey me I'll give you peace like a river. When peace like a river attendeth my soul, when sorrows like sea billows roll, Whatever my lot thou hast taught me to say, it is well. It is well with my soul. Why? Because this river of blessing that flows to the people of God, it's a river of peace. It soothes all our fears. It heals all of our wounds and batters for this world and keeps us going. And finally, a river is a highway. A river is a highway In the early days of this nation, before we had cars and trucks and buses, all they had was horse carts and and wagons. The rivers of this nation were the highways. And many times along a river they would actually dig a canal and divert part of the water into the canal so you would put towpaths beside it and they had mules and oxen that would pull these barges up and down the river. It was a highway It was a place where they traveled. In Isaiah 66, verse 12, For thus saith the Lord, Behold, I will extend her peace to her like a river, and the glory of the Gentiles shall flow into it. It's a river. Where are you going? Where are you going? Are you standing still or are you traveling? No. We are pilgrim, Presbyterian Bible Church. Pilgrims are travelers, aren't they? Pilgrims are not standing still This river, we read in Isaiah, is a river that the Gentiles flow into. I don't know for sure, but I doubt any of us here today can claim the pure blood of Abraham. And the gospel is not to those of the flesh, but to those that are the children by faith. We are the children of Abraham by faith, and we're traveling to a city. We are traveling in this great river, and where does it flow? To the city of God. We're seeking a city, even a heavenly. Therefore he's not ashamed to be called our God. Let me read to you three verses from Isaiah 35, verse 6 to 8. Then shall the lame man leap as a heart, and the tongue of the dumb shall sing. For in the wilderness shall water break out, and streams in the desert. And the parched ground shall become a pool, and the thirsty land springs of water, in the inhabitation of dragons, where each shall lay, shall be grass with weeds and rushes And a highway shall be there, and a way, and it shall be called the way of holiness. The unclean shall not pass over it, but it shall be for the wayfaring man, though fools shall not error. Therein. Ah there is a road, a highway for the wayfaring man For the travelers, for the strangers and pilgrims, this great river of God's blessing is carrying us home. We talk about crossing the Jordan. I don't want to cross the Jordan. I want to jump in it and ride home. There's a river. A blessing to the people of God. Returning to those five preliminary considerations that we began with. There is a river, folks. Ah. Sometimes it's hidden from us. Sometimes the blessings of God are not as apparent as they are other times But by faith believe there is a river. It is always there. And it is a river. It's moving, even though it seems to move very slow. It's not a stagnant pond, but it's a river of blessing. It has many streams, many avenues of blessing. It flows to the city of God, and the city of God is made glad by it, because it flows to the place where God is. Dwells. He dwells with us. God is in our midst. Brethren and friends, when the trials come, may we seek the river. As a man in the desert, parched and dry, seek to the place of God's blessing. Seek to the place where God meets with his people. And there you'll find that there is a river of blessing from our God. Let us stand for prayer this morning. Our Father, we thank you that you never leave us or forsake us. We thank you, Lord, that there is constant blessing to your people. We thank you, Father, that your blessing is extended to us. Father, give us grace to seek you early, for in seeking we shall find. Father, bless us your people, with your truth. May your word continue in our hearts and in our ears. May we be students of the Word of God. May we hunger and thirst for the Word of God. May we hunger and thirst for Christ. Bless us this day we pray in Jesus' name, Amen.