They get the decision. It means don't quickly just go ahead and appoint somebody because it's convenient or because somebody off of a whim says, I need to be in this office, in this role. It's good to wait for the confirmation of the church. And so ultimately this is a calling for service to others, not just a calling for self-promotion. Folks, those are the things that are priorities in our life. Yeah, we'll spend eternity around the throne of God, but these are the days when we can really serve Him. And that we may repeat three verses there before we move on. It shall be health to thy navel and marrow to thy bones. And with honor God with our talents, there'll be no problem with a third, because we do honor God with our tithe. And so may we, out of deep gratitude to Thee and great estimation of who you are, give our time, our talents, and our tithe to thee. Neither have entered into the heart of man the things which God has prepared for them that love him. To ye walk circumspectly, not as fools, but as wise, redeeming the time, because the days are evil, buying back the time in the worship and praise of our God. And this day we pray that the words of our mouths and the meditations of our heart will be acceptable in thy sight, O Lord, our strength and our Redeemer. Number five hundred and fifty-six blue rejoice hymnal Five fifty six, we sing all four stanzas. The love is here shall in that day all the church of great those children. uh episcopus, which is an overseer, somebody who oversees the Church of God. And you know, various churches have broken down these roles somewhat differently. a pastor or a deacon. There is danger when you simply let an entire congregation, which can be mixed of believers and unbelievers in their hearts, uh put forth a vote, but rather we uh In Acts chapter 1, the disciples prayed and voted on the replacement for Judas. uh set them before the apostles. And I'll just read a small portion from that. And they laid their hands on them. There shouldn't be a desire of somebody that says, Well, I don't care what others think, I need to be in this role. Or people don't think I'm ready for it yet, I'm going to move ahead because I just feel convinced by myself. I have not spoken to them, yet they prophesied. And of course there's a danger as well. And the pastor very politely told him, Well sir, the qualifications for that office are more spiritual than talent-wise. You've not left us to wander even in doubt because we read, Thus saith the Lord. And Lord, for that we thank you. It is that they shall be destroyed forever. May the Lord add a rich blessing to the reading and hearing of this Holy Ghost And thou shalt bring of the the first of the land that the the may that the sorry that the Lord thy God may shall give thee, and thou shalt put it in a basket, and thou shalt go under the place which the Lord thy God has chosen. This newborn babes desire the sincere milk of the word. And so that's not what we're talking about this morning. That's something that a lot of hourly employees seem to have have trouble understanding. He may give you a break, which is a courtesy that he extends to you, but your time belongs to him, to the, or to the company. rather than it being the priority to study God's word and to pray. Thou hast been faithful over a few things. Amen. But consider with me in Matthew twenty-five and verse fourteen. and delivered unto them his goods. And he could see and discern who had talent here and who had talent there, who he should give five, and who he should give two and one. Hm. If I will not open the windows of heaven and pour out a blessing, that there shall not be room enough to receive it. And so, folks, may God give us such a walk and a relationship with Him that we indeed honor the Lord with our substance and with the first fruits of all our increases. Speaks of our Lord God coming to to gather his sheep home. What a delightful thing. regarding the ministers, elders, and deacons. I don't know if it hurts the bush or not, but it doesn't because I know that if I prune it, I'm going to get bigger, fatter berries. There is the term elder, which is presbuderos, which means literally an older individual. not to intrude himself by decent means, but is bound to wait till it shall please God to call him whom we may appoint over this business. They set them, those individuals that they uh voted for, before the apostles, and when they had prayed, they laid their hands on them. And so we see they were looking for the Lord's guidance. First it has to be God's calling, as we read of in the confessional reading. And then we see that the church, with the help of its leaders, they pray, they select, and they vote for them. Especially if you're going to be a leader, it's good that others will confirm that, yes, you have it right. putting somebody quickly into one of these positions without betting them for their qualifications. Go ahead and jump into that role and you'll know the Bible better. But ultimately, if you're called to be a minister of the Word of God, if you're called to serve as a leader in the church, it's to that I was very familiar with the situation where there was a very successful businessman in a particular church And so, Lord, as we go to our time of corporate prayer this morning, we're not going to enumerate before you the needs, but rather This morning we endeavor to come into thy courts with thanksgiving and into thy courts, into thy praise with thanksgiving and into thy courts with praise. And so we thank you first of all that we're not in hell, and we thank you second of all that you provided a means of salvation for us For Lord, you sent your only begotten Son to be the propitiation, to be the payment, to shed his own blood for our sins. None of us came this morning having had to walk many miles. But Father, you've taught us by experience that they that seek you shall not want any good thing. Our parents came from different parts of the world. That our every need has been provided. three or four years ago when we were seriously beginning to look and and considering and and seeking Lord. And we thank you, Lord, that you turned us away from that. A brutish man knoweth not, neither doth a fool understand this. All the workers of iniquity shall be scattered. As we're just gathering a few people here and we have seats in the front row, by all means just grab your seat right up front. We pray that thy Holy Spirit would be our teacher and our guide to show us wondrous things out of thy law. or had one ear that was crooked or was lame on one foot or was spotted or speckled run empty and the barrel of meal was not empty until the famine was past. Hindered. And desire to give to him the best that we have. When thou art come into the land which the Lord thy God giveth thee for an inheritance to possess it and dwellest therein, that thou shalt take of the first of all the fruit of the earth And that box of chocolates that you sent them cost you $12. No, it is very clear if you read the historical record, they were thanking God and they were teaching the Indians along with them by example that their God had provided for them their needs. which ye have of God, and ye are not your own. Yet that heart is insufficient for the circulation that is needed for that growing baby. And so our offering to God the first fruits is an indication that we are dependent on Him for all things. with the in the service of the Lord. We honor God with our hours, with our minutes, and even our seconds. This is the time we have to pray. And he shall hear my voice. Psalm 100, verse 2, serve the Lord with gladness. is found throughout all scripture. They shall be fat and flourishing. We read in verse 10, so shall thy barns be full with plenty, and thy press shall burst out with new wine. uh productive days of old age. He can certainly multiply the time that you have left after you've honored him first of all with your time. It's just a matter of different responsibilities and abilities. If any man speak, let him speak as of the oracles of God. That's right. Differences of administration but the same Lord, diversity of opportun of operations, but the same God. We're sitting on this money and there are ministries that need this money. Rather, we need to be getting this money out where it can be used in the service of the Lord. No, though wake and oast thou street from disgusting, sing praises through his name Say for this not his own. Father, we do indeed pray that you would free our hearts and minds from all the cares of this life. that there be no rain, or if I command the locusts to devour the land, or if I send pestilence among my people All its week gather is ever with the stores. ought to be chosen to their respective offices by a lawful election of the church officers. with calling upon the name of the Lord, and in that order which the Word of God teaches. But it has the sense there that there's someone who's wise and of age and has experience with the word of God. Our familiar office, especially here in the U. The added portion there, as you'll see, for clarification, is that it's an election of church officers, those that are already standing, those that are ministering with the church. And they uh by God's calling, by God's movement, they understood there needed to be a replacement for Judas. And they cast in their lot, and the lot fell upon Matthias, and they went with him. Because we hear warnings in the scriptures of those that don't truly know it. Feed God's sheep. And he approached the pastor and told the pastor that he would put this gentleman on the board of the church that he would get things accomplished. A lot of my friends that I graduated with, I don't mean to be critical of them in saying this, but they were always seeking the opportunity to preach. If I open up an opportunity for myself to preach, then I've got to find something to preach. It is well not to rush into any choice of any man, not a novice, scripture word flows this, and it is well for any man to be very hesitant. That all the prayer requests on our prayer list this morning are known to thee. But Father, we thank you that you have not done that. Father, we thank you that we had this fellowship. We pray for one another. Father, I remember the days in Jamaica when we longed for one young man that could open thy word, even among the hundreds to whom we were ministering. And yet, Father, here in this small assembly, you've given us a multiplicity of men that are enabled by thy Spirit to open thy word and effectively and efficiently present thy gospel. Father, it is such a blessing. And Father, we thank you, Lord, that you do all things well and that you overrule our silly will and desires. And so we we come before you knowing you know all the requests of our two pages of prayer request, but this morning we come in simple thanks. In your Bible for a responsive reading, once you found Psalm ninety-two, please rise. A psalm or song for the Sabbath day. To show forth thy loving kindness in the morning and thy faithfulness every night upon an instrument of ten strings and upon the psaltery, upon the harp with a solemn sound. I shall be anointed with fresh oil. The righteous shall flourish like a fallen tree. What is man so frail and weak that you should remember him? As we begin our consideration this morning. Oh, you do this and that and the other, and the Lord will make you wealthy, and your wine presses will burst out with wine. They brought the best lamb from the flock. In other words, when your pay comes in, that which goes to the Lord is set aside before anything else. portion. Anything else? Have a little bit of oil and a little bit of meal and I'm gathering a few sticks that I might make a cake for my son and I and then we starve, then we die And Elijah's instruction to her was, no, make me a cake first. Exodus 23, 19. to place his name there. If you look there to our text in verse 7 of Proverbs 3, be not wise in thine own eyes, fear the Lord. some great thing for us. When we live out without coat and purse, we lacked nothing. But I demonstrate my gratitude. at the first Thanksgiving. And verse 7, it's talking about the relationship by Melchizedek, king of Salem and Abraham. is blessed of the better. I obey. He is the boss. But further, I would point out that offering to God the first fruits is an acknowledgement of our dependence. No, that is where we were attached to our mother. Isn't that interesting? And if that umbilical cord becomes twisted in the wound, if it becomes kinked and the baby cannot receive through that umbilical cord, the baby dies in the wound and the result is a miscarriage. And we were we were walking through a store and just everything we saw, oh, he would love this, she would love that, and it was just overwhelming they're saying, you know, because they're our grandkids. Because he wants to impress her or because he loves her. Diamonds, you know. And so giving to God is an expression of our is an act of obedience, it's a demonstration of gratitude, it's an affirmation of headship, it's an acknowledgement of independence, and it's a declaration of our love. I don't have any time that belongs to me. done with this work and I get done all these other things, then I really want to serve the Lord. Because I need to pray four hours before I approach my busy day. also said, remember now thy creator in the days of thy youth. We are the servants of the Lord right now. Because these are the days and minutes and hours which God has given us for His service. We get so busy with the things of this world that it comes time to pray and we're falling asleep. Whatsoever thy hand findeth to do, do it with all thy might. Galatians 6, verses 9 and 10. As we have therefore opportunity, let us do good unto all men, especially those who are of the household of faith. By faith, Moses, when he was come to years, refused to be called the son of Pharaoh's daughter. Well, he refused to be called the son of Faber's daughter, choosing rather to suffer the affliction of the people of God than to enjoy the pleasures of sin for a season. esteeming the reproach of Christ greater riches than all the treasures in Egypt, for he had respect under the recompense of reward. But my God shall supply all your needs. He just hit it in the ground. to produce from that which God had entrusted to them. with the first fruits of our time. Honor the Lord with thy substance, with the first fruits of all thine increase. Because we dare not sit on these funds because they don't belong to us. May we give you all that we have for the glory of God, for indeed you have given us your best. We gather together to last the Lord's blessing. Number 558. The Lord was at our side, the world. That he may have testimony of his calling and be certain and assured that it is of the Lord. But these are the three specific titles that are given with qualifications in the Church of God. And we don't read in scripture that simply somebody wakes up and has a feeling that they're supposed to be in this office and self-proclaims, well now I'm an elder or To take a place of spiritual responsibility. And I came to the conviction that I should never seek the opportunity to preach. And so I I realized, you know what, if the Lord opens a door, I will always have something to preach, even if I don't know what that's going to be Lord, because if it were not for grace, we would have no hope. And we thank you for it. They shall still bring forth fruit in old age. Wait never above your words to meet in all this farm Cost and Street and for Wild Beast were then Face the ocean plane, Lord our Lord in all he are. And so that's what I want to consider this morning, the first fruits. What you have done for me. And again we read in 1 Corinthians 6, verses 19 and 20, What? We love them. Ah, this happens right at service time. We read in 1 Peter 4 verse 10, As every man hath received the gift, even so minister the same to one another as good stewards of the manifest grace of God. And Father, may that indeed be our desire. Let my conversation a state revelation by day ever praise the Lord. That are well deserving of our time and our thoughts and our energies. So, Father, clear our hearts and minds from all that would distract us. If my people, which are called by my name, shall humble themselves and pray, and seek my face, and turn from their wicked ways. We sent you joy or sorrow and before. And we've uh, or the church officers, we've updated the confessional reading here just to specify that A church that does well in the spiritual will not lack because God pays for what he orders. Without concerns of paying a particular bill, we're able to have diaconal funds to meet the needs of thy people as they arise. Thank you, O Lord. When I see the moon and stars with you in order. All right, uh Psalm eight, and we'll sing the three stanzas, closing with the Amen. We give God the best. The early Hebrews would bring their lamb for sacrifice. But what is that? In Jamaica it was popular for people to say, you're not the boss of me. Give us this day our daily bread. But then, and really this is where we're getting to the real outline I want to consider this morning, what are the practical applications of this? Folks, we're not simply hourly employees, we're salary. You know, it's not like you go to work nine to five and everything else belongs to you. He has bought our time. all the day long. They lived in the palace. Folks, that's not the prosperity gospel. And so it is with the body of Christ. And the one who was given one talent were equally responsible for the talents. Not according to their own wisdom, not according to this philosophy or that philosophy, but the ability as the ability as God gives. That had a very healthy savings account and were very concerned to maintain a healthy savings account. Malachi 3 verse 10 Bring ye all the tithes into the storehouse that ye may have meat, that there may be meat in mine house. Then will I hear from heaven and will forgive their sins and will heal their land. We've turned to that hymnal for the Christmas period of time because there's many a good song in this hymnal collected for that purpose But the question that's kind of dealt with here in this portion of the confessional reading is how does somebody get into one of these offices? And um he was one of those guys, he's walked into a room and he led it, and people followed him welling well and willingly. This is our Sunday of Thanksgiving following the national holiday. But O Lord, we thank you that we are the same and one because of Jesus Christ. For your glory. When I view the sky to hold with your own fingers play. Let us pray. need, according to his riches and glory. And then it is first in its order of distribution. Contemporary correction. But then also we find that offering to God the first fruits is a simple declaration of love. Folks, this is not an obscure concept in Scripture. Folks, I um got some mushroom soil mixed with chicken manure and put it around my cannons this summer. They shall still bring forth fruit in old age. And he gave one uh and he gave unto sorry and unto one he gave five talents to another uh another two and to another one every man according to his several abilities. To the point where they were not sending money out. Amen, amen. Three stands as we have before us. In the Bible, we read of three specific offices that are mentioned, or at least three titles that are mentioned in the New Testament for the ministers of the church. For truly, if you dealt with us according to our sins, if you meted out divine justice upon us, you would take us from this life and directly to hell. And then further, we thank you, Lord, that you've given us thy word. Lord, you have provided every need. For thou Lord hast made me glad through thy work. The third chapter, and I'll read verses seven, eight, nine, and ten. Verse 7 of the third chapter of Proverbs: Be not wise in thine own eyes. It shall be health to thy navel, and marrow to thy bones. Honor the Lord with thy substance, and with the first fruits of all thine increase. So shall thy barns be filled with plenty, and thy presses shall burst out with new wine. very interesting situation was one of my nephews recently where he had just had a new baby and some of the family were gathering around the the new baby and of course he is a father now for ten days. And he asked his cousins and everyone who was gathering around at Dubaby, none of you are sick, are you? But what is the significance of giving to God the first fruit? God said that this was what he desired for his people to do. When we give our first fruits the best we have, and we're going to talk about that in more detail later, what that best is. He is my God. But you have no desire to offer him the first fruits? We only have so many. But how often the case is that we get so tired, Brother Vince mentioned, you know, preparing for the Lord's day begins on Friday night. Because they were in some of the richest nitrogen soil you could ever find. And still bring forth fruit in old age. Your time is the one thing that you can give to God that doesn't cost you anything. Right? The abilities of the servant were specific to the individual. Some had greater ability than others. But everybody has some ability. Good stewards of the m God has given us grace, folks. That God in all things may be glorified through Jesus Christ, to whom be praise and dominion for ever and ever. The last verse of that passage, verse 10 of Proverbs 3, so shall thy barns be filled with plenty, and thy presses shall burst forth with new wine. Folks, you cannot give God. with him. You know, the Lord uh deserves a tenth. Then everything else here will fall in line. I'm reading very familiar verses from 2 Chronicles. At the moment, God will provide something. Very good. Psalm 8B Lord, our Lord, and all the earth. It's a demonstration of gratitude. When we give to God the first fruits, we're demonstrating He is my head. The developing fetus does not eat for itself. And then the next verse in verse 14, and this verse is becoming more precious to a lot of us. Obviously not. When they came to Christ, all the other things of this world suddenly lost their shine and their glitter. You can be a witness. Or I wish I could do that, but because I can't, I'm not going to do this either. The message of Scripture is having food and raiment, therewith be content. A certain and declarative statement about honoring the Lord with the first fruits It's a matter of what we think about the one we're giving to. God said to. Because I said so. It's an affirmation that He is my God. In Proverbs chapter three and down to verse I'll get it right here in a second. God can turn the dial back. We give God the first fruits of our talent. Be not wise in their own eyes, Proverbs 3:9. But we're not trying to hold on to I've been in, and I don't mean to get way off subject here, but I I have been in on the board of certain organizations Opening your Bibles with me this morning to the book of Proverbs and to the third of the Proverbs. Folks, we're not talking about giving this morning. And uh it's not even a calling, I've I've heard uh something that was very helpful for an individual to get to know the Bible better But um a church that does well in business but fails in the spiritual is not a church at all. A lot of people have the idea that I'm going to give to God whatever's left over. You see, we his estimation of the child was very high, and so everything else is And in response, you sent them a box of chocolates with a thank you card. There it is, verse eight. That those that are elected within the congregation to serve are to be men that are qualified to serve, and then they're to serve according to the ability that God gives them. So we honor God with our time. That his entire life as a believer. Then the whole corn shall appear, Lord of heart and sweat and green both sun rain and gold. Why do we give gifts to people we love? When you are on the clock at your job, your time no longer belongs to you. And straightway he took his journey. Be not wise in their own eyes, fear the Lord. Lord, our Lord, in all the external name, you are of the heavens. You see, if our estimation of God is high, then we would desire to give to him first. In my presence will I come with all thy angels God's God and God. Remember Elijah? Folks, first of all, how do we honor God with our substance and with the first fruit of all of our increase? They get to put in a wise decision over who gets put into these roles. And so we offer our thanks to God. Good morning. We turn to our red songbook, the Book of Psalms for Singing, right near the front is Psalm 8B, an adaptation of uh Psalm 8. You have probably heard reference to what is referred to as the prosperity gospel All right, we turn to our closing song number 558 in our blue hymnal. And this is God's prescription for the selection of people to fill these offices. God needs to stop all venting calls. We don't charge more for the front seats than we do for the back seats. He leads. Buy buying you buying your diamond at a at a thrift store and so no, it w it is an expression of love He recognized that there was something more important. But we're to be uh we be wise, sorry, be not wise in our own eyes, fear the Lord, depart from evil. That's another way of saying they appointed them. It's an acknowledgement that you have done this marvelous thing for me. Notice it was his own servants and his goods. He wouldn't have given them a talent if they didn't. I have blueberries out back and some of you know I'm into that sort of thing and uh collecting the berries is wonderful. It's to feed the church. What's the navel? Amen. When one is in pain, we all feel the pain. Good morning, everyone. Now, the whole context here is so shall it be health to thy navel. He did not do anything with it. Those were the leaders of the church. In Acts 6, verse 3, we read, Wherefore, brethren, look ye out among you seven men of honest report, full of the Holy Ghost and wisdom. You any individual, it's for all the lay people even in the church, but especially for the leaders, have to make sure they know God's word and make sure they're called to bring it forth. For Father, we enjoy such fellowship, such longing for one another. He is the ruler. We we yeah, we we we love our kids. Psalm 55, verse 17. No, but rather God calls them and he confirms them by a lawful election of church leaders Has anyone ever given you, and I'm not ready to look for a raising hand, just think about this, has anyone ever given you a gift that cost multiple thousands of dollars Number five fifty-eight, we gather together all three stances. We'll responsively read all fifteen verses of Psalm ninety-two That's what the first fruits are. That's that is what modern atheistic society tries to put forth. Psalm 121, verse 1. Gracious Father, we thank you this morning for the privilege that we have to gather for the express purpose of hearing thy word and worshiping the King of Heaven. Father, Mission Bible Church has so much this morning to be thankful for. Father, now as we approach the holy, inspired, and preserved Word of God. It's good to see that an individual is already blessing others. God gave uh give God control of your time management. Father, we thank you that in this small congregation, you have given us a multiplicity of able ministers of the gospel. The first fruits of thy land thou shalt bring into the house of the Lord thy God. But God has ordained that we offer to Him the firstfruits of our increase. How often did he have to prepare a meal? That's saying that God will give you that in store. You can be a testimony. Oh Lord, we can see certainly once. The Lord hath done great things for us, whereof we are glad. We're on 27 we we carry a beeper, folks. I will make thee ruler over many things. We will honor God with our substance and with all the first fruits of our increase. Thank you, brother. When Elijah came to the poor widow who was gathering a few sticks, and Elijah said to her, Make for me a cake. And so this is the principle that is throughout Scripture, the giving of the first fruits. He sets the standards. It is very common today for the impression to be given that the pilgrims were thanking the Indians. But what do we mean by giving the practic in a practical application of the first fruits? And we find in Scripture that they're not, it's not like one is so far exalted above the other that we look down our nose. Mine eye also shall see my desire on mine enemies, and mine ears shall hear my desire of the wicked that rise up against me. Our time and our days do not belong to our pleasure or our leisure or our convenience. We're talking about personal relationship with God. You are our master. We give comparatively small gifts of gratitude to someone who has done And pray the costume or deep bender will be It's to labor for them, to look out for their needs and minister to them, to bring the Word of God to them. I follow. That happens right at church time. We know of the disciples, and this is recorded in all the gospels, but in Mark 1 and verse 18, and straightway they forsook their nets and followed him. S. It'll be something for you to go ahead and instruct yourself. But thou, Lord, art most high forevermore. And we remember all the way back from the Old Testament when John Wesley has said that when he had a busy day, he said, I have to get up four hours early Uh blue songbook. There is nothing more important that we will hear this week or in the months to come than that which we hear from the Word of God. We come of different races. The days of our lives are numbered. David said, evening and morning, and at noon will I pray and cry aloud And let us not be weary in well-doing, for in due season we shall reap if we faint not. I've got the fat part down. And then later on in verse six, it says that they sent, um But if I pry open a door that God has not opened, it's not anything. But rather, you have regarded us in mercy and in grace. Well it's it's the belly button, as we say it. We find further that all were accountable to produce. And Father, because you have provided for us this home to meet, we are able, without concerns of a m of a mortgage, to send money to Jamaica. He shall grow like a cedar in Lebanon. Psalm 92, verses thirteen to fifteen. But my horn shall thou exalt, like the horn of the new horn. And that that's not talking about your waistline, it's talking about spiritual prosperity. We are familiar with the parable of the talents, and the parable of the talents isn't talking about abilities, it's talking about the the master gave them quantities of a monetary substance. He gave twenty percent. Oh man, oh man, please be seated. , is the uh office of a pastor, which is much liken to the bishop or elder role there that we see in the scriptures. Boy, there's so many so many comments I'd love to bangle that. Lord, that we have Mission Bible Church. Father, I thank you in particular that we did not purchase property. In other words, there's one that's the better, there's one that's ahead, and there's one that receives the blessing. You see, folks, you may not have the ability that this one has or that, but you can serve the Lord They prayed over these individuals. They shall be fat and flourishing to show that the Lord is upright. So it shall be health to thy navel It'll be a church that's healthy spiritually, if we are not wise in our own eyes, but we fear the Lord. That's what Scripture says. And another member of the board, who had also been a foreign missionary, said to the board, this is their right. Those were those that would ultimately make the decisions, make that calling It is a good thing to give thanks unto the Lord, and to sing praises unto thy name, O Most High. He is my Lord because he bought me with a price. We are to redeem the time right now And so there is a danger. The Lord hath done great things for us, whereof we are glad. She provided for us food. Returning to our text there in well, one other verse I mentioned, of course, 1 Corinthians 12 tells us there's diversities of gift with the same spirit Come before his presence with singing. God actually has to call them. I will triumph in the works of thy hands. And what do we mean by that term first fruits? It is the first fruits. They're the Lord's and for his work. All the world is God through us through his great new hill. Christian, in what do you believe? And we are his children. We are dependent on God, just as that developing fetus that is being knit together in the womb is dependent on the mother. This is not something that we just find here or there. For Father, we are indeed sinners before Thee, and yet our sins are covered by the blood. And Father, we do look forward and say, well this is coming and that's coming and how am I going to do this and how will this happen? You see, the child doesn't always understand the father's instruction or the father's reason, but we simply obey because God says to. He is my head. The developing fetus does not breathe for itself. I don't have time to do this, Lord. If any man minister, let him do it as of the ability which God giveth. And we dare not say, well, I'm not able to do that, so I'm not going to do this What great advice for any congregation. And we honor God with our talents. Come in, come in, please be seated. Save the soul straight up as hold. Some of them have been helpful breakdowns, others not so much. And just one side note, and then we'll get to prayer. Why? We cannot give to God anything in comparison with what He has given to us. I was glad when they said unto me, Let us go into the house of the Lord. And those prophets that the Lord didn't send. You've not left us to wander in confusion. That when you are an hour hourly employee and you show up at work, you have sold your time to the employer. And so all the servants had at least some degree of ability. But if the foot says, I'm tired of walking, the hand doesn't go anywhere. It's not our money to sit on and protect our organization's finances. People come with the soul of our Please turn to the back of your bulletins. They set aside that, yes, these individuals are going to be our deacons. Let us give thanks to the Lord. When one is in need, our hearts yearn and we do what we can to meet those needs. For there is no work, nor device, nor knowledge, nor wisdom in the grave whither thou goest. And folks, that is what Mission Bible Church does. Know ye not that your body is the temple of the Holy Ghost which is in you? Folks, I would I would love to have that kind of devotion and energy. Psalm 35, 28, my tongue shall speak of thy righteousness and of thy praise. You have always supplied for us and provided for us again and again. Turn in your blue songbook, the Rejoice Hymnal, to number 556. So go forth now. It's to the tune of Amsterdam, which I think is sung in the song To the Hills, I lift mine eyes, but I could be mistaken on that. Next to God you have made them with life and honor crown. They did not bring the land that was ill-favored. It was the first fruits. We we give to God first, not to the leftovers. 59 with a card. Thirdly, offering the first fruits to God is an affirmation of headship. He is my head. Because to offer to God the firstfruits means we give him the firstfruits of our time. They were likened to fruit. He makes the rule. And though the developing fetus has a beating heart, They shall be fat and flourishing, to show that the Lord is upright, he is my rock, and there is no unrighteousness. You own us. He bought me with the blood of Christ. You know, boy, I I I just can't find time for my devotions. Every believer has some degree of ability in the service of God. And this is true in the church. God will provide. Turn our eyes upon Christ and His Word. For the kingdom of heaven is as a man travelling into a far country who called his own servants He owned the servants, he owned the goods. We have to be good stewards of that grace You need to make sure you actually have the message of God, know it down well. And yet none of us came this morning hungry unless we chose to. When the wicked spring as the grass, and when all the workers of iniquity do flourish We have four children. Oh, it's street preaching, I'm not talking about that, but to contact a congregation for this reason And we know what happened. Enter thou into the joy of thy Lord. We honor Him with our time. And um uh my father always gave twenty percent But Father, there is nothing that deserves our time and wholehearted participation that is greater. We give to God before we give. How can we help it? Because that was his estimation of his God. We're talking about where we are with Him. But how often we find people, yeah, you know, I'm Christian, I serve the Lord, but Okay, so God is recognizing that he has these servants, but some servants have more ability than other servants. He gave to them according to their several abilities. We have so many things about us that are different. Why do we offer to God the first fruits of all of our increase? God has blessed this congregation financially. And then there's the third term for deacon, which is diacaneo, which literally means a servant. There is to be twelve disciples He has to stir them up to do this. And so the one that received five multiplied them. For you know what we have things we have need of before we ask. Well, folks, for the Christian, for the believer, God is the boss of me None of us slept last night under a bridge or in a cardboard box. How often did he have to go harvest his food? He sighted us to guide us our God with us joining for him. And that's where we read the warning in 1 Timothy 5. Okay? The less is blessed of the better. God will meet your needs. We won't do the optional choral piece that you see to the right hand of the page. We honor the Lord with the first fruits of our time because he owns it all. And they were contact, can I preach here and can I preach there? Heavenly Father, our gracious God, Lord, we thank you. And there's a lot of scriptures on this. And you know, this I've seen a lot of jokes recently about Walmart Lord, there are many things that have great importance If I shut up heaven If God opens up an opportunity for me to preach, He will give me something to preach. Uh the opera section is open if you would like to join us. And yet we find here We depend on him. Father, I remember as a child we used to sing the chorus just a closer walk with thee. Folks, does God need anything? I would question whether you truly love the Lord. We're we're we're on 24 hour, seven-day a week call We give to the Lord. Proverbs, the book of the wisdom of Solomon For ye are bought with a price. So it's such a wonderful thing to consider. Those that be planted in the house of the Lord shall flourish in the courts of our God The message of Scripture is but my God shall supply all your It was best in quality. And something I would point out here that just just a bit of And there we read in Hebrews 7:7, and without contradiction, the less What what is the why do we have that spot on our stomach They belong to Him. Now may I flourish for my God Those that be planted in the house of the Lord shall flourish in the courts of their God And we see these kinds of uh lawful elections in Acts 1 and Acts chapter 6. In Acts 6, they had to appoint seven deacons to serve the church, to minister While that is something that happens You are our head. And lastly, they Not just saying, I'm gonna wait till I get into that role and then I'll start doing those things. Please turn to Psalm ninety two. But that's not the principle of Scripture. Matthew 25, verse 23, His Lord said unto them, Well done, thou good and faithful servant. And Father, we we come from different backgrounds. And I think most of you probably are have either worked salary or are familiar with that principle where You know, it's not like, oh well, you know, someday when I get done raising a family, and when I get Ephesians 5, verses 15 and 16. They shall still bring forth fruit in old age. Be not wise in their own eyes, fear the Lord. Jesus gave that first parable about seeds that were sown, some producing fruit. The barrel of oil, the cruise of oil did not He commands Well, first of all, when we talk about first fruits, they are first in quality. Folks, those to be planted in the house of the Lord shall flourish in the courts of their God. Honor God with your time and He will repay. God will bless. We gather together. Yes, we have to avoid self-proclaimed leaders and avoid You see, we honor God with the first fruits of our times, and we honor God with the first fruits of our talents. I'm not gonna go into all of them but one one thing that just stands out particularly For lo, thine enemies, O Lord, for lo, thine enemies shall perish. Deuteronomy 26, verses 1 and 2, and it shall be Not everyone can stand and preach. The gifts are different, but they all complement. Oh my word I don't care if others don't think I'd be a a good leader or or uh Jeremiah 23, 21 says, I have not sent th these prophets, yet they ran Rather than going into ministry quickly, it's And again, go back to our text there. And so this same Solomon that wrote these words under inspiration But folks, those days will never come. And so first of all, we got give God the first fruits of our time, but then we give God the first fruits of our talent So proudly given me the fight we are winning. We believe that the ministers of God's Word and the elders and deacons He has to prepare them. But there is a danger, as the confession says, that everyone must take heed not to intrude himself. From the mouth of infant young you the power of race. We love them. And I've mentioned before that that you know we have never passed the plate here at Mission Bible Church and we don't beg for money And our time of prayer just becomes something we tack on to the end of the day You gave us your Son. This morning we look at Article 31, first portion of it. You have called us from every nation, tongue, and race, and made us one body in Christ. Now, they they may have given you something that cost them $5,000 And I'm giving you just a token to show you that I appreciate And so O Lord, how great are thy works, and thy thoughts are very deep. But not only are we salaried God can make the sun stand still. And folks, if we honor God with our time, Their qualifications are listed in 1 Timothy chapter 3 and Titus 1, and we went over some of those last week. And how often a child will pose the question, why, Daddy? Secondly, offering to God the firstfruits is a demonstration of gratitude. In Hebrews chapter 7, But oh when the grandkids come along, you give to those you love. We read in our responsive reading this morning in Psalm 92 We honor him with our time And so uh Well conditioned document. That is the Lord's I have not seen nor ear heard This is the time that we have to read God's Word, to hide God's Word in our heart. They were all expected That's such a uh glorious song We love one another. That the the pilgrims had this big feast to thank the Indians for helping them through the winter They forsook that which would be a hindrance to them. And we thank you, Lord, that it is by grace that we are saved And my cannons grew to nine foot tall. The one who was given five talents How often the leaders of the congregation are wise in their own eyes and they don't fear the Lord. Remember that's one of the fun points we had. Therefore, everyone must take heed Early when I was just out of Bible college, Pruning the branches doesn't hurt me We thank you this morning. I'm going to read just four verses, verses seven through ten. Returning to our text. They're elders. And so, Father, we thank you that you provide for us. But also the first fruits are a matter of estimation of the recipient But when we give our the first fruits, it's an affirmation of headship. We are trying always, in fact, Brother Ben's wanted to make sure the money went out before the end of the year It all ties in to the navel. But this principle that we are to honor God with our time But if our relationship with God is in line, And so it came down to a decision between Matthias and Joseph. He has to qualify them for this role and have them willing to actually do it. And so, Father, we thank you first of all that we are not in hell this morning. First of all, we give God the first fruits of our time. Where did Moses live? But also the first fruits in Scripture are the first in reception. Fear the Lord, and depart from evil. We pray this in Jesus' name. He chases and races will make My my wife commented this this week uh on on giving to grandkids. Well, uh, let's pray. Therefore glorify God in your body and in your spirit, which are God's. You are our director. We're not talking about laying up treasures on earth where moth and rust doth corrupt. What more can we do? 22. And we offer this thanksgiving in Jesus' name. You can stick right up front Folks, that's not the message of Scripture We give God the best. Ecclesiastes 9, verse 10 God will make his work go the way he wants it to do. For Lord, that would have been an error outside of thy will God can make the sun stand still, folks And then there's also the bishops. It says, Lay hands suddenly on no man I I there's just not enough time to pray Brother, if you would please uh bring a confessional reading to us. None of us came this morning naked. It belongs to the company. The one that received two multiplied them, but the one that received one So returning to our text. He is my rock. Honor God with your days and God will give you your And so we honor God We gather together. Lord, how could we not be thankful? He looked at his servants What shall be the son of man that you And prove me now therewith, saith the Lord of hosts. We all explore. In Jesus' name. We'll just be doing good to stick with them And this ties in so marvelously with what our brother was talking about in the confession this morning. But it's a demonstration of gratitude. And he was quite offended and left the church. We are of different national heritages. Father, this is a great blessing. Amen. We give him the first. Well, first of all, it's simply a matter of obedience. Why does a young man give a girl a diamond? Come, ye thankful people, come And she said, I I No, but they already need to be a help to them. I've never seen cannons that tall before. Lord, thank you. By faith, Hebrews 11 There is righteousness in him. In Jesus' name. In other words, these days are all ye have. Notice with me Treasured and favorite song There's uh the term for bishop which is Amen. He is my head. Folks if you say I love the Lord Let us stand for prayer. Lord, this is so rare. The employer owns your time. I can never repay you. Amen. Lord. We love Him.