Uh we're we're just right there in the scriptures. So if you would turn with me this morning to first Samuel as we pick up. Uh Samuel has been asked has asked the Lord to speak as we noted uh last week and he did so And it's the next morning afterwards, as we pick up on the story of First Samuel chapter three. And there we're going to find that Eli wants to know what God had to say when Samuel said, Speak, Lord. So 1 Samuel chapter 3, verses 11 to the end of the chapter. Begin at verse 1 or verse 11. And this is what God said when Samuel said, Speak, Lord. And the Lord said to Samuel, Behold, I will do a thing in Israel. at which both the ears of everyone that heareth it shall tingle, or their ears shall tremble, or reverberate, or vibrate. In that day I will perform against Eli all things which I have spoken concerning his house. When I begin, I will also make an end. For I have told him, that is Eli, that I will judge this house forever for the iniquity which he knoweth. Because the sons made themselves vile, and he that is Eli restrained them not. And therefore I have sworn out of the house of Eli that the iniquity of Eli's house shall not be purged with sacrifice nor offering. Forever. And Samuel lay until the morning and opened the doors of the house of the Lord. And Samuel feared to show Eli the vision. And then Eli called Samuel and said, Samuel, my son, and he answered, Here am I. And he said, What is the thing that the Lord has said unto thee? I pray thee, hide it not from me. God do so to thee, and more also, if a hide anything from me of all the things that he said unto thee. And Eli must have had an indication that was not good news and that was something that was going to be done to Eli, but he said, You don't tell me what it is, may God do the same to you and more. Verse 18. And the little child Samuel told him every wit or every bit or everything and hid nothing from him. And he said, that is, Eli said, it's the Lord. Let him do what seemeth good. And Samuel grew, and the Lord was with him, and didn't let none of his words fall to the ground. And all Israel from Dan, even to Bathsheba, knew that Samuel was established to be a prophet of the Lord. And the Lord appeared again in Shiloh, for the Lord revealed himself to Samuel in Shiloh by the word of the Lord. Samuel's but a child And God has come to him, called on him, and has shared with him a prophecy, a promise, a prediction of something that God was going to do. And you've got to remember that Samuel's been raised by Eli, and he probably admires Eli and looks looks up to Eli and respects Eli and And then he gets this message. The Lord said to Samuel, I will do a thing in Israel, which the ears of everyone that heareth it shall tingle. I don't know if you've ever had your ears tingle from some news you you heard or a phone call you got, but the phrase the ears shall tingle or tremble or vibrate as it were, it only appears two of the times in Scripture In 2 Kings chapter 21 and again in Jeremiah chapter 19. And in both those instances, uh God is warning Israel that they're going into Babylonian captivity. And he tells them why. He says that when you read about this, he tells them it's because of your sins. It's because as a nation You have practiced sorcery, idolatry, adultery, sodomy, and sacrificing of babies. Hmm. America, where are we here? We good here? Are we good here? America, we we're not doing sorcery, are we? Or astrology? People don't read astrology in the morning papers, do they? And adultery and sodomy and Are we killing babies? No, we're I guess we're good, right? We're good here. This is what caused their ears to tingle and and these are these these These words in Second Kings and Jeremiah came sixty or seventy years before the Babylonian captivity, but the people were being warned and warned and warned and they wouldn't listen, and their ears tingled And now we have it here. We want you also to note that the sons of Eli It had been prophesied by another prophet, where we didn't hear their ears tingle, that all these things were going to come upon Eli in his house, and that in one day his sons would die. And that prophet had told him that. And much of what Samuel is now told, the prophet had told Eli. The prophet had come to Eli and said, I'm going to strike the house of Eli. I'm going to strike your sons. Your sons are going to die in one day. And he told Eli all this. And Eli must have Only been told, you know, he kept it to himself. And now what's he gonna do with that information? Is he gonna is he gonna come down on his sons? He's gonna rebuke his sons, punish his sons, toss them out of office, what's he gonna do? And apparently he does nothing And so instead of the prophet coming back to Eli, God goes to Samuel and tells Samuel, basically the same message. And God says, I will do a thing, or I will do this thing. Isn't it amazing? God's going to destroy the household of Eli, He's going to kill his sons, he's going to take the Ark of the Covenant away from Israel. He's going to change everything in Israel. And God just calls it a thing. You know, God does a lot of things, and and to us they might seem tremendous. In fact, we read in Job 5 and 9, Job says, God does marvelous things. God does unsearchable things. And yet when we look at these marvelous things, these unsearchable things, these amazing things, things that would cause your ears to tingle to God. It's just a thing. I mean God is so sovereign, God is so powerful that some of the m most majestic thing he carves out the Grand Canyon, you know. It's just a thing. He puts the stars and the skies, puts them, puts them billions and billions of light years apart in the moments of time. It's just a thing for God. We do something, we do a thing, we think it's something small. And for God, the things that He does, knowing how sovereign, how great, and how powerful these they are small. But he does these things. God has said here he's going to do this thing. And how does God do it? He does it by withdrawing his protection from Eli's sons, and by drawing Eli's sons into the war of with the Philistines And so God is really saying, I'm going to do this. We know that Eli's sons are going to die in the same day, but God is saying, I'm going to do it. You know when people die? It really is God is the first cause when someone dies. He's appointed unto man once a die. and then the judgment. When someone dies, it isn't an absence, it isn't a foregone uh uh you know it isn't something that wasn't foreseen of God. God is the first cause. God is the chief cause of all that's going to befall Eli's household. God is the chief cause and the first cause of all that's going to befall his two sons. God is the first cause and the chief cause of everything that befalls Eli. Us also. God does it. It's His thing God is sovereign. He Daniel says he doeth according to his will in the armies of heaven. That means all the angels in heaven that he He's in charge of what they do, where they go, when they come, where they go up and down Jacob's ladder. God, there's not an angel who who flitters one feather. who moves one wing without God's permission and and takes him in the direction you'd have them to go. God doeth according to his will in the army of heaven with his angels and among the inhabitants of the earth, that's not just you people. That's that's not God's image, man, but he does with the inhabitants of the earth, that means with the cows, the horses, the ducks, the birds, with everything. God is the sovereign control of every molecule, every amoeba and bacteria The shingle is on my face. He's in control of it all. He does it all. It's his thing. None can stay his hand or say to him, What doest thou? It said the same in the New Testament of the Lord Jesus Christ, for thou hast created all things, and for thy pleasure they are and were created. Revelation 7 4 and 11. Do you realize that God created you and that He created you for His pleasure? He created you for His pleasure, and that's the reason we were created, and He is in charge of everything that goes on in our life. There are no I know the insurance companies say you had a car accident. It wasn't a car accident. It was a providential act of God That you weren't paying attention, or somebody wasn't. Or it was ice on the roads. God's in control of all this. And so here we have God speaking to Samuel, and he is declaring, he is determining what he does and what he's going to do and when he's going to do it. I will, he says in verse 12 through fourteen, I will perform against Eli all which I have spoken concerning his house. forever for the iniquity which he, that is Eli, knoweth, because his sons make themselves vile, and he, Eli, restrained them not. In the Hebrew it says here, and Eli frowned not. He didn't even frown at what his sons were doing. And you remember a couple weeks ago we talked about that. The people bring the sacrifice. and the people were to keep a portion of the sacrifice, and a portion was to go to God, and a portion was to go to the priests. And Eli's sons were taken the portion from the people that they were supposed to keep. They were taking a portion that was supposed to go to God, and they were taking some of that, and they were taking some of theirs also. They were they were just kicking they were like kicking at the sacrifice of God Kicking at the ordinance of God, kicking at the at the the position that a priest held in Israel. They were just undermining and destroying everything. And it says that Eli, he didn't even frown about it He didn't even cast a frown in their direction. He just so much wanted his children to love him. So much wanted his children not to be upset with daddy. You know, sometimes we hear a kid say, I hate you. He didn't want to hear that I can remember children saying that to their parents, I hate you and I tell the parents, it's okay, he'll get over it. Next time you hit the dairy queen getting an ice cream, all of a sudden he'll love you again, you know He didn't even frown. Eli wasn't ignorant of his son's sins. He just didn't reprove them, exhort them. Admonish them, punish them, remove them from office as he could have done as the high priest of Israel. He could have said, You're fired, you're out of here. He didn't do anything, he didn't even frown upon them He he the the sons brought contempt upon the sacrifices, contempt upon the sacred office. And so this alarming message is sent first by a prophet in 1 Samuel 2 and 27. You can go back And read that later on today. And with that, from a prophet of God, and yet Eli doesn't change a thing. He keeps on going as he's been going, being the indulgent father, the tolerant father of everything. And so now out of the mouth of babes. Christ says if you he try to silence my disciples out of the mouth of babes, the truth would come. And now the mouth of a babe of a child, Samuel, comes with the same message to Eli. Two warnings now. He had been warned by the prophet, in spite of God's warning, he had tolerated his son's abuse. And now Eli's house would suffer. We read in verses twelve and fourteen. But Eli's house, his household, his children, his children's children, his children's children for many, many, many generations. They would suffer for what he is allowed to take place because he's the high priest of Israel. They will be allowed, his family will suffer forever. Wow. Have you not been told as Christians we're supposed to tolerate other people's choices and lifestyles, right? I mean, isn't that what Eli was doing? He was tolerating what his his son's choices in life He was tolerating their lifestyle. They're going to steal from this. It said they were laying with the women who came to the door of the tabernacle. They were seducing and committing adultery. You know, we're supposed to tolerate it. As Christians, we're supposed to sit back We're supposed to tolerate other people's choice and decision, or we're bigots, or something like that, right? Where did he get Eli to tolerate The choices of his sons, to tolerate their lifestyle. Where did it where did it get Eli? Where did he get his household? Where did he get his family? For for forever, for all the generations that would follow after Eli We got people being told today, and they've lost their jobs, they've lost their companies, that they must bake a wedding cake for this gay couple Now they said, look, I've known this gay couple, they said for years. They come to the shop all the time. I bake them cookies, I bake them donuts, uh, you know, we we do a lot of things for them. But when they want me to bake a cake To represent their holy matrimony, it's not holy when it's a gay wedding. I can't do that. And they've been shut down They were supposed to tolerate the lifestyle. Same thing happened to a photographer who said he would not do a fo he would not photograph a gay wedding and his business has been shut down here in the country And there's another place that they have a bed and breakfast and they said that we we we welcome people in, but you know, if they're not married, we don't let 'em we don't give them a room It's not because that couple was gay. We've done the same thing to straight people. They come here, say like a room for the night, and we we don't see a ring on the hand, and we say, uh, so uh is uh uh so where you want would your wife like well I'm not that's not my wife, but we still want. We don't do that. We we don't we we are not tolerant of lifestyles that are contrary to the word of God. We are not tolerant of sin. We just aren't tolerant of some of the choices that people are making. There are bad choices And we are going to tolerate them. And yet we're told today that we as Christians, we must tolerate Pro-Choice, right? We must tolerate and pay for other people's abortions. We must tolerate other people's poor choices And this is where it got Eli. He was one of those who bought into we must tolerate the lifestyles of others. Did David have tolerance for Goliath? I have to ask you, did David have tolerance for Goliath who cursed David? 1 Samuel 17, 43, Goliath comes out and he cursed David by his gods. Are we supposed to tolerate other people's cursing us by their gods or telling us our other gods? Are we supposed to tolerate their lifestyles? David couldn't tolerate Goliath. Cursing him and cursing his God by the name of their gods. Esau, Elijah, would not tolerate Ahab's government that supported another religion, Baal worship. In fact, it was the only religion that the government of Ahab supported, was Baal worship. He was opposed to the God of Abram, Isaac, and Jacob And he made it known. And and so I guess Elijah so just tolerated Ahab and Jezebel. Well, if if there's gonna be a government supported religion, I guess that's a religion I have to have too I've got to tolerate the lifestyle of the Baal priest. I've got to tolerate the choices that my government has made. He didn't do that. Christ did not tolerate the religious hypocrites of his day. Go into Matthew and read all the woes against you hypocrites The woes against you scribes. The woes against you, Pharisees. The idea of tolerating sin is just, it is contrary to what a man of God is supposed to do. And Eli, the high priest of Israel, he ought to have known that better than anyone. But he lacked the courage to confront sin in his own home. Wow. And I know that's hard to do. Your children are cute and they're little and they're running around and they fall down and they get back up and they say the darnest cutest little things. And then they start saying no to you. They all of a sudden they are opposing your authority. Or maybe they pick up a swear word from a neighborhood jet and all of a sudden Your child you start recognizing he steals a toy in the nursery from somebody else and so forth, or bonks another one on the head with a toy in the nursery, and you discover your your child is a sinner, and now you have to say something Or not frown about it and just go along because you want your child to love you. I I I recognize I I know that that it is difficult to come to a conclusion our children are sinners and then do we or do we not confront them for their sin? Do we have the courage to confront sin in our house? To confront sin. If if the father in Here's the problem with Eli. He did not confront sin in the house and he was the father, nor did he confront sin in the Lord's house, and he was the high priest. That was doubly wrong what Eli was doing here. He couldn't confront it in the tabernacle, he couldn't confront it. In his own home. When there's no father in the home, or when the father neglects his duty to restrain his children's vile behavior. God used that tolerance as an accomplice to sin. Do you understand that? You know, say your kids are out drinking and they're getting drunk. You say, I will not tolerate that in my house. Good for you, Mom and Dad. Good for you. But on the other hand they say, well You know, he's fifteen, he's sixteen, he knows what he's doing. What can I say? It's you know uh I don't I don't like it, but you know if they're gonna drink, maybe they should drink here at the house and so that tell the tell you uh I've seen parents do this Son, if you're going to drink, I don't want you to drive and how about inviting all your friends over to the house, mom and dad to get the beer, you can all drink here and that'll be okay. And and so you you tolerate it because you want them to like you, you want them to be popular, you want all the kids in school to think that, oh, your mom and dad are really cool, this is really great, right? And then the kids leave your house what? Drunk and they drive home. Well at least your son didn't drive drunk because he was already home. But you did you steal Who do you think the parents out there are going to find responsible when their kids leave your house drunk and crash, hit a tree and die? Are they going to think you're responsible? Right. So when God sees a father tolerating sin in his household, does God find the father responsible? Is he an accomplice to the sin? He is. And Eli was an accomplice. Eli wasn't lying with the women at the door of the tabernacle, but it was the he didn't frown about it He didn't fire his sons. He didn't rebuke them, exhort them, admonish them, or you know, he just he tolerated it. He tolerated sin in the tabernacle. He tolerated sin in his home. He was an accomplice to the sin. And so God deals with Eli, even though he never had any of the pleasures of the sin that his sons had. God views him as guilty as well, and the punishment falls upon Eli as well. And the consequences, verses 13 and 14, are forever. Now, this you kind of understand what's going on here and what has been said and the curse is going to fall upon Eli. Isn't any wonder that little Samuel, when God says, he says, Speak, Lord, thy servant, hear it And maybe you thought that God was just talking about some of the little niceties. I'm going to raise you up, make you a wonderful person, a great prophet. You know, in fact he doesn't tell Sam any of that Samuel is he become a great prophet of God? Samuel has become very instrumental in the anointing of the first and the second kings of Israel. I mean he's got a wonderful, tremendous future ahead of him, but God doesn't tell him any of that God says, here's what I got for you, Samuel. Eli, your tutor. Eli, your spiritual leader. Eli the man that you adore. Eli, he's like your father to you. He's your spiritual father. He is going to pay. His household's going to pay. His sons are going to pay. I'm going to take forever the iniquities of that household and he's going to be it cannot be purged by a sacrifice. He is going to pay and then and his household and his family forever and ever and ever. That's to a little boy. Imagine your five or six-year-old kid being told that. Tell some of a school teacher, I mean, tells a year-old kid, I will I will tell you something about your father or your spiritual father. This is what's going to happen to him. It's got to be shocking. And that's why God says to Samuel, I will do a thing in Israel at which the ears of everyone that heareth it shall tingle. And I'll bet you Samuel's ears tingled as well. It says here in verses 15 through 17, Samuel feared to show Eli the vision. Oh, I guess so. Okay, God, you told me. God doesn't say he has to tell Eli, he just tells Samuel what's going to happen. I want you to know ahead of time. Be prepared. I'm going to shake up the household of Eli that you're living in. Once you be prepared, son, this is what's going to happen. And Eli is afraid to show Eli, or rather, Samuel is afraid to show Eli the vision. I mean, when you really stop and think about what's going on here, he is telling Samuel, and Samuel would have been able to grasp this. Remember, Samuel is a Levite. His mother and father, they were Levites. He was r he was born of a Levite father and mother, but now he's being raised by a Levite high priest. He understands the concept of Lev Levitical priesthood, he understands the sacrifice of He's he's a young boy, but he understands all this. And what he understands and what God has told him is this, that God is going to dispose of a branch of the tribe of Levi that has worshipped and that has sacrificed and that has run the house of the tabernacle of God. since the days of Moses and Aaron. Because since the days of Moses and Aaron, when mo when Aaron's two sons, they blew it at a sacrifice, brought strange fire and God destroyed them At that point the Levitical Passage went passed on to a younger child of Aaron's and that that that line is that child of Aaron's has brought came up to the days of Eli. In other words, in the household, in the tabernacle of God, there had been one family that was in charge serving the tabernacle for the last 300 plus years. And it had always been that way. And now Samuel is told by God that that branch of the tribe of Levite that has ruled since the days of Aaron and Moses for 300 years or more, that there's a major event. I'm going to remove them I'm going to remove the Levitical tribe, that family that's been serving aroundever, and replace it with a different family from the Levitical tribe. It was a major, this is going to be a major national event This is the changing of the guardians of truth. This is all of Israel shall be abuzz, and the ears of the hearers they shall quiver or tingle They're gonna tremble at the shocking shift of the temple's hierarchy to another family within the Levite tribe. It has never been done before. This is shocking. And this is what a little boy is told. It's about as alarming as the Lord Jesus Christ When he's out there preaching and he says it before these Pharisees and Sadducees, Jerusalem shall be trodden down by the Gentiles, and it will stay that way until the time of the Gentiles be fulfilled Luke twenty-one and twenty-four. That was shocking to the Pharisees. We we finally got the temple the temple's built. Yeah, the Roman government's here, but hey, they're leaving us alone And we're here, and we're here to stay. And God says, No, you're not here to stay. This temple is not here to stay. It'll be destroyed. Jerusalem will be destroyed. It'll be trodden down by the Gentiles. And it will stay that way until the fulfilling of the Gentiles. Or tell the Gentiles themselves see the light and get saved and become a part of the household of God. And when God has swept in and brought in all the Gentiles that He wants to save. Then Israel would see their temple again in their Jerusalem. Samuel was afraid to tell Eli all of this. You can understand that. He was not eager to be the bearer of bad news, right? Do you know people who just love to be the bearer of bad news? I mean you know people that oh man guess what I heard? Oh you oh you're not gonna believe this they want to be the first ones to tell you the bad news, right? Isn't that you know people like that? I mean when when Moses sent out the ten spies in the book of Numbers, chapter 13, you know, but he sent out the twelve spies and the ten spies, they had what? The bad news. Oh, we're like grasshoppers or sight There's these giants from the tribe who found me with Anach. Oh, we can't do a thing. I mean there was a first one. Oh it's terrible, it's terrible. And after they they bring this bad, bad report. And Canaan says, wait a minute, wait a minute. That's not true. That's not true. It's you know, we can do it. I mean it's a place that's milk and honey and grapes. And look at these cluster grapes And God, we can do this thing. And they come back, no, we can't. And then more bad news, more bad news. And then Joshua, he's the twelfth one. He said, Oh, we can do this. Who got the version for it? The bad news. The bad news always gets the front page If it bleeds, it reads. That's what the news media tells you. They just love to bring us the bad news. Sometimes that's the way Christians are too. They just love to come up with the bad news first, you know. Uh they was just eager to share the bad news. Christians should be known for wanting to share the good news, right? I mean the good news starts out a little bad. You're sinners, you deserve hell. But the good news is Christ died for sinners. If you recognize your sinner, if you repent of your sins. Christ has shed his blood that will wash and cleanse you of any sin or any number of sins you've ever. That's good news. We ought to be known as people who have the who are the bearers of good news But sometimes that just doesn't seem to be the case when you hear the conversations of Christians. I I want you to to see something about Eli, because uh you can walk away from this chapter and And thinking he deserves what he got, and yeah, at some point forever, and and this ungodly high priest, filthy hypocrite, sinner. I think Eli was saved Oh, did you think that I thought that if you as a father or mother or uncle or grandparent or whoever you are, j j just because you you tolerate some things in other people's lives and and because you are don't have the courage to stand up that That you're not saved. I I I didn't say that. What I'm saying is that God's gonna get you. I mean God's gonna take you out in the woodshed. He's gonna deal with you for being tolerant of sin It isn't always the case that those who are tolerant of sin and others aren't saved. And I believe Eli was a saved man. And I think if you look at these verses, you'll hopefully come to the same conclusion. Eli says, What is the thing that God has said unto thee? God do so to thee and more if I'll hide anything from me. So the first thing I want you to know is this that If Eli has an interest, he wants to know that all that the Lord has said. That's a sign of a saved person. I want to know it all, Samuel. I want to know every wit, every bit. Tell me it all. Do you want to know everything that God has said? Do you want to know everything that God has revealed to his people? Don't don't just say, yes, I want to know everything that God has ever said. I want everything God has chosen revealed to us. Here it is. You really want everything God's ever said? Read it. From cover to cover And you will miss some things because your mind wanders while you're reading. So read it again. And again. And again, when I first got saved, I'd I'd been through the Bible three times and and my wife she she loved the changes that my life had made. I was I stopped swearing and cussing and getting drunk. I mean all those things have changed in my life. And she said, how many times I said, well I've read two different translations of the King James Bible and I'm going back to the King James Bible, like that better. But uh she said What are you going to do when you finish reading it the third time? I'd never thought about it, but I want to know everything that God says, so I knew I'd have to read it Again. And I told her that. And she said, Well, what do you do? Read it the rest of your life? That was the second question she asked me I'd never thought about, and I And I said, Yeah, I guess I am. I thought that was typical of Christians. That that's what you want to do. And I now know that's not typical of Christians. I know Christians who have never read the entire New Testament. I know Christians who have never read the entire Old Testament. I know Christians who never read I I realize that might be an odd thing for someone to say, I want to know everything God has ever said, and I'm gonna read this whole I'm gonna read the whole Bible. And so maybe you haven't read the Old Testament, maybe you haven't read the whole New Testament, or you haven't read the whole Bible, but how do you know this? Eli, I guarantee you had. Eli said, I want to know everything that God has to say. I think Eli is a saved man. He's got his problems, he's got some rotten kids He's tolerant of things that he is going to pay dearly for. I think he's a saved man. That's the first reason why I think he's saved. He has an interest in all the Lord has to say. That's a good sign. If you have an interest in God's word. So following Eli's warning, tell me or everything that God said may fall on you and more so. Eli must have an indication that God was not happy with him and that God was sharing with Samuel. Well, remember I said last week I wondered what what Eli felt like that God came down And he spoke to Samuel and didn't talk to Eli. I mean God used to come into the tabernacle and probably talk to Eli ain't tonight. He's not doesn't want to talk to me anymore Because I ignored his prophet and I've been I've been tolerating my children's sin and now he's talking to Eli. I know he's talking about you ever feel like someone's talking about you? Well Eli felt like God was talking about him. And he was right So following Eli's warning, Samuel told him every wit. It was a very serious message. And he told him every wit. That means Samuel didn't shorten the message, he didn't sweeten the message. He didn't soften the message. He didn't suit over the message in some warm, fuzzy terms. You know, that's what people do nowadays. They talk about they don't talk about sin anymore. Sin they have a hard time getting that one out. They they talk about us messing up, goofing up, uh making a mistake, disappointing God, falling short, but s boy, the that's hard to get that word out sin, isn't it Little three little letters. You tell someone they sinned and well it's it's catastrophic. They grab their heart and they want to grab your throat. But that wasn't Samuel. He told them every whit. He didn't soft pedal the message And I like the Apostle Paul, who tells in the New Testament we're supposed to be like Samuel. Paul says, I have not shunned to declare unto you all the counsel of God. Acts twenty and twenty-seven. And if we're going to be Christlike, shouldn't we do that too? Shouldn't we should we be afraid to say everything that would touch a heart? I mean if if Samuel had had cut back on some of the things and hadn't told Eli everything, it might not have touched Eli's heart It's important that we we share the whole council of God. We have to talk about predestination. We have to talk about hell. We have to talk about Christ coming back to judge the heaven, to judge the quick and the dead. We have to talk about all these things Those are the things that sometimes get somebody say, Christ was with the woman at the well. And you might go, oh, why'd he say that? But you know what he said, the woman at the well? You've had five husbands. Yay, yikes. You're a sinner, lady. Woo-hoo! You know, but but what happens to her? She's coming, you're the man that told me all that I did. She gets saved because the Lord Jesus Christ didn't hold back from telling them All that he knew. There's officer of center rest of Lord Jesus Christ in John 7. 46. They come back and they He said, where is he? We didn't arrest him. Why not? Never man spake like this. I mean, he just tells it like it is, and he tells it all to us. Never man spake like that. And on the cross, Christ is on the cross. And he could have he's got the malefactors on both sides of him and he's in lots of pain. They're in lots of pain. And the they they start this they strike this conversation, why don't you call down your God and get us off this cross, you save others, why don't you save us And you know Christ could have said, Look, I I'm in the midst of something here. Um I know you can't see the myridge and myridge of demons and devils and and Satan out here attacking me right now, that the nails are only a part of what I'm going through. He could have done all that. But the Lord Jesus Christ takes the time to talk to the malefactors. And he takes the time to look down on those who nailed him the cross and he says, Father, forgive them. These soldiers, they they know not what they do. I mean, you know, forgive them. And the Lord takes time to share. With the despicable and those who have crucified him, nailed him on the cross, and it touches hearts. We have to be open to share with people and tell people all the counsel of God. And all that we know and share it all. And it touched the heart of the thief on the cross. It touched the centurion at the foot of the cross. It touched the woman at the well. And I believe what Samuel told Eli here, it touches Eli as well. And it is his response. He doesn't say, you know, look at the response of Cain. Cain in Genesis 4. 13. My punishment is greater than I can bear. Well. That's not the response we get from Eli. Eli when he hears us, he's he's he's moved by what Samuel says. He says, It is the Lord Let him do what seemeth good to him. Wow, verse 18. That's the second reason why I think Eli is saved. Eli is content. With the providence of God. Eli is content with how he's going to dispense with Eli's life and his sons and his household. He said it's it's the Lord. Let him do what seemeth good to him. That's a sign of a saved man, you know that? In fact you see that in others. He has the attitude of other believers. That's why I believe Eli was saved. Read of Job. Well all things are happening to Job. He says he says in his wife saying, Why don't you curse God and die? And he says, What? Shall we receive good at the hand of God and shall we not receive some evil? Job two ten. That's a that's a sign of a saved man to say, hey You know, God everyone goes, Oh God is so good, God is so good. Something bad happens if we walk and say, Oh God is so bad, God you know, I don't like what God did today. Oh this this must have come from the devil. You know, things that happen to us from our perspective they seem evil, they seem bad. They don't seem good But from God's perspective, we've got the whole picture. Everything that happens to us, all things work for the good of them that love the Lord, right? Even the things that we think are evil and bad that are happening in our life, God knows they work for our good And so we we've got Job saying, Do we not receive good from God? And also what we know what it looks like evil to us. And then Hezekiah, I love Hezekiah, Isaiah comes to him and says, Your sons shall be made eunuchs Yikes. And they will serve in the palace of the king of Babylon. Yikes. And Hezekiah said to Isaiah, Get out of here. I don't want to hear that stuff. That's not what he said. He says to Isaiah, Good is the word of the Lord. Which thou hast spoken. Pilgrim, can you talk to God in hard times like Eli did? Can you talk to God in hard times the way uh Hetekiah did and the way Job did? Can you just say, Father, thy will be done? That's the Lord's prayer we pray up. Do we really mean it then? Eli knew he'd not been faithful. Eli knew that he'd not dealt with sin in his home. Eli knew he'd not dealt with the sin in the tabernacle. So he accepts the Lord's judgment without murmuring or without complaining. Therefore, like Eli, we ought not to murmur. In our circumstances either, should we? Because we know we're sinners. We know we've blown it sometimes, don't we? We know that we haven't always followed Christ perfectly. We know that we need to repent of our sins daily or hourly. We know that we need to seek God's forgiveness. Do you know you're in need of God's mercy? Do you know that? Do you realize that without God's mercy, there's no one you've ever met in your entire life that would ever make it to heaven Without the grace and mercy of God, nobody, no matter how good you think they are, no matter how much you've ever contributed to the churches and and it's a teritable works, there's nobody you've ever met or ever will meet or ever read about who ever who ever deserved heaven. It's all the mercy of God. And you're in and I we're all in great need, great need of God's mercy, even today. Because we haven't walked perfectly, we haven't walked uprightly, we haven't run under straight and narrow all the time. Have we? Eli understood that. He had strayed from the straight and narrow with his sons. His response is commendable. And I believe it's heartfelt. It's a response of a sinner saved by grace. Listen to his words one more time. Eli hears all that Samuel has told him, and he said, It is the Lord. Let him do what seemeth good to him. He knows that God will do what is good. Let him do what seemeth good to him. It says here that in verse 19 that the Lord let none of his words, that none of the words, the prophecy that he had given to Samuel, none of it fell to the ground, none of it did not come true. What God says it always comes true. None of us fell the ground. This prophecy that set the family of Eli aside forever, never to serve them to priesthood again. and brought him early death to all of his children, not just his two sons, but it says to all of his children, his children's children's grand. They would all die, it says, in the flower of their age. 1 Samuel 2 and 33 None are going to live to be seventy, eighty, and ninety years old. None are gonna live to be three, score, and ten. They're all gonna die in the flower of their age. Rabbinical commentary say that was about thirty, thirty-five at the oldest And you know that the rabbis that they're writing in the New Testament age in the first century, second, third century of the New Testament, they talk of this tribe of Eli, the family of Eli, and they said, to this day, it is still a fact. That Eli's family die, all of them very young. That was a thousand years after Samuel was told this. A thousand years later, the Jewish rabbis in Jerusalem in the New Testament age are saying Eli's family, they still all die young. Now God's words fall to the ground. And all Israel, verses 20 and 21, knew that Samuel was a prophet of the Lord. All of Israel, from Dan to Bathsheba, they all knew Samuel was a prophet. Pilgrim, pilgrim, pilgrim. Does all your family know you're a Christian? Do all your acquaintances and co-workers know You're a Christian. If I was to tell all of your family and all of your co-workers and all of your neighbors and all of your acquaintances that you are a born-again Christian, Would some ears tingle? Would they be shocked? Let's pray. Father, we thank you this day for the testimony of a little lad, how you can use children to change households, to change nations. To change hearts. Father, may we not give up today on what you're doing in our homes, in our nation, in our churches. We know, Lord, that somewhere out there or maybe even just a little child. Who's growing up, loving you, loving every word of you, sharing it with others, and their hearts are yet to be changed, that will change our homes, our life, and our nation. Lord, we pray for this That is our hope that you are the God of mercy we know. And so we hope for mercy again today. It's in Christ's name we pray. And may what takes place in this nation cause the ears to tingle as the gospel is once more awakened in our people. And it's in Christ's name we pray. Amen