Take note as we read the purpose of the abolishing of this ceremonial law. We're all eating together here. You may be going one place, but you stop off at two or three other airports along the way. But I see seven, and it's not really a matter of the number, but rather content. I'm going to give you the land of Canaan. God said to Israel, if you obey me, remember faith, obedience, and repentance are prerequisites to blessings. We find in the Old Testament in Psalm 17, His name shall endure, His name shall continue as long as Son. I will put enmity between thy seed and her seed, and it shall bruise thy head and thou shalt bruise his heel. And the righteous say, when do we do that? To the east you have Confucius. Deliver thyself, O Zion, that dwells with the daughter of Babylon. You meet them in places you do not expect. We don't uh persecute people that are just right up front. Lord, we pray that you would give relief from pain, that you would ease those pains. And I will bless them that bless thee, and curse him that curseth thee. My praise shall never, never fail throughout eternity. The roll of beauty glorified, the angel in the sky can only bear that sight. And you might wonder and think to yourself, well, why aren't we doing them now? Why don't we have some bloodborne sons of Levi acting as priests and aiding in the slaying of animals and offering up blood? And now that Christ has come, the Messiah that was promised, that was prophesied, has appeared, has been made known. But after that faith has come, we are no longer under a schoolmaster. And there's other verses that speak of this as well. It speaks of the the knowledge of sin through the law, but furthermore it's also talking about some things that have been Somebody who considers them to be of the bloodline of Judah or of the bloodline of Abraham or Isaac or Jacob But it is somewhat weird when you see the messianic Jews that gather, and I can't speak for all of them, but some that I have encounter This is this is a big deal here. Mm, I bet. As it says in Romans 15, 4, for whatsoever things were written aforetime were written for our learning, that we through patience and comfort of the scriptures might have hope. You know, the Old Testament scriptures, even in the ceremonial law, those shadows often have deep spiritual implications that apply even to our current living. And Father, we pray that you would bless them, that you would strengthen them. And our brother having surgery and still they bear a multitude of physical problems, and yet, Lord, you have enabled them to make the drive and to walk through the door today. Father, we pray that you would meet with them this day as they meet with us in Dispersia. Lord, give them traveling mercies, watch over them, give them safety, we pray. And pray your blessing on that family and the three children of that home. And Lord, we know that there are financial needs within the congregation. But Father, we pray that you would meet the needs, Lord. For I wasn't hungered, and ye gave me meat. We pray, Lord, that you would bless them with ministry for thee, Father, regardless of what profession you may send them into. When saw we thee and hungered and fed thee, or thirsty, and gave thee drink? And these shall go away into everlasting punishment, but the righteous into life eternal. Then shall he say also unto them on the left hand, Depart from me, ye cursed, into everlasting fire, prepared for the devil and his angels Because Let all the nature seek in every land races and souls are fine. Well I just through God let people praise let all the nations sing Uh it's not it's not deliberate. Wherefore the law was our schoolmaster to bring us unto Christ that we might be justified by faith. There is neither Jew nor Greek. to the nuts and bolts, which is the fulfillment of God's blessing to Abraham. And I will bless thee, I will make thy name great, and thou shalt be a blessing, and I will bless them that bless thee, and curse them that curse thee, and thee shall all the families of the earth be blessed. Number three, I will bless them that bless thee and curse them that curse, curse him that curseth thee. The fifth one I see is in these shall all the families of the earth be blessed, prophecy of Christ. Genesis 22, 3. And so going back to our text, therefore uh there in Galatians chapter 3, verses 24 and 26, the verses our brother read to us earlier, the verses which we read already For he is not a Jew which is one outwardly, neither is that circumcision which is outward in the flesh And that brings us back again to our chapter in Galatians chapter 3. through repentant living faith, then you are a child of Abraham, and you too are recipients of these blessings. Christ hath redeemed us from the curse of the law, being made a curse for us. In Genesis 18, 18, seeing that Abraham shall surely become a mighty nation, and all nations of the earth shall be blessed in him. Genesis twenty two, eighteen. Galatians 3 verse 8, for the scripture foreseeing that God would justify the heathen through faith, preached the gospel. And a holy nation. So too, this applies to the believer. In Ephesians 3, verse 14 and 15, for this cause I bow the knee unto the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. is the name of Jesus. Supreme Court was the tabernacle. Revelation twelve, verse nine. And he says to those on his right hand, Blessed are you, my father. Revelation 20 and verse 10. And God sent him to the west. Psalm seventy-two, verse eight, and he shall have dominion from sea to sea. I'm the Word. The child of God has the full assurance that it doesn't matter what happens in this world, though poverty or riches, though peace or war, though health or sickness, God's blessing is on me. Tis counting hard forget to be, if I forget the mercy. Now the Lord had said unto Abraham, Get thee out of thy country and from thy kindred and from thy father's house, unto the land that I will show thee. And I will make of thee a great nation, and I will bless thee, and I will make thy name great, and thou shalt be a blessing. Well we open our uh song singing this morning with number 216. We trust you enjoy that. This morning we're reading from the 25th article regarding the abolishing of the ceremonial law. And why don't we have any priests that are here dedicated for the circumcision of our sons on the eighth day uh weighs on the character of God and what he requires for man in all time. And why aren't there though all those dietary rules upheld so that when somebody's coming and bring some pork or some other thing that's considered unclean, why don't we call them Gentiles and just tell them go eat outside? And that way into the uh holy of holiest is already made through Jesus Christ. put away with the coming of Christ. But now that Christ has come, they're no longer relevant. And you know, one thing that I've always found odd is the practice of messianic Jews. And they claim that they now believe Christ and they want to follow the Scriptures as as all Christians do. And they make a bigger deal out of them than the actual Christ. And and we see how Daniel and his three friends stood faithful in uh Babylon when they were offered meat that was unclean and they said, No, we'd rather not do that. And yet our prayer list doesn't seem to get shorter, does it? You know, you think about the teaching of the Passover and what a great picture that is of salvation and how you can see the intensity of the the danger, the risk of not being covered by the blood, the necessity of having that And also even the teaching between unclean and clean. For Lord, we have prayer requests that have been on our prayer sheet, yea, even for the entire history of our congregation, almost six years now. And Father, we do not pray in unbelief, but we pray in faith, believing that you were able. We praise you, Lord, for this is indeed an answer to prayer, and yet our prayer is not finished. And Lord, she has suffered many things of many doctors and continues to suffer and yet faithfully to serve you. Strengthen her body, give her energy, give the physicians godly wisdom in her treatment. Ah Lord, we thank you. Father, we pray for our brother in Arizona who will be traveling this week and our brother who is stationed here, but will be visiting with family for the next month We thank you, Lord, for this sweet fellowship that you've established. And Father, you know what things we have need of before we ask. of this chapter, starting with Matthew 25, verse 31, and we'll go to the end. Then shall the king say unto them on his right hand, Come, ye blessed of my father, inherit the kingdom prepared for you from the foundation of the world. Or whence saw we thee sick or in prison and came unto thee? Verily I say unto you, inasmuch as ye have done this unto one of these, the least of my brethren, ye have done it unto me. Saying, Lord, when saw we thee in hunger, or a thirst, or a stranger, or naked, or sick, or sick, or in prison, and did not minister unto thee. Verily I say unto you, inasmuch as ye did it not to one of the least of these, ye did it not to me, and altogether That's all thy place that saw thy way most soldiers for the door that does. For it is written, cursed is everyone that continueth not in all the things which are written in the book of the law to do them. For it is written, cursed is everyone that hangeth on a tree, that the blessings of Abraham might come on the Gentiles. through Jesus Christ, that we might receive the promise of the Spirit through faith. And if ye be Christ, then ye are Abraham's seed and heirs according to promise. The Word of God has been divinely protected and shepherded, though the man has raged against it, and Satan has endeavored to destroy it in all manners. Secondly, we're going to see the prerequisite to the blessings of God to Abraham. Fourth, the purpose of the blessings of God to Abraham. 12 verses 1 through 3. Secondly, I'm going to bless thee, verse 2 of Genesis 12. Many were made sinners, so by the obedience of one of Jesus Christ shall many be made righteous. didn't think of I should leave Harper County, uh, because his mother was a Jew and his great grandparents were Jews. The purpose of these promises are solely to point us to Jesus Christ. and curse him that curseth thee, and in thee shall all nations, all families of the earth be blessed. And I will put enmity between thee and the woman and between thy seed and her seed. Then shall ye be a peculiar treasure unto me above all peoples of the earth. And ye shall be to me a kingdom, a priest, and holy nation. Ye will be a holy nation. And lo, the heavens were opened unto him, and he saw the Spirit of God descending like a dove and lighting upon him, and lo, a voice from heaven saying, The blessing of God was on Abraham, yes, but the blessing of God was to Jesus Christ. And if you look over to Galatians chapter 4, probably a page over, and verse 6, let me read verse 4. Because the children of Israel had sinned, God warned them, if you sin against me, I'll drive you out of the land. Now, the nation of Israel as it stands today is our ally, and we have benefited much from what they've done in the Middle East You saw me in prison and you did not visit me. It's right here in the chapter. The blessings of Abraham. without Israel. Deliver thyself, O church that dwelleth in this with the daughter of this world, Zion and Babylon. They were supposed to drive out all the inhabitants, and they failed to. For the promise that he should be heir of the world was not to Abraham or to his seed through the law, but through the righteousness of faith. Place where tears are sheds, a oil of gladness on our heads, a place and all besides more sweet. Can forget to still my song be silent cold and still Turn our eyes to Christ, focus our minds on thy word, and edify our hearts by thy truth. Be grateful we're not in hell right now. Awake thy soul and sing of him who died for thee and hail him as thy matchless king through all evil. so that the use of them must be abolished among Christians. We believe that the ceremonies and figures of the law cease at the coming of Christ, and that all the shadows are accomplished And that had to do with the ceremonies and some of those specific practices as the law was given. the tabernacle set up and the worship that was to be done there. And if you're reading your Bible from Genesis to Revelation, you'll see that it comes up in Exodus and Leviticus that this law is given, this vast law of all these ceremonial things that must be upheld and kept. until the time of Reformation. They will uh uh c claim to believe that Christ is the Messiah, yet they hold on to many of these old ordinances uphold the word of God. There was none to hear and none to answer. You are the God of wisdom. Father, we thank you for our brother and our sister that are here today. Father, we pray for our dear sister, whose illness spans back long beyond the establishment of this congregation. without the effects of aging upon them. He spends days recovering his strength. Oh Lord, bless that family, bless that testimony. Make us a people of prayer. We ask not to lay up for ourselves treasures in heaven, O Lord, our treasures on earth, O Lord, our treasures in heaven, for where your treasure is, there will your heart be also Uh Lord, I I know of at least two uh three come to mind as I think quickly, Lord, in our congregation that are seeking either employment or better employment. Father, we thank you for the uh young people in our midst today. We pray for our young families. would fail at that last verse you just read. Show mercy and bless us in thy grace caused thou to shine a force. Let me be both my saving raise be show. Turn with me please to the book of Galatians and the third chapter of Galatians. Know ye therefore that they which are of faith, the same are the children of Abraham For the Scripture, foreseeing that God would justify the heathen through faith, preached before the gospel unto Abraham, saying, In thee shall all nations be blessed. So then, they which be of faith are blessed with faithful Abraham. Though it be but a man's covenant, yet if it be confirmed, no man disindulleth it or addeth thereto. Now to Abraham and his seed were the promises made. and to thy seed which is Christ. That the covenant that was confirmed before of God in Christ, the law, which was four hundred and thirty years after, cannot dis and all that it should make the promise of none effect But Christ, but God is one. God forbid. For as many of you as have been baptized into Christ, have put on Christ But Father, faith cometh by hearing and hearing by the word, not hearing by the preacher. May your spirit speak truth to the hearts of your people through the precious holy word of God. But we've got to stop at four other airports before we get there because we've got to have the foundation. I see seven things there that are declared as blessings. It always begins with faith. and from thy kindred, and from thy father's house, to a land which I will show thee God said to Abraham, leave your father's house. the just, that the that we might be justified by faith in verse 24. The people who received the blessings of God. for they are not all Israel, which are of Israel, neither because they are the seed of Abraham are they all children, but in Isaac shall thy seed be called That is, they which are the children of the flesh, these are not the children of God, but the children of promise But he is a Jew which is one inwardly. But it's not just to the physical seed of Abraham, it is also to the spiritual seed of Abraham who believe. and above every beast of the field. We find these words. That is the gospel that was preached to Abraham. All these promises that were given to Abraham were for the purpose of pointing men to Jesus Christ. And it will bruise the serpent's head, or it will crush the serpent's head and bruise the serpent's heel. Now unto Abraham and his seed were the promise made. Then serve it the law, it was added because of transgression, till the seed should come to whom the promise was made. The promises weren't ultimately them. Fulfillment of these promises to God, of God. God did indeed make the nation of Israel great, but God has made Jesus Christ to be the great nation. In 1 Peter chapter 2 and verse 9 and 10, which speak very clearly of the church, but ye are a chosen generation. Does that sound familiar? This is my beloved son, in whom I am well pleased. And he received the blessing. But the blessing was for the Son of God. Wherefore God also hath highly exalted him and given him a name that is above every name. of whom the whole family in heaven and earth is named. We still even, some of us name our children Abraham. God promised to Abraham, I will bless them that bless thee, and curse what? But people today try to say, oh, if we bless Israel, we'll be blessed as a nation. You go down the line of how American society has turned away from God since that time. It's talking about God blessing his son and the curse that is upon Satan because Satan has cursed Christ and his emissaries have used his vocabulary. In Galatians 3 and verse 13, Christ hath redeemed us from the curse. Well, because we started out as one nation under God. me unto the nations which spoiled you. That dwelt among them and were a constant problem because they failed to fully obey. But God did fulfill the promise to Abraham. of all nations, and kindreds, and peoples, and tongues, stood before the throne, and before the Lamb, clothed with right rope robes, and their hand, psalms in their hand. And they cried with a loud voice, saying, Salvation to our God, which sitteth upon the throne and under the Lamb. I was hungry and you didn't feed me. But let's be biblical in our approach. All our story treat is the mercy there is a place. Down our souls to greet and glory grounds of mercy. Come out, Almen, please be seated. May the Lord help us to take heed to his scriptures to rightly divide the word of truth. We thank you that you loved us so much that you sent your only begotten Son to give his life for us, to give his life a ransom for many, to shed his blood for the forgiveness of our sins. And Lord, his body is filled with aches and pains. Father, we pray for our dear brother in Texas, he and his precious wife online with us this morning. Once you've located Matthew 25 in your Bible, please rise. Naked and ye clothed me. For I wasn't hungered and ye gave me no meat. Naked, and ye clothed me not, sick and in prison, and ye visited me not. Everlasting. Uh it's an adaptation here of Psalm 67. Stay in our own lanes, but uh it's always a blessing when it happens. But that no man is justified by the law in the sight of God, it is evident, for the just shall live by faith. And the law is not of faith, but the man that doeth them shall live in them. or application of the blessings of God to Abraham. The elect, the faithful. in the Spirit and not in the letter, whose praise is not of man, but of God. Through Jesus Christ. And so that brings us to the message I want us to consider. To Abraham, but through Abraham to Christ in Genesis chapter 12. But folks, when we come to the New Testament, we find in Acts 11. of sons. The Old Testament nation of Israel was a theocracy. Let the Bible say what the Bible really says. Of the law, being made a curse for us, he received on himself the curse of the law. This nation has been blessed because of the church in this nation. They didn't keep their side of the covenant. Let his mate for hell the host of hell deep, as suffering says no mercy. For the express purpose of worshiping the God of heaven, of opening thy word. Father, we thank you that we are here this morning and not in hell. And you call to the heart of every believer, why do you sin against me? To confirm us in the doctrine of the gospel and to regulate our life in all honesty to the glory of God according to His will In whom they have their completion. Christ has come. And yet they are unable? Father, we have several of our older members that suffer with back pains and with sciatica and uh injections help but they're temporary, therapy helps, but it's temporary We pray for the young children in our midst. And before him shall be gathered all nations, and he shall separate them the one from the other, as a shepherd divideth his sheep from the goats. For if the inheritance be of the law, it is no more of promise, but God gave it to Abraham by promise. But the Scripture hath concluded all under sin that the promise by faith of Jesus Christ might be given to them that believe. Yet thy word stands. The reason I'm doing that, I think a lot of you have traveled over the summer and some of you have flown, and when you fly, you very rarely get a direct flight But there's something that must precede that blessing. The blessings of God are preceded by faith. They made great promises to Abraham. seed to whom the promises were made. To one. And holy nation, the same words here in Greek that were used in the Old Testament in Hebrew You had Jacob and Esau. Your inheritance was a pittance. The Father hath bestowed on us that we should be called the sons of God. God promised Abraham, I will make thy name great. And folks, that has stood the test of time. And Matthew 25 finds all men brought before Christ and he divides them to the left hand and to the right hand To Christ. Why is it that where Christianity has spread, blessings have followed? He won't let that go on. And shall be my people, and I will dwell in the midst of them, and thou shalt know that the Lord of hosts hath sent me unto thee. have multiplied as the stars of heaven. The promise to Abraham, you're going to get the get the land. And God's curse is on everyone who curses Christ. Five hundred and twenty-eight, please rise, and we will sing all six stances. Where friends find fellowship with friends, though suffered far by faith with me around one car. But so now that we have this teaching, what do we do with the Old Testament, with all those ceremonial laws? But um yeah, it i it it's sad that they don't uphold uh as the scripture says, that there is neither Jew nor Greek, for you're all one in Christ Jesus. Father, we thank you that you hear and answer prayer. Lord, again, we thank you for the privilege of prayer. It is always fitting and exciting when the uh confessional reading and the message of the morning seem to dovetail into each other. Wherefore then serve it the law? And it was ordained by angels in the hand of a mediator. But before faith came, we were kept under the law, shut up under faith, which should afterwards be revealed. But after that faith has come, we are no longer under a schoolmaster. He had no uh concept of why we were going to Jamaica. Except you repent. Even as Abraham believed God, and it was accounted unto him for righteousness, know ye therefore that they which are of faith the same are the children of Abraham. And folks, you don't hear this often, and it's not unique to me. Beloved, now are ye the sons of God, and it doth not yet appear what ye shall be, but when he shall appear, we shall be like him, for we shall see him as he is of Christ. They were driven out because of their sin. He says to those that are cursed, you saw me naked, you saw me hungry, you saw me sick But today he dwells in the midst of the church. The land will be theirs. And so God has given us the land. But rather you have dealt with us in grace and in mercy. Lord, that your Spirit would speak truth to their hearts, convict them of their sin, and draw them to thyself. But downward is all burning nice gladness to be so price. When we think of the ceremonial law, there's somewhat of a distinction between the ceremonial and the moral law, the moral law being that which Gracious Father, we thank you for who you are. The man knocking at the door of his neighbor at midnight, asking for bread, he continued to knock. When the Son of Man shall come in his glory, and all the holy angels with him, then shall he sit upon the throne of his glory. at least four other songs in the Trinity book. For earth in bridge upon us, new Azure bring The Lord our God shall bless us. Our God shall bless me send and all the earth shall bring to which we protest. Father, we thank you for thy word. O Father, bless thy word to our hearts today. So, the first airport, the first stop in our journey, God made promises to Abraham. You see, God promised Abraham great blessings, but the blessings of God require faith. The Old Testament is a giant spotlight that points to Jesus Christ. That points the men on the road to hell and says, no, go this way. Preach Christ. But as of one seed which is Christ. Were those promises to Jacob and Esau, or Jacob and Isaac? Folks, the promises we read there in Genesis chapter 12, verses 1, 2, and 3 were those promises to Abraham. Folks, the promise that God gave to Abraham, I will bless thee. And so this blessing was to Abraham and in Abraham, but more importantly, it was through Abraham. But when the fullness of time was come, God sent forth his son, made of a woman. Christians, Christians, ones of Christ, disciples of Christ, followers of Christ, yea, even the very brethren. Curse him that curseth thee. That has been established by man, it was established on land that had been promised to Abraham, but had been forfeited When the United States has quote unquote blessed the secular state of Israel, have we been blessed? We are given that name in Christ. And God says to Christ, I'm gonna bless you and I'm going to curse Satan, is what it is actually saying. And the church which has blessed the people of God is blessed. It belongs to Christ. Romans 4. The church is the fulfillment of the promise that cannot be numbered in the stars nor counted on the seashore. Father, we thank you for your word. It is the blood state cursing. There is no sin that our hands could not find out. And uh we read of the tabernacle and the services that were performed in it. Thank you, Anton. It's good to know that we serve a God who answers prayer. Galatians chapter three, starting with verse six. Abraham, leave your people, leave behind your inheritance, go to a place that I will show thee. Received the promises. To have a very, very small percentage of Abraham's blood in my veins. Number four, what's the purpose for all this? In Exodus chapter 19, verses 5 and 6. Abortion became the law of the land. Throughout all history. Number five, God promised Abraham, in thee shall all the families of the earth be blessed. God promised Abraham, in thee shall all the nations of the earth, all the families of the earth be blessed. Abraham believed God. Abraham, leave your ha leave your family. Abraham did it. The seed of the serpent and the seed of the woman, Jesus Christ. Secondly, God promised to Abraham, I will bless thee. This is the one. And so we read there in Galatians three and verse twenty-six, for ye are all the children of God by faith. But we read in Philippians chapter 2, verse 8 and following, and being found in fashion as a man, he humbled himself and became obedient unto death, even the death of the cross. And the seed that is blessed is Christ. It's talking about Jesus Christ. Number six. And God gave them the land. Among the church. They're the children of God. Because I am a son, and the promises are to the Son of God and to his children. Father, we are here only because you have saved us by your grace. Good morning. And so in our reading, our call to worship reading, which I've read again, verse 3 of Genesis 12, I will bless them that bless thee. But the Son! And pretending to be Esau with Jacob's clothes that smelled of the field, and with fur on his arms, so his arms were hairy Promise number three. In 1948, our nation was a godly nation. The word of God is the sermon. Genesis 22, verse 2, and he said, Take now thy son, thine only son, Isaac Look with me at Galatians chapter 3 and verse 13 and 19. You find this division throughout Scripture where the Father blesses the Son, and that blessing of the Son was an acknowledgement. Just as God promised to Eve, thy seed will bruise the serpent's head. That promise was to Christ. This is talking about blessing Jesus Christ and the hymn is Satan. And it's been one war after another. You see, the church is the body of Christ. But conversely we find, blessed are the meek, for they shall inherit the earth. And so folks, God has fulfilled every promise. From every sormy wind that blows, from every swelling tide of woes, there is a Our call to worship this morning is the first three verses of Genesis chapter thirteen But you called to us as surely as you called to Saul, Saul, Saul, why persecutest thou me? The lamb upon his throne or how the heavenly but his own And so yeah, that's uh that's a scary thing when someone's looking and paying more attention to the shadow than the real thing that's come. The second thing it happens to see are the prerequisites of the promised blessing. What do we learn throughout the Old Testament about fathers blessing sons? We would not have our Old Testament without them. Abraham's there today. Christ has redeemed us from the curse of the law, being made a curse for us, for it is written, cursed is everyone that hangs from the tree. It's one of my favorite passages in all the scripture. Abraham traveled for three days with his son and a knife. But those that are of faith, the same are the children of Abraham. Yes, all nations of the earth have been blessed through Abraham, but that's not what it's talking about. Number four. He's atoned for his people. And Abraham is there today. What's what's going on? Speaking not of the Old Testament Jews, but of the New Testament church. God promised to Abraham, I'm going to give you a name. Uh please be seated. And the Lord God said unto the serpent, Blessed be because thou hast done this. You see the blessing and curse. He's the living Word of God. It makes kinda all the problems of the week shrink a little bit to face a Christless eternity under the wrath of God Matthew 3, 16. The law was added because of the transgression. Zechariah two, verse seven and following. We'd rather be serious with that and the Lord bless them for that. Our uh sermon psalm today is number three hundred and eighty-five in your songbook. And then the seventh one I see is in chapter twenty-six in verse four, where God says, I'm going to multiply thy seed as the stars of the heaven and the sands of the sea. And in thy seed shall all nations of the earth be blessed. And because ye are sons, God has sent forth his spirit into your hearts crying, Abba, Father. For if there had been a law given which could have given life, verily righteousness should have been by the law. And Abraham rose up early in the morning and sat on his ass and took Isaac, his son. To Abraham and his seed, but not just because they simply had Semitic blood in their veins, but the faithful, the ones that believed And Christ says, as much as you've done it to these, you've done it to Christ. But the promise is also fulfilled in the church today. Just listen to Galatians three, verses twenty-four and twenty-five. Lord, that you have spared him to this day. There on eagle wings we soar and sigh and says so no more and one comes. You shall all likewise perish. At the name of Jesus, every knee shall bow, and every tongue shall confess that Jesus Christ is Lord to the glory of God the Father. He is just going through which confession comes next and to my shame I don't look ahead at the confessional reading. And the devil that deceived them was cast into the lake of fire and brimstone. And you look at that dividing line. You see the world curses Christ without even knowing it. There is neither bond nor free. All the families of the earth have been blessed through the nation of Israel. You are the God of justice. If you'd like to turn there, you're welcome to do so. I was sick and ye visited me. Back to Genesis 12, verse 1. And the seed throughout Scripture is consistently a reference to Jesus Christ. And uh the the celebration of the feast, the the dietary laws, circumcision and all these things. Bless them, Lord, as they gather around the table and pray. To the east you have all manner of other false gods and false religions. Crown him the Lord of Yes, the road and take up time, creator of the road. Thank you very much for that exhortation. Oh Lord, may you save them, O God, save them everyone. And so in Genesis chapter three and verse fourteen and fifteen He has inherited Canaan land. Thank you, Pastor. We have we have business people in our congregation, and business is slow. It is a great privilege to open God's word in your hearing this morning The Son was honored! But folks, the land of Canaan has always been a euphemism for heaven. Brother Anton, if you would please uh bring us the uh confessional re Then we just read the companion to that in the Old Testament. Sing and rejoice, O daughter of Zion, for lo, I come and I will dwell in the midst of you. 13. Among the hosts of the church. 216. What is the change all about? Father, she continuing with a long-standing illness, and he having had a recent heart attack The promises of God to Abraham were to Christ. You got to live on God's earth before you went to hell, basically, if you want to extrapolate it out. This is my son. And He's given us a new name. I'm going to go ahead this morning and give you the outline before I begin. Bless us, we pray, mightily from thy word this day. And thy word indeed is pure. Preach the Redeemer. You meet them on the street and you see someone in a store and you know something's a little bit different about them and you get to talking about them and you find out they're a brother you've never met before The Word was made flesh and dwell among us. We thank you, Lord, for the clarity of your word. Please turn to the back of your bulletin as we look at the Belgic Confession this morning. But his heart is to be here with the people of God when they sing the praises of God and hear the word of God preached. I was thirsty, and you gave me drink. We read there in our text this morning from Galatians 3 and verse 6, even as Abraham believed God, and it was accounted to him for righteousness. And round his ears at the flowers of terror dice extend their fragrance ever. Um if you're a little tight on seats, we can certainly shuffle people around. These shadows and these other things that were pointers to him can be put away. For the same word everlasting is used for those sent into damnation, as well as the righteous, who inherit everlasting glory. Loaded up the ass, took two servants, got the wood. They were of faith in Romans 9, verse 9 and following, not as though the word of God had taken none effect These are counted for seed. Upon thy belly shalt thou go, and thus shalt thou eat all the days of thy life And in the Old Testament economy, if you weren't that firstborn son, you didn't get much. They were re-established as a secular entity in the Middle East and land that other people had now occupied. And the great dragon was cast out, that old serpent called the devil, and Satan which deceived the whole world, he was cast out, and his angels cast out with him. Psalm 2, verse 8, ask of me, and I will give thee the heathen for thy inheritance, and the uttermost parts of the earth for thy possession. They weren't obedient. And then number seven, I will make thy seed to multiply as the stars of heaven. There has been a great change that's occurred. Father, we thank you for our dear brother who's here today. But I love my family. You see the balance scale here. God promised Abraham, I will give thee the land of Canaan. It's a delightful tune and uh you'll pick it up very quickly. It was added because of transgression, till the seed should come to whom the promise was made. God promised, I'm sorry, that's number two. God promised to Abraham. You hear it all the time, misquoted. Jacob was blessed. That wasn't from the law through the law, it was through the righteousness of faith. Please be seated. Is the law then against the promises of God? He gave them the land. You know, Galatians 3, the passage that I'll read to you right now. Our prayer list is maintained in about two full type sheets. God gave them the promised land. But Christ is the firstborn among many brethren. It teaches us to not be partakers of sinful deeds and not to be unequally yoked with things that are evil, that are wicked. If you have your place now in Galatians chapter 3, I'm going to start reading at verse 6 and read through the end of the chapter. This is the third airport we're dropping in on our way to first to the to our point. And they said, win, win, work in. If you take notes, write that one down. We thank you for answers of prayer that we've seen in recent weeks. We pray for their grandson as well, who is dealing with ear problems. And so, Lord, we l ask not for the prosperity of this world. We thank you, Lord, for the assurance that you hear and you answer our prayer. I was thirsty and ye gave me no drink. Even as Abraham believed God, and it was accounted to him for righteousness Oh Lord, how can we possibly expound upon such a clear passage? In the meantime, we still use the testimonies taken out of the law and the prophets I come to church, why don't I see some of those things? We have the real thing that we handle, that we believe on. I remember when I was going to Jamaica, my grandfather said to me that he thought people ought to stay close to home. The blessings of God are preceded by obedience. But God's promises require faith. And then down to verse 29. He that toucheth you toucheth the apple of his eye. Let's be correct in our understanding of Scripture. We sing our closing song this afternoon, number 528, in your blue songbook, 528, from every stormy wind that blows. Crown him the Lord of love. Number three hundred and eighty-five in your songbook we sing all three stanzas followed by the Amen. Third, I'm going to make thy name great, and thou shalt be a blessing. Let me read the read the verse in its entirety, verse number 19. The promise was to Abraham. Lord, lift us up by thy Spirit. God said to Abraham, number one, I will make thee a great nation. The nation of Israel today, who I support, don't misunderstand me, but the nation of Israel today is a secular entity. In fact, in the parable, we find Abraham, we find the rich man in Abraham's bosom, the poor man in Abraham's bosom. I gotta admit that uh part of the prayer that says uh But we find that our God's ear is open to our cry. Some commentators will say there were four blessings. That promise was to Christ. The dietary restrictions and laws and the the the laws even regarding clothing and garments and what was allowed and what wasn't allowed Father, that you would strengthen, that you would enable them to move about without the effects of the curse upon these bodies. Without faith it is impossible to please him. And God has blessed those that have blessed the church, and God has cursed those that have cursed the church. To the east, you have Islam. I will dwell in the midst of you, saith the Lord, and many nations shall be joined unto the Lord in that day. Revelation 9, verse 7. Because of the sin in the garden. And you are the God of mercy. There is neither male nor female. 26, and the disciples were first called God was their king. You y homosexuality was normalized. We read there, we read there for our responsive reading very deliberately from Matthew 25. I'll get to prayer in a moment, but I often think of those poor prophets of Baal on the mountain crying, oh Baal hear us, oh Baal hear us. Lord, our sister having suffered a stroke in recent weeks, and yet, Lord, today she's able to be here. And Lord, we thank you that his uh MRI looked good, but Lord, we pray that you would give him relief from pain. And Lord, we believe that you will supply our needs. First of all, God says to Abraham, I'm going to make ye build a great nation, first two of Genesis twelve. Behold, what manner of love You saw me naked, you saw me hungry, you saw me sick, you saw me imprisoned, and you visited me That's why we're blessed. And folks, the churches of the stars of heaven. They're more concerned as they speak to individuals, well, why aren't you upholding these things? Keep them in thy care. And then finally, the perfect fulfillment. And the prerequisite of God's blessing always begins with faith. Now the Lord said unto Abraham, get thee out of thy country. And Jesus, when he was baptized, went up straightway out of the water. It is a name that is honored among many. God fulfilled that. For it is written, Cursed is everyone that hangeth on the tree, that the blessings of Abraham might come on the Gentiles It is Jesus Christ. And we find the Philistines and all the different groups. They weren't repentant. It says, Wherefore the law was our schoolmaster to bring us unto Christ, that we might be justified by faith Who is the recipient of these promises? We thank you, Lord, that you spared our brothers' life. We thank you that among them are college students. And the king shall answer and say unto them, The word of God is inspired Grant to thy servant that my lips may not speak error, that my mind may not stumble upon words or thoughts. Preach the gospel unto Abraham, saying, In thee shall all nations be blessed. And so God blesses the church through Christ. Psalm eighty-nine verse twenty-seven, I will also make my firstborn higher than the kings of the earth Should be a familiar one. And Lord, we pray that you would continue to give him health and strength, give him energy, Lord. The Son was cherished! And Esau comes and is there not yet a blessing for me? And this is probably the one of all that is most confused today. That the blessings of Abraham might come on the Gentiles through Jesus Christ, that we might receive the promise of the Spirit through faith. We heard an excellent exposition this morning from the book of Judges. God goes through all the war's basic God for the The words of the Lord are pure words tried in the fire seven times. Genesis twenty six verse four. These are the words which thou shalt speak unto the children of Israel That brings us to the New Testament. The name of Christ is on us. In Hebrews 9 10 it says they stood only in meats and drinks and diverse washings and cardinal ordinances imposed on them Well, we have much to be thankful for, don't we? When saw we thee a stranger and took thee in, or naked and clothing But we find there, God says, I will make thee a great nation. Now therefore, if ye will obey his voice indeed and keep my covenant. If we'll just get out of the way and let it speak. I was in prison and ye came unto me. Yet the truth and substance of them remain with us in Jesus Christ. Lord, bless them and keep them in thy care. Well, point number five is to the destination. Third, the people who received the blessings of God to Abraham. And so the first four points I'm going to go through fairly quickly. So what are the promises? And folks, if you look at what's happened since nineteen forty-eight There were things in the law that would point us to Christ. Look with me at verse 9 of Galatians 3. Crown him with many crowns. Well these were all given in the Old Testament as shadows and figures that would point us to Christ and and to his gospel, to his doctrine. Do we just chuck it away and say, hey, no need to read that, don't worry about it. He gave Abraham a name. And the church which blesses the name of Jesus Christ is blessed. And folks, I would say to you that God fulfilled the promise to Abraham. Our gracious Father, we thank you for the privilege of gathering in Jesus' name. It appears that Abraham's father was still living in Abraham's family. And again in Romans chapter 2, verses 28 and 29. I'll bless him that bless thee, and curse the that curse thee. And God said to Abraham, I'm going to bless them that bless you, and I'm going to curse him, Satan, that curses you. And folks, those that bless the name of Jesus are blessed. And so all these promises are fulfilled in the church. Those who argue that there is no eternal damnation yet seem to think that when they die they will live forever. And so, folks, all of Scripture points to Jesus Christ. And so I'm not condemning Israel here, but I'm saying, folks, let's not take scripture and try to use it for something it's not saying. Romans 4, 13 And it belongs to Christ. And Father, if it were not for your grace, there is no limit to the iniquity that we might be involved in this morning. And there's many examples like that Thank you. Lord, be with thee. So we're going to see first of all the promised blessing of God to Abraham. Esau was cursed. And so this promises to Abraham and to the church in Christ. There's the promise of Genesis 3. For thus saith the Lord of hosts, after the glory hath after the glory hath he sent And in thee shall all the families of the earth be blessed. I was a stranger, and you took me in And then number six is actually found in chapter 17, verse 8, where he promises to give the children of Israel the land It's just the truth. Repent, for the kingdom of God is at hand. We continue to pray for their health, for their son in law, for the salvation of their children and grandchildren that are on our prayer list. He saith not unto seeds as of many, but as of one Why is all this in Scripture? And though they had kings under God, they were a theocracy. They said, win. And folks, it is held true. Abraham was just a bookmark, but he wasn't the book. Our brother actually referenced two verses from that chapter already. Folks, who's that? Is not Babylon a picture of the world They weren't fully obedient, so they didn't get all of it. Remember, obedience is a prerequisite blessing. He's already made an atonement. And so may your Holy Spirit be the true preacher in this room today. Abraham was blessed. They weren't of faith. We are named of Christ Teach us by Thy Word. And so the third thing we see. The promise was to Christ above all. But Lord, we thank you that when we were on the road to Damascus, you struck us down with a great light from thy holy word. And circumcision is that of the heart. And if ye be Christ, then are ye Abraham's seed and heirs according to the promise. The nation of Israel today is not the Old Testament nation of Israel Blessed the nation whose God is the Lord. And after this, behold, and lo, a great multitude which no man could number. There has been a significant event that has come. We thank you that you are the God of the universe. May there not be a rebel among them. God's promises require obedience. All peoples, for the earth is mine. And Lord, I pray that you would bless them. We're just reading a portion. Now a mediator is not a mediator. I read to you there for our call to worship from Genesis chapter Of course, my grandfather had hardly been out of Harper County his entire life. And it shall bruise thy head, and thou shalt bruise his heel. To the east, you have Buddhism. God fulfilled that promise in Christ, and we continue that fulfillment as the church today. Father, we thank you that you had mercy on us. God has certainly fulfilled that promise to Abraham. But that promise For ye are all one in Christ Jesus. God made a covenant with Abraham. That way is the broad way to hell. They certainly were. Oh, I've never cursed Christ. For indeed, if you gave us justice, we would have gone straight to hell at our first infant sin. Whereas the ceremonial law or the things that were given that were to be kept and We think of the feasts, the sacrifices, the offerings. Why don't we have an altar in our worship? We don't need to uphold these things and wait for the arrival of the Messiah. Dear family there in Wisconsin, Father, we thank you for your continued hand of healing upon them I've heard some that say even as many as nine. And Abraham went Romans five, verse nineteen for as by one man's disobedience, that's Adam's disobedience The Son was acknowledged. And Jesus Christ shed his blood that the church may become sons of God. God promised I will bless thee. And Christ says, you didn't do it to the church. The law was added. Father, we thank you, Lord, that you own the cattle on a thousand hills. For ye are all the children of God by faith in Christ Jesus. But ye are a chosen generation, a royal priesthood. God has taken of twain and made one new man. That's the church. We would not have the Ten Commandments without them. I pray for any here this morning that do not yet know that grace. There's no problem with that. I was a stranger and ye took me not in Brethren, I speak after the manner of men See, God promises blessing And in thy seed shall all nations of the earth be blessed Oh God, he has served our nation and was injured years ago in the service of our nation. Then shall they sent you and say unto And this I say But just like we saw the blessing of making a great nation, that God made Israel a great nation, and God in Christ has made the church a great nation. This is not talking about the United States standing up for the nation of Israel Folks, why Lord, we do cry out to you this morning for our dear sister who we know earnestly desired to be here along with her husband. Oh Father, bless her, we pray Christ hath redeemed us from the curse of the law, being made a curse for us Well, the Bible is taken out of our schools. But folks, it belongs to Christ. There are seats in here and obviously up front and uh we uh And Father, we pray that you would bless and help there. Lord, for whom we have not bought a shovel Without faith, it's impossible to please him. Folks, the hymn, the hymn in Genesis 12 is Satan. Do you ever think about Abraham traveling for three days with his son and a knife? He said unto him, Not of seeds as of many But to the West, you find the gospel of Jesus Christ. You meet believers all over the world. As they seek thy face, may you develop godly homes among them. For as many as are of the works of the law are under the curse That's talking about Jesus Christ. But the name I don't have any issue with Lord may you provide for them Lord, we pray you would bless their college careers. If you obey me, you will be a peculiar treasure to me. Blessed is it be His glorious name forever. And so Deliver thyself, O Zion. Father, as we come to this hour, may you free our hearts and minds from all the cares of this world. That the promises of God to Abraham were made to the seed. Why does Israel today, why do the Jews today not have the land because they failed God's promises are to his children, to the faithful, repentant, obedient. We've seen a lot, a lot of answered prayer in recent weeks. May the Lord add a rich blessing to the reading and hearing of his holy word. Some people divide that into two. 15. Two hundred and sixteen. And so, Lord, we continue to knock at the door of heaven. Abraham go, and Abraham went. Correct us where we stray. That is the one we hear most often repeated. Abraham, sacrifice your son on the mountain I'm going to show you. Jacob have I loved. And Lord, hearing as thy Spirit expounds the Word of God to our hearts. 216 is our opening hymn today. Christian, in what do you believe? So I have just a little bit of that blood in my veins, but that does me no good before the throne of heaven. And yet, Lord, just as the Matthew 25, verse 31 to the end. Abraham was the friend of God. You look at when when Paul wanted to go to the east May they be believers in Jesus Christ above all things. It's a great big detour arrow. That's right. Behold his hands and sights with wood. We have no need to uphold all those pictures and shadows that pointed to him They can be done away with. Because my grandfather, who If you believe that Jesus Christ is in is the Messiah The promises were made to Jesus Christ. What is the perfect Abraham had a great name. That's not what Scripture says. And Lord, we pray that you would continue to give recovery and blessings. And Lord, we pray this in Jesus' name. And so who is it that receives these promises we've enumerated And then verse nineteen The law we read was added because of the transgression. Father, help and bless their Father, we pray for Mission Bible Church. Thou art cursed above all cattle. And that brings us, because there is this promise that the serpent will be cursed. Made of a woman, made under the law, to redeem them under the law, that ye might receive the adoption. Because Satan in the garden cursed Christ hath the cause sin. We wouldn't have that. Why is the United States blessed And so they forfeited the covenant. Father, bless your word to our hearts, we pray. In Jesus' name. But folks Why did he do it? If Christ has come, as our brother pointed out, then it's all done. Remember Jacob coming in? The names aren't coming to my mind at the moment, but you know who I'm talking about And it is the inheritance of the church. Then shall the righteous answer him, saying, Lord And God's promises require repentance. Wherefore Bless us this day for thy glory. Thank you, thank you. Let us pray. And can you say we've truly been blessed? And so let us go to Him in prayer together at this time. Now a mediator is not a mediator of one Folks, that's obedience. Come back to our text. Please turn to Matthew chapter twenty five for a responsive reading. And God never breaks his covenant. Him, not them. Um I know this tune from this particular psalm. This is the straight and narrow way that leads to eternal life. They'll claim, uh, we're just Jews, but you know, we still believe We know that when he makes the effort to come out to the time of worship Um that's kind of not my lane and we kind of learn here to First of all we find that the physical children of Abraham who believed. And to the church through Christ. When God promised Abraham, I'm going to give you a great name. There's there's a flaw there. They're foundational, they're things we have to understand before we can get down We'll consider it as one. Down to verse 13 of our chapter 6. We call his name today. I was naked and you didn't feel clothing. Oh God, let all men praise it. Esau have I hated. Promise number three. How often is Zion used as a euphemism for the church? Folks, the church We'd rather There was a prerequisite to receiving the blessings. Isn't that talking about the church in the Old Testament? We thank you that the chiropractor seems to be helping And there we will sing all four stanzas. But the blessing had been given. Now, folks, what does that mean? There is a spot where spirit is fled. No, we still need to look to it Lord, may you provide for them as well. Please be seated. But then on the other side And he shall set the sheep on his right hand, but the goats on the left. Abraham was a son of God. Their entire government was structured around the law. You touch the church, you're poking God in the eye. Amen. We pray, Lord, that you would bless them with godly mates And my friend, we are Christians. And that is the arrival of Christ, the arrival of the Messiah. And those that curse the name of Christ are cursed. Where does God dwell today? And cruel contagious. Yes, indeed, the seed of Abraham That distinction has been put away. Blessing we pray. Amen. That's in verse 2. It's not talking about one nation and another nation. Let us bow for prayer. That's in verse 3 And that is the holy nation that God promised. In Jesus' name. Crown him the Lord of peace. For thou hast died for me. Pops You didn't do it to me. Does that mean we cast off Israel, we don't support them anymore? In Jesus' name. The promise was It's the same word everlasting The covenants of God are yea and amen. But Jesus Christ said It's right there in our text. Ye will be a nation of priests and kings. Well, in the Old Testament, he dwelt between the cherubims. What's its purpose? Amen. I've told you before that I am very blessed. Let us pray. It's actually uh in It's talking about Israel, but it's the church. Then shall he answer them, saying Amen, amen This is my heir. It's are you in Christ or are you not? Amen. Crown him with many. Oh, may my No, I'm not saying that at all. Their entire But rather He will fulfill.