Be uh shaking a lot of hands today or giving a greeting a brother the Christian hug. I've got a pretty stuffy head here been head cold or I don't think it's a flu, but I just don't want to pass on whatever it is to you. So if I don't seem the same to you this morning, um I'm not. All right. My brain feels about three foot behind my head. Or like I've been drinking too much fluoride or something, I don't know. But anyway This is Reformation Sunday. Tomorrow night the world celebrates Halloween. But uh for centuries Tramon night the world celebrated Hello Eve, which was the evening before the celebration of All Saints Days. Celebrate Matthew, Mark, Luke, John, all the saints. It was called Halloween tomorrow night. But it's been changed to Halloween. That's rather discouraging. Eve was the night on which or the day in which Martin Luther nailed his ninety-five theses, complaining about the indulgences being sold by the church. Halloween. And many a church has forgotten that. You can go through newspapers, look what the churches are preaching on this Sunday, and very few will be mentioning Reformation Sunday But it was a tremendous uh awakening in Europe. It was a tr it was miraculous what took place, and I hope you'll grasp some of that this morning. As we look at it. Turn with me, would you, please, to 1 Jeremiah chapter 31. And we're going to read the second half of verse 18 and the first half of verse 19. Jeremiah 31, 18 and 19. Where Jeremiah writes, and he says, Turn thou me, and I shall be turned, for thou art the Lord my God. And surely after that I was turned, I repented, and after that I was instructed. The Reformation was a great turning moment in European It was the early 1500s when this revival was sparked uh in the hearts of people as God turned people, turned them to reverence the word of God, turned them and changed people. move people to translate uh the word of God in the language of the day. If you lived in in England, you got an English translation. If in Germany you got a German translation. And God's moving on people to do this. It was amazing, an amazing transformation of Europe that took place. And I think the first thing you have to understand in the early 1500s is that the literacy in Germany perhaps and in England They're all about the same. The highest amount of literacy you could find anywhere was about thirty percent. And as you went further and further out in the cities, the literacy It was about five percent. In other words, people couldn't read and write basically when Martin Luther nailed his theses to the door, when the uh Gutenberg Bible was printing Printed. People they didn't have bookstores to go to. They didn't even need to read and write. The most they ever had to do is write out a bill of sale for two cows or three chickens They didn't have books in their homes. And so what what possi in fact there weren't Bibles available to them, really? And so there was no need to read. There weren't mystery novels and romance novels. There was nothing really to read except two cows, five dollars, or something like that. There just wasn't a need unless you were worked for the king or some prince or uh in the cities you were a merchant of of great value. Reading just wasn't something that people could do very well. Five percent over Europe. Thirty percent Maybe in the major cities. So what were the chances that Martin Luther's ninety-five theses and he could write? What was the chance That anyone would read it. He nailed that 95 thesis to the door and he challenged the other priests, really, not the people. The people weren't, most of them weren't reading. They couldn't tell what it said. They'd have to ask somebody else, another priest, monk, or friar. What was it say? What does it say? And he challenged them to discuss and debate the indulgences that Rome was selling. Because the people couldn't read it. And although the Gutenberg Press was about fifty years old and had started to print some things, the Gutenberg Gutenberg Bible was the most important thing they printed. There weren't many that could read it. Revival didn't take place when the Gutenberg Bible was printed. Those Bibles got sent churches and monasteries and and for the first time many occasions for the first time as Luther would attest to he'd he'd seen a Bible. He was in a monastery He was a he was a monk. He'd studied theology in the colleges, universities, but he hadn't seen the Bible and now they had one in this particular monastery where he was was. People didn't have Bibles through even though the Gutenberg Bible is printed and out there. You couldn't afford if you if you had if you could read you couldn't afford to buy one So when you talk about reformation, and really we're talking about revival throughout all of Europe, that's what reformation was. It was a revival, a turning back to God's word. When you talk about reformation, it was miraculous. God's Word wasn't available in print. And when it was available in print, it was too very few people, and they couldn't afford to buy one. And that was the situation on Hallow Eve when Luther nailed his ninety-five complaints to the Wittenberg Church. And there were people knowing that if I print this Gutenberg Bible, or knowing if I make copies of this Bible in German or English or French, and I go out and sell them, that the church will have my hind The Catholic Church in that time, they didn't want those Bibles spread around. They didn't want the people to read. That the Bible didn't say do give due penance. The Bible said do repentance. They changed that word And so you're going to risk your life as Tyndale did and was a martyr for the faith. He risked his life to print a book in English, the Bible in English, for a body of people who couldn't afford to buy, and for a body of people who couldn't even read. But you know what happened? When the people found out there was a book out there, the Bible, printed in their language, they wanted to read it. And there were people willing to instruct them in the alphabet and instruct them how to read and and instruct them what it said and and it caught fire. It was the fire from the Holy Spirit Spirit touching hearts. People all of a sudden they found something they wanted to know how to read. And they and they found as they were printed, they became cheaper and cheaper to purchase, and people Would purchase something they couldn't even read, but they wanted to learn how to read, and they learn how to read by reading the Bible, Tyndale's English Bible. But what a miraculous thing that people would want to spend So much money for something, and sometimes he couldn't even read yet. The Reformation was a revival of God. God had turned our turn, Lord, our hearts, and we shall be turned in that That's what it was. It was a revival such as this this the world has never seen since. And there were people like Tyndale Who were willing to resist onto blood, Hebrews 12 and verse 4, that the gospel of Jesus Christ might get out to an ill literate people who couldn't afford to buy it The Reformation, by the way, this great revival, it began in the Catholic Church. Well, you think about it, there weren't any Presbyterian churches, there weren't any Lutheran churches, Episcopalians, all there was. And this revival of God, it began in the Roman Catholic Church. And it spread throughout the clergy in the Roman Catholic Church Catholic Church. And it spread to the friars and the monks and the bishops and the archbishops and even some of the cardinals got saved reading the Bible. Some people have the impression that the Reformation was uh it's all hate the Catholics. It was the Catholics that were the reformers. It was A Catholic priest. Martin Luther was a monk. John Knox was a priest. John Calvin was studying for the priesthood They're all Catholic priests and monks and friars. Zwingli was a priest up in Switzerland. Oh, that God would touch the church today Especially some of the apostate churches and start a revival again, start a reformation again, start another revival again. This one started in the Catholic Church And the church was not delighted. They were not happy with that, but here was the word of God spreading from the friars and the clergy and the monks. And the bishops, the cardinals, it was spreading to the scrub woman in England. Rather in Scotland, the goat herders in Germany, and the seamsters in Switzerland, and the farmers in France, and even the very educated in England, begin to read the Word of God For the first time. And the church was not happy. Church authorities began persecuting And prosecuting and punishing the Bible-believing Catholics in their own denominations, in their own congregations. They call them heretics And they pushed the governing authorities of their day, whether it was King Henry VIII and others, they pushed the governing authorities to execute these heretics within their own congregation. Within our own churches for reading the Bible. Because the word of God, the people found as they read it, taught so contrary To what the Pope had been telling them and the laws and the rules and the regulations that they must abide by. an ordained Catholic priest and they would have him strangled. He was righteous and it says in the scriptures of Proverbs twenty eight one that there are some who are righteous and as bold as a lion. Tyndale, a Catholic priest, was just such. She gave us our English Bible. If you have a Bible today, it's in English in your lap. Thank Tyndale, the Catholic priest They strangled him when he was dead, they burned his body at the stake for translating the Bible into English. And yet there's not a Catholic Church today that doesn't have an English Bible. Somewhere in their building. And their priests read from it every Sunday. Bishop Hugh Latimer and Archbishop Bishop Thomas Kramer, uh both Catholics. They were burned at the stake for denying that the presence of Christ was really in the little bread wafer and that his blood was really in uh the the And because Christ is in that wafer, in that bread, when I give it to you and you swallow it, you now have Christ in you. I have just administered you, the Catholic priest and the and the Pope said, when I administer you the bread in the communion Service when you swallow the bread, you now have Christ in you. I have administered grace to you. And if I don't give you the grace of salvation, you'll never have it No one can be saved, no one can have the grace of God, no one can have Christ in them. The scripture talks about Christ in you, Colossians 1:22, that the hope of glory is that we have Of Christ in us. And they said, You want Christ in you? You must come to the Catholic Church and you must be have us allowed to give you the body of Christ, and it will be dwell in you as you swallow it But Bishop Latimer and Archbishop Kramer said it's just a piece of bread. It symbolizes But we can't give somebody salvation. We can't give somebody grace by just giving them away for and they swallow it and poof they're born again and they're saved. And they're a new creature in Christ and they're going to heaven. We can't do that. And so the church said, Yes, we can. And in fact, if you don't abide by what we say, we will withhold the body of Christ from you, and you'll never have salvation. You'll never have the grace of God. You'll never have the hope of glory And there were some that were concerned about that. They they didn't want to go to hell. And they stuck with the Catholic Church and the priests and the bishops, but not Latimer, not Kramer, and they were burnt at the For denying the presence of Christ in the elements. And that the Mass was a means of grace. Catholic troops in battle. They not only killed Zwingli, a Catholic priest, here the Catholic troops that kill him. He also believed the same thing that you could not give somebody grace. The mercy of God could not be extended to you, and Christ would now He also did not believe that, and they killed him, and they were so angry with him, and the people revered his teachings and revered the word of God that he would quote, They loved us with me so much that they cut us Body in four pieces. They burned those pieces, and then they buried them in a large dung heap for fear that the people might use the dead body of Zwingli as some sort of a relic. Or a place to congregate and to worship. The hatred of those who love the Word of God during the Reformation It was appalling to hate the people just because they love the Word of God. Aren't you glad we don't face that today? That people don't hate us Because we quote the word of God. I'm telling you. They've gotten some of these WikiLeaks and these emails out, and we are finding out how much they really do hate us. In those in those people's emails that went out, these these people of high high authority in this country, they talk about us We're the deplorables or we're the irredeemables. We're the problem with society. They have an animosity towards us. It is stunning What will they do in the days and years ahead if they're allowed to continue and there's no revival and no reformation in this country and other countries around I'd love to see revival somewhere, someplace to go, you know, if we don't have it here. The contemporaries of Men like Tyndale and Latimer and Kramer were men like Luther. A bombastic monk was what he was called as he preached. He'd stand in the pulpit and he'd be And he he would shatter the pulpit. The splinters of the wood could go flying as he was turning the pulpit and making a point, uh a point of his message. He was the bombastic monk with a price on his His head. They said, if you kill, you know, they were selling indulgence. Let me let me just explain the indulgence. If you sin, God would indulge your sin. He'd say, it's alright As long as you buy my indulgence, the Pope would sell the indulgence. And and if you bought the indulgence, God forgave you for your sin. He would indulge the sin if you paid And so here was Luther, he had a price on his head because he was preaching the word of God. And he was he he had ch translated the Bible into Greek so the People in in Germany could read it. Those who could read could read it. The thirty percenters in the city and the five percenters out, and then those other five percenters they grew to ten, fifteen, twenty. They want to know how to read too and read the Bible and see what it said. What's this argument about? I mean deposit Luther, let's let's see what it is. We have to read the Bible to see what's going on here. And people began to learn to read, became literate. And they They were not happy with Luther. And so an indulgence was offered to the man that kills Martin Luther, instantly get out of jail, out of purgatory, goes right to heaven for the man that could kill Luther. Wow Hadn't been an indulgence like that before. Most of the indulgences they got you they forgave you for this sin or that sin, or the indulgence got you a hundred days early out of Purgatory or a month early out of purgatory. But here was an indulgence if you it didn't even cost you any money. You just had to kill Martin Luther and pow you went right to heaven. It was great What was the chance of him surviving? And then there was a Catholic priest named John Knox. He was called the ruffian of the Reformation, also contemporary of Tyndales and the other He was the ruffian of the Reformation. And it was said he would neither flatter nor fear any flesh, including Queen Mary, and we won't have time to talk about it His confrontation with Queen Mary today. They captured him and chained him to an oar in a French galley ship for nineteen months. Cold, humid, if you ever been been over in that area. Just miserable change of this oar and rowing this galley slip ship slave ship for nineteen months broke his health. He was never When I talk about breaking the health these reformers and what they had to live and how they had to flee and how they run from these individuals and persecuted and lacking food and lacking Water and what they went through. I I should have I I meant to write it down, I didn't. But I'm I'm gonna tell you. Luther, Knox, Kelvin, Tyndale, I I've outlived all of them. I think Tyndale was forty-five. Luther was sixty-three. Knox I think it was fift uh was fifty-five. I mean they didn't live very long. They they gave their bodies as a sacrifice to God. They didn't live long. Many of you here are much older than that. Forty-five? You've outlived Tindale. Wow. Calvin, powerful theologian, forced from his pulpit and he left France to preach the gospel of Christ more freely in Switzerland. We haven't lived in a reviv Let me describe a little bit of revival, the Reformation over there in Germany and France. France and Italy. Yes, there was a revival in Italy. Right in the backyard of of the Pope there was a revival in Italy as Catholic priests were touched there as well and and bishops. This is what the revival is like if you walk down the streets of Europe in the early fifteen hundreds. Candles burned late into the night as a common We're studying the scriptures. Rather, they used to work until dark, eat the meal, go to bed. But now they had their candles burning, and candles weren't cheap for the poor people, and they burned their candles till late in the night reading the Bible stuff And throughout the day you hear people in the in the marketplace, the prison cells, the palace pantries, singing the psalms like a never been done before. Drunkenness, gambling, profanity, just vanish from the public arena. Debts were forgiven by one another, and strangers became the dearest friends when they found that they too knew Christ. And they too had a small Bible hidden in their pocket that they read from. They want to be caught with a Bible. You could be burned at the stake for that. I think I've told you before that's with a pocket Bible came from. It was a one small enough to hide from the authorities. Not all appreciated the revival. Not all appreciated the swearing. The drunkenness and so forth that had disappeared off the streets. And the fact was they didn't appreciate it because it threatened the financial status of the church. The church made a lot of money selling the indulgences And they would sell forgiveness, they would sell salvation, they would sell grace. Even to the dying man, they would say, This is what they would say to the dying man, Dear Sir, I know you've got a lot of sins you haven't confessed yet. And you haven't got much time now to do good works for the church, and here's what we will offer you. Leave all your money to the church, and we will pardon you and give you salvation. No time in purgatory. Wow, that's quite an indulgence. Just leave all your money to the church. And many a man did, leaving his wife and little children dead. Until people saw and read the scriptures where Christ said, You hypocrites, you devour widows' houses, Matthew 23 and fourteen. Provide not for your own house makes you worse than an infidel. First Timothy five and eight. And when they saw these scriptures, they thought this is so contrary to what the church is telling us We're to provide for our own household. We're to provide for our people, our children, or infidels. Don't let them devour the widow's house. What's going on here? And they didn't like those verses being read. And so Naturally, they didn't like the revival, they didn't like the Reformation. Luther knew all about indulgences. Luther believed in them at one time Luther thought that there was a way you could work your way into heaven. He was a devout Catholic. Martin Luther was a devout Catholic, and he knew firsthand that good works and he did Plenty of them. And penance, and he did much of that. And purchasing forgiveness, he found it just didn't give peace to his soul. He thought when he did all this pen And he thought we had paid orders for these indulgences and these good works. He he thought if he'd fasted for days and he did, and if he exposed his body the cold and he did, if he beat himself with a scourge or a whip, which he did countless times That he find the peace that passes all understanding. He denied himself sleep until he was stumbling in the walls and falling down. He was such a man geared towards earning his salvation with penance and indulgences. that all the community was in awe of his piety. He was the monk's monk among monks. But in his breast There was no peace. There was no pardon. There was no hope of salvation. He was dreadfully afraid of the judge of all the earth, Genesis 18 and 20. 25 because he felt he hadn't done enough, could never do enough, could never pay enough, never suffer enough. And he wept over the fact that when he died, he was going to hell. And maybe not even Pass by purgatory, which by the way, he discovered later as he read the Bible that purgatory is never mentioned in it. Some of you have read the entire Bible and you know that purgatory is never mentioned in it. But you say, Well, what about the Catholic Bible? When I first got saved, because my wife was a Catholic I read the entire Catholic Bible. When I got to Maccabees, there was a little footnote. It wasn't in the Bible, but it was a little footnote. And it said, although purgatory is not in the Bible, Whoa, what? This footnote said in the Catholic Bible, Pergamus not in the Bible. We still teach it as a tradition of the church Then they explained why. He feared the judge of all the earth. His peace came to him when reading Habakkuk two four. Just shall live by faith. That is faith in God's word and what God promises and faith in Christ and and his substitutionary atonement, his shedding of his blood on the cross for our sins, if we accept Christ and and confess our sins and he's faithful and good to forgive us of all our sins. And that brought Martin with the peace. The just shall live by faith Habakkuk 2 4 and he thought wow what a verse what a verse and he kept reading and in Romans 1 7 he he came across it again the just to live by faith. Oh God, you sent me this This verse twice for my life. Thank you, thank you, thank you. And he read some more. Galatians 3:11. The just shall live by faith. Oh, that's like the Trinity, a trying told telling me three times, oh, thank you, Lord. Oh, could I ask for anything more? And then in Hebrews 10 and 38 he came across this verse, the just shall live by faith. Wow. And it was settled with Martin Luther For all eternity. Faith in the scriptures, the living word, the incarnate word, the works of Jesus Christ. There's where faith gave you the peace that he sought. And he didn't leave the Catholic Church. He stayed in it to preach these truths to the day he died. The church While he was preaching, added another twist to the indulgences. After all, the Reformation and the Revival was was hurting the church treasury. It was dwindling the money coming in for the indulgence. Indulgences. It was dwelling and and they had to put a new twist on it. And so the new twist was money could purchase forgiveness of sins without even repentance. Wow. You see before you say, Oh father, I have sinned. I have I have cursed at my wife and my children, or father, I have sinned, I stole from my employer, or father, I have sinned, I I have uh coveted uh the maid next door or whatever and the priest would say, uh They'd write it out. Forgive her for looking at the maid next door or stealing from the employer. is ask God to forgive you and pay the sum. And they had a they had like a menu. You know, stealing costs so much, covenant costs so much, killing costs. Oh yes, you can be forgiven for killing. You can even be forgiven for stealing from the church I think Tetzel might have added that one because he was stealing from the church. But you no longer had to repent of the sin. That was the new twist on indulgences. You can just pay for the indulgence. You get the indulgence that the Pope blesses and stamps, and God forgives you, even if you don't repent of what you're doing. Boy, they were desperate to bring in some money, weren't they? But Luke 13, 3 said, Except you repent, you shall perish. And those that were reading the Bible said, wait a minute. Tetsu is selling indulgences that say I don't have to repent. And this Bible says, Except I repent, I shall Perish. Repentance and remission of sins was to be preached. Luke 24 and 47. Christ said we must preach repentance and remission of sins You know it's still the same today? You have to repent of your sins to be forgiven. You want to go to heaven? You need to ask God to forgive you To wash your sins in the blood of Christ. It hasn't changed since the days of Martin Luther. We need to repent of our sins. And when we say I re I'm sorry I did this or that. God knows. He knows if you're really sorry and sorrowful for your sins. But here they were, selling indulgences. In fact, it the new twist came even further. It was a beginning. You you if you want a sin forgiven, you had to pay this amount of money and you had to repent of your sin. Then you didn't have to repent of that sin anymore, and then he decided to move it along even further. If you've got family that's already dead that's in purgatory, hey, you can get 'em out sooner. If you pay for indulgence, you you say, look, my my Uncle Harry, he he's in prison and I remember he used to steal from his employees Lawyer and Uncle Harry used to cuss at his wife and and I want him to get a purgatory server, taking the Lord's name in vain. And Tetso will say, Well, this is how much that costs, we'll take care of that too But but Harry, we don't know if Harry's repenting of all those things. Doesn't matter, says Tetzel. You no longer have to repent for your sins. You just got to pay for the indulgence. You don't have to repent anymore and your family in in purgatory don't have to repent either just pay it and we'll get them out of purgatory sooner application for today. Go to a funeral. And over in the corner you'll see a mascard tree. You know what the mascard is? They say prayers for your dead loved one it will get them out of purgatory sooner people are still paying to get people out of purgatory in the Catholic Church sooner. Even if your family who's in purgatory, which which by the way doesn't exist according to my Bible or the Catholic Bible, but still though but they'll take your money. And I've called Catholic priests and say, do we believe I said, uh you know, my wife was raised a Catholic, she wants to know, do we still believe in purgatory or not? He said, well it's not necessary. If you want to believe in purgatory, you can. If you don't want to believe in purgatory, that's okay too. Some some priests and pastors believe in it and some don't. You know, it's really up to the general public now what they want to believe. Oh. But they're still selling the mass cards to get your Family out of purgatory, and your family who's in purgatory, they maybe aren't repenting, but it doesn't matter as long as the money flows in Friar John Tetzel. This is what he was teaching. But Psalm forty nine Over gold he got, none can by any means redeem his brother or himself, nor give to God a ransom, whatever you know we want to give God gold. or bullocks or your bank account, you can't give God a ransom for him. For the redemption of the soul is precious. It can't be purchased with money, gold, or cattle or sacrifice. It can only be purchased with the shed blood of Christ. The precious, precious, shed blood of Christ and nothing else. You don't realize how Precious the soul is. If you think that your soul can be redeemed by giving money to charity or doing good works or making some great sacrifice on your deathbed You don't understand how precious your eternal soul is and what it cost to redeem it from damnation In eternity. None can by any means, John Tetzel, friar that you are, Catholic friar, none can by any means redeem his brother nor give to God a ransom for him For the redemption of the soul is precious. We can only be redeemed if God, through his Holy Spirit, touches our heart and turns us, and we are turned, and we repent, and we recognize and love Love the sacrifice that Christ paid on the cross. Friar John Tetzel, he had no conscience. He was a man already convicted and found guilty of adultery by the church. And he was to be drowned by the church for his adultery. But he was such a gifted speaker that they gave him a position as dispenser of the indulgence instead. Boy, the church forgave him. I wonder what that cost him for that one. And he would forgive everything from witchcraft to polygamy to murder to robbing the church. There was forgivable for a price. In fact, Tetzo went to the streets and he would Preach this way. And I'll admit, out of all those indulgence sellers, Tetson was probably the worst. I mean he exaggerated and he just you know he he just uh opened it up wide to every sin there was in fact In fact, he would preach in the streets. In fact, if it were possible and someone here had violated the Virgin Mary, I can forgive you with an indulgence. He said, I know it's not possible because she's no longer here with us. But if she were here and you violated the Virgin Mary, an indulgence would be your way of being forgiven. That's what he would preach He also sold indulgence crosses. That was a new one for me, but he had these little crosses, uh not really little, some of them were very big, and he would sell them to the churches. They could put them up in their sanctuary over their uh over the altar, and these had the stamp of the Pope on them, his insignia on the s on the cross that they would put in his churches and with the Pope's insignia on the wooden crosses that he would sell the paper, the indulgence that came with that wooden cross said that this cross is is as valuable and equivalent to the value of the true cross that Christ died on. Well, that must make people feel pretty rotten because they've been paying for little pieces of The wood of the cross and having it up in their altars and inside their sanctuary. They had a real piece of the cross, and they paid dairy for these little pieces of the cross. And now Tetzel's selling big piece of the wooden cross and saying it's equivalent to the whole cross They must have felt because they cheated a little bit. But if you walked around all the churches in Europe and uh North America and South America, you found there was a number of little wooden pieces of the roof Cross of Christ to build Noah's Ark. I mean they've got so many pieces of the cross. But now you didn't need the real one. You could get a cross with the Pope's insignia on it. And it was it was equivalent. This is what prompted Luther on Hallow Eve, October thirty first, which would be tomorrow by the way Tomorrow's not Halloween. Tomorrow is Halloween. It's the day before All Saints Day that he nailed his 95 thesis complaints on the church Story at Wittenberg. Challenge for discussion. Everyone would you like to benefit for the discussion, the debate that took place when they read this? And all these other friars and monks and priests who loved the Pope and they're all boy, we're gonna meet with Luther, and we're gonna begin a quarter And we're gonna outnumber him and we're gonna renail his his hide to the wall. And you know what happened? Nobody showed up. Nobody took debate. Nobody wanted to talk about it. And Luther thought his 95 Theses, all that writing he did, it accomplished nothing. It just accomplished absolutely nothing I thought I'd sparked something. What's wrong with these people? Are they dead in their sins and their trespass? What is wrong with these people? It accomplished nothing. was readily torn down, I guess by the enemy, I guess some loyalty in the church. No. It was torn down by someone who thought This is great stuff. Oh my goodness. Oh point three. Oh point nine oh. 92 point oh my goodness is great stuff. And he shipped it over to someone who had a Gutenberg press they start printing it off and made out all over Europe and six weeks later Luther finds out his thesis has gone to Switzerland France Germany Italy, it's everywhere, including Rome, where the Pope resided, and it had created such a stir and such ex Excitement. And there were men like Calvin who wanted to meet this Lutheran. Zwingli who wanted to meet this Lutheran. Knox who wanted to meet this Luther. Who is this guy? Who is this guy This is great And the fire that Luther lit in Wittenberg spread throughout all Europe. But initially he thought not much was being accomplished here Maybe you feel that way in your own life. Not much is being accomplished here or in your home or among your family. Oh, eternity will show how much We've really accomplished here the church First Timothy three three had talked about the fact that The church was not to be greedy of filthy lucre, but they were. There's a sale of indulgence declined. They ordered Luther's the diet of worms. The diet of worms is where they bring in all the princes And kings of Europe, the King of France, the King of Spain, the King of Italy. They bring in all these kings and princes and royalty. And they brought all these people to the diet of worms and to ask him to recant his words and his writings And even had other theologians there, uh Dr. Eck and others, and they would begin debating with Luther and opposing him and and they would quote the theologians of the past like Augustine and George Jerome and Cyril and and they would quote these men and Luther Steph says, excuse me, the exact quote is, and he said, You've misquoted him, you've taken him out of context. It actually says And I mean Luther was well read and all that. But he says, nevertheless, I would point out to you as well as you're quoting popes and consuls, I would like to point out to you that popes and consuls have often come contradicted each other and disagree with one another. I can bring you popes that agree with my position and consuls that agree with my position. He said, but what good is all that? Let me reason with you out of the scriptures, he said. Acts 17 and 2 Isn't that what the apostles did? That's what Paul did. He reasoned to them out of the scriptures, and that irritated them to no end. Luther and uh at that day and others later on were accused of being here's an accusation. Some of you have probably been accused of the same thing, and maybe this will comfort you Luther and the reformers are accused of being captivated by the scriptures. Had the word of God captivated your heart? Oh, oh, that was such a terrible thing in that day. Luther and his people that followed him, Melington and others like him, and Latimer and Ridgely and all these men, they were captivated by the scriptures and they were told that they were commanded they must rejoice Reject the sole authority of Scripture and declare that the sacraments had value, that the sacraments could dispense grace, that if your baby was baptized, they entered the household of faith, they were born again as soon as the Catholic priest baptized. You can wash a hog and it's still a hog, and you can wash a little baby sinner, they're still a sinner They need to repent, they need to recant, they need to get saved, they need they need that reformation, that restoration, that regeneration. The water baptism even of an adult doesn't say that you we got a lot of adults, but you were baptized in adults. Did the b Baptism save you? No. You were just confirming to the community of the congregation, I'm saved. And I want to recognize my public baptism. It doesn't save me. That that happened yesterday or a week ago or a month ago. Baptism of water doesn't save baptism of the Holy Spirit. Yes, that does. The reformers would not recant. They did not believe that the sacraments like baptism and partaking in the Lord's Supper had bestowed grace or salvation, and they wouldn't go along with that. And so they were being hung and beheaded and strangled and and guillotined and burned at the stake. And as at that time with Luther's confronting us All these men of the die to worms. He knows of the burnings and the guillotinings and the hangings. He's stranglings. He knows of all this. And he says, Prove me wrong by the scriptures, and I'll retract. We got some pretty brave people in this country today. And told you will bake a cake for these two gays that are getting married, or you'll lose your business, you'll lose your house, you'll lose your bank account. And they say, I can't do that. On something that's contrary to scripture. People across this nation are already paying. They're losing their houses. And that's what they did with people sought after by the the church. They took their houses, they took their bank accounts, they took their cattle, they took everything from them they could. And we're seeing that in America today. Photographers that won't video gay married Bakers of cakes that won't. Bed and breakfast is that won't count and it's not just two gays coming in, but two unmarried people coming into we like to see your bed and breakfast not married, but No, you can't come in here either. I mean there are Christians taking the stand and they're in the courts and they are losing it all. As they did here. No one's being put to death here yet Sometime later Luther wrote the Augsburg Confession, the Statement of Faith, and the Confession of Faith was put on trial. The Emperor told everybody to come, you know, Mellington and And he he he asked all the others who were working with Luther, Come, I'll give you a free passage to come uh to uh to can you know, as we discuss this in the city. And they said, Okay How about Luther? Did Luther get a free pass? No, Luther doesn't get a free pass. We'll kill him if he shows up. So Luther couldn't show up to defend his confession of faith, the statement. And the emperor was there surrounded by kings and dukes and princes. and thousands assembled to hear Luther's writings in Latin. And they said Luther didn't write them in Latin. He wrote them in German. And we got thousands Thousands of people here and they all understand German. We think it should be read in German so they understand the situation. And the Emperor said, okay, we can read it in German And so they read Luther's uh confession of faith among all these people and hated his guts. Thousands gathered who hated him and thousands more who loved him. And and here they were and they were reading a statement of the Confession of Faith called the Augsburg Confession of Faith. And when they finished reading it, many of the opponents of Luther said Oh dear God, he's right. And they became supporters of the Reformation and the revival continued to spread through the Catholic Church. What a day it must be Psalm one nineteen and verse forty six I will speak of thy testimonies before kings and will not be ashamed, and his confession of faith is written. Before kings and princes, and he was not ashamed. There were people among that group that got saved, reformed, restored, regenerated. The Reformation was a movement of men intolerant of false doctrine. I gotta say that one more time. I know it's getting late. The Reformation was a movement of men intolerant of false doctrine. I wonder what they'll think thought of aborting babies. I know what they'd have thought. The reformers, intolerant of the false doctrine, they wouldn't coddle the Canaanites They wouldn't play patty cake with the Philistines. They wouldn't humor the Hittites that occupied pulpits and the crowns and the thorns of Germany and England and France. They wouldn't put up with any of this stuff. The idea of we must be tolerant today. They were not tolerant Tolerant of false doctrine, things contrary to the Word of God. Today, the churches, I blame the churches more than anything. The churches are in appalling spiritual decline as they tolerate sin to get along with the powers that be. Rather than proclaim, nevertheless, what saith the scriptures. That's the problem today in America. It's not who gets elected in November Republican, conservative, liberal. The problem that needs to be solved is what say at the scriptures. If we can't get that message out, forget about all the other messages that are out there We're in dire straits in this country. The whole the whole world's in dire states The birth of Christ the Savior celebrated by society today with Frosty, the snowman, Santa Claus, the sleigh full of reindeer. What's that all about? And Christ's resurrection is often overshadowed by a rabbit carrying chocolate eggs. What's that all about? And now Halloween, the Old Saints Day, the birth of the Reformation Society calls it Halloween. Everybody parades around dressed as sorcerers, zombies, scary ghosts, goblins, and ghastly creatures. What's that all about? Society's greatest need today is another scripture-based, Christ-centered reformation. And pilgrims, we need to pray for that. Let's pray now. Oh Lord, what a state this country is in, what a state this world is in. Everybody's got answers, everybody's got suggestions, everybody's got directions, thoughts. They've got some Plan when all we need to do is turn back the scriptures, infallible, inerrant, that will bless any nation, any people Oh Lord, may you open the eyes, as Tyndale prayed, of a plowboy in England, of the seamstress in Scotland, of the goat herder in Germany. of the lost in the land called America. We ask this, praying to our merciful God, the Lord Jesus Christ. In his name we plead. Amen.