Open with me this morning in the precious, inspired, and preserved Word of God to the book of Joshua and chapter 7. the seventh chapter of Joshua, and we're going to be considering all 26 verses, but I'm not going to read the passage And then go into it. Rather, I would like to read through it and do an exposition as we go through And then we have a five-point outline at the end, which will be the exposition. And I've mentioned to you before that I can kind of judge the length of a sermon by the number of pages of notes I have And I've got nine this morning. So don't worry about the storm. It's not going to catch us. You're going to get home safely if God ordains. But let us begin with prayer and then give close heed to the Word of God. Let us pray. Gracious Father. As we approach this book this morning, we rejoice that faith cometh by hearing and hearing by the Word of God. But we understand that the hearing by which faith comes is not simply the auditory function of the ears that you've given to us. But rather, the hearing by which faith comes is the hearing of the heart, the hearing of the inner man. And so, Father, we pray today that these things which are given to us for examples These things which are given to us for admonition would find great deep root within our hearts Father, moreover by them is thy servant warned, and in keeping of them there is great reward. And so bless your word to our hearts this day. May the Holy Spirit indeed be the preacher among us. May your Spirit bring truth to our hearts, conviction to our souls, correction to our actions. Father, bless us this day through thy truth. In Jesus' name. Amen. As we approach this seventh chapter of the book of Joshua, We know that the sixth chapter records for us the victory over Jericho. A great victory has been won. Six hundred thousand men of arms have marched around a city, but they have not won the victory with their swords. Six hundred men have marched around the city with the rest of the company of Israel marching with them And when God's command came forth, they shouted. And we saw a few weeks ago, or maybe even last Sunday, that that shout was powerful because it was the God-inspired word. It was sent forth and the walls of Jericho fell. A great victory was won. And we come to this seventh chapter. And the first word of the chapter is but. And we all understand what that means. It means that now there's going to be an exception. Something is going to follow, and it's going to be different. And often When we encounter the word but, what follows is not good. It was a great day, but This interceded. So we read there in the tenth chapter of 1 Corinthians for a responsive reading that It's talking about the children of Israel in the wilderness. Did you pick that up there in the first part of our responsive reading? And in verse uh We find now these things were for examples of the intent that we should not lust after evil things. Verse 7 of our responsibility, neither idolaters, verse 8, neither fornicators. Verse 9, let us not tempt Christ. Verse 10, murmur as some of them did. Verse 11, now all these things are happened for examples Folks, this book of the Bible is not simply a piece of literature to enjoy and read. I enjoy reading literature. That was my minor in college, was an English minor, which is largely a study of literature. There's fascinating things to read, but there's only one book that's transformative. There's only one book that's inspired. And these things are given to us for examples. And so we read there in the first verse of Joshua chapter 7. But the children of Israel committed a trespass in the accursed thing. They have just won a great victory over Jericho, but the children of Israel committed a trespass in the In the accursed thing. For Achan, the son of Karmi, the son of Zabdi, the son of Zara, of the tribe of Judah, took of the accursed thing. And the anger of the Lord was kindled against the children of Israel. You'll notice that One man committed the sin. And yet the anger of God was against the whole. We talk about being an Achan in the camp. It's become a common phrase even in secular circles where one guy on the on the team is an achen He just messes up everything for everybody. God was not pleased. The anger of God was against the whole nation. And Joshua sent men from Jericho to Ai, which is beside Bethaven on the east side of Bethel. And spake unto them saying, Go up and view the country. And the men went up and viewed Ai. And they returned to Joshua and said unto him, Let not all the people go up, but let about two or three thousand men go up and smite Ai. And make not all the people labor thither, for they are few. Now, if you remember back to prayer meeting, I believe two weeks ago, we considered In chapter 9 of Joshua, where the men of Gibeon came with their old clothes and their moldy bread and their water sacks full of holes. And the children of Israel ask not counsel at the mouth of the Lord. And folks, it seems that that's the same thing that has happened here at Aod. The spies go out and they say, Oh, it's just a little city, let's send two or three thousand But remember what's just happened. Was Jericho defeated because they had 600,000 men, or was Jericho defeated because God gave them the victory? And so suddenly they've decided, hey, we've got this one. We don't need to ask God about this. We can handle this on our own. We don't need to pray about this matter. Oh, what a foolish thing to do. Verse 4. So there went up of the people about three thousand men, and they fled before the men of Ai. So think about this, folks. We're talking about Aiken this morning here. There are 600,000 men of war in Israel. Of them, 3,000 are chosen to go up to AI. That's 0. 5%, half of 1% of the Army. And Aiken is one of three thousand. Aiken was not just your average Joe Private in the army. Aiken was a man of war. He was a capable soldier. Aiken was a man of responsibility. Aiken, if you're going to choose 3,000 out of 600,000, if you're going to take half of 1%, you're going to take the best half. Of 1%. Aiken was someone who should have been trustworthy. Aiken was a man who should have been a man of character. Aiken would have been a Sunday school teacher or an elder. Aiken would have been someone upon whom great responsibility was placed, and yet Aiken failed. And folks, that alone is a great warning to us. We read in our responsive reading, let him that thinketh that he stand take heed lest he fall. And often, often, it is the 3,000 that are most susceptible to departure from truth. That are most susceptible to the wiles of the devil. Smite the shepherd, and the sheep will be scattered. And so Achan is among these three thousand And yet Achan was the one who sinned. If anyone should have been above temptation, it should have been these three thousand men. And I read to you for our call to worship That verse from Ezekiel chapter 18 and verse 30, and if you haven't made note of that reference yet, make note of it and read that verse. Look at it. Meditate on this week. Ezekiel 18 and verse 30. Therefore I will judge you, O house of Israel. Everyone according to his ways, saith the Lord God. Repent and turn yourselves from all your transgressions, so iniquity shall not be your ruin. Folks, I was blessed I was blessed to have this verse pointed out to me when I was about 17 years old. And that phrase, so iniquity shall not be your ruin. kept me back from a lot of ruin as a teenager. It was that phrase that no, yes this thing is very attractive. Yes, my Teenage lust would love to rush after this, but iniquity will be ruined. And that's what happened with Arian. Iniquity was his ruin, and it was the ruin of his family as well Folks, it doesn't matter how young or how old you are, iniquity can be your ruin. It can destroy you Verse five. And the men of Ai smote of them about thirty and six men. For they chased them from the gate before the gate, even unto Shabarim, and smote them in the going down. Wherefore the hearts of the people melted and became as water. Thirty-six men died. Before AI. In Joshua 22, on several chapters ahead, in verse 20 When Joshua is reminding the people of danger. In chapter 22 and verse 20, did not Achan, the son of Zarah, commit a trespass in the accursed thing? And wrath fell on all the congregation of Israel, and that man perished not alone in his iniquity. He perished, not alone, in his iniquity. Thirty-six men of the army died, and we'll see later that his wife And his sons, and his daughters as well. Folks, sin will be your ruin. Joshua 7, verse 6 And Joshua rent his clothes, and fell to the earth upon his face before the ark of the Lord until eventide He and the elders of Israel put dust upon their heads to credit. They went to God with a problem. But then verse 7. And Joshua said, Alas, O Lord God, wherefore hast thou brought this people over Jordan to deliver us into the hand of the Amorites, to destroy us? Would to God we had been content to dwell on the other side, Jordan. What's Joshua doing? Well, Joshua charges God with an oath. That phrase, would to God. is an oath. It is a cursing, basically. Would to God we'd stayed over on the other side What look at the great danger you brought us in. Why have you brought us? Where is your your are your promises? We should not have come in the first place, is basically what Joshua's saying Moses had fallen into the same trap of blaming God for his problems rather than looking at himself. In Exodus chapter 5, verse 22 and 23. And Moses returned unto the Lord God and said, Wherefore hast thou so evil and treated this people? Why is it that thou hast sent me? For since I came to Pharaoh to speak in thy name, he hath done evil to this people, neither hast thou delivered thy people at all. Wow. Why did you send me Lord? You haven't done anything yet. It's basically what Moses says to God. And again bit of personal testimony about three years into Jamaica, I came across this verse and I said, Lord, why did you send me? You haven't saved anybody yet. Oh, I was twenty-eight years old. And what a foolish thing to say. What foolishness to begin to blame God for our problem. Lord, don't you know what's going on? Lord, why why did you bring me here? Lord, why why is it this way The children of Israel in Exodus 16 did the same thing. Would to God we had died in the land of Egypt where when we sat by the flesh pots and when we did eat the bread the full For ye have brought us forth into this wilderness to kill us, the whole assembly with hunger. Oops Does God know what he's doing? Is God in charge? Rather, may we be like Job? For in Job 1, verses 20 through 22, when Job lost his children and lost his family and lost his cattle, all he had left was his wife, and she was a complainer Then Job arose and rent his mantle and shaved his head and fell down upon the ground and worshipped, and said, Naked came I out of my mother's womb, and naked shall I return thither the Lord gave, and the Lord had taken away. Blessed be the name of the Lord. In all this Job sinned not, nor charged God foolishly And folks, that's what we find Joshua doing. That's what we saw Moses doing. That's what we saw the children of Israel doing, charging God foolishly. Lord, my life just hasn't worked out the way I expected. Why did you do this to me? Lord, I didn't get that promotion. Why did you do this to me? Lord But my engine blew up. Why did you do this to me? Lord, I'm sick. Why did you do this to me? Lord, my friends don't like me anymore. Why did you do this to me? Folks, God knows what he's doing. Here we find Joshua charging God foolishly. Elihu, in his discourse with Job in Job 33 and verse 13, says this, Why dost thou strive against him that strive against God? For he giveth not account to any of all his matters. God doesn't give account to you. God doesn't owe you an explanation. God is in charge. Woe unto him that's tribal with his maker, Isaiah 45 and verse 9. And so returning to our text. There in Joshua 7 and verse 8 and 9. O Lord, what shall I say when Israel turneth their back before their enemies? For the Canaanites and all the inhabitants of the land shall hear of it. And shall environ us around, and cut off our name from the earth. And what wilt thou do to thy great name? What are you going to do, Lord? Verse 10. And the Lord said unto Joshua, get thee up. Joshua is laying on his face with dust and ashes, and the elders as well. God says, get up. Stop it. Quit your wallering. Quit your boo-hooing. Get up. Wherefore liest thou upon thy face? The problem right in front of you, Joshua. Israel has sinned. They have also transgressed my covenant, which I commanded them, for they have even taken of the accursed thing And have also stolen and dissembled also, and they have put it even among their own self. Israel has sinned, Israel have transgressed the covenant. They have taken the accursed thing, they have stolen, they have dissembled, and they put it among their stuff. We're going to Take that verse apart a little bit further when we talk more about Achan in a few minutes. Verse 12. Therefore the children of Israel could not stand before their enemies. But turn their backs before their enemies because they were accursed. Neither will they will I any more sorry Let me read the whole verse properly. Therefore the children of Israel could not stand before their enemies, but turned their backs before their enemies, because they were accursed Neither will I be with you anymore, except ye destroy the accursed thing from among you. God's giving them a red line, isn't he? I'm not going to help you anymore until you destroy the accursed thing from you. Now, let's take this apart. Doesn't mean every time you have a problem, it's because of sin. That's not at all what we're saying. But what we're shown here is that a lot of times we're we're the source of our own problems We're the source of our own difficulties. There are situations that we get ourselves into because we have sinned, we have transgressed this covenant, we have taken of the accursed thing, we have stolen We have dissembled and we put it among our own stuff. And we'll look at that a little bit later on. Therefore the children of Israel could not stand. God says, I'm not going to be with you again until you get take care of this problem. Verse 13 up Sanctify the people and say, sanctify yourselves against tomorrow. For thus saith the Lord God of Israel There is an accursed thing in the midst of thee, O Israel. Thou canst not stand before thine enemies until ye take away the accursed thing from among you. Verse 14 continue with our reading. In the morning, therefore ye shall be brought according to your tribes, and it shall be that the tribe which the Lord taketh shall come according to their families thereof. And the family which the Lord shall take shall come by households, and the household which the Lord shall take shall come by man, shall come man by man. And it shall be That he that is taken with the accursed thing shall be burnt with fire, he and all that he hath, because he hath transgressed the covenant of the Lord, and because he hath wrought folly in Israel So Joshua rose up early in the morning and brought Israel by their tribes, and the tribe of Judah was taken. And he brought the families of Judah, and he took the family of the Zarites. And he brought the family of the Zarites man by man, and Zabdai was taken, and he brought the house the house man by man And Achan, the son of Kamri, the son of Zabdai, the son of Zerah, of the tribe of Judah, was taken. Can you imagine Achan? First of all, thirty-six men died, and he knows why. And then the tribe of Judah is taken. And then the family of his great-grandfather is taken. And then the family of his grandfather is taken. And then his family is taken. And then he is taken. The eyes of the Lord are in every place beholding the evil and the good. Folks, this story may have been completely different if Achan had it confessed as soon as thirty-six men died. There may have been mercy at some point. You know, that's conjecture. Scripture doesn't tell us that. But can you imagine him as the funnel of God's judgment And wrath is coming down. And it's getting closer and closer and closer. And he stands there with a pious smile on his face. They're not going to find me out. But God's word says, be sure your sin will find you out, because the eyes of the Lord are in every place beholding the evil and the good. Jeremiah 16, 17, for mine eyes are all uh for my eyes are upon all the their ways. They are not hid from my face Neither is there iniquity hid from mine eyes. Verse 19 And Joshua said unto Achan, my son, Give, I pray thee, glory to the Lord God of Israel, and make confession unto him, and tell me now what thou hast done. Hide it not from me. And they could answer Joshua and said, Indeed, I have sinned against the Lord God of Israel. And thus and thus have I done When I saw among the spoils a goodly Babylonian garment and two hundred shekels of silver and a wedge of gold of fifty shekels weight, then I coveted them And took them, and behold, they are hid in the earth in the midst of my tent, and the silver under it. So Joshua sent messengers and they ran unto the tent, and behold, it was hid in the tent and the silver under it. And they took them out of the midst of the tent and brought them unto Joshua And all the children of Israel laid them out before the Lord. And Joshua and all with him took Achan, the son of Zerah. and the silver and the garment and the wedge of gold and his sons and his daughters and his oxen and his asses and his sheep and his tent, and all that they had, and they brought them into the valley of Acor, and Joshua said, Why hast thou troubled us? The Lord shall trouble thee this day And all Israel stoned him with stones and burned them with fire, and they after they had stoned them with stones And r they raised over him a great heap of stones unto this day. So the Lord turned from the fierceness of his of his anger, wherefore the name of the place is called the Valley of Acor unto this day. Now we did our scripture reading a little bit different today with common among it. But now let us take a look at Achan's fall, Achan's sin, and how it came about. First of all, we saw that find the achensaul. His sin began with his eyes. Verse 21. When I saw among the spoils a goodly Babylonish garment. All of Satakan's sin began with a look. He should have turned away Folks, men and women alike, we see things all the time that we need to look away from. All this destruction, the death of thirty-six men, the defeat of the army of Israel The death of Achan's wife and his sons and his daughters and his asses and his ox and his sheep and everything, it began simply because he looked All that was required was to look away. And folks, a look Is a very simple and easy thing. And we cannot always control what comes before our eyes for a second. And it is not a sin for something to come before your eyes unexpectedly, but it is a sin to look. It is a sin to gaze. It is a sin to ponder. Oh, how did he know it was a goodly Fabylonian garment? Because he looked at it. And once he had looked at the goodly battle of his garment, the shine of the silver and the gold took over. It began with a look. Now, folks, that's exactly what happened with Eve. When Eve saw the fruit that it was desired to make one wise. That's exactly what happened with David when David saw Bathsheba bathing in the evening time. All David needed to do was go back inside, David. Turn around and go inside. But David did not, and it resulted not only in the death of Uriah. But in the death of several other soldiers that were with Uriah when the army of Israel backed away from Uriah, and it resulted in the death of David's own son. He looked. He looked. Achan, Saul. May we not be like Lot's wife, who looked back and was turned into a pillar of salt. But rather, in Psalm 101 and verse 3, I will set no wicked thing before mine eyes. I hate the work of them that turn aside. It shall not cleave unto me. The psalmist doesn't say that nothing wicked is ever going to come in front of me. Wicked stuff comes in front of us all the time. But he says I'm not going to set it before my eyes. I'm not going to look at it. I'm going to turn away. So first of all, Achan saw, but then Achan coveted. Achan looked, and it led to a greater sin. He broke God's law. Look, we read in the Ten Commandments, thou shalt not covet thy neighbor's house Thou shalt not covet thy neighbour's wife, thou shalt not uh or nor his maid servant, nor his manservant, nor his ox, nor his ass, nor anything that is thy neighbour's. Isn't it interesting that that commandment says don't Covet your neighbor's wife and Achan lost his wife. Don't covet your neighbor's house and Achan's tent got burned and stoned along with it. Don't covet your neighbor's manservant and all of Achan's household. Don't covet your neighbor's ox or his ass nor anything that is thy neighbor's Everything that Achan lost is all wrapped up in the command that Achan broke. Christ warned his disciples In Luke 12 and verse 15, and he said to them, Take heed and beware of covetousness, for a man's life consisteth not in the abundance of the things he possesseth. Achan, there in the city of Jericho, saw something he needed to walk away from, but rather he desired it. Ah how I would like to have that. Love not the world These are the things that are in the world. The world passeth away in the lust thereof, but he that doeth the will of the Father abideth forever. Achan didn't abide, did he? He was stoned, and his body was burned In James 1, verses 14 and 15, but every man is tempted. When he is thrown away of his own lust and enticed, then when lust hath conceived, it bringeth forth sin, and when sin is finished, it bringeth forth death. Just as there was a funnel of God's judgment down to Achan, so there is a funnel of iniquity. We start out with this little thing that happens to come in our eyes, and then we look at it and oh, I would love to have that So Achen saw, and then Achan coveted, and then Achan took. You see, Achan disobeyed the direct command of God. If you look back to the previous chapter, chapter 6 and verse 18 We're in chapter 7, but look back to chapter 6 and verse 18. And ye, in any wise, keep yourselves from the accursed thing. Lest ye make yourselves accursed, when ye take of the accursed thing, and make the camp of Israel accurse, and trouble it. Do you think Aiken didn't understand? Do you think he didn't know? Do you think he wasn't warned? Folks, do we understand God's law? Have we been warned from God's word about the danger of a look and a covetousness which results in a taking? We've been warned. These things are for our examples. But him that thinketh that he stand, take heed lest he fall. He disobeyed the direct command of God, but then he stole that which would belong to God. Look at verse 19 of chapter 6. Verse 19, God says, But all the silver and gold and vessels of brass are consecrated unto the Lord. They shall come into the treasury of the Lord. Who did those shekels of silver belong to? Who did the wedge of gold belong to? Achan was stealing not from the army of Israel Achan was stealing not from the inhabitants of Jericho. Achan was stealing from the Lord. But folks, when we sin, we in effect are stealing ourselves from God. What? Know you not that ye are not your own? You are bought with a price. Therefore glorify God in your body and your spirit which are his He has purchased me. To redeem means to purchase. He has purchased me from sin. But when I willfully disobey, I am stealing myself from him But further, the things which Achan stole could bring him no pleasure. Could bring him no pleasure. Look at verse 21, back in chapter 7 again. Our main chapter, chapter 7 and verse 21. When I saw among the spoils a Babylonianish garment and two hundred shekels of silver and a wedge of gold fifty shekels weight Then I covered them and took them, and behold, they are hid in the earth in the midst of my tent, and the silver under it. First of all is the Babylonian garment. Nobody's going to notice that Right. Where you're gonna wear that The fact that it's listed as a Babylonian garment indicates that it was different than the children of Israel. And folks, that was the real point. Look with me at Numbers chapter 15. Numbers chapter 15 and verse 38, 39, and 40. I'll give you a moment to turn because this is an important passage to bring in here Numbers chapter 15 and verse number 38. Speak unto the children of Israel. And bid them that they make them fringes in the borders of their garment throughout all their generation. And they put upon the fringe of the border a ribbon of blue, and it shall be for you a fringe that ye may look upon it and remember all the commandments of the Lord and do them And that ye seek not after your own heart and your own eyes, after which ye used to go a whoring And that ye remember and do all the commandments and be ye holy unto your God. Folks, this Babylonian garment wasn't just a suit of clothes. It was a rebellion against the commandment of God. God said, wear clothes with a fringe and a blue ribbon, because when you look at the fringe and the blue ribbon You'll remember that you're not your own. You'll remember the covenant of God. You'll remember the commandments of God. You'll remember that you're to be holy. And what Achan said was, I don't want to wear that I don't want what God has for me. I want something else. I don't want to remember God's commandment. I want to do what I want to do. I don't want to look like the people of God because they look different than the world. I want to look like the Babylonians. Instead of looking like the people of God And verse 40, all the garments of Israel was that they remember and do the commandments. And be holy unto God. And Achid said, I do not want to be holy. I want to be like a Babylonian. Folks, that's the significance of the garment. It wasn't just a set of clothes. It wasn't just a nice coat. This wasn't some meat shop mint shawl or something. This Babylonese garment represented an absolute rebellion against God. And then you have 200 shekels of silver. Wonder what inscription they had on it. These are the coins of Jericho, folks. And he didn't have a forge to melt them down. He could never spend them, folks. You know, he he's got Mexican rubles here. What's he gonna do with them? They're worthless in the Isra in the children of Israel. What was Achan going to spend them on? And then he has a wedge of gold of 50 shekels. You know how most criminals are caught? They start spinning their loot. I mean th th th they're they're ve very much like very much like a uh member of the House of Representatives that goes from having I think it was $200,000 to $30 million in two years. Where'd you get the money, Aiken? Where did it come from? Most criminals are caught because they start spending their ill-gotten gains and they draw attention to themselves and they get caught. You see, folks Achan got nothing. He gave up everything Because he looked, he coveted, and he took. And folks We can give up our entire spiritual heritage just by beginning to look and to covet and take And then of course Achan hid in the last part of verse 21. And they are hid in the earth in the midst of my tent, and the silver wedge, and the silver under it. Folks, every time Aiken left his tent, he had to worry about who was going to come in. Ever worry about who's going to see what you've been looking at on your computer? Never worry about what people will know that you're doing in secret Every time Aiken left his tent, he had to worry about it. And you know it's something else with with criminals. When they hide stuff, they tend to look in the direction. Yeah you you y y you somebody has yeah even even your kids will do that. Did did di did you hide a cookie in your room? No. Right? Every time somebody comes to visit Aiken, he's afraid that they'll feel a depression in the carpet where a hole has been dug. You see, what he stole, what he got, couldn't benefit him, and now it's become a problem because he has to hide it. And he has to worry continually that he'll get caught. Folks, sin does not pay. Aiken saw. Aiken coveted. Aiken took. Aiken hid. And the last point is, Aiken died. Achan died. He that covereth his sin shall not prosper, but whoso confesseth and forsaketh him shall have mercy. And so to read verse 24 through the end of the chapter again, and Joshua and all Israel took with him, took Achan the son of Zarah, and the silver And the garment and the wedge of gold, and his sons, and his daughters. And his oxen, and his ass, and his sheep, and his tent, and all that he had, and they brought them unto the valley of Acor. And Joshua said, Why hast thou troubled us? The Lord shall trouble thee this day. And all Israel stoned him with stones, and burned him with fire, after they had stoned them with stones. And they raised over him a great heap of stones unto this day. So the Lord turned from the fierce of his anger Wherefore the name of the place was called the Valley of Acor unto this day. For the wages of sin is death. Behold, all souls are mine. As the soul of the Father, so is the soul of the Son. The soul that son is mine, and the soul that sinneth, it shall die. Folks, it's not worth it When you see it, turn away. If you do not turn away before long, you'll want it. When you begin to want it, you'll take it. Once you've taken it, you'll have to hide it. And the end of these things is death. Folks, these things are given to us for admonition. These things are for our warning. How easy it is for a little thing to become our destruction, for iniquity to be our ruin. Let us stand for prayer Oh Father, we thank you for your word. Lord, we thank you. You've not left us without warning. Oh God, help us. Protect us, Father. For Lord, how quickly we can go from someone who is highly respected. Someone who is chosen among half a percent of the entire army of God, and yet we can, within 24 hours. Go into utter destruction and ruin. Help us, O Lord, we pray. Keep us in thy care. Make us godly men and women. Make us men of thy word. Make us men of prayer. In Jesus' name. Amen.