He is King Saul's commanding chief of all the military in Israel. The mic is not working. Well that's probably because I didn't turn it off. So we're in 2 Samuel this morning chapter 3, begin verses 20 through 39, and just to refresh your memory of two names, Abner's introduced to us, Abner. Is the captain of the hosts of the armies of Israel under Saul, and Joab is the captain of the hosts of the armies of the tribe of Judah under David. And so we begin with Abner from Israel coming down to speak with David in Judah, in actually in Hebron. So in verse uh twenty of chapter three we read. And Abner came to David to Hebron and twenty men with him. And David made Abner and the men that were with him a feast A banquet, as it were. And Abner said unto David, I will arise and go and will gather all Israel unto my lord the king, that they may make a league with thee And that thou mayest reign over all thine heart desireth. And David sent Abner away, and he went in peace. And behold, the servants of David and Joab came from pursuing a troop, probably some Philistines, and brought in a great spoil with them. But Abner was not with David and Hebron, for he had sent him away, and he was gone in peace And when Joab and all the hosts that were with him were come, they told Joab, saying, Abner, the son of Nur came to the king, and he has sent him away, and he has gone in peace And Joab came to the king and said, What hast thou done? Behold, Abner came unto thee. Why is it that thou hast sent him away, and he's quite gone? Thou knowest Abner, the son of Nur, that he came to deceive thee, and to know thy going out and thy coming in, and to know all that thou doest. And when Joab was come out from David, he sent messengers after Abner, which brought him again from the well of Sirah. But David knew it not And when Abner was returned to Hebron, Joab took him aside in the gate, just be just as he's entering the city of Hebron before he would see David. He obviously thought he was called back by David Joab took him aside in the gate to speak with him quietly, and smote him there under the fifth rib that he died. For the blood of Asiel his brother. If you remember, it's Abner who killed his brother Asiel in combat the chapter earlier. And afterward, verse 23, when David heard it, he said, I and my kingdom are guiltless before the Lord forever, from the blood of Abner, the son of Nur. Let it rest on the head of Joab. And on all his father's house, and let there not fall from the house of Joab one that hath an issue, or that is a leper, or that leaneth on the staff, or that falleth on the sword, or that lacketh bread And so Joab and Abishai his brother slew Abner, because he had slain their brother Asiel at Gibeon in the battle. And David said to Joab and to all the people who were with him, Rend your clothes, and gird you with sackcloths, and mourn before Abner. And King David himself followed the beer. That's like a bed that they carried the dead bodies on. And they buried Abner and Hebron And the king lifted up his voice, and he wept at the grave of Abner, and all the people wept. And the king lamented over Abner and said, Died Abner as a fool dieth? No, he did not. Thy hands were not bound, nor thy feet put into fetters. As a man falleth before wicked men, so fellest thou. And all the people wept again over him And when all the people came to cause David to eat meat while it was yet day, David swore, saying, So do God to me and morrow, so if I taste bread or aught else, till the sun be down And all the people took notice of it, and it pleased them, as whatsoever the king did pleased all the people. For all the people and all Israel understood that day that it was not of the king to slay Abner the son of Nur. And the king said unto his servants, Know ye not that there is a prince and a great man fallen this day in Israel? And I in this day weak, though anointed king, and these men of Zeruiah be too hard for me. And that was Joab, he was of the father of Zuriah. Or rather, of the daughter. And the Lord shall reward the doer of evil according to his wickedness. So David did nothing about it at that time. Title of Message: The King Wept I think we often don't think that men even weep anymore. Men are supposed to be tough and hard and stoic and Spartan-like. But in the Bible we find that kings wept. The Lord Jesus Christ, who is King of Judea, King of the Jews. It says he wept over Jerusalem. It says he wept over the tomb of Lazarus. And here we find that this king wept at the funeral of Abner. In verses twenty through twenty five, so Abner came. And David made Abner a feast And Abner said unto David, I will gather all Israel unto your king, will reunite all the twelve tribes. I can do this. I am I am the commander of the host of the eleven tribes of Israel. I was Saul's commander I am a Benjamite. I can do this. I can bring it all together. I can make it happen. And David, you'll no longer be just king in Hebron. You'll no longer just be king of the tribe of Judah. You'll be king over all the tribes. I can do this. And David held a feast And a banquet for him. And he sent Abner away. It says here, in peace or guaranteed a safe conduct, as it were. He guaranteed that while he is in Judah and while he's there, and it was while David was king, that he would have a peaceful conduct wherever he went. Abner is the captain of Saul's army, if you recall, had been with Saul's army even the day when David went out as a young boy at the sling and took out the giant named Goliath, and Saul turned to the captain of the host Abner. He says, Who is that young man? Abner had been with Saul a long time And that one night when David slipped down into the camp of Saul while Saul was sleeping, and he took the bolster, the jug of water by Saul's head and went back up on the hill and shouted down, King Saul, King Saul, awake Who's been guarding you? I've just been there. I've taken your spear, I've taken your bolster, uh your your your water from you, and and I could have slain you, but I did not And why didn't Abner protect you? David says. Abner was sleeping right alongside Saul at that time. And I bring that to you to point to you in this that when Saul was chasing David From cave to cave and hill to hill and stream to stream and all throughout Israel and all throughout Benjamin and all throughout Judea and even down the land of the Philistines. Abner was with King Saul in pursuit to kill David That's who this guy is that David now invites to a feast. The man has been trying to kill David under the directions of King Saul, the captain of the host of Israel, the man has been trying to kill David As I'll come to David and says, I've reconsidered, I think you should be king. As the word of Samuel said, you should be king. Pursuit of David for many, many years. And David, in a Christ-like manner, did as Christ directed us. Love your enemies. Bless them that curse you. Do good to them that hate you. And pray for them that despectfully use you and persecute you. Matthew 5 and 4 44. That was Abner, a man who had been persecuting David, a man had been cursing David, a man who had done him no good whatsoever, a man who had had him dead, who had despitefully disdained him And this is the enemy that comes into David and says, I'd like to reconsider. And I have to believe that David is so Christ-like and I believe he was, that David had been praying for Abner. We're to pray for our enemies. Oh, what a difference this world would be if we would pray for our enemies. Pray for our enemies and bless them to curse us and do good to them if the opportunity presents itself. You see someone broken down along the high with a flat tire and you and you notice who they are, and it's someone you don't like, pull over and help them That's how we would treat his enemy. That's how David would treat the enemy, Abner. That's how we ought to treat our enemies. In fact I know how difficult that is to treat someone you consider your enemy, so how about let's just make it a little easier and let's just start by treating our spouses like that I mean what what would that do to our spouse? If we're not getting along with our wife or husband, then let's let's love them like an enemy. Let's bless them That curse us. Let's do good to them, our spouses, if they tend to hate us. Let's pray for them if you feel that your spouse is despitefully using you and persecuting you. If we can't start with our enemies, let's start with our own household. in our own churches, among our own believers. And that's pretty hard to do, isn't it, sometimes. But David had been praying, I believe, for Abner. And now he invites him to a feast, to a banquet. Wow. When a man's ways please the Lord, he maketh even his enemies to be at peace with him. Proverbs 16 and 7 Seven years David is in Hebron. Seven years he is not the king of Israel as God has told him he will be. For seven years he must have thought Abner's still out there. Abner still wants me dead. I've got to stay away from Abner. I've got to pray for that man. Pray that he gets saved. Pray that something happens to change his mind and his heart To stop pursuing me and wanting me dead and and that day came. I don't know that Abner was saved, but the day came when he had a change of heart Some of it for his own gain, we believe. And then After he had left in peace to round up the tribes of Israel, Joab, who had been out pursuing a troop, uh Amalekites or Philistines, we don't know. It doesn't say. Jeroby come back with a great spoil, had a great victory. Come back to celebrate. He's got all the spoil with him. And he finds out that Abner, the man who killed his brother in Gibeon, in the Battle of Gibeon, the man who killed his brother, has been there, and David didn't arrest him. David didn't incarcerate him. David didn't time to a rack and stretch him out or punish him or leave him for Joab to come in and do the coup de grong and kill him. How could David have let him go on in peace And Joab came into the king and he said, What hast thou done? This guy killed my brother. He was so angry with the king. Can you imagine speaking to a king like that? I mean, you think anybody ever walks in the White House and says to our president, what have you done? Do you realize what you just said? Are you crazy or something? Nobody would do that to the President of the United States. But he does it to the king. He says, What hast thou done? He is so angry with David. You read about the death of Asahel and 2 Samuel 2, just the previous chapter And he's probably also envious of the fact that you've made a deal with Abner. He's going to bring us in the eleven tribes. He's going to bring them all together. It doesn't take Joab long to think, well, if he's going to bring in the commander of the eleven tribes And I'm just the commander of one tribe, you know, in fact a small tribe, Judah. I wonder who's going to be in charge when all the tribes are brought together. I'm going to be second fiddle. He's not going to make me in charge of all of Israel. He's got admirer, more experience, been around longer, smarter, you know, just an accomplished individual, very wise in battle. I'm going to be second fiddle. To the guy that killed my brother. So perhaps you can understand the anger that Joab has here under all of this. So he puts this wicked spin on Abner's mission. He came here, he says in verse 25, he's only come to deceive you. He just wants to know when you go in and when you go out and what you're doing. It's all a deception in order to destroy you at some later date, to catch you out there in a field somewhere. And he puts his wicked spin on Abner's Approaching him. An adverse mission. He puts a wicked spin. Doesn't that sound like what the Pharisees and the Sadducees and the Elders and the Scribes did on Christ's mission when he came here to the earth? What did they say to Pilate before Pilate, the elders, the chief priests, and the scribes? We read about it in Luke 23 and 2. They said to Pilate, We found the cellar. He's perverting the nation We hear that about some of the presidential candidates. They're perverting the nation. We found this fellow that's talking about the Lord Jesus Christ. And these are the religious leaders in Israel We found this fellow, the Lord Jesus Christ. We have found him perverting the nation and forbidding to give tribute to Caesar. In fact, he's even saying he's a king, that he's Christ the King. That was perverting the mission of Christ. Christ came to save souls. Christ came to die for our sins. He wasn't perverting the nation. He wasn't forbidding them to give tribute to Caesar. But that's what they said of him. Matthew 27, 17, as if Pilate knew that for envy they were perverting his mission, for envy they were delivering Christ up to him. Pilate knew that. And David knew that Joab, for envy, wanted Abner dead. For envy, he wanted Abner dead that he might be in charge of all the twelve tribes. Maybe he got that fifth star on his shoulder. Are there those out there today that put a wicked spin on the mission of Christians? On the Christians' mission in life? They put a wicked spin on Christianity out there today, in the in the mission of Christianity. They they tell us that we're homophobes. not true. Homophobia, you read they don't even understand the word. Homophobia means fear. I'm not afraid of homosexuals. But they call us homophobe, like like we want to kill them or something, like we want like we hate them, we want to destroy them. We want them saved We wanted to live in a country where they can still hear the gospel, and that's getting more difficult all the time for them to hear the gospel They tell us that we're chauvinists, that we beat down the women, that we have a war on women Fifty million I don't know the exact numbers. Fifty million babies have been killed in this country. I guess about twenty-five million of them have been baby girls, probably, half and half I don't I don't want to kill 25 million little baby girls in the womb. But those who call us chauvinistic and have a war on women, they want to kill the 25 million babies. Little girls. How are we the chauvinists? They say we're the polluters of the planets, global warming, yada yada. That we're narrow-minded. Well, I will submit to that one. That's I am as that's how narrow-minded I am. Now that's narrow you know, I think that would be narrow-minded. But I don't think that the whole thickness of my Bible is narrow-minded. But we're narrow-minded? They say that we're intolerant of other people's views, and they will not tolerate that. That's what they say. Do you know that these these college campus demonstrations have been out there this past week all this you know it's not just the uh All the crazy things on these college campuses. You know what the biggest thrust was this week on the different college campuses? They're out there protesting and they no longer want people to have freedom of speech I mean that's what they're saying. Down with freedom of speech. They got the signs. Down with freedom of speech. Okay, well let's start with you. Put down the sign and go home. I mean, what is with these people? They're against freedom of speech. And then they say, we don't want any Christians on this campus. And we don't want the gospel on this campus, and we don't want constitutionals on this campus, and we don't want Republicans on this campus, and we don't want pro-labers on this Congress, because we Are our tolerant people and they are intolerant They had a Black Lives Matter at one of the campuses. So some of the white people showed up to see what's going on. You know what they did? They tell them, get out of here. We don't want you here. Okay? Next campus up in Wisconsin had Black Lives Matters again. The white people didn't show up. You know what they did? They want all the white people who didn't show up tossed off the campus. They want them impeached and removed the students because they didn't show up So the one campus you can show up, isn't that intolerant? And the other campus, if you don't show up, we're going to throw you up the campus, you're going to lose your s your student uh card, and you can't attend the co campus anymore Who is the in if they say we're intolerant When I hear people saying that the Christian mission is a homophobic mission or a racist mission or a chauvinistic mission or we're polluters of the planet, narrow-minded and intolerant of other people's religious views or whatever their views might be I immediately expect there's a diabolical plan afoot. Diabolical as a diabolist, devilish plan afoot. And so there was with Joab. Joab had changed the mission of Admiral. He said, That's not his mission. His mission is to find out what's going on, when you're going in and when you're coming out. He's here to deceive you. He's changing the mission as as the Pharisees changed the mission of Christ. So they changed the mission of Christianity today. Here's Joab, a diabolical plan. He's changing the mission of Ahab. And Joab says in verses 26 to 30 He sends out messengers after Abner. And he brought him back to Hebron. And he took him aside in the gate of Hebron to speak with him quietly. And he smote him under the fifth rib, and he died, it says, for Asial his brother. That was the whole thing. It wasn't because he's here to deceive David. It wasn't because he wants to whether David's going in and out, when David's going in and out, and where David's going. The whole thing was all about killing Abner. For having killed his brother Asel, Asiel. Abner came back He said, hey, uh you gotta come back to Hebron. There's something's got to be discussed. Uh something that came up that David didn't quite finish with you. Admer comes back, innocently, Admer comes back He's not afraid. He's been promised three times, it says here in Scripture, in verses uh twenty-six, twenty-seven, and thirty, he has been promised Safe conduct or peace. David sent him out in peace. He's been promised safardich. He has no objective to coming back In fact, what Adna really does, he is he has been sent on a mission by David to bring the Israelite tribes together, all eleven of them. And he's out there to gather these tribes and he gets the word, wait a minute, stop what you're doing, come on back, David's got something else. And he drops the mission that he's been sent on by David. He drops the objective, the whole reason for his leaving Hebron, he drops it all What he's been asked to do by the king of Judah, he drops for a lie. The king of Judah, the words of the king of Judah were to go out and bring those eleven tribes back, and he stops and he drops it for another message, for a lie. And he meets Joab at the gate. That was a surprise, but that's okay. I have safe conduct. I have the word of David, the king of Judah, promised to me. And he dies. It is so vital, friend, that the words that guide us come from the king of the Jews. That's in vital. We've got to know that the messages that we are listening to, if I got the radio on or the television on, or or some preacher on or whoever or cousin or uncle whoever talks to us we've got to realize is that message, does that message coincide? Does that message parallel? Does that message agree with the words of the king of the Jews? And the message didn't. The message David gave him was to go out and bring in eleven tribes And he gets another message, forget about that, come back, I got something else to talk to you about. And that didn't jive. The words of Jesus Christ. It can cost us our life if we don't. It can cost us eternal life if we don't Twice said, He that heareth my word hath everlasting life. Wow. Christ said, think about this, he that heareth my word hath everlasting life. That's quite a promise. Everlasting life. I mean if someone promises everlasting life, whoa, who is that person? Who can promise you everlasting life? I mean, think about it. Of all the people ever born, all the people ever died, all the people we've ever heard of, of all those other, can anybody promise you everlasting life? Can you doctor? No Can the Joint Chiefs of Staff of the Military in the United States know? Can Putin who can promise you everlasting life? Only God. And yet Christ says, He that believeth my word shall have everlasting life. Who is this Christ from Nazareth? Who is this Jesus, the Carpenter? That He promises everlasting. Only God can promise you everlasting life. Second thought. If God can give everlasting life, would he promise it to us? Wouldn't a loving God want who can give everlasting wouldn't a loving God want to say to you, I am God I am the God of love. I can promise you everlasting life. So if God, the loving God, if a God who is a God of love, can promise you everlasting life, wouldn't He promise us everlasting life? Certainly When did he ever do it? Go all through history. Genghis Ghana didn't promise anybody everlasting life. Buddhists didn't promise you everlasting life. The Hindus don't promise you everlasting life. When were we ever promised everlasting life? When Christ Jesus of Nazareth spoke it, is the only time we've ever been promised everlasting life. That is God in the flesh coming to us. Emmanuel. God can make the claim, and if he's a loving God, he would have made the claim, and yet only Christ has made the claim. So what must we conclude but that Christ is the God come in the flesh? He's the only one that's ever made that claim. You believe my word, you shall have everlasting life. It is so important that we listen to the words of the king of the Jews, and Abner didn't He set aside the words of the king of the Jews, David, and it cost him his life. And it was a deceptive message by a deceptive individual. And death followed it. That deceptive message, death followed it, and Abner died under the fifth rib. By the way, when you go back to the death of Asial, that's exactly what Abner did the Asiel he struck him with the rear end or the hinder part of the spear under the fifth rib, and Joab said, You're gonna die the way my brother died, I'm gonna strike in the same place. And I think when that dagger or whatever instrument he used When under the fifth red, as Abner was dying, he thought, just what I did to his brother in the same place And he knew that that was a death blow. He had delivered himself. He knew that was a place to hit someone. He knew he was going to die. This is a horrible, sinister assassination. Make it like Caesar When Brutus assassinated Caesar, etu brute, we know that story, I trust. It was a sinister assassination on three counts. First, Abner was defending himself in combat against Asiel. If you remember the story, it wasn't he went out and I gotta talk to you quietly on the side and shoved uh a sword or dagger into Asiel, it was in combat. Abner was fighting for his life. He was fleeing. They were losing the battle and Abner's fleeing and Asio comes behind him and Abner sees him. He says, Go back, go back. You're no match for me I'm a warrior of many, many years. Go and fight somebody. He warns them on several occasions, get away, get away. In defending himself, Abner kills Asil in the field of battle This is not on a field of battle. There's no warning here. Get away from me. That's a horrible thing on three Counts. No warning, not in the field of battle, unwarranted. And the second thing is that Joab without warning smites Abner who is there under a conduct of peace and safety, he smites Abner in the gates of Hebron while under the protection of the king's promise of a safe conduct. Safe conduct mentioned in verses 21, 22, and 23. Go on in peace, go in peace. Under safe conduct, he kills his men and the gate of Hebron. Then thirdly, the gate of Hebron. See what the gate of Hebron is? At the gate of the city was a place where justice took place. It was a place of judgment where you sat and a court heard and decided what should happen to you. There's no hearing, there's no court here. He just kills him in the face of the gate of Hebron without any hearing. Without any judgment. At the gate of Hebron. How sinister is that? Oh, and by the way, the Hebron, that was the city of the Levite priests. And that was also called the city of refuge. How much safer could you feel than to be at the gate of judgment in the city of the priests at a place called the city of refuge under a protective order of David to go in peace? Safe conduct. This is so abhorrent what Joab has done here. Total defiance of David's orders, total defiance of the scriptures, total defiance of the commandment, thou shalt not kill. Exodus 20 and verse 13. It would be like the President of the United States calling you to Washington, D. C. , to meet him in the Supreme Court. And as you're mounting the steps of the Supreme Court and the doors open for you to enter into the Supreme Court. You're murdered on the steps at the entrance to the halls of justice while promised safe conduct God tells us it's the point on a man wants to die. After this the judgment. Hebrews 9 27 Think back to people who have died in your life. Death frequently comes As a surprise. I bet if I asked everybody you could tell me didn't even know he was sick. He was driving down a road and somebody went through a red light. They thought he had a little flu bug or something. Never thought he would die the next day. Neither did they probably Abner did not expect to die. He's going back, probably rejoicing that David wants to talk to him about something else. He's excited. He just left him with a banquet and a feast. Things are really, really going well And I have to tell you that death is frequently a surprise. So are you ready to die? Oh no, let me rephrase that. Are you ready to die now? Right now Well, you thought you get a ten minute warning? You think that God comes down and and speaks some people say, you know he died, and the last thing you said to me, I think he knew he was dying. I think he had an idea something was happening. God doesn't come down and say you have a two-minute warning. Abner had no warning. And for most of you in here, you're not going to have a warning. So you need to be ready to die now. Right now. Not within the hour. Not I'm going to try to get ready to die and meet the Lord or meet judgment before the week is out. I think I'll have it settled. No. You're not going to get a warning. Abner didn't get a warning. You expect a warning. After the murder of Abner, verses 28 and 29, David heard. How could he not? At the gate of Hebron, where everybody's going in and out? Here's a guy lying or spilled in blood. Joab wiping his dagger off, big smile on his face. Maybe kicks at the motionless body for a moment and walks away. David heard and he said, I and my kingdom are guiltless from the blood of Abner. People always claim to be guiltless. Some are guiltless and some are not. David was guiltless. Pilate said, I am innocent of the blood of this just person. Matthew 27 and 24. Pilate said, I'm innocent of the blood of Jesus. Oh, by the way, now go ahead and crucify him That doesn't make Pilate guiltless. I wash my hands, Pilate says. Now go crucify. That doesn't make him guiltless. But David was. It was a lie when Pilate said it But David told the truth when he followed up by proclaiming the blood of Abner, let it rest on the head of Whoever the murderer was? No. He said, Let it rest on the head of Joab. In fact, let it rest on all of Joab's father's house. That means Let it rest on Joeb's fat his let it fall on Joab's sisters and on Joab's brothers and on Joab's children and on his brother's children and his sisters and let it fall on the whole house of Joab. Let this curse Johab's family. And when you look at the curse, call it an impregatory prayer or a prophetic impregatory pronouncement by David But he wants it to be known that I had nothing to do with it. It was Joab, and may may it may he the house be filled with leprosy, says I leper That in other words, may Joab's family be shut out of society, disdained, cast aside, not allowed to come in even to the city of Jerusalem May they be lepers, he says. May they leaneth on a staff. May its house be filled with cripples and those who are lame. May they lean on a staff. May they falleth on a sword. Have an untimely early death, he says here And may they always lack bread. May they be beggars in the streets for the rest of their lives. That's quite a curse. Can you imagine praying that way? Against somebody that's killed someone in an inner Doesn't matter. Imagine praying about abortionists. That may their families be filled with leprosy. Praying about abortionists, may their may they family be filled with cripples. May they may their family be uh have untimely deaths, may their family Be beggars in the streets. And all the Lord's people should say amen to that prayer for killing the innocent babies in the womb. This was David's proclamation. And maybe we don't quite grasp how bad this was yet, so let me add one more thing to To it. Abner's assassination was an attack on the credibility of David's word. He had promised him safe. Let me rephrase that again. Abner's assassination was an attack on the credibility of the word of the king of the Jews. When you hear people attacking this Bible, attacking the credibility of the Bible, the reliability of the Bible, the infallibility of the Bible, the trustworthiness of the Bible. The proper translation of the Bible. When you hear them attacking the Bible, you are talking about something very diabolical. You are talking about something very, very sinister. You are talking about something that is as wicked as wicked can get The credibility of the king of the Jew, David was being the king. The credibility of his word is being assaulted. Do not the words of Christ promise us things and we don't want them taken away, we don't want them assaulted, we don't want them discredited. We we hear David had promised, David had promised Abner peace. And safety. Doesn't the promises of Christ, the King of the Jews, offer us a peace in a wicked world? A peace peace in trying times, a peace in eternity. Do you want these words assaulted that the King of the Jews, Jesus said? Of them which thou gavest me I have lost none. John eighteen I like that. Do you want that destroyed? Do you want people, oh you can't believe that everything that's in the Bible, that Jesus really said it? Oh, you can't believe that it's in the Bible. Oh, I want to believe that. Well they start attacking the credibility of the King of the Jews and what what the Lord Jesus Christ said, you you'll end up with of them which thou gave me, I have lost none. Does that go away? They'd have it go away. Him that cometh unto me I will now wise cast out. John 6 Verse 37. Friend, you hear that? If you're not saved, Christ has promised you safety and peace. Of him that cometh to me, I will in no wise cast out. I don't care how filthy a sinner you are, how old a sinner you are, how repetitious a sinner you are, if you come to me, I will in no wise cast you out. Wow. That speaks peace and safety to my heart. And maybe to somebody here today. That there's nothing you can do or have ever done that if you turn and come to Christ, He will accept you. Or how about this one? I will never leave thee nor forsake thee. Hebrews 13, 5. Oh, I like that. Oh, when these people are attacking the credibility of the words of the King of the Jews, they are assaulting something so dear and precious to me And I hope to you. And David could not let this stand. They've attacked the credibility of his word. I promise him safe conduct. I promise him peace. And so in verses 31-36 there's quite a funeral. And Joab and all the people David says He says to Joab and to all the people, Rend your clothes, rip your clothes and wo mourn and weep over this man that has been killed, this man that has died. Gird you with sackcloth. It was a sackcloth that mourned like today we were all black, you know, at a funeral. Gird yourself with sackcloth and mourn before Abner. And the king wept at the grave of Abner We've had some pretty important funerals the last couple of years in this country. Nine eleven I saw President Bush standing with a fireman on the pile of debris, tear running down his eye. I don't think I've seen our present president cry over anybody. To see a king we Wow. Says David wept at the grave of Abner, and all the people took notice And it pleased them whatsoever the king did. It pleased the people what King David did. Pilgrim. Are you a hard person to please? There are people who are really hard to please. There's nothing you can do to please them I mean I've I've said this before, I can say it one more time. I've said to people, okay, this has happened or that has happened, you're not very happy about it. How about if I do this? No, how well how about I say what can I do to make it right? Nothing I want to be miserable. I want to be mad at you. I want to you know and on it goes. There are pe are you one of those people that you're hard to please? Something wrong with you if if people can't make things Right with you. King David's words and weeping pleased and touched the people. of Israel. Have you ever made a tearful effort to please others? Sometimes we we have to go to tears. We have to let them know that we're really sorry. We're really repenting. What can I do? It and with tears David wept before the people and he said, I have nothing to do with this. Believe me. And sometimes that's that approach is not used because we're maybe we're not that repentant or maybe we're not that sincere. But when that when when you when you speak to a person in tears, they'll believe you. David's words and weeping pleased and touched the hearts of the people of Israel. So my question to you today is, have the words and the weeping of the Lord Jesus Christ in Scriptures ever touched your heart? How can you not believe our Savior? That he loves souls, that he weeps at the tomb of Lazarus. How can you think that the God of heaven Doesn't really care about his creatures when he stands before the tomb of Lazarus, knowing Lazarus will be dead, knowing that dead Lazarus will be alive in just moments when he resurrects him. And yet he weeps at what sin has done The wages of sin or death, Lazarus, as God he imagined, he might have been, he had sinned and he died. But here is the Savior of the world, the God of the world, the creator of heaven and earth, and he weeps before the tomb of Lazarus. How can you not love a guy that has that kind of a hope? And then he stands over and looks down on Jerusalem. And Jerusalem is filled with Barabbas and Caiaphas and Ananias and all his wicked people and Pilate and Herod and King Agrippa and all his wicked people. But he sees within Jerusalem Some people, it says he wept over Jerusalem. Some people worth weeping over. How can you not love a Savior like that? Where do you find fault with Jesus? And yet that's the the name that turns more people off in this world than anything else. There's something wrong with you if a name Of the Jesus the Christ turned you off. In thirty-seven and thirty-nine, all Israel understood it was not of the king to slay Abner. They got it. They got it. And the king said, I am this day weak, though king. The Lord shall reward the doer of evil according to his own wickedness. David said, Abner's dead I'm I may not bring in the eleven tribes, but now I'm all by myself with Judah again, just the tribe of Judah, and the eleven tribes are probably madder than they could ever be. And I I can't get rid of Joab right now. He's my only commander, my only warrior. I he's to be put to death, but I just can't do it. I need him right now. He was hesitant to execute Joab. You ever been hesitant to do what is right? And did you ever live to regret it afterwards? I wished I'd done what was right. Sometimes our kids, they do something which I oughta I had I'd have ground him, I'd have taken with the car keys, I'd take it with a cell phone, I'd take away the iPod, I'd have I'd have just it Sh unplug his computer for a week or a month or two. And we don't do it. And we say, Oh, I wish I had done it. And David would not kill Joab. And he lived to regret it, because Joab, in a few chapters, will kill David's son Absalom. Then he'll kill some others that David loved as well. Joab as one piece of dealt. And David's afraid, and he will regret it. Do you have regrets in life? Do you regret things that you've done? Do you regret things that you should have done and you and you didn't do? Regrets. We all got them. We've all got regrets And the scripture says, fret not. The Lord remembereth we are dust. And the mercy of the Lord is from everlasting to everlasting. Psalm 103. You've got regrets, fret not, fear not. The Lord is merciful. He wept. The king weeps over us. He's merciful. Let's pray. Father, we thank thee this day The story of David, how it reminds us of our own king of Judea, our Savior. And Lord, may we not neglect to appreciate, to follow, to worship, to disciple others, that if there is one who loves us enough, that he weeps over us. Even when our parents don't weep over us, when our brothers and sisters don't weep over us. There is one that weeps over us. How can we not love And follow him. May that be the situation this morning that each and every soul here will begin to follow Jesus Christ, the weeping king, the king of the Jews. And it's in his name we pray. Pray, Amen