The passage we're going to consider together this morning is the passage which was read in the responsive reading. The second psalm. We serve a sovereign God. We serve the God who is the ruler of the universe. He made all things. Without him was not anything made that was made. Man, in his puny insignificance, does not want to be ruled by a sovereign God. Man thinks himself to be his own measure. Man says, none will rule over me, I am free to choose for myself. I am free to do my own will, and there is none that sees. Why do the heathen rage? And the people imagine a vain thing. The Word of God is filled with verses that deal with this matter of sovereignty. The sovereignty of God that we find in the second Psalm. In Psalm 115, verse 3: But our God is in the heavens, he hath done whatsoever he hath pleased. Daniel four thirty-five. All the inhabitants of the earth are reputed as nothing, and he hath done according to his will in the armies of the heaven and among the inhabitants of the earth. And none can stay his hand or say unto him What doest thou? Isaiah 45, 9, Woe unto him that striveth with his maker. Let the potshards strive with the potshards of earth Shall the clay say unto him that fashioned it, What makest thou, or thy work, he hath no hands Ezekiel 18, verse 4: Behold, all souls are mine, as the soul of the Father, so is the soul of the Son mine, and the soul that sinneth, it shall die. So God created man in his own image. Male and female created he them. This second Psalm, written a thousand years, give or take a few before the birth of Christ, written 3,000 years ago today, give or take a few years. is very prescient for our own day because this second psalm describes in minute detail the world in which we live right now. The heathen rage all around us. The heathen say God did not create me. I evolved because of some dust that came together and some explosion. The heathen say, Don't you pray in the name of Jesus Christ in my country because we'd have separation of church and state. And they have no idea what they're talking about. The heathen say, if a man and a man want to get married, who are you to tell them they can't? The heathen of our day say, oh, if we want to kill our unborn babies, there is no retribution, there is no crime, there is none that sees. The heathen tell us today that our daughters have to share bathrooms with perverts. The heathen are raging all around us. And why do the heathen rage? Why do the people imagine a vain thing? And a vain thing is a thing that is empty, a thing that is smoke and mirrors, a thing that has no substance to it. And yet the heathen shake their fists and wave their banners in the face of Almighty God. Why do the heathen rage? They scream and rage in the streets of our nation. Man rages against God. Man imagines that God does not see. But in Genesis 6 and verse 5 we read, And God saw that the wickedness of man was great in the earth And that every imagination of the thoughts of his heart was only evil continually. And nothing has changed. those days in the garden. Why do the heathen rage? The kings of the earth set themselves And the rulers take counsel together against the Lord against his anointed, saying, Let us break their bands asunder. Ah, how the rulers of our age take counsel. How the judges who should rule in the fear of God, but who have banished the Ten Commandments from our courthouses. Make their laws and scheme and connive, all in an attempt to break the bands of Jehovah. To cast aside cords, to take off all restraints that none can tell a man you are a sinner and what you are doing is an offense to the holiness of God. We live in a world that wants to cast off all restraints. And yet to the child of God, these bands that the wicked want to cast off are joyous and pleasant. They bind us to Christ. He has not drawn us with the cords of man we read in Isaiah, but with the cords of love, he has drawn us to himself. And so the very thing that the fool who says in his heart there is no God and pushes away from him, that is the blessing of the child of God. We relish and joy in those bands because they alone bind us to Him. They alone present us. Or prevent us from wandering from our God. Psalm nineteen, thirteen, and forty fourteen Keep back thy servant also from presumptuous sins. Let them not have dominion over me Then shall I be upright and innocent from the great transgression? What are those? How is it that Jehovah keeps back his servant from presumptuous sins by the very bands And cords that the wicked try to cast from them. By those very things which they view as imprisoning their will. And stifling their personality, those very things, those very bonds are the things which bind us to our Savior. Because if it were not for the restraining hand of Jehovah, there is no sin that I would not commit. If it were not that God keeps his servants back, We would have no restraints. You see, wicked man turns over a new leaf when the new year rolls around He decides to brush himself off and make himself new. But the leopard can't change his spot And so man, all of man's attempts are but filthy rags. Why do the heathen rage and the people imagine a vain things the kings of the earth set themselves and the counselors take gather can the rulers take counsel together against the Lord and against his anointed. You see it's not against us that It's not against our Bible that they rage. It's against our Christ. It is against our Messiah. And in the context that Peter uses for this passage in Acts chapter 4, he applies it To the scribes and the Pharisees and the Sanhedrin in their rage against their own Messiah. And again, why was the Messiah come? He was come to seek and to save that which was lost. He was come to give his life a ransom for many. He came unto his own, and his own received him not. He came to bring blessing to Israel, the promise to the descendants of Abraham. And yet they were the very ones in his own day who wanted to cast off the cord. Away with him. Crucify him. Crucify him. Drive him from our synagogues. Drive him from public life. We will not have this man to rule over us. And silly rage. But it's God's response. Well, it's found in verses 4 and 5. He that sitteth in the heavens shall laugh. The Lord shall have them in derision. I tell you, friends, when I look at the news I don't laugh. When I see the iniquity around me, I do anything but laugh. It it uh you know how many of us have not yelled at our TV at some time? Or another. Oh, we look at this world and we say, what a mess. The godly foundation that our nation was built upon has been Shattered and pushed away by the heathen that rage in our land, and we want to scream out What a bunch of fools! What a bunch of idiots you are. You're tearing it down with your own hands Isn't it wonderful to note that the sovereign God who rules everything is laughing? That he is not troubled by the things that trouble us That he is Alpha and Omega. That he knows the beginning from the end. He sees their doom is coming. He is indeed the sovereign God. He that sitteth in the heavens shall laugh. And notice that he sitteth in the heavens. The wicked are set. We know what it means to be set. Some of us, back before we got old and fat, ran track in high school. You know, ready, set, go, you're you're set, you're you're ready to go, you know, you're waiting for that gun to fire. Or we think of a boxer who he's in the match and you know he's not standing around like this. He's set. He's ready. The heathens set themselves. But Jesus Christ sits. Because he won the victory on the cross, he is seated at the right hand of God the Father, there to make intercession. And so again, uh our nerves cause our muscles to tense, and we see the iniquity around us, and it brings great trouble to us, and it it should trouble us, but we shouldn't just Say it's okay, that's not what I'm implying at all. But that which causes us such tense grief, our God sits and watches Until his enemies be made his footstool. Jesus Christ sits until these heathen that rage become his footstool. The word laugh there is an interesting word. It's the same word that was used when the Philistines made sport of Samson They had put out his eyes and they had him grinding in the mill or they would bring him being led by a child that they might make sport of him. This laugh is that same word, sport. It's also the same word that was used when David came back from battle and the women danced and sang, Saul has killed his thousands. and David his ten thousands. Now why is that significant? Because both of those other uses of this same word, it was used in triumph. Samson, the enemy of the Philistines, had been defeated. And now they laughed at him. They made sport of him. David has defeated the Philistines. He's killed 10,000 to Saul's thousand. And the women laughed in the streets because they had triumphed over their enemy. God sitting in heaven, seeing the heathen as they rage He laughs. He has triumphed over them, is the the deeper meaning of what we find in that phrase. Why would God laugh at the heathen? Well, he's triumphed over the heathen. Is what the verse is telling us there. In Psalm 59, verses 7 and 8, behold, they belch out with their mouth. Swords are in their lips. For who, say they, doth hear? But thou, Lord, shall laugh at them. Thou shalt have them. And that brings us to the next thing we find there in the verse. Jehovah shall laugh and shall have them in derision. He will mock when their fear cometh, we find. Be not deceived. God is not mocked. Whatsoever man soweth, that shall he also reap. You see, the heathen mock God. But what they reap in their mocking of God is God mocks them. It's a fearful thing to fall into the hands of God Hands of the living God. Why do the heathen rage? Well, we find God laughing at the heathen. But then suddenly that laughter changes. Then shall he speak to them in his wrath. God laughs at their calamity for he sees it coming. God laughs in that triumphal laugh over the wicked because they are a defeated foe. But that laughter turns to wrath, then shall he speak to them in his wrath and vex them in his sore displeasure. God will vex them. That was a word that was used frequently. It's an old English word that was a very popular word in in Jamaica. Those of you who don't know me, my wife and I were missionaries in Jamaica for many years. years. And people say, oh, he vexed me. He vexed me. He troubles me. Well God will vex them in his sore displeasure. Great peace have they that love thy law, and nothing shall offend them. And the peace of God that passeth all understanding shall keep your hearts and minds through Christ Jesus. Do you see a difference here, folks? Do you see a contrast? The child of God that is holding with those cords of love that embraces those bonds that the wicked want to cast off. He finds great peace. He finds great contentment. But the wicked are like the troubled sea when it cannot rest, whose waters cast up mire and dirt. There is no peace, saith my God, to the wicked. He'll speak to them in his wrath and vex them in his sore displeasure. God judges the righteous, and God is angry with the wicked every day. Psalm 3 Psalm 7 verse 11. Then we find God's answer. Look with me at verses 6 through 9 of Psalm 2. Yet have I set my king upon my holy hill. I would declare the decree, the Lord has said unto me, Thou art my son. This day have I begotten thee. Ask of me, and I shall give thee the heathen for thine inheritance, and the uttermost parts of the earth for thy possession. Thou shalt break them in pieces with the rod of iron. Thou shalt dash it dash them Like a potter's vessel. What is God's answer to the raging of the heathen? Jehovah points to the sun. Jehovah points to Jesus Christ, the heathen rage, and Jehovah points to the Son. Here is the answer. Here is the answer to the earth to the world's raging. While the world rages, God points to the Son. The world rages, but God has won the victory. The world rages, but Christ is seated at the right hand of the Father. The heathen rage today, but tomorrow they will bow. Wherefore God also has highly exalted him, and given him a name that is above every name. That to the name of Jesus every knee should bow and every tongue should confess that Jesus Christ is Lord to the glory of God the Father. And that wherefore in the verse points to the cross. God's answer to the raging of the heathen is found in the Son. That is how God answers their raging. I would declare to decree. The Lord has said unto me, Thou art my son, this day have I begotten thee. And we find that phrase repeated, actually. Brother Tim mentioned this in Sunday school this morning. We find that phrase repeated in Scripture. We find it at the baptism of Christ, This is my beloved Son, in whom I'm well pleased. Hear ye him. We find it at the Transfiguration, this is my beloved Son. We find it in connection with the resurrection in Acts 13, verse 33. God hath fulfilled the same unto their children, in that he hath raised up Jesus again, as it is written in the second Psalm, Thou art my son. This day have I begotten thee. God declares the authenticity of this one. This is my son. This is the Lamb of God that taketh away the sin of the world. This is the one, and there is no other. Neither is there salvation in any other, for there's none of the name under heaven given among men whereby ye must be saved. March through the streets I saw a picture of a sign just this past week, going to hell and proud. What sad truth, what a fool And so Jesus Christ is the only answer for the raging of the heathen. Jesus Christ is the answer to the question. Why do the heathen rage? Because they will not submit to Jesus. Christ. Why do the heathen rage? Because they reject the Messiah just as he was rejected by those that crucified him 2,000 years ago. ago. Why do the heathen rage? But not only does God declare his son, point to his son, and declare the authenticity of his son, but he declares his inheritance as well. Look at verse 8. Ask of me, and I shall give thee the heathen for thine inheritance, and the uttermost parts of the earth for thy possession. And ah my friend, isn't it glorious that when it talks about the heathen there, it's talking about the Gentiles It's talking about those who were not of the seed of Abraham and were not the children of that promise, and yet they are the children of a greater covenant. They are the children of a greater promise, the promise of grace. Come unto me, all ye that labor, all ye that struggle against the bands and the cords. Come unto me, all ye that labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest, for I am the answer. For I, Christ speaking, am the one to whom Jehovah points. This is the one who is the answer to the raging of your soul. This is the one who says, Take my yoke upon you. What is a yoke? Oh, it's a band. It's a cord. The yoke was that which bound the ox to the cart. And so again, the very thing which the heathen, the wicked, want to cast off is the very thing that they need. He gives him the heathen. In Isaiah 42, verses 6 and 7, I the Lord have called the unrighteous Jesus, and I will hold thy hand. I will keep thee and give thee for a covenant to the people, for a light to the Gentiles, to open the blind eyes, to bring out the prisoners from the prison and them that sit in darkness out of the prison house. But not only does he give him the Gentiles, he gives him the uttermost parts of the earth. This world This globe on which we live was created by God, not by some big bang. It was created by God. And the inhabitants of this world, the conscious beings of this world, man, was created by God for the purpose of fellowship and life. We talked a little bit about separation from God in Sunday school this morning. Death in its basic form is separation. It is separation of the soul from the body, but more than that, eternal death in hell is separation of man from God. There's a great gauze fixed so that one cannot go between the other. Man was created by God for the purpose of fellowshipping with God. When Adam and Eve sinned in the garden, that fellowship was broken when God came to the garden in the cool of the day. Rather than Adam and Eve rushing out to meet with God and to fellowship with God, they hid themselves, for they knew they were naked. They knew they were sinned. A separation had occurred between God and man. This world was created to fellowship with God, and it shall again Because God the Father gives to the Son the inheritance of the uttermost parts of the earth. And so he declares the inheritance of the Son. I love 1 Peter 2, verses 9 and 10. But ye are a chosen generation, a royal priesthood, a holy nation, a peculiar people. That ye should show forth the praise of him who hath called you out of darkness into his marvelous light, which in times past were not a people. But now are the people of God which had not obtained mercy, but now have obtained mercy. But not only does God here declare the Son and declare his inheritance and his authenticity, but God declares what it is the Son will do. He declares the ministry of Jesus Christ. And that is found in verse 9. Thou shalt break them with a rod of iron. Thou shalt dash them in pieces as a potter's. Vessel. Yes, Jesus Christ came to seek and to save that which was lost, but he's also come for judgment. He has also come for retribution on the raging heathen. And so he dashes them in pieces like a potter's vessel. And the imagery there that we have, when when we break something, I broke an old lamp of my mom's remote. recently and you know we get out the super glue or the gorilla glue or whatever and we glue it back together. But this imagery of dashing in pieces like a potter's vessel is that of which there is no riff In other words, it can't be glued back together. When the potter's vessel, the clay pot of that day was shattered, it was useless, it was thrown out. And remember we began with the verse what the pot Of earth contend with the postures. And so man complains against God. And yet Christ comes To bring judgment. He comes with healing in his wings, but he comes to bring judgment on those who will not believe. What instructions, what conclusion can we draw from this passage? Verses 10 through the end of the chapter, through the end of the Psalm. Be wise and instructed, ye kings of the earth. The fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom. Fools make a mock at sin. The fool has said in his heart, There is no God, but the fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom. Our nation began in the fear of the Lord. Our nation began in the heritage of those who came to these shores with the earnest desire to worship God. in freedom to worship God according to his word and according to his conscience as got as the Spirit of God dictated to their conscience. That is lost in our society today. What is the hope? Be instructed, ye kings. Be wise, ye judges of the earth Proverbs 14, verse 16: A wise man feareth and departeth from evil, but the fool rageth and is confident. We see a lot of that today. Raging fools that are so confident. Ah, the world is getting hotter, but we can fix it No. God upholds all things by the word of his power. And seed time and harvest will not end, we read in the word. of God. But foolish man who thinks that he can fix this world that God made. The fool rages and is Confident. Why do the heathen rage because they do not know God? But God's instructions are to serve the Lord with fear Bow before God. Serve the Lord with fear. Rejoice with trembling. Let the wicked forsake his way and the unrighteous man his thoughts. Kiss the son, lest he be angry with you, and ye perish from the way when his anger is kindled. But a little. Ah, embrace him. Cling to Christ. Run to the Savior Embrace him. Hold on to him as a drowning man holds on to anything that floats. Cling to Jesus Christ. Do homage to him. Bow before him. Seek ye the Lord while he may be found. Call ye upon him while he is near. Let the wicked forsake his way. Come unto me, all ye that labor. But that's not the end of the verse. Kiss the son, lest he be angry with you. Remember, he'll speak to them in his wrath and vex them in his sore displeasure. But it says here when his wrath is kindled but a little And that phrase, but a little, it's a good translation. We have a very solid, very solid translation, but a further meaning of that term is when it is newly kindled. You ever start a fire in the leaves in your yard to burn them, and you just get some tiny little fire and it burns into a big fire Well, that's what the verses, what the phrase is indicating there. When his anger is newly kindled, when it's kindled but a little before it blossoms into the almighty sovereign wrath and judgment of God. Seek ye the Lord while I may be found. Call upon him while he is near. Kiss the sun lest ye perish from the way. Remember the psalm that precedes this? The way of the ungodly shall perish. When his wrath is kindled but a little. In a little wrath I hid my face from thee for a moment, but with everlasting kindness will I have mercy upon thee, saith the Lord thy re Redeemer. Turn with me to the book of Acts, if you will, as we make application and conclude this morning. Acts chapter 4. In the fourth chapter of Acts, Peter and John have been called before the council. They have been called before the Jewish leaders because they had been preaching Jesus Christ the crucified is the Messiah. He's not dead. He's risen from the dead, and by his power, this lame man that you see has been healed. And so in Acts chapter 4, verse 23 through 29, we read these words. And being let go, that's let go from the council, and being let go, they went to their own company, and reported all that the chief priests and the elders had said unto them. And when they heard it, they lifted up their voices and said voices to God with one accord, and said Lord, thou art God, which hath made heaven and earth, and the sea, and all that is therein, who by the mouth of thy servant David hath said, Why do the heathen rage, and the people imagine vain things? The kings of the earth stood up, and the rulers gathered together against the Lord and against his Christ, for of a truth against thy holy child Jesus. whom thou hast anointed, both Herod and Pontius Pilate, and the Gentiles and the people of Israel were gathered together for to do whatsoever thy hand and thy counsel determined before to do. And now, Lord, behold their threatenings, and grant unto thy servants that with all boldness they may speak thy word. Word. Ah, there's the application of Psalm 2. The application is made for us by Peter and John. Lord, you see the raging of the heathen around us. You see us, your children, us your servants, living in this wicked and adulterous generation. Oh God, grant to thy people In light of the threatening of the heathen, that we with all boldness may speak the word. of God, that we may be lights and testimonies to Jesus Christ in this wicked and adulterous generation. Let us stand and pray. Our gracious Heavenly Father Our great God and Savior, the great and sovereign ruler of all the universe The God who alone is, the God who alone hears and prayers. Behold their threatening. Look at the world in which we, your sheep, dwell. And God grant us boldness to be lights in a wicked world, to let our light so shine before men that they may see our good works and glorify our Father which is in heaven Grant us boldness to faithfully proclaim Christ, to point to Christ in this wicked generation. And Lord, we pray these things now in Jesus' name.