First Samuel chapter twelve. Let's continue our pilgrimage through the book of Samuel, chapter by chapter and verse by verse. 1 Samuel chapter 12. Just as a refresher, because it's been two weeks since we've been back here in the pulpit. Israel has been in battle with the Ammonites. Their leader was a man named Nahash, which means serpent in the Hebrew. They've had a great victory and they're rejoicing and celebrating that their new king has brought them this great victory. And Samuel begins to speak to them at this celebration. And he says in verse 16 of chapter 12 Now therefore stand and see the great thing which the Lord will do before your eyes. Well they thought he'd already done something great before their eyes. But Sammy said, No, God's going to do something really great now Is it not wheat harvest today? I will call on the Lord and he shall send thunder and rain. That's not something you want during wheat harvest, a lot of rain. That you may perceive and see that your wickedness is great, which ye have done in the sight of the Lord in asking you a king They're all excited. They asked for a king and God said, All right, here's your king. And they had victory in battle and they're all excited. And Sammy says, It's a wickedness. I don't want you to forget this That you have asked for a king. So Samuel called on the Lord, and the Lord sent thunder and rain that day, and all the people greatly feared the Lord and Samuel And all the people said unto Samuel, Pray for thy servants, unto the Lord thy God, that we die not, for we have added unto all our sins this evil, to ask us a king. And Samuel said unto the people, Fear not. You have done all this wickedness, yet turn not aside from following the Lord, but serve the Lord with all your heart. And turn thee not aside, for then should ye go after vain things or idols which cannot profit nor deliver, for they are vain or fruitless, or they're worthless For the Lord will not forsake his people for his great name's sake, because it has pleased the Lord to make you his people. Moreover, as for me, God forbid that I should sin against the Lord and cease him to pray for you. But I will teach you the good and the right way. Only fear the Lord and serve him in truth and all your heart, for consider how great things he hath done for you. For if you shall do for if you shall still do wickedly, you shall be consumed. Both he and your king. This weekend the Baltimore Sun paper reported, and I went to the internet and I also got a copy of it, that a local church I won't mention that church just from the pulpit. It was United Presbyterian Church, I'd mention it. The local church Open their doors to the production of God's Spell. Now, some of you are old enough to know what God's Spell is. It was a rock opera back in the 70s. A musical comedy, as it were, about the crucifixion and death of Christ. Wow. How do you make a musical comedy on the Lord's Supper and His preaching and His crucifixion? A Godspell, by the way, does not have a resurrected Christ either. The original God spell was filled with profanity, taking the Lord's name in vain, Christ's name in vain. I don't know what this production did. The church opened their doors to it. A musical comedy. Wow. I wonder how soon someone will write a musical comedy about the Islamic faith and Muhammad. And then what mosque will bring it in? I I just But you know, the church keeps growing. People keep giving, people keep coming. I mean, God is blessing. It must be okay. Well, that's what Samuel had here. They wanted a king, and God was not happy with them, but he gave them the king, and they went into battle, they won the victory. God's blessing. It must be okay. And Samuel said it's not okay. Have you forgotten the wickedness of asking for a king when you already have a king? King Jesus, the King of Kings, God is your king, and you ask for a king, and because it seems to be working out okay, and Israel's gathered together, and Israel's happy and the people are coming and they're celebrating and they're sacrificing. It must be okay But it wasn't okay. It wasn't okay that Godspell, who projects Christ as a clown, by the way, with clown makeup and the fuzzy, frizzy hair, and he wears a Superman t-shirt, and he just hops and flights his way through lollygagging through a junkyard and he and John the Baptist and the original had very uh provocative angels and It's not okay. I mean, I don't know how it strikes you, but to me it's like fingernails on a chalkboard. It just it just hits me hard and between the ears. It I just And it hit Samuel. So Samuel stands in verse 16. He said, now therefore stand and see this great thing which the Lord will do. Is it not wheat harvest today? I will call the Lord, you'll send thunder and rain that you may perceive. This wickedness is great What will it take for the churches in this land to perceive the wickedness that they're welcoming into their doors of their sanctuaries? Harvest season here in America, harvest season in Israel is no different. It's like August is here. It's usually hot. No rain, lots of thunder, lightning is something you don't see during harvest time. And so he says here it's harvest time. You want to bring in the crops, but it's it's a cloudless time of the year, and they can look up. It's harvest time, it's hot. There's it's sun is shining, it's cloudless. He said, Be that as it may, God's gonna send thunder and lightning. He doesn't need clouds to do that. He'll send thunder and lightning and rain without clouds that you might know that God is not happy. With what Israel has done. And no doubt it was much like the great thunder that God sent back in 1 Samuel 7 against the Philistines, when he discomfited the Philistines, and they fled in fear, and they lost the battle there, without a king. And now this thing thunder comes and it falls upon the nation of Israel You have to ask yourself, could Israel's new king Saul pray for thunder? Probably not. Could Israel's new king pray for rain and lightning? Probably not. He would not get the results of Samuel, but they're just so excited about the new king that God did not want them to have. The first thing that the first result, the title of the message this morning is The Result of Prayer. The first result of prayer is that Samuel's prayer teaches us that climate change and global warming is not man-made. It's just not. God controls the weather. It is not man-made, man-made. It's ordered of the Lord. God controls the weather. We look down in Sodom and Gomorrah, remember when it rained fire and brimstone there? That's not man-made. By the way, that word brimstone, I looked it up, it's sulfur. And sulfur is flammable and sulfur is falling down with the fire, it catches fire, and it puts out a gaseous that will destroy the lungs of those who breathe it. It will burn out their eyes and their nostril passages. I mean when it raises fire and brimstone, you're not going to survive. The air itself will kill you as you breathe it. But that was not man-made. God sent that as well, just as God will send hail and fire and blood in Revelation 8 and verse 7. The weather is God's God's weather. It isn't man's weather. Man doesn't control it. Man can't affect it. Man can't stop it. And if you believe that we control the weather, then you believe in the Indian rain dance will bring in rain. And there are people that believe that. The second result of Samuel's prayer is it teaches us that God can change any situation very quickly. Are you in a situation this morning? Are you in a circumstance this morning you don't like? Pray. The results of prayer is that God can change situations. In fact, sometimes he does it very quickly. There arose a storm that says, and Christ rebuked the wind and said unto sea, peace be still, and there was a great calm. Mark 4, verses 37 through 39. God can control well that was Jesus that did that. Christ is God. And Christ controls the weather. Christ is God God controls it, whether here Christ controls it, whether arose a great storm, and he speaks to the wind. Peace be still in the waves. And there was a great calm. And then later on Christ says, Be thou clean, it says. And immediately the leper was cleansed. Matthew 8. And verse 3. Receive thy sight. And immediately he received the sight and he followed him. Mark 10 in verse 52. In other words, the result of prayer is that there can be some amazing results Very quickly. Your situation can change if you appeal to the Lord Jesus Christ. Do you have a situation this morning that needs changing? Pray. Pray to the God of Scripture. That's the answer. And note here in verses 18 and 19. And all the people greatly feared the Lord, and they feared Samuel as well, and they said unto Samuel, Pray for thy servants unto God. That we that we die not. They thought this thunder and lightning, you know, here we got a cloudless sky, and that there's lightning coming out of, and thunder coming out of a cloudless sky, and now it's raining like crazy And they think what what next? Fire and brimstone? Fire and hail and blood? They're fearful for their lives and they should be. They've angered the thrice holy God by asking for this king. They acknowledged what they had done was wrong. It says in verse 16, they admit they had done the sin and they were afraid they were going to die. And the people greatly feared the Lord, it says in verse 18. But the thing I want you to notice in verse 19, they said unto Samuel, Pray unto thy God Why isn't Samuel's God their God? Pray unto thy God, Samuel. That's their problem. The God of the scripture, the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, wasn't their God And so they said to Samuel, pray unto thy God. Have you ever had people say that to you? You know, they're not Christians. They don't go to church. They don't pray. But something happens to a lot and they say, Would you pray for me, please? You know, have your church pray for me? All of a sudden, our God's okay. Pray for us. A truly repentant sinner would have been praying for himself. And not saying to somebody else, Pray for me. You know, it's kind of like uh you you start leaving someone just just spilled on you or later on you, all that's going on in their life, and as they leave, they say, Hey, by the way, uh could you pray for me? Sure, we can pray for you. Oh, good, and they drive away. They don't pray for themselves. Oh good, I just tossed it off at him. He'll pray for me. He'll pray to his God, this Jesus guy. That's where they talk. That's what they think. The reason they said to Samuel, would you pray to your God is because he wasn't their God. And they said to pray for praying for your God because the fact is they didn't have a prayer. They couldn't pray. They're not saved. If you aren't saved, you can't pray. It's only when a person repents of their sins and calls on God. That's his first prayer. But if you're not saved, you can't pray. And these Israelites, they didn't have a prayer. It just wasn't in them. And so, rightfully so, I guess they said, Samuel, can you pray for us? Because we don't have it in us. We don't know how to pray. We don't know who to pray to, and we don't want to pray to your God because you pray to your God for us. We have a miraculous rain or miraculous thunder, miraculous lightning, and it doesn't change their hearts. And the reason for that is it it is the mercy that saves us by the washing and regeneration of the Holy Ghost, Titus 3. 5. It's a washing of regeneration. A miraculous rain and thunder and lightning won't save anyone. It may scare them, but it won't save them. Even Martin Luther says he's on the road one day and the lightning struck and almost killed him and he said that was it. I turned my back on where I was going and I just thought I was going to give my life to Christ. Give him a life to the Lord, but you find out in the monastery and over the years, him praying and beating himself with twitches and switches and and wearing the scratchy uh you know fur on the skin to to punish himself and and and all these things he was doing, he realized he still wasn't saved. The lightning hadn't saved him. That's when he read the Word of God. Faith cometh by hearing, hearing the Word of God, and Luther attests to the fact that salvation is of grace. And so they're not saved, though they see this miraculous rain. It doesn't wash their souls, it doesn't cleanse their heart. Do you know somebody? I bet we all do. You know somebody who thinks prayers are just acts of superstition that some people do. Prayers are something silly. Uh they're without scientific basis. You know people like that? Well the truth is, they don't want Christ to run their life. They don't want Christ to run their life because then it might ruin their life. Well, it'll ruin their temporary life, they say. Let me tell you something. You don't want Christ to run your life, he will ruin your eternal life. Forget about the temporary life. That might not go so well either, but guarantee you leave Christ out of your life and it will ruin your eternal life. And they don't want Christ in their life at all. They want their Harley, their sex, their drugs, and their rock and roll, don't they? They don't want motherhood, apple pie, Chevrolet, and the Lord Jesus Christ. They have a major problem. But they don't mind you praying in Christ's name. That's okay Especially when things are really going bad. When things are really going bad, people don't mind if you pray in Christ's day. I mean we've heard of teachers being fired from schools because they had a Bible on their desk or they got caught praying with the students somewhere. But I'll tell you what, when things are really bad Nobody cares if you talk about the Lord Jesus Christ. You go back to the days of Columbine, that school was all shot up, and teachers came on TV and they said, What'd you do? I hid my kids in the biology class, I had them on the floor and was praying for we were praying to Jesus that he protect us. That was okay. 911, people talking about getting out of the Twin Towers. And how they prayed as they were running down the steps, they were praying the Lord and they didn't pull the microphone away. People thought I remember late uh two years ago I think it was a school building They saw the tornado coming right towards the school and said, Oh you children, let's sing. And they started singing songs as loud as they could. And one of the kids says, Can we sing Jesus loves me? She said, Of course you can sing Jesus loves me. And they say he told us to the newscaster on the on the television. And we saying Jesus must be. And he said, What happened? She says, Well, we're all here. Didn't lose one student. It's okay to pray to Jesus when it's a tornado, when it's a 7-Eleven or a Cullumbine or Sandy Hook, the same thing happened up there. People testified. They were praying to the Lord Jesus Christ with their students, leading them in prayer. And ACLU never sued any of them. One of the results of prayer, the world knows this is one of the results of prayer. You cannot exaggerate the results of prayer. Prayer to the Lord gets results. And the whole world knows it. And that's why in the worst of times, some of the most unsuspecting people that you'd ever thought of will talk to the Lord Jesus Christ. Israel knew about Samuel. His name means asked of God. It implies prayer, asked of God. Samuel was asked of God. Samuel had been born of Hannah's prayers, her continual prayers, we read in 1 Samuel 1 and 12. Samuel was raised in the house of the Lord, 1 Samuel 1 24. Christ calls the house of the Lord the house of God, or rather the house of prayer, Matthew 21-13. So Samuel is He comes about because of his mother's prayers. He is raised in the house of prayer, and he began to pray early. Speak, Lord For thy servant heareth, 1 Samuel 3 and 10. He is praying as a little boy. All of Israel knew that he was a prayer warrior. And they feared him. Why people today, they don't fear those who follow the Messiah. They fear those who follow Muhammad. My how things have changed today. Well, that's all right if they want to fear those who follow Muhammad. But I'll tell you what, they're just blind because they ought to be fearing the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. And they ought to fear those who love him The result of praying when you're young. Samuel's a wonderful example of that. The results of praying, a third thing we recognize the results of praying is not just that it gets the results, but the results of praying when you are young is it equips you to pray with power when you are. Far older. I just wonder if I have a show of hands here. How many know that you are here today because of the prayers of someone older, a mother, a grandmother, or an aunt? There's something here? Yeah. Results of prayer. Prayer of someone older who prayed a long time for us and some are still being prayed for. So Samuel said unto the people in verse 20, fear not. You have done all this wickedness, yet turn not aside from follow- you know, someone sitting this morning and saying, You know, I can't turn to God. You have no idea the wicked stuff I've said. And I've said this to you before. I don't care what the wickedness is you've done. It says here, see how many says, fear not, you have done all this wickedness, yet turn not aside from following the Lord. How forgetting can God get He's amazingly forgiving. Serve the Lord with all your heart. Verses 20. Again he says it in 24. Turn not aside, for the Lord will not forsake his people. Oh, it's wonderful. Why won't God forsake his people? Sammy says, for his great name's sake, because it has pleased the Lord to make you his people. Some thought, in the Babylonian captivity, that God has finally forsaken his people. It had been almost 70 years. Israel was no longer a nation. They've been taken out of Israel. They've been taken up to Babylon with Nebuchadnezzar and Darius. And they'd been there for almost 70 years. And I said, we thought God would never forsake his people, but it's been seventy years. We're we're no longer a nation and we're we're just finished and where's this all going to? And Jeremiah comes out, and Jeremiah says, Thus saith the Lord. Jeremiah was living in a day of the Babylonian captivity. Thus saith the Lord, the sun, the moon, and the stars, if the earth depart from before me, then the seed of Israel shall cease from being a nation. And Jeremiah, what he was saying, the people look up, there's the sun. Look up at night, there's a moon, and there's a star. God says that until the sun disappears, the moon disappears, all the stars disappear. I will not forsake Israel from being a nation forever. I've forsaken them for 69 years, but it won't be forever And then nineteen centuries after seventy AD, when the nation of Israel Crucified the Lord of Glory. First Corinthians 2 and verse 8. They had crucified the Lord Jesus Christ. They had crucified the Lord of glory. And in seventy AD Israel was once again banished from the land They were no longer a nation, and for 19 centuries, for about 1900 years, all the world said, God has finally forsaken Israel. What? The sun's still there. And the moon's still there. And the stars are still there. Is the Bible wrong? Did Jeremiah not get it right? That's what people thought. But that verse, he said, that I will not forsake nation as an Israel forever. They will always come back. 1900 years later, 1948, Israel becomes a nation. Those were those who were scoffers that Israel would never be a nation again. And for 1900 years they could say that, and there are scoffers today that will tell you that Christ is not coming back because that's also been over 1900 years. But the rapture will take place, the catching up, the catching away of the church, to meet him in the air, it will happen It's gonna happen. It's been 1900 years, as scoppers will say to us, it's not gonna happen. Well, then you're listening to probably the same ones that said that Israel will never be back in the land as a nation again. God, why does God do this for Israel? I mean, can you think of a worse thing to do than to crucify the Lord of glory, to crucify the Son of Christ? What worse thing can you do? And yet He brings them back as a nation. Do you see, friend, it doesn't matter what sin you've committed, unless you blast him the Holy Ghost. I mean, there isn't a sin you or how many times you commit, God will forgive you. He forgave Israel for crucifying the Lord of glory, something that you can never do. You'll never be touched and injured in that way again Why does God do this for Israel? For all the stuff Israel's done, generation after generation, century after century, decade. Why does God still forgive Israel? Is it because they're so cute, they're so godly, and they're so wonderful. No, he does it for his own name's sake, that his word be not tarnished, that his word be not diminished Deuteronomy 42. That no one mocked and despises words, 2 Chronicles 36, 16. God said, I have called them to be my people, and so I will bring them back. I will forgive them. Israel's not there today. But it must be getting close to the day when the Lord will start touching their hearts again. Do you struggle with believing God's word? Israel is a nation again. Think about that. 1900 years. Do you struggle with believing God's word? How close must we be to the return of Christ when we look at what's going on in this world? What's that verse? Well I return, shall I find faith in the earth? If you want to be guaranteed that within two hours you'd find faith, would you call the White House? Would you go down to Congress or the Senate? Would you call the Prime Minister in England? Would you call uh Putin in Russia? Where would you go to be guaranteed you could find you could walk well there's a church playing Godsville. I wouldn't go there looking for someone who believes in faith I'm I'm sure there are people there that are saved. I'm just it the implication is it would be difficult to find people of faith when Christ returns. I think we're so close. Hey, we got an A-Men lady this morning. Great. Someone to pick up and carry the mantle. Samuel knew long before Jeremiah That Israel was the apple of God's eye, recorded in Deuteronomy 32 and 10. In fact, even though Jeremiah had said, If heaven above can be measured, then I will cast off all the seed of Israel for all they have done. Jeremiah says, God who can look in the head in the future and see well, you can look in the past and see what Israel's done, you can look in the present and see what they're doing, you can look in the future and see what Israel is going to do. And Jeremiah says, God says he will not forsake Israel. Unless there comes a day when you can measure the breadth of the heavens. Have we done that yet? The Hubble space ship can't do it. If heaven above give me measured, I'll cast off the seed of Israel for all that they have done. God's not going to cast off Israel, that's his way of putting it. And Samuel knew long before Jeremiah that God Loved Israel and he took them off the woodshed after crucifixion of Christ. They've been out there for 1900 years and they deserve it And so Samuel declares in verse 23, Moreover as for me, God forbid. He says, I'll pray for you. He said, they say, Oh pray for us, pray for us. He says in verse 23, Moreover as for me, God forbid that I should sin. against the Lord and ceasing to pray for you. So that means of course they'll pray for you. You need to be saved. You know, nothing's changed today. Israel, the nation of Israel, the people of Israel, and those who have gone back to Israel and most of them are flooding uh the borders of Israel want to go back there. Uh These Jewish people, they're still not saved. They're still in need of Samuel's prayer. They're still in need of our prayer. He said, I would sin against the Lord if I didn't pray for the nation of Israel. Do you pray for the nation of Israel? For their salvation. As long as there's breath in me, Samuel said, I will pray for you. I should sin against the Lord in ceasing to pray for you. They are in need of our prayers today, and although salvation is the primary need of the Israelites today, they have countless other needs as well. So pray without ceasing, as Samuel said he would. 1 Thessalonians 5 and 17. Paul writes that way. And pray for the peace of Jerusalem. Pray for the peace of Jerusalem. That's in Psalm 122, verse 6 Why? Why should we pray for the peace of Jerusalem? Everybody says pray for the peace of Jerusalem. That's quoted all the time, right? You know what the second half of that verse says? It tells you why you should pray for the peace of Jerusalem. Pray for the peace of Jerusalem. Psalm 122-6. They shall prosper that love thee. Hey, there's a good reason to pray for Israel We will prosper if we show love to them and concern for their souls and pray for them. They shall prosper that love thee. Samuel had been hurt by the Israelites, but he was still willing to pray for them. Are there those you don't want to pray for because they've hurt you? I'll tell you what, let me give you a challenge. Someone's hurt you and you don't like them, you don't want to fellowship with them, you don't want to pray for them, you don't want their soul to get saved, whatever the situation is. I have started praying for James Vonda. I have. But she could say. And from Barack Obama, that he gets saved. Oh please, while you're still in office. But I can't tell the Lord that either. But That's been hard for me. That's been a 40 years of not praying for that woman. Can you pray for someone that's hurt you That's the results of a praying person. Praying for someone that's hurt you. Praying for someone though they've hurt you Sadness says you'll do it as long as there's breath in me. Scripture teaches us to pray for others. Now you knew that. I mean most of us pray for Uno numero uno, right? Number one. We all pray for ourselves. Oh Lord, I got this and I got that. I mean, how many does anybody have a problem praying for themselves? No. Do you have a problem praying for others? Yeah, sometimes. For some, no. The Bible encourages us to pray for others, but when you look at the encouragement that the Bible gives us, the scripture tells us to pray for others. Look at what David says. David David says in Psalms 35 and 13 He was praying for his enemies. Now, not God's. He wasn't praying for the Philistines, he was praying for his own personal. It was like King Saul. King Saul was trying to kill him. He was praying for King Saul And there were others who ought to get David. They were just his personal enemies. And he says, He says here, when they were sick, my clothing was sackcloth. These are his enemies, his personal enemies. I humbled my soul with fasting and my prayer. He gave his prayers and fasting and sack law to his to his personal enemies, people he just didn't get along with. And he prayed for them. And what is the result of his prayers in Psalm 35:13? It tells the result of his prayers for his enemies, his personal enemies? My prayers returned onto my own bosom. I don't God bless my I don't get in love with this person, bless them, Lord, prosper them uh heal them. Do all the things that David said he he prayed for those who didn't like him or they didn't get along with or that we he counted as his enemies or they count him as his enemies. He said, I pray for all these good things to have to them and it came back on me. That's the result of praying. Those things come back on us. Blessings. Christ also taught, pray for them which despitefully use you and persecute you. Matthew 5 and verse 44. This has been the example of teaching of Scripture all the way back into the days of Job, that we should pray for those who persecute us or make life difficult or uncomfortable for us. It says here in Job 42, the Lord turned the captivity of Job. And Job was captive, he was captivity. He was covered in boils and he had the death of his children and and he had all these things going on and his friends, remember the kind of friends that came in, and they came in to tell him what he had done wrong and why he deserved this, how he needed to repent. I mean they were These were these were his friends, and they were just beaten on him left and right, and he prays for them. And he said, The Lord turned my captivity. I mean I was just surrounded, I was imprisoned by this this horrible counseling. And all these things that were happening to me. And I prayed, and the Lord turned the captivity of Job when he prayed for his friends. Pilgrim, pilgrim. The result of praying for others is It will improve your circumstances and your situation for no other reason the results of praying for others. You know, come back on your own bosom, David says. Christ told us to do it. And Job, Job. The Lord was so good to stop all the things that were going on in his own life. The results of prayer can't be exaggerated. The results of prayer, wow. They can change any situation. The results of prayer, it'll bless you. Let's pray. Father, we thank you this day that you have put it in the hearts of some here who are real prayer warriors They know the blessings of it. Some of us are still struggling in that area. We don't pray as much. Lord, may we begin to see the blessings that come from it. May we begin to see the changes in our own situation and circumstances May we begin to see and may we be a testimony to others that the prayer can never be exaggerated. The results are just unimaginable until you've experienced them for yourself. So we just ask today, Lord, that If this church can't be the loudest singing church or the best singing choir, if this church can't be the most evangelistic, may we be the prayer warriors of Maryland. We ask this in the name of our Messiah, our Redeemer, who is coming again very shortly, maybe before our next prayer. We ask this in Christ's name.