This glorious psalm cannot be read without goosebumps. To the child of God reading these precious words, there is joy. There is power. There is blessing found in these words. It speaks of Mount Zion on the sides of the north, the city of the great God. It speaks of the great God of the city. And the wondrous things he's done, he's broken the mighty ships of Tarshus with just the east wind. He didn't need the hand of man to break the ship. And then this psalm concludes with those words, Tell the next generation about it. Our God will be with us to death. What a beautiful, complete Psalm. It contains it all. If all we had of the Word of God was This one 48th Psalm. How blessed we would be. But we've got it all. We've got 66 books worth. This is It's just fourteen short verses. How rich it is. And how little we can Glean from it in the hour. And who knows, I might preach more than an hour this morning. But who knows how little we can glean in the short time that we have together in the Word of God. This psalm does not tell us, nor does the introduction tell us the specific events that surrounded its composure. But we can surmise from some of the verses what may have been the context under which it was written. If you look at verses 4 through 7, There it says, For lo the kings were assembled, they passed by together, they saw it, and so they marveled, they were troubled, and hastened away. Fear took upon them and pain as a woman in travail, thou breakest the ships of Tarshus with the east wind. That very well may have referred to the invasion of Senekarib. into the land of Israel. And Senecherib came up against King Hezekiah. It's recorded in 2 Kings 18 and 2 Chronicles 32 and again in Isaiah chapters 36 through 37. How Sebneferib invaded the land with his armies. And he sent his letters to Hezekiah. We're going to beat you up. We're going to destroy you. I'm paraphrasing, of course. And Hezekiah took the letter before God and laid it out before God and cried, Oh God, help us. And you realize that not one arrow was shot into Jerusalem. We read in 1 Kings that they didn't build a bulwark against Jerusalem. Instead, we read in Second Kings nineteen and verse thirty-two And it came to pass that night that the angel of the Lord, the angel of Jehovah, went out and smote the camp of the Assyrians And in a hundred fourscore and five thousand, and when they rose early in the morning, behold, they were all dead corpses. Why does your heart beat? Well, because your brain sends an electro biological signal to your heart to make it beat. Well, okay, biologically that's true. So why does your brain send the signal? It's God that keeps our life in our body. I breathe because God makes me breathe. My heart beats because God makes my heart beat. God didn't need an arrow or a spear to kill the army of the Assyrians. The angel of Jehovah passed through at night, just as the death angel passed Now, again, Scripture does not tell us, but the best evidence we can find internally in the Psalm would seem to Point to that account. Wow, folks! If this psalm wasn't glorious before, take it in that context. The mighty power of Jehovah. The ships of Tarshus were the greatest, strongest ships of their day. It doesn't say that Solomon's ships or Israel's ships or Hezekiah's ships went out and bombarded them. It doesn't say that they went out and boarded them and captured them. God sent an east wind. That's all it took. The army of God did not have to raise a finger against the ships of Tarshus. It was the east wind. Did God use for their destruction? And so that is the best we can determine, is the background of this song. And yet, what's the psalm about? It's about Zion and the great God of Zion. And then further We consider that this psalm is a Hebrew poem that extols the greatness of Jehovah And the great praise that is due to Jehovah in his city, in the city of God. Great is the Lord and greatly to be praised in the city of God. our God in the mountain of his holiness. It is clear from the context that the glory of the city of God was not due to the city. Now, it was a beautiful city. And we read there about walking around Zion and beholding its bulwarks, and we'll we'll talk about that later on. The city of Jerusalem itself physically was a beautiful city. It was called the Queen of the East. It was a beautiful city. But why was it beautiful? There were other cities. Jericho had better walls. We know how God took care of those too. There were cities that had better aqueducts. There were cities that their streets were laid out in better order. What was beautiful about Jerusalem? What was beautiful about Zion? It was the presence of Jehovah. That's what the text says. Great is the Lord. It doesn't start out by saying great is Jerusalem. Great is Zion. No, great is the Lord, and greatly be praised in the city. And again, if we look at the context, look at verse 1, it's the city of our God. It is the mountain of his holiness It's beautiful for situation. The joy of the whole earth is Mount Zion, the sides of the north, the city of the great king. You see the emphasis there? It's on the king of the city. That's why it's beautiful. God is known in our palaces for a refuge. But also consider this. It says that it's beautiful for situation, the joy of the whole earth. Would not that include Sennacherib and his armies, their part of the earth? It wasn't their joy. It was the place of their execution, the place of their death. It wasn't the joy of the Romans in the day of Christ. The Roman legions stationed in Jerusalem didn't want to be there. So how is it that we find that Jerusalem is referred to as the joy of the whole earth? The God of Jerusalem. In thee shall all nations be blessed, all the kings of the earth. Why is it the joy of the whole earth? Because salvation is found there and no other reason. That is why it is the joy. of the whole earth. And if you look back to Psalm 46, which you read for a responsive reading, it's either all on the same page or one page back In Psalm 46, we find there the companion that God is our refuge is mentioned three times. That God is the one to whom we flee, not the city, but God Himself. Look at 46. 1. God is our refuge and our strength of very present help in time of trouble Verse 7, the Lord of hosts is with us, the God of Jacob is our refuge. Verse 11 of Psalm 46, the Lord of hosts is with us, the God of Jacob is our refuge. What do we find in verse 3 of 47, 48. 48 and 3. Jerusalem is known for a refuge? Jerusalem is a great mightiest city. Is that what it says in your Bible? No, not at all. 48. 3. God is known in our palaces for a refuge. You see, it's not about the city. It's all about the God of the city. It's about Jehovah, God. It is the presence of God in the midst of his people that is the glory. And we find this again reinforced in Psalm 46. Back there again with me at verses four and five of Psalm 46. There is a river. There is a river, the streams whereof shall make glad the city of God, the holy place of the tabernacles of the Most High. God is in the midst of her. God's there. He's in the midst of her. She shall not be moved. Why? Because she had great and strong walls? Because There is an army there? No. God is in the midst of her. She shall not be moved. God shall help her. And that right all early. But then if we're going to further understand the impact and the message of this psalm We have to also consider the immutability of God. That God never changes. And that God's work has been the same from the beginning of Christ. Creation. The Old Testament saints were saved in the same way as the New Testament saints We might use different terminology and we might see that God reveal Himself in different ways then. I don't think any of us have ever had a dream of a ladder reaching from heaven to earth. Okay. So God may reveal Himself in different ways in different times and periods. And we go to Hebrews, God who in summary times and in diverse manners God who at sundry times and in diverse manners manifest himself unto the prophets, hath in these last days manifested But God never changes. God is the same. And so we find that God Himself never changes And this is abundantly manifested throughout Scripture. Let me give you three verses very quickly. Malachi 3, verse 6, I am Lord, I change not. Hebrews 13, verse 8. Jesus Christ the same yesterday, today, and forever. Revelation 8, I'm the Alpha and the Omega, the beginning and the end. God's plan of salvation never changes. God Himself never changes. And God's plan of salvation never changes. We read in Hebrews, or sorry, in Romans chapter 4, verse 3 What saith the Scripture? Abraham believed God, and it was accounted unto him for righteousness. How many of you have been saved by any other means than believing in God? No. No. So God's plan of salv God Himself never changes. God's plan of salvation never changes. And we read in James 2 verse 23. And the scripture was fulfilled, which saith, Abraham believed God, and it was imputed unto him for righteousness. And he was called the friend of God. And so we find that both in the Old and in the New Testament. So God Himself never changes. I know we're we're kind of you should saying, Pastor, what are we doing what are we doing with Psalm forty-eight, we're getting there. Stay with me. God himself never changes. God's means of salvation, God's plan of salvation never changes. Changes and God's relationship to his people never changes. Okay, God has had the same relationship with his people throughout all eternity. In Hebrew in um Revelation chapter one and verse eleven This is on the Alpha and the Omega, the first and the last. What thou seest, write in a book, and send it unto the seven churches which are in Asia. It's to the churches. Now we've been talking about Mount Zion. We've been talking about Jerusalem, the city of God, and now we're jumping over to the churches. Why are we doing that? Well Because Abraham was God's man. God's church dwelt in Abraham But before then, God's church dwelt in Noah. And before that, God's church dwelt in Ezekiel. Adam. And after Abraham, God's church dwelt among Israel and the prophets. And God's church dwells with us today. And so God's dealing with his people has not changed throughout eternity. And so, God says, I'm the first and the last. The things that I write, send them under my church, under the church, write them under the churches. And then again in Revelation 21 and verse 6, I will give to him that is a thirst to take of the water of life freely. And so the glory of Jerusalem was that God was there. God never changes. God deals with his people the same way today as he did in the Old Testament. And yet we're here we have a psalm that talks about Mount Zion, but it says it will abide forever. It says that it will be an eternal dwelling place. In uh verse Yes, verse number eight. We have heard, so have we seen, in the city of our Lord, in the city of our God, God will establish it. Forever. Let me ask you a question. We're still in the introduction. We're going to get into the meat of the Psalm soon. Does God dwell in Jerusalem today? Is Jerusalem the place where God dwells today? Where does God dwell? It's right here. God dwells in his church. Is Jerusalem today the joy of the whole earth? No! They're fighting over it, folks! It's not the joy. They're fighting about it in what we call the Holy Land, in in Palestine The Palestinians have been displaced from what they believe is their land is ancestrally, and yet that land was promise to Abraham and his seed, and so you you've got a conflict there. You've got the Arab nations all around that want to destroy Israel because of the displacement that took place in 1948 You've got arguments in our own political system here in the United States over Israel. Jerusalem is anything but the joy of the whole earth. But the Church of Jesus Christ, which is the dwelling place of Jesus Christ. And so as we come into this psalm We begin to see that yes, this is a Hebrew poem. Yes, it was written to and for the children of Israel, the church of the Old Testament And yes, there were contemporary events and struggles that they were facing, and as they looked into the passage, they could see the might and power of their God But this psalm has just as much application for the Church of God today as it did the day it was written. And the truths that are found herein are just as much our truths as they were at the time they were written. And the reason is the salient central factor of the Psalm. It is God in the midst that brings it all to pass. Why did the army of Assyria die? The angel of the Lord. No. Not the walls. Why was a city a blessed place? Well, because God dwelt there And so we see that the place of God's dwelling is not related to geography. But rather to the people who are located in that bit of geography with their God. And there are multiple illustrations of this. What was the purpose of the mercy seat? God said, I will meet with you there and commune with you from the mercy seat. Now did the mercy seat stay in one place? Well no, they moved the ark from place to place to place, and God moved from place to place to place with the ark. Lo, I am with you always, even under the ends of the earth. Jacob had left his father. And Jacob's in the wilderness when he comes to a place which he would name in the morning Bethel. And he takes a stone and he lays down with his head resting on the stone, and God gives him a vision of angels ascending and descending on a ladder. To God. And what does he say? What does Jacob say about that place? Well, Genesis 28, verse 16. And Jacob awake out of his sleep and said, Surely the Lord is in this place. God is here. He's right here. God is in this place. And I knew it not. And he was afraid and said, How dreadful is this place? And that word dreadful, we think of something dreadful as something we we dread. Brother, he said, this is an amazing place. This is a place that fills the spirit with dread for its great power. How dreadful is this place! This is none other than the house of God. I thought the house of God was in Jerusalem. Well Jerusalem wasn't even there yet. This is the house of God. Right here. This is the place. And this is the gate of heaven. And Jacob rose up early in the morning and took the stone that he had put for his pillow and set up for a a pillar and poured oil upon the top of it, and he called the name of the place Bethel, which means Means the house of God. And so we find that the place of God's dwelling, the presence of God, is not tied to Jerusalem. Not tied to geography, but rather it is the place wherein God meets with his people. And so in Galatians, Paul said that Galatians four, verses twenty-five and twenty-six, for Agar is Mount Sinai in Arabia, and answereth to Jerusalem Which now is and is in bondage with her children. But Jerusalem, this is Galatians 4. 26 if you're taking notes, but Jerusalem, which is above, is free and is the mother of us all. And so Paul is saying there's two Jerusalems we're talking about here, folks. There's Jerusalem which is in bondage with her children, but there's another Jerusalem which is above, and it is free. If the sun shall set you free, ye shall be free indeed. I heard another politician this week Or another news commentator said, You shall know the truth, and the truth shall set you free. And he was talking about the difference between right and wrong in something a politician statement that he had made If ye shall know the truth, I am the way, the truth, and the life, that truth, Jesus Christ, shall set you free. free. Amen. That is the truth. Sets free. And so Paul acknowledges this difference. In Hebrews 12, verse 18, and then verse 22 to 24. For we are not come unto the mounts that might be touched, that burn with fire, nor to the blackness, nor to the darkness and tempest. Verse 22 of Hebrews 12. But we are come to Mount Sion unto the city of the living God, the heavenly Jerusalem, and to the immumorable company of angels, to the assembly, the general assembly of the church of the firstborn. Where does the writer of Hebrews place Mount Zion, the city of God? Very clearly, within the people of God. And the people of God within the city. And then to Revelation 21 in verses 1 through 3. And I saw a new heaven and a new earth, for the first heaven and the first earth were passed away, and there was no more sea. And I, John, saw the holy city, the new Jerusalem Coming down out of heaven prepared as a bride adorned for her husband. Who is the bride adorned for her husband? It is the church. How does John describe it? As the city. As Jerusalem, the new Jerusalem coming down. And so clearly, clearly, unmistakably, this 48th Psalm was written to the nation of Israel of the Old Testament. Because that's where God dwelt. But equally as clearly, it is written to the church of God today. Because that's where That is where God dwells. And it is a city established forever. Verse 8 again, I will establish it forever upon this rock Matthew 16, 18, will I build my city? No, will I build my church? And the gates of hell shall not prevail against me. God dwells in a city, and the city abides forevermore because God dwells there. God is known For a refuge in it, verse 3. First Corinthians 3, verse 16. Know ye not that ye are the temple of God The Spirit of God dwelleth in you. 1 Corinthians 6, verse 19. What know ye not that your body is the temple of the living God? Second Chronicles 6, verse 16. For ye are the temple of the living God. Ephesians 2 verse 19. Now therefore, you're no more strangers, but fellow citizens. Am I a citizen of my body? Well, I I live in this body, but I'm a citizen of a city. I'm a city a citizen of a greater body than simply this own body in which I dwell. And in that same passage, Ephesians 2, verse 21, in whom all the building fitly framed together groweth up into a holy temple unto the Lord, in whom ye are also built together. and habitation of God through the Spirit. Now I'm not watching the clock or the watch. I I don't don't have a clock up here and there's none on the wall and I'm glad for it. But that's the introduction. These principles are foundational to understanding what we find here in this glorious psalm. God dwelleth not in temples made with hands. He dwells within his church. He dwells with his people. And yes, in the Old Testament, they built an edifice. The first edifice was nothing more than skins. And God dwelt within those skins because the mercy seat was there. And God said, this is the place I'll meet with you here at the mercy seat. And in the New Testament we have the temple, and there God met with his people. Today, the temple of God is within us, and he meets with his people. And so let us now come back to Psalm 48 and begin to dissect it and take it apart and consider it verse by verse. Great is the Lord. I poor Truth do we need? Faith told by hearing and hearing by the Word of God. Is this verse the gospel? You better believe it. You better believe it. Great is the Lord. Doesn't say great is Muhammad or Confucius or Buddha. Or Selassie or any other man or man-made God that you want to insert in there, it says Great is the capital L, capital O, capital R, capital D. Great is Jehovah. I am God. And there is none else. And my glory will I not give to another. All the gospel a man needs to be saved is found right here. Great is the Lord. And that's not to take away from the substitutionary atonement and the message of Christ coming to give his life a ransom for sin. Great as the Lord very succinctly capitalizes all the truth of God. Great is the Lord. And that I don't mean in any way to say man doesn't have to repent or anything of that nature. But a man who truly knows that great is the Lord will repent. He will throw himself upon the ground before that God, begging for mercy. Great is the Lord And if you believe that the Lord is great, oh how greatly you better praise him. Why do men not greatly praise the Lord? Because they don't believe He's great. They don't believe in the greatness of the Lord, and therefore they don't greatly praise him. I I saw a video that a a pastor friend of mine posted um last night And the the the video was actually talking about uh altar calls, but it was showing some of these churches with smoke machines and lights and rock bands and all this chaos and nonsense, they know nothing about the greatness of God. Because if they believed God was great, they would trash all that stuff and repent. Great is the Lord and greatly to be praised. But you see, praising God has nothing to do with my hands clapping, or my feet stomping, or my body gyrating. Proclaiming the greatness of the Lord has everything to do with my heart humbly bowing before him. Great is the Lord, and greatly And where is he greatly to be praised? In the city of our God. Now I hope you'll start to see why I took such a roundabout course to get to this verse. Friends, we're the city of God. We're the tabernacle of the Holy Spirit. The Church of God is his city today. He used to be Greatly praised in the midst of his people and in the mountain of his holiness. We are the mountain of his holiness. We are made a holy people by him. We are a city that is set on a hill. A city set on a hill cannot be hid. Neither the men light a candle and put it under a bushel but on a candlestick and give it light to all in the house. What are we to do with that? Let your light so shine. We are the mountain of God's holiness. We have been made holy by Him And we have been elevated from this world of filth and sin by his righteousness. And now we are a city. We are the new Jerusalem, the Zion, the bride coming down from heaven. And we are to let our light so shine. And what light do we let shine? Christ in us. You see, we have no light. of our own. But the truth of Jesus Christ, the light of the gospel, the glorious righteousness of Jehovah who is greatly to be praised and who is himself the great God must shine forth from us. We're a city settlement Hill the Muslims cry, Alu Akbar. And who hears them? The prophets of Baal cried from morning to noon and cut themselves with knives and leaked on the altar. And so beautiful there in First Kings. And there was none to hear. Neither did any regard. My friend, you can truly call to the ear of the very God of heaven. Great is the Lord, and greatly to be praised. Beautiful for situation. If we were to dumb that down into the way we would say it more commonly, we would say it's location, location, location. We have realist realtors in our midst. It's beautifully situated. It's in the best possible location. Beautiful Spurgeon said, reading from his Commentary. Jerusalem was beautiful naturally. She was styled the Queen of the East. The church is beautiful seemed to spiritually. Being placed near the heart of God. Beautiful for situation Where is the church of God? It's in the heart of God. Beautifully situated location Location location within the mountain of his power Upon the hill of his faithfulness, in the center of his providential operation. The elevation of the church is her beauty. The more she is above the world, the fairer she is. The more the Church of God is lifted up in the holiness of God, the more beautiful she is. And so the church, first of all, is situated in the bowels of the mercy of God. And yet we physically We are in the world, but we're not of it the world. We are raised up as a holy mountain to share the gospel of Jesus Christ. But we are We're beautifully situated because we're right where God would have us to be. When I was in Jamaica with a finger of the Church of God there, we were beautifully situated. A few hours ago, a church met in Shanghai, China, that my daughter attended when she was in China. And it was a finger of the body of Christ, beautifully situated. On this Lord's day in Africa, In Asovia, there are brethren meeting on dirt floors with planks across stakes stuck in the ground, and they are beautiful. situated. Let your light so shine before men that they may see your good works and glorify your Father which is in heaven Jesus, where'er thy people meet, there they behold the mercy seat. God's left His church in the world that we might be a holy mountain, a city set on The hill. The city center on the hill cannot be hid. It can't be hid. Oh, there are branches of the true church today that are meeting in hiding They're meeting out in the woods, somewhere in China, or meeting in an apartment and singing in whispered tones. Because they fear that the neighbors beside might hear. Ah, they may have to hide for their life, but their gospel is going forth. And God's work is being done. And truly, if the church of God is a holy mountain, it will be the joy When the righteous are in authority, the people rejoice. Think about that. When the righteous are in authority, the people rejoice. But when the wicked bear rule, the people mourn. Ah, if the church of God within the world would be the light we should be, how different the world would be. And I'm not preaching reconstructionism or anything. Don't misunderstand me. We're not bringing in the kingdom. But when the people of God, the church of God, are fulfilling our responsibility, we will indeed be the joy of the whole earth. The light of the gospel will go forth from us. And our beloved nation used to be the joy of the earth. We were the nation that sent the missionaries all across the world. And still today when there's a famine, who sends relief? It is us. But that truth that still goes out from us today, that we're a generous people Is a failing remnant of what we once were. When we were truly a nation under God. We are no longer so. And yet has God changed? Our nation certainly has changed. But has God changed? No. Has God's relationship to his people changed? No. Has God's means of salvation changed? No We the people of God still have the same responsibility. We still are the church of God. And so Beautiful for situation. The joy of the whole earth is Mount Zion on the sides of the north. And we could go into all kinds of discussion of the sides of the north which really We just don't have time to. That phrase in itself is a sermon on its own. Verse 3, God is known in her palaces. God is our refuge and our strength, a very present help in time of trouble. God is our refuge. We read there in Psalm 46, verses 1 through 4. We've read it twice already, so I won't turn to it again. Verse 4 through 6, for lo, the kings of the earth were assembled, they passed by together. They saw it, and so they marveled. They were troubled and hastened away Fear took a hold upon them. They were in pain as a woman in travail. If the Church of God today Is truly fulfilling our responsibility to be a light in the world, to be the mountain of his holiness, to be a city. On a hill, we will have a godly influence on our society. Here we read of the kings being assembled. They were assembled for the destruction of Jerusalem. And the forces of evil are assembled today for the destruction of the Church of God. They cannot prevail. The angel of the Lord that camps around about us is the same angel of the Lord that passed through Egypt as the death angel, and the same angel of the Lord that passed through the Assyrians and slew them Our defense is the same. Our Jehovah is the same. And our responsibility is the same. as it has ever been. And I I've been, I don't mean to get off subject here, but uh I've been praying over and mulling over a message on the killer Christ. Everyone talks about Jesus being so loving. But Jesus Christ is loving and is righteous and is holy and is the angel of the Lord that passed through Egypt as the death angel. It's one of the same. And so someday we'll you know they they give you a little tease, you know, tune in next week same time. Pray for me, because that that's that's that's a passage that we need to to deal with at some point point in the future. And Psalm 125, verses 1 and 2, they that trust in the Lord shall be as Mount Zion Isn't it beautiful how it all fits together? They that trust in the Lord, Psalm 125, shall be as Mount Zion, which cannot be removed. But abideth forever. As the mountains round about Jerusalem, so the Lord is round about his people from henceforth and forevermore. But turn over with me to Isaiah 4. I haven't had you turn to a lot of passages because I've got a lot of them we're going through today. But turn over with me to Isaiah chapter 46 I'm sorry. To Isaiah chapter four. Isaiah chapter four. This w when I came across this passage, I've read this these verses before many times I'm sure, but they had never Arrested me as they did this week. Isaiah chapter 4, verses 5 and 6. And the Lord will create upon every dwelling place of Mount Zion and upon her assemblies a cloud and a smoke by day and a shining flame of fire by night For all the glory shall be a defense, and there shall be a tabernacle for a shadow in the daytime from the heat, and for a place of refuge and for a covert from the storm and from rain. Isn't that amazing? Here the prophet Isaiah Prophesying hundreds of years after the exodus from Egypt, after the wandering in the wilderness, when God led them, how a cloud of A cloudy pillar by day and a fire by night. And here in Isaiah read that God is going to give a cloud of pillar on every household on every dwelling, and a fire by night for protection. What was the pillar of cloud in the wilderness? What was Christ and the presence of God with them? What was the pillar of fire at night? It was Christ, and it was his protection, his presence with them. And what do we find here in Isaiah? Well, we find this cloud of smoke and pillar of fire, and where is it? Mount Zion. Mount Zion. And what is Mount Zion? Well, it is Jerusalem. And what is Jerusalem? The dwelling place of God. And where is Jerusalem today? Well, Jerusalem. Oh it is the church. It is the church. It is God's people. And so the the imagery throughout Scripture it carries through. Just think about that. Imagine that is I've already spoken of the ships of Tarshus there in verse 7 of Psalm 48. God breaks them with ships. the east wind. And it's an interesting study to see how many times God used an east wind. God sent an east wind as a judgment against Jonah, the rebellious missionary. And I've told you many times before I know a lot about rebellious missionaries because I've been one. But the east wind is all it took to destroy the tep the the ships of Tarshus. No what weapon that is formed against thee shall prosper And every tongue that shall rise against thee in judgment shall be condemned. This is the heritage of the servants of the Lord, and his righteousness is of their righteousness of me. saith the Lord. And then in Revelation chapter 20, verses 7 through 9. And when the 10,000 years are expired, Satan shall be loosed out of his prison. And shall go out to deceive the nations which are in the four corners of the earth, Gog and Magog, to gather them together to battle, the number of whom is as the sands of the sea. And there went out upon the breadth of the earth, and they went out upon the breadth of the earth, and compassed the camp of the saints. And the beloved city. So where do we read in Revelation that that the armies of hell that Mot Gog and Magog go out? They go out as the sands of the earth and they compass about The camp of the saints and the beloved city. And verse 9 of Revelation 20 continues, and fire came out from God of heaven and devoured them. So there in Revelation, the the enemies of the church they encompass about the camp of the saints And the beloved city of God, and fire comes out from God and consumes them. Doesn't that sound like what happened in 2 Kings 18 when the angel of the Lord went through the camp and in the morning they were dead men. God's working, God's dealing with his people is ever the same. The angel encampeth round about them that fear him. No weapon that is formed against thee He shall prosper. And what is the proof of it? Ships of Tarsus? Are you kidding me? I don't mean to sound too sarcastic, but is that all you've got? What can this world do to the church of Jesus Christ that he does not prevent Send for our good. Permit. So where I was trying to put. What can the church the world do to the church that God does not permit for our good? All things work together for good. God. Ships of Tarshus, what good are they? The camp of the saints, the beloved city, are mentioned to go. They are one and the same. Verse eight As we have heard. Here's another four-word sentence, isn't it? A four-word sermon. As we've heard. We have heard of the great works of God. As we have heard, so have we seen in the city of the Lord of hosts. Faith cometh by hearing, and hearing by the word of God. But faith is confirmed by sight. Faith comes by hearing. I simply believe great is the Lord. Faith comes by the truth of God, and yet isn't God gracious that He confirms our faith by sight? What child of God has never seen God work? How many times has your life been spared? How many miracles have you seen? And I'm not talking about some great light shining up from the earth and so no I was challenged online recently that I didn't believe in miracles. I believe in miracles. It's a miracle every time a soul is saved. It's a miracle every time I wake up in the morning. And I think like most of us, sometimes I've prayed that I won't. But it's a miracle when we do. God is still doing miracles. We believe by faith, and then God confirms our faith over and over and over and over again by faith. Oh, how true it is. God confirms gives us a token for good. As we have seen, uh uh as we have heard, so have we seen in the city of the Lord of hosts, in the city of our God, God will establish it forever. And again we talked about the fact that Jerusalem is not established established forever on earth, but the true church of God is established forever. We have thought of thy loving kindness, O God, in the midst of thy temple. Oh David talks about meditating upon the Lord and the night watches. How when our hearts are troubled, thinking on the loving kindness of God. It's the greatest peace that we could find. We have thought of thy loving kindness, O God, in the midst of thy temple. According to thy name, his name is forever so in the heaven, according to thy name, O God, so shall thy praise be to the ends of the earth. And again, uh we could take verse one. that he's greatly to be praised, and verse 10, that is praise to be into the earth. And there's a sermon there alone just on the praise of the name of Christ. God. It's greatly to be praised to the ends of the earth. Go you know all the world and preach the gospel to every creature Thy right hand is full of righteousness. And you compare thy right hand full of righteousness back up to verse 1 again, the mountain of his holiness, his righteousness, his whole his his uh Righteousness, his judgments. His right hand is full of righteousness. Can you recall how the Word of God describes the hand of God? How big is it? That's it spans the universe, doesn't it? Right? Right? It's just the the span of his hand. And then we think about this universe that we can't understand, millions and millions and millions and millions of miles and miles and miles and Whatever light years mean, don't ask me. This great expanse of space, God's hand spans it, but then his right hand is filled with red. How beautiful is the Word of God. Let Mount Zion rejoice. There's another one. Let Mount Zion rejoice. What a sermon there. Let the daughters of Judah be glad. because of thy judgment. The daughter of Judah the daughters of Judah here in their original context referred to the little villages outside of Jerusalem. The little villages, they themselves rejoice because of the great blessing of Jerusalem. Let Mount Zion rejoice, let the daughters of Judah be glad because of thy judgments. Walk about Zion, go round about her, tell the towers thereof. Look at the Church of God How glorious it is. There's an old hymn that we sing sometimes, I love thy church, O God. And you know what? It has nothing to do with a beautiful building with the steeploads. Stain glass window. It has everything to do with the people of God. I love thy church, O God. We could go here into Revelation 21 and we don't have time to, but Revelation 21 describes for us the new Jerusalem and it describes its dimensions. Perfect cube. Perfect in all of its dimensions. Three gates on each side. Glorious coming down from heaven. I would challenge you this week to look at Revelation 21 and then compare it to this passage in verse 12. It's perfectly formed. What is the defect of the church? Well, there's a lot of defective people in it. I'm one of them. We're a church of sinners. We're a church made up of frail, sinful men, and yet what is the glory of the church? God has made us perfect. God has perfectly formed us. He has perfectly shaped us. He has molded us. And in the righteousness of Christ We are perfect in our righteousness. And you look at the description of the new Jerusalem coming down as the bridegroom prepared for his bride, and it is perfect in every element. It is perfect in its description. It's beautiful. It's perfect in its dimensions. It is very square. There is no oblong or out-of-shape to it. It is a picture of the perfection of God. Walk about Zion. Go round about her. Tell the towers thereof. Mark ye well her bulwarks. Consider her place, her palaces. That ye may tell the generations following. Isn't that beautiful and vital? Why is it important that we may tell the generations following? And we could go here to the 84th Psalm and verse 3. Let me turn over to that verse real quick. Psalm 84 and verse 3 and bring that in. I didn't have that one written down on my notes, but Psalm 84 and verse 3. Let me read it for you to get it right. The sparrow has found a house And the swallow, a nest, where she may lay her young, even thine altars, O Lord of hosts, my king and my God. What was the place that why was the beauty of the sparrow being there? It can lay its young. It can lay its young. Here we find that we're to understand these great beauties and great glories. of this Zion, this house of God, because there's a generation coming that needs to know them. That we may tell the generation following. And in the last verse of the Psalm, and we'll conclude here quickly. For this God is our God. The gods of the heathen are wood and stone, the work of man's hands. The gods of man are gods of their own making. The gods that man creates for himself are nothing more than men themselves, vicious at that. But our God is in the heavens, he hath done so whatsoever he pleased. For this God is our God even forever and ever. He will be our guide even unto Death. From beginning to end, he is our God. Again, Psalm 46, verses 3 and 4. Hearken to me, O house of Jacob. and all the remnant of the house of Israel, which are born by me from the belly, which are carried from the womb, and even to your old age I am he, and even to hoary hairs will I carry you. I have made you, and I will bear you, even I will carry and will deliver you. Isn't that beautiful? Even unto death, from birth to death, God will be with his w people. Turn over to Psalm seventy one. You shouldn't be for many pages from it. Psalm seventy-one and verse five Psalm 71 and verse 5. For thou art my hope, O Lord God. Thou art my trust from my youth. By thee have I been holding up from the womb. Thou art he that took me out of my mother's bowels. My praise shall be continually of thee. I am as a wonder to many, but thou art my strong refuge. Let my mouth be filled with thy praise. And with thy honor all the day, cast me not off in the last in the time of old age. Forsake me not when my strength faileth me. He will be our guide. to death. And then at verse 18 of Psalm 71. Now also when I am old and gray-headed, O God, forsake me not. Until I have shown thy strength unto this generation. Okay, we circle right back around. To this generation, and thy power to everyone that is to come. The Church is not Israel. We are not the people of Israel. They were the people of the blood of Abraham. But the church was contained in Israel. The church was in Adam. The church was in Noah. The church was in Abraham. Abraham. The church was in Moses. The church was in King David. The church is in us today, and we are the church. We are the people of God. God has had one work from the beginning of creation to the end. We see that very succinctly in this last verse. Speaking of the beginning of my life on earth, all the way to my end of life on earth. From God establishing his truth in the garden by the seed of the woman, the head of the serpent will be bruised Until God cast the devil, that great dragon, the old serpent, into the lake of fire. God will preserve His people, be it called Israel or Zion, or Jerusalem, or the church. Great is the Lord And greatly to be praised in the city of our God, in the mountain of his holiness. We have a great God, and it is encompassing Upon us to greatly praise Him in our day, in our generation, that we might be the mountain of his holiness, beautifully situated in his heart, beautifully situated in this world, to let our light so shine before men. That we may be We have light to all that are in the house. Let us stand as we pray.