On a Friday to Bob and Beb to the bulletin and usually about a half an hour after I preach the message I have the real title, okay? It's dawned on me already, although that we will be talking about the promise of God today in 1 Samuel 21, that a a better title might have been the fugitive Some of you are old enough to remember that T. L. Television show with Richard Jensen, the innocent man running from Lieutenant Girard, Mr. Laurent. the uh relentless Gerard pursuing the innocent man and that's what we have here with with uh David. He is the innocent man and Saul is pursuing him relentlessly and as we've seen in the last chapter he pursued him uh to Samuel's encampment and the school of the prophets, and he had to flee there, and today we find him he flees to the city of Nob where the there you have all the priests, most of the priests of Israel. Next week we see he flees from there and he goes to the cave of Dulam. And it's this relentless pursuit of Saul after the fugitive, the innocent fugitive And so um that might just stick in your mind a little bit this morning as we look at this. And he was not fleeing from God, by the way. David was always fleeing towards God. He was You know, fleeing towards uh Samuel and the prophets, and fleeing towards Nob and the priests and so forth. Uh some people are fleeing towards God and some are fleeing away from God. And uh we hope that none of you are in that situation this morning. But let's just read that's it's a storyline of uh fifteen verses being in chapter one. Then came David to Nob. He'd fled Samuel in the school of the prophets. Then came David to Nob to Ahimelech, the priest. And Ahimelech was afraid at the meeting of David and said to him, Why art thou alone? and no man with thee, he was suspicious at David coming by himself. And David said unto him elect the priest, The king hath commanded me a business And has sent me, said unto me, Let no man know anything of the business whereabout I send thee, and what I have commanded thee, and I have appointed my servants to such and such a place. And he lied. Now, therefore, what is under thine hand? Give me five loaves of bread in my hand, or whatever there is present. And the priest answered David and said, There is no common bread under my hand, but there is hallowed bread. if the young men have kept themselves at least from women. Of course the priest was talking about the showbread that he'd just taken off of the altar And David answered the priest and said to him, Of a truth, women have been kept from us about these three days since I came out, and the vessels of the young men are holy, and the bread is in a manner common, yes, or yea Though it was sanctified this day in the vessel. That is, it was it was sanctified bread until the priest had removed it from the table, uh the show bread from the table in the tabernacle. And now it's just common bread, isn't it? He says So the priest gave him hallowed bread, for there was no bread there but the shoe bread or show bread that was taken from before the Lord to put hot bread in that day when it was taken away Now a certain man of the servants of Saul was there that day, detained before the Lord, and his name was Dog, an Edomite, the chiefest of the herdsmen that belonged to Saul. Bumlock, you'd say yourself. And David said unto Himelech, And is there not here under thine hand a spear or a sword? For I have neither brought my sword nor my weapons with me, because the king's business required haste. It lies again. And the priest said, The sword of Goliath, the Philistine, whom thou slewest in the valley of Allah, behold, it is here, wrapped in cloth, behind the Ephad. And thou wilt take it, for there is no other save that here. And David said, There's none like that. Give it to me. And David arose and fled that day for fear of Saul, and he went to Akus. The king of Gath. And the servants of Achis said unto him, Is not this David, the king of the land? Did they not sing one to another of him in dances, saying, Saul has slain his thousands, and David is ten thousand? And David laid up these words in his heart, and was sore afraid of Akish the king of Gath And he changed his behavior before them, and he feigned himself mad in their hands, and he scrabbled or scratched on the doors of the gates and let the spittle fall down from upon his beard, and then said A unto his servants, Lo, you see the man is mad. Wherefore then have ye brought him to me? I have no need of a madman that ye have brought this fellow to play the madman in my presence. Shall this fellow come into my house? Get him out of here. And we read in verse 22, and then David departed thence and escaped again. So David came to Nob. Nob we read in chapter 22 of 19 of this book of Samuel. Nob is the city of the priests. Many, many the Levite priests gathered there and they lived there on the city of Nob. The city of Nob, by the way, is actually on the Mount of Olives. Caroline has just been there. Shalom. Uh she's the spender. And the Mount of Olives was this little city just northeast of the city of Jerusalem. And it was called the city of Nob at that time. And David, the man who advanced to the highest place of the kingdom under King Saul, was now reduced to a fugitive or an exile, fleeing from King Saul. how quickly things can change in our life and and maybe you too have experienced uh and maybe you're going through right now some ups and downs in your life. Uh we could go through every character in the Bible, every Christian in the Bible Uh and you will too go through ups and downs in your life. Moses, uh the people are cheering as he leaves Egypt, but at the Red Sea they're upset with him. And then they cheer when the Red Sea opens and And then they're out there in the wilderness and they're cheering, they finally escaped, and then there's no water and they're upset with Moses again. And then there's water and then they like Moses again. And then there's no meat and then the quail comes, they like him again. And then it's just on and on, the ups and downs of the life of a Christian like Moses and we could certainly relate to some of that I would say in all of our lives. Uh the snowstorms we've had lately in the ice and maybe someone's had a a fall on the ice or a car accident The ups and downs of life, and and this is certainly what uh David was going through here. And what's the follower of Christ to do in the ups and downs of our life? What are we to do? Well, David fled, as we saw in the last chapter, to Samuel in the school of the prophets for prayer. And for consol from the Word of God. That's what we are to do. And here this week we find he flees again, and this time is to Ahimelech, who is the high priest in chapter 21. And again, for more Prayer and counsel from Ahimelech. We find out he received counsel from Ahimelech in chapter 22. And that's what a Christian should do when he's going through life And he has his ups and downs, he's to go to prayer. He's to go to fellowship with others alike precious faith. He's to look for counsel through the Word of God. And he's doing all of this But David's sudden appearance before the high priest with no weapons, with no courtly entourage, David was a favor of the court. And he arrives without his entourage, and something seems amiss, something is troubling. And it says in this verse 1 that Ahimelech, the high priest, he was afraid, and he said, Why art thou alone? No, what's going on here? And David says, the king hath commanded me to let no man know the business whereabout I need send thee. As I said in the reading, David lies. David not only lies, but he says, I'm serving the king. I'm on a secret mission to the king. I'm serving the king. He not only lies, but he lies before the high priest. Of Israel. Ministers will share with you how many times people uh who have visited their churches will at the door they'll shake their hand and say, It was a great sermon preacher, we'll be back next week. And they know they're not ever coming back again. And here's David lying to the high priest as well. And he's not only lying to the high priest, but He's before the tabernacle of God. So he's lying. He's lying to the high priest. He's lying before the house of God. He's lying at the very doors of the house of God before the tabernacle of God. The consequences of his lie. And you may never live long enough to know what the consequences of your lies are. But they were probably just as horrible as the consequences of the lies of David. David lies, and we're going to find out in the next chapter or two that his lie, the consequence of his lie is that Ahimelech, the high priest who he's lying to, will be put to death because David lied to him. And not only would he be put to death, but we're going to read in chapter 22, verses 18 through 22, that not only is David uh The Himalach who David is speaking to put to death because David lies to him and says on a secret mission with the king. But also eighty-four of the priests of the city of Nob are put to death. And not only the priests put to death, eighty-five of them altogether, but their wives, their women, their children, and their sucklings Saul has them all killed because he believes that they knew why David was there, that he was running from Saul, and they helped him, they fed him, they armed him. And he doesn't believe the high priest. And he kills them all. Probably some of those 85 priests weren't even there when the lie took place. But the consequences of a lie, David could not possibly foresee what the consequences of his lie was going to be. And we often cannot foresee the consequences of our lives, and maybe a month or so or a year later we we look back and we do see some of the consequences, but we don't see all of them. And so we just call it a little white lie And the damage it does for all eternity. Actually, it is the fulfillment of Samuel's prophecy That because Eli's two sons were so ungodly, were laying with the women in the tabernacle and so forth, and laying with the women in the congregation, that God was going to wipe out the entire line of Eli's Priestly priesthood, and it happens here. Saul kills 85 of the priests. He wipes out everyone, the line of Eli. There's only one left at this point. We'll learn about that in a couple of weeks. As a Christian, are you serving the king? David said he was, and he lied. I'm serving the king, a secret mission. And if you say you're a Christian, you should be serving the king and and you ask people, are you serving the king or are you living a lie? When you say I'm saved, when you say I'm a Christian, when you say I'm a server of the king, the king of kings, the king of King Jesus, are you a servant of the King Jesus? Are you? If you're a servant of the King Jesus, if you're really saved, then you should be serving him. With your heart, you should be serving him with your lips, you should be serving him with your ears and your eyes. That is, you shouldn't be listening to things that you shouldn't be listening to. That's not serving King Jesus. You should not be looking at things you're looking at, perhaps. And so that's not serving King Jesus. How can I serve King Jesus? Stop looking at the things you shouldn't look at, listening to things you shouldn't listen to, loving the things you shouldn't be loving And so you say you're a Christian and you say you're a servant of Christ. Are you living a lie? And if you are living a lie, the good news is repent. The Lord Jesus Christ will forgive you, cleanse you, make you white as snow, white as wool. Repent and resolve to begin serving the Lord Jesus Christ, to begin serving your King. Now David comes as high priest to Himelech and he says, Oh, I'm on a secret mission. I can't tell you what it is. I just need some bread. I need a sword and spear. I've got to be moving on Oh and I need some counsel and and he he he takes counsel and he prays with him. We read about that in the next chapter. But you see, Ahimelech didn't really know what to pray for. Ahimelech didn't really know how to counsel him because David hadn't told him the truth of what David his problem really was, of what his mission really was. Can you imagine the wisdom that Ahimelech may have given to David if David had told him the truth? That's the problem in counseling sessions when a pastor will sit down with a husband or wife who's got a problem, maybe it's a marital problem or a problem with the children. And he said, what's the problem? And you spend hours and hours and you just never really get to what the real problem is. Because neither one wants to really say what's going on And that's the situation here. David comes and he asks for counsel of Himelech the priest, but he doesn't tell him what the real problem is. He just beats around the bush. Can you imagine the wisdom that Ahimelech might have given David if he'd known he was fleeing from Saul who had murder in his heart? He might have given the counsel like Isaiah, David, David, the mountains may depart and the hills may be removed, but God's kindness shall not leave thee. That would have been wonderful if he could have told David that. David had told him what the real problem was. Or he might have said to him, No weapon formed against thee shall prosper David, Isaiah 15 I mean, we've got to, we when we go to people in fellowship and asking for prayer, we need to tell them what the real problem is. I know sometimes it's an unspoken request. I understand that But we shouldn't lie and tell him this is the problem and something else is really the problem. The wisdom Ahimlock might have given David. In this situation. But all David really wanted and all he really made aware of the Himalayas, I need bread. You know what my problem is? I'll tell you my problem is I need bread. He says in verse 3 through 6. Give me some bread. And the priest said, There's nothing here but the hallowed bread. And we we find here as we read this, and if we go back to the Leviticus, the bread that's put on the show table in the tabernacle, it stayed there for seven days. It was taken off on the Sabbath day And fresh bread was brought and put before the Lord for seven more days. And he said, Oh, I've got the hallow bread that we've just taken from the Lord. And that's for the priest and for the priest's family And he can also distribute uh as an act of mercy to others that might need it. And he said, I've got this hallowed bread. It's just been taken from the Lord, so we know it's on the Sabbath day when David arrives there. And he says, but if your men have kept themselves from women for at least three days, you know, you can have this. And David says that they have. And uh so they they get this and you can read about that some of it in Leviticus twenty four and twenty-four and eight, how the showbread uh and so forth was removed, and how the priest could eat it. Now, of course, for for many generations, for eleven hundred years Uh there was the debate among the Jews, among the Sanhedrin and among the Pharisees, whether David had the right to really eat that bread. It was hallowed bread. Did he really have a right? And then along comes the Lord Jesus Christ And uh he speaks in Matthew twelve and three and he talks about David and eating the bread uh from the table, the showbread, and we finally have Christ himself giving his stamp of approval. to an act of mercy, certainly it being appropriate to eat that that bread. And we have Paul in 1 Corinthians 10, 31, he kind of shed some light on on a verse in this point too. Paul said, Whether therefore you eat or drink, what shall we do do for the glory of God? And so for David to eat the show bread, they'd better have kept themselves clean from sin, they'd better uh from uh you know from women and so forth. And uh so even the eating of the bread that David's about to partake of It needs to be done for the glory of God. And who would ever suspect that eleven hundred years later Christ would be taught about David eating the bread and the glory that that is ex expounded upon at that point by the Lord Jesus Christ God was watching David eat bread. Can you imagine that? Such a little insignificant thing in his life. And Christ talks about the day he watched David eating the bread this night while he was fleeing from King Saul. And he watches us to see that we when we eat our our bread and our meals, that we praise God for the food that's before us and thank him for it and ask him to sustain us of that food and that our bodies might assimilate that food and keep us healthy. We do the same thing. And he's watching our every meal to see if we do it for the glory of God. Now, title is the message and the problems of God. So we've got to look at some things that are providential here In the promise of God, when David arrived, there was bread. There was bread available. Take him to the table. There was a priest that was willing to share it Leviticus says the priest can have that bread after it was taken off the show table, and his family could have that bread. It doesn't say anything else about anybody else having that bread But under the idea of mercy, the priest did. And so in the promise of God, the bread is available. In the promise of God, the priest is willing to share that bread And in the promise of God, these men have kept themselves from women. They can vouch for that. And so they have the bread. And I just wonder if you've ever seen the promise of God in your own life. Um certainly the older you are you you can think of some things if not in the moment. You talked about them before. I had a friend of mine, uh Ken Westcott, who had lost his wife And uh it was just a a short time after he lost his wife. He came out of the church service. He'd been talking to somebody, hanging around the church quite a while, and he walked out and the parking lot was almost empty and there was a a car at the end of the parking lot and And the hood was up and he walks down to see what's going on and there was a young lady there and and her car wouldn't start. And he fixed the car, it was something minor, and he married her But the car broke down in the parking lot and there's nobody around to help me. Everybody's left the church. The parking lot's empty. I don't think anybody even left in the church. And out comes Ken and he says, uh what's the problem? And and uh he lost his wife. He had He had several little boys to raise and and uh the Lord in the promise of God stopped her car from working that Sunday morning We can probably think of other things like that too. a brillia a true story, a provincial story. If you ever want to go and get the book's called The Evaders, it's about World War II. And it starts out with this fella, he's a Polish flyer. And he's uh he likes to fly and he's been flying from France up uh to uh some other areas. He just loved flying. And he's on his way back to France and his plane starts sputtering. He's forced to land in Vienna, Austria And he stays there overnight, they're gonna fix this plane, and the next morning he's he's coming out of the hotel, and this guy's running up the steps and he bumps at him, almost knocks the guy over And he says, what's with you? He says, Gestapo, Gestapo. And they both run back inside the uh the hotel. He takes him up to his room, he hides them under his bed with the sheets and the blankets And the Gestapo comes busting into his room. He says, We heard you're hiding it you're hiding this fella who we're looking for. And he says, by the end he's got his clothes off, he's in his pajamas. He's sitting on the side of the bed. The guy's under his feet He said, I I just got up. Look around, you look like I'm hiding anybody? Well that's what we were told, and then they run back out and he takes the belly. He said, Look He said, What's your what's your problem? He said, I gotta get out of here, I gotta get out of here. He said, I've got a plane, it's ready. You want to fly with me? He said, Sure. He said, I'm flying to Kraktow, Poland. I'm from Poland. He said, I can't go to Kraktow, Poland. He said, the Nazis are there too, they're gonna get me He said, When I get back in the polar knife, there's a couple of cow pastures, I'll land you and drop you off one of them first. And he does. And he let then he finds lies into crack out, he lands in crackowl And the Nazis, the Gustaf was all around his plane, and they're searching his plane, and they they heard that he really had the guy in the hotel, and he put him in a plane, and he flew him out, and we want this guy. He thought, What are you talking about? Search the plane. There's nobody in my airplane. They searched the plane. and they let him go again. This is in nineteen thirty-eight, all right? When uh Hitlers began to move across Europe. And shortly thereafter he joins the Polish Air Force and he's fighting the Nazis like crazy and he gets shot down and things like that. And he gets captured and they put him in a concentration camp. He breaks out of the concentration camp. His name is Roman. He's Roman around a lot. His name is Roman Tersky and Roman Tersky the pilot breaks out of the prison where the where the Jews uh where the Nazis have captured him. and he flees to France and he joins the French Air Force and he's fighting him again and he gets shot down again and and they they take over France and he flees France and he goes to Great Britain That's in 1930 39. And in nineteen forty, he joins the British Air Force. He's going to fight the Nazis again. So he fights the Nazis as a Polish pilot. He fights the Nazis as a French pilot and he fights the Nazis in Great Britain as an English pilot. And he's there for the what's called the Great Britain Air War. The most the largest air war, it was it was the worst, it was when Hitler decided he's gonna take over all of the airspace of England and it's called the British Air War and it was a it's hundreds of planes there fighting like crazy and Roman Terskey he he hits the newspapers he's in the newspapers big headlines Roman Terskey pilot He takes down five German planes in one in one event. He's up there with just one fuel tank and he's up there, he shoots. He takes down five planes, the fifth plane, he runs out of bullets, then he crashes his plane into a German plane and takes it out. And then he crashes down below. Busts his head wide open. And it's in the papers. Roman Tursky, not expected to live. Head is shattered. 1940. His head is shattered. Great war hero. He's taken out five planes single-handedly by himself. There's a fellow up in Edinburgh, Scotland, who sees Tersky, Air Hero, chase out five planes, Germans, heads shattered from the wreckage from the German plane. Not expect to live. Doctors say there's nothing they can do. Guy says, fly me down there. I know this guy. Fly me down there. I know this guy. Two days later, Terskey wakes up off of an operating table. He looks up. And Terskey says, I know you He said, yeah. You helped me escape Vienna, Austria, when the Gestapo was after me. He said, wow. He said, what are you doing here? He said, I'm a brain surgeon. I operated on you yesterday. 1938. He helps the Jewish doctor escape Vienna. Didn't even know he was a doctor And three years later, he operates on him. With just a providence of God Now you maybe don't see them like that in your life so often, but they happen and you just have to be more aware of it. And so I want us to note the problems of God in David's life here, not just the bread was there and the priest was willing to give it to him, but In this same chapter in verse 7, it says, A certain man of the servants of Saul was there, detained before the Lord, and his name was Dog, the chiefest of the herdmen that belonged to Saul. And dog recognizes David because we're going to find out in the next chapter. He tells Saul, I was a knob, I was with the priest, I saw David come in, he got bread, he got Goliath's sword Dog recognizes David, and we're going to find out in the next chapter that David recognized Dog. I mean David is a shepherd, right? He's a shepherd boy. Why wouldn't he recognize another shepherd? And this was the cheapest of the shepherds of all of Saul's sheep David knew him, and we find out that he knew him. And so here's David. He's getting the bread, he's getting the swords, he's talking to him electro, having counselor, having prayer, and as he's late, he bumps into dog And he knows who he is, and he knows what he's heard, and he knows what he saw, and David makes haste, and he he flees again, knowing that Dog will tell Saul And they'll be hot on his trail again. And you might look at it and say, what, oh, that's just terrible timing. But I believe this is all in the province of God. Dog. Dog, his his presence there was not bad timing. It was in the province of God. It says in verse 7, dog was there Detained before the Lord. God had kept Dog there. Dog didn't just happen to be there and stay there. It was that he was detained before the Lord. God kept him there. Dog's presence in the city of Nob was of God. Dogs present near the tabernacle was of God. God's presence or dogs present at the very moment that David appears Before a hemolith is unto the Lord. It's all the province of God. Even we always say Murphy's law when things go bad. No. Even when you think things are going bad and things are going south and things are going wrong It's in the province of God. There is something there for us to learn and to praise the Lord over. And dog is not there by just coincidence. It says here that dog was detained before the Lord. God detained him. God kept him there. When Christ says in John 18, 9, all them which thou gavest me have I lost none. We need to be comforted by whatever our situation is, whether you think it's Murphy's law or how bad things are going. It's in the province of God, and God has lost none. Christ still loses none, by the way. I mean if the Lord Jesus Christ we read in Hebrews 13, 8, is the same yesterday, today, and forever, then he still loses none. If you're one of Christ, we should be not afraid that God is going to take care of us You know, trust and obey, trust in the Lord. We sing those songs all the time, but do they do they really mean it? Is it just lip service or do we do we really mean it? And and we go through the story here of Ahimelech and the bread and David, and then they've got dog there and oh my goodness, this is this is Murphy's law it's not Murphy's law. Everything that happens to us is in the providence of God. When I say providence of God, that means God has provided this situation with all these things that are going on that are falling in order. Some in order that really help you, and some that make you think, is God against me? What's going on here? But God is in total control. He's providing every little instant and moment in your life to work out for what is best for David and what is best for his glory. Verses 8 and 9, David says unto Himelech, is there not a spear or a sword here? For I have neither. Because the king's business required haste. And the priest said, The sword of Goliath is here. It's wrapped in a cloth behind the ephod. And David said, There's none like it. Give it to me. Goliath's sword was wrapped in a cloth behind the Ephid in the tabernacle in the city of Nob, in the province of God again. I mean David's there, he's just there, he's fleeing, he wants some counsel Maybe he wants some prayer. He he needs some bread. Oh, by the way, is there a sword or a spear here? David has no idea I don't know why, but for some reason he has no idea where the sword of Goliath has gone. I suppose he he gave it to Saul as a momentum of the killing of Goliath And then maybe Saul gave it to the priest to keep in the tabernacle. But David doesn't know this. He arrives in Nob and is there a sword here? Is there a sword here? Again, do you see the problems of God? It's not only in the city of Nob, it's right here in the tabernacle, just behind the Ephid. It's wrapped up. Yes, we've got a storage for you. Oh, God provides for us. And I think every time David looked at that he left he flees from the Himalach and he's got the sword, and every every time he looks at that sword, he must have thought, it reminded him of better days. It reminded him of the day of victory over Goliath. It reminded him of the day that God was really with him. And perhaps he felt like God was with him again that day, as he looked at the sword of Goliath and walked out of the tabernacle with it. Has God ever providentially given you something that you can look upon and be grateful for? Maybe your dog alert you to smoke in the house and every time you look at that dog you see that dog saved this family's life. Maybe uh you've gotten stopped by a police officer, and as you begin to speak to him about whatever he stopped you for, you found grace in the eyes of the police officer, and you realize, you know what Some of these police officers aren't all that bad. They got a heart, you know. And every time you see a police officer at the thing the time that you got stopped by one, and he lets you go and just gave you a warning There's got to be times that maybe a phone call or a card has come to your house in such a timely fashion that you were just stunned and you You begin to weep. Just weep over it. Maybe God loves you enough that that card wouldn't mail. Maybe got rerouted to California and Jim Buck too. And by the time I got back to you, but it arrived on the very morning that you needed it. We don't have Goliath's sword today, but we have the sword, which is the word of God. And for many of you, you've you look in this Bible and you'll come across a verse you've got underlined or yellowed and you say, that's the verse that struck my heart. Every time you look at your Bible, you remember that the day you opened it for the first time and it meant something to you and it really and it really touched your heart because it's sharper than than any sword. We read that in Hebrews 4 and 12. That's for me, every time I see any Bible, I think of the days when I scoffed at it, laughed at it, ridiculed it, ridiculed those that carried one or read one. And now it means so much more to me. That's the way David must have looked at Goliath's sword and really, really meant something to him and that it had been providentially provided and given back to him. But what David does next is just He has seen the promise of God in the bread. He's seen the promise of God in the in the in the s uh the giving of the sword. I mean he has seen the promise of God in escaping from Saul of Samuel and escaping now from Nob. But what he does next is stunning. In verse 10, David flees for the fear of Saul to Achish, the king of Gath. And that is stunning because Gath is a Philistine capital. It's a capital of the Philistines. Why on earth would David They're fighting the Philistines. The Philistines hate them. The Philistines want to destroy all the Israelites. Why on earth would David flee to the capital of the Philistines and to the king Akish I'm not trying to make an excuse for David, but it is so bizarre that you have to look at David He no longer had his best friend to comfort him, Jonathan. He couldn't stay with Samuel and the prophets. He can't stay with the priests. And he doesn't have the comfort of his wife. His helpmate to advise him. What do you do when you got nobody? What do you do when you don't you don't have anyone that loves you that's near you? What do you do? You panic, you do some stupid things, things that would stun everybody else. And that's what we find him doing here. He's desperate. There's nowhere to turn. He can't turn to priests. He can't turn to prophecy. He can't turn to Samuel, he can't turn to him, he can't turn his wife, he can't turn to Jonathan, he can't turn his family because their lives are in danger as well, and he'll only endanger more if he spends any time with them. And so he flees to the capital of the Philistines. And there are some of you out there you're so desperate in life, and I hope none of them are here, but you know people are so desperate for friendship that they'll hang out in a bar with the Philistines. Or they'll huddle themselves in a dark movie theater somewhere watching a filthy movie with the Philistines, the ungodly people do some pretty stupid things, they're lonely, they're feel f like they have no friends Maybe David thought you know, it it's not like it is today. They put your picture up in the post office, you know, if you're wanted. And everybody knows that they put you on a TV and you know film at eleven and everybody knows what you look like. And maybe David thought they they wouldn't recognize him You know, I'm not a Philistine. I've never been to the city before. They won't even know who I am. I'll be okay down there. And he goes down there. He figures that they won't they won't know him If you're a follower of Christ, be sure your sins will find you out. Numbers 32 and 23. And so hence we find here that in verse eleven that David's down there and he's knocking on the door and he wants in the gates because Saul is pursuing somewhere behind. He's beating on the gates And the servants of the king Achish, they say, Is not this David the king? Did they not sing of him saying, Saul has slain his thousand, he has slain his ten thousand? The Philistines remembered David. Oh, they not only remembered David, they remembered the songs that were sung about David. They remembered the songs that were sung that ridiculed the Philistines. They remember David, they remember the songs, and they've got him down there in front of him, and they also recognized the sword that David was carrying. Goliath's sword. I mean if they didn't know who that guy was down there, they never they recognize a sword. The Bible said there was none like it. It was big and it was heavy. It took a real man to swing this thing. And the guy down at the gate, is that King David? The guy they sang songs about? He's got Goliath sword on his back. Oh, and did I mention to you that Gath, the city of Gath, King Ahakh Akish of Gath? Did I mention you that Gath is the hometown of Goliath. All of Goliath's family lives in Gath. He's got four other brothers there. They're giants too. He is he is Why talk about how stunning it is that David would flee to the Philistines and flee to the capital city of the Philistines? He actually goes to Gath, where Goliath's family lives. And he's got Goliath's sword. It's almost like rubbing in their faces. You ever done anything really stupid? You ever done anything really foolish? I mean this is this is foolish. But it's in the province of God. You do something foolish, you regret it, you wish you'd never done it, wish you'd never do it again, said something, done something, reacted in some way I mean Samson did that. Samson said to his mother and father, See that Philistine girl down there, that's who I want to marry. And the parents said, No, no, not a Philistine girl, don't do that. And it says they wish not that God would allow the wedding because he wanted a cause against the Philistines. And when the Philistine wife didn't prove to be a very good wife Then Samson got mad and started killing all the Philistines. But God was stirring him up. And it said it was of the Lord that he would marry an ungodly woman. So when you sit here sometime or you sit with somebody else and say, I married the wrong person. God didn't want me to do this. I'm totally out of God's will. God didn't want you to marry the unsaved person, but it is in the promise of God that you might learn and instruct your children and your children's children. Don't you ever do what I did. It's always in the promise of God. When uh Samson marries a Philistine wife, Judges 14 and 4, it says that it was of the Lord. And how about Jonah? Jonah didn't want to go to Nineveh. Jonah didn't want to go out there witnessing these people. He said, no, he jumps on a boat and goes the opposite direction. Was that about the most foolish thing you could ever do? If God wants you in Nineveh, you are going to end up in Nineveh. Peter cursing and swarming, telling the maid he didn't know the Lord Jesus Christ. Oh, Christians do some foolish things. We do some stupid things. Aren't you glad you can be forgiven for your sins, your stupidity, your foolishness, embarrassing things? David hears him above the gate. Isn't that David? Isn't that the king? And he goes, oop, they recognize me. Man, we're gonna hide the sword. I mean, he spotted as Zaba was so afraid of Akish, the king of Gath, and he changed his behavior and he feigned himself mad, and he'd been scrabbing and clawing at the gate and saliva running out of his mouth and he let the spittle run down his beard. This is the sweet psalmist of Israel acting like he's insane, a nut. Kinda like the way you some of us used to act when we would drink too much. You know, like a nut. That might look cute when you're eighteen, but it doesn't look cute when you're fifty-five and sixty-five. You know what I think about with David scrambling at the gate, just clawing at the gate, and saliva running out of his mouth, and he's staggering around, he's acting like a turret in a nut. Wouldn't Saul have loved that Wouldn't he have just loved David embarrassing himself, humiliating himself, and degrading himself? Wouldn't he have loved to have that on film and show it to all the people of Israel? I mean, what an embarrassing, humiliating moment. King Saul would have loved it And when we're running and we're doing foolish things, stupid things, sinful things, Satan loves it. Oh, he just loves it. He'd love to record it and show it to the world. The consequences of David's lie and the consequences of our lies and our sins can be so humiliating when we're caught. We've got a woman running for President of the United States. She's being caught in lies Very embarrassing, very humiliating, and she may never, never even be a candidate for presidency. For a lie. For a lie Verses 14 and 15, King Achis says, Lo, the man is mad. Have I need of a madman in this city? I mean, uh shall this fellow come into my house? Don't let him in the gate. Have nothing to do with him. Let him just disperse him, send him away. David appears to have lost his mind, but God hasn't lost his. I want you to note that. David feigns having lost his mind, but God hasn't lost his mind, but God doesn't want. one of Christ's sheep settling among the enemy, no matter how desperate he is. Don't use it as an excuse That I've lost a loved one, don't use as an excuse, that I I lost all my friends, don't use as an excuse, I have no fellowship anywhere in any church. Because that's that that all fits David. As desperate as that sounds, and that is desperation. God still doesn't want us seeking comfort with the Philistines, the Canaanites, the ungodly. So someone this morning is in a desperate situation. If you're caught up in some horrid sin, every sin is horrid, by the way. Seek the God of providence this morning, who has provided us a way when we are fleeing, who has provided the only way. Christ for every crisis is the way. The Lord Jesus Christ. Whatever you're going through this morning, whatever your ups and downs are, however desperate you are, there is a way out It's through Christ. And there are scripture verses and people that can share with you and tell you how they got out of some of the same situations and what verse comforted them and brought them out. Let's pray. Father, we thank you this day that you are a God that knows far in advance from all eternity past before the foundations of the earth. every situation that we'd be confronted with. And you have the answers and you have the way out, if we'll just look to you. The look and live To look to the Savior, who can redeem us, who can pluck us out as a fire from the brands, or brand from the fire. Lord, may we learn this lesson young in life, as young Christians. That Christ is the way, and that Christ is always, as our King, always available for those that love Him. It's in Christ's name we pray. Amen. Ask up uh Jerry Garrett, of your close your prayer today, please