Turn with me in your Bible to the 60th Psalm, Psalm 60, in the Word of God, and I'm going to read the uh twelve verses of the psalm, but we're going to focus our attention on one uh glorious Verse from this text. Psalm number sixty. The sixtieth Psalm beginning in verse one. O God, thou hast cast us off. Thou hast scattered us Thou hast been displeased. O turn thyself to us again. Thou hast made the earth to tremble. Thou hast broken it. Heal the breaches thereof, for it shaketh. Thou hast showed thy people hard things Thou hast made us to drink the wine of astonishment. Thou hast given a banner to them that fear thee. That it may be displayed because of thy truth, Selah, that thy beloved may be delivered, save with thy right hand, and hear me. God has spoken in his holiness, I will rejoice. I will divide Shechem. I will meet out the valleys of Sukkoth. Gilead is mine, and Manasseh is mine. Ephraim also is the strength of mine head. Judah is my lawgiver. Moab is my washpot. Over Edom will I cast out my shoe. Philistia, triumph thou because of me. Who will bring me into the strong city? Who will lead me into Edom? Will not thou, O God, which has cast us off? And thou, O God, which didst not go out with our armies, give us help in trouble, for vain is the help of man. Through God we shall do valiantly, for he it is that shall tread down our enemies. Let's bow for prayer. Gracious Father, as we approach thy word this morning, We freely admit the total inadequacies and inability of man to in any way add to thy word. And so therefore we do not in any way attempt to do so. But, Father, we thank you that you've chosen the foolishness of preaching as your divinely ordained method for the proclamation of thy truth. But who is sufficient to these things? Oh Lord, the text before us this morning is rich. It is full. It is delightsome. It, O Lord, has been a great blessing and encouragement and edification to my heart as I have studied out this text. And so, Lord, as your people are here now assembled, I pray that the Holy Spirit of God may indeed be the preacher in our midst. That your spirit might speak peace to your people, that your spirit might enlighten the eyes of your people. Lord, that even that which is not spoken from the pulpit, but brought from thy word by the working of thy spirit, may be to this your people this morning an encouragement and a blessing. Lord, we pray for utterance. We pray that you would grant that I might be able to clearly express what is in my heart. But O Lord, our reliance is totally upon this Bless thy word to thy people. O Lord, as we've often prayed, open thy word to our hearts, and open our hearts to receive thy word in Jesus' name. Amen. Look with me at verse four, folks. Look at verse four. Thou hast given a banner to them that fear thee, that it may be displayed because of thy truth. Selah. Read it with me. Let's read it aloud. Thou hast given a banner to them that fear thee that it may be displayed because of thy truth. Read it again. Thou hast given a banner to them that fear thee that it may be displayed because of thy truth, Sila. Folks, I can't memorize scripture like I used to. Most of the scripture I've memorized, I memorized before I was fifteen years old. I didn't realize that until I got to about 45 or so and I started realize, wow. You know, the scripture that I hid away in my heart was in my early teenage years, beginning at three and four years old, in a youth program we used to call Jet Cadets. I endeavored to memorize this verse this week because it's glorious. The old hymn, which probably most of us have sung. Goes this way. There's a royal banner given for display to the soldiers of the king. As an ensign fair we lift it up today, while as ransomed ones we sing Though the foe may rage and gather as a flood, let the standard be displayed, and beneath its folds, as soldiers of the Lord, for the truth be not dismayed Over land and sea, wherever man may dwell, make the glorious tidings known, Of the crimson banner, now the story tell, While the Lord shall claim his own When the glory dawns, 'tis dawning very near, it is hastening day by day. Then before our King the foe shall disappear, and the cross the world shall sway. Marching on, marching on, for Christ count everything but loss, and to crown him king will toil and sing Neath the banner of the cross. The old hymn, The Banner of the Cross That hymn was written by Daniel Webster Whittle. Daniel Webster Whittle. He was actually named after the Daniel Webster that we think of with the dictionary. He lived from 1840 to 1901. He actually wrote over 200 hymns. Those of you who are musicians will know many of the hymns he wrote. He wrote, There shall be showers of blessings, which we sing frequently. He wrote, have you any room for Jesus? Moment by moment I'm kept in his care, and his daughter Mary actually wrote the music to moment by moment. He wrote the words, his daughter wrote the music. And I know whom I have believed in. known are just four more of the hymns by Daniel Webster Whittle. He was a military man And that's what brings us to this fourth verse of Psalm 60. Thou hast given a banner to them that fear thee. That it may be displayed because of thy truth. Whittle read those words, and he wrote the words, There's a royal banner given for display to the soldiers of the cross. Uh Whittle is a very young man. He was born in 1840, so he would have been twenty-one when the Civil War broke out. He joined the second uh he'd be he was a second lieutenant in the 72nd Illinois Infantry. And later he was provost marshal under O. O. Howard, Oliver Otis Howard. Those of you that know your history, I see a few nods. General Otis Howard was known as the Christian general uh because of the way he ran his army. Um and actually when the chaplain was removed from Otis's arm from Howard's army, uh Uh Whittle served unofficially as the chaplain for that unit. General Howard was a very godly man. You may know of Howard University in Washington, D. C. Howard University is named after L. O. Howard. He was very involved uh during Reconstruction with helping former slaves get an education and learn vocations. A very godly man. Whittle is closely associated with him Daniel Whittle was severely injured. He was shot all the way through his right arm at Vicksburg Uh and yet they counted a blessing that he was shot through the arm, because if the bullet had hit the bone, he would have lost the arm. If the bullet had remained in the arm They would have dug it out with their fingers, which was the practice of the day. The surgeons with bloody hands from Man A would begin to work on man B, and many of the men injured died from from infections that came simply from the care, but he was shot all the way through the arm. He returned to the military and he became the provost marshal and he was with Sherman on the March to the Sea. So the man that understood military. There's a royal banner given for display. To the soldiers of the king, thou hast given a banner to them that fear thee, that it may be displayed. Because Whittle went on to be a very close friend of P. P. Bliss, Philip Bliss. who was killed in the great train accident in Ashtabula, Ohio. And Whittle was also a close associate of D. L. Moody. and worked in the Moody campaigns. Of course Bliss was the song leader for Moody until his death and Whittle actually did the song leading at some of the DL Moody campaigns. The Lord has given a banner to them that fear him. First of all, we notice who it is that is given the banner and who it's given to. It says, Thou hast given a banner. It is Jehovah that has given this banner to his children, and to whom it is given. It's not given to our enemies. It's not given to those that fear our enemies. It's not given to those that fear the Lord. But our text says, thou hast given a banner to them that fear him. The banner is given to those that fear Jehovah. For we are not to live in the fear of man, neither are we to live in the fear of governments, neither are we to live in the fear of the apostates around us. were to live in the fear of the Lord, and God has given a banner to those that fear the Lord. But what is the purpose of a banner? What is it that the banner does? First of all, and this is not in a particular order, but first of all, I'd like us to consider that a banner Is a sign of encouragement. A banner is a sign of encouragement. Our text comes in a time of war and difficulty. In verses 1 and 2, we find God's people forsaken. In verse 3, it says, Thou hast showed us hard things. And the first three verses here are talking about the reign of King Saul. King Saul departed from the truth of God, and Saul was defeated by the Philistines, and Saul and Jonathan, his son, were killed. Now, we've heard a couple references this morning already to what took place in the United Kingdom over the weekend, where The king was crowned, and he was crowned because he was the son of the queen, and he has a son as well for a monarchy. To have a king is a very important thing, and not only it is important for a monarchy to have a king, but to have a successor But here, in one battle of the children of Israel, Saul is killed, and Jonathan is killed as well, and the people are fearful. What are we going to do? The Philistines are over going to overrun us. And the answer is, thou hast given a banner to them that fear him. And the banner in its first reference here is a reference to King David. God raised up a signal. God raised up a successor. God raised up one who would stand in the gap and make up the hedge. for the people of God. And of course you're going to see through all this to give away much of the the the outline itself, Jesus Christ is the banner that is given to his people. But first of all, a banner is a mark of encouragement. Military history is filled with accounts of armies that were about to be overrun. Armies who were at the very verge of defeat. And then one brave soldier grabs the flag and he goes forward. And the army, seeing the flag going up the hill, is encouraged. They are strengthened, and they follow the flag and they carry the day. The battle is won. And it was the sight of that flag heading up that hill that gave them encouragement. Here the children of Israel are in great calamity, but God gave them a banner. We today, if we look at the things of this world, we'll say we're in great calamity. We'll say the church is in decline, we'll say truth is fallen in the street, we'll say nobody believes anymore, but we still have a banner. And our banner is still going forward. And one of the purposes of a banner is to encourage the soldiers. God gave them a banner, he's given us a banner as well. Be encouraged. We have a banner. But then a second purpose of the banner is a banner is not only a mark of encouragement, a banner is a mark of identity. When you look out across the battlefield and you see the flag, you know who is who. You know who the enemy is, and you know who the friend is. You know that's them and this is us. It is a mark of identity. The flag identifies the army. The flag also identifies the unit within the army. And the army is very proud of their flags And even more so, they're unit flags. This is who we are. This is where we identify. And if you go to museums of the Civil War, you will find unit flags that still exist And on the unit flag, it'll list all the battles that that unit fought in. They were very, very identified with that flag. God has given us an identity. We are not of them. We are of the people of God And the children of Israel, when they camped in Numbers 2 and verse 2, every man of the children of Israel shall pitch by his own standard with the incense of their father's house. Far off about the tabernacle of the congregation shall they pitch. The children of Israel, they pitched by the standard of their family. The standard it identified them. You knew where Reuben was, you knew where Judah was. Because they were identified by their standard. The Crusaders had a cross on their shield and a cross on their breastplate If you've ever seen a depiction of the Ephesians Christian armor, it's also pictured in the same way with a cross on the breastplate and a cross on the shield. God has given his people a banner. He didn't give it to the enemy. He gave it to us. We have to be careful with false flags as well Because there are those who will claim the banner of the cross that are not of the banner of the cross. And so, a banner is a mark of encouragement. Be encouraged. A banner is a mark of identity. Be identified. The world should know who we are by our banner. The Lord knows who we are. By our banner. But then thirdly, the banner to the soldier was a source of direction and information. When the flag went forward, it was time to go forward. When the flag stood still, it was time to stand still. And we've all seen pictures of the signal flags which would be used before they had radios and communication where the general could communicate with all the units Because there was a man standing there and he had the flags and he was spelling out the message on the flags. The flags, the banners gave information to the soldiers. God has given us a banner. Jesus Christ is our source of information. The word of God is that which instructs us and teaches us. I will instruct thee and teach thee in the way that thou shalt go. I will guide thee with mine eye. God has given to his peace people a banner. He's given to us instructions. It was a source of direction. When the ensign of Judah went forward, the tribe of Judah would follow after it. The title of this psalm, if you notice, I didn't read the title, but the title includes that phrase, Miktam of David, to teach. A miktam, the best we can determine, indicates a inscribed Informative something, whether it be a banner or like the Ten Commandments inscribed by the finger of God, it is an inscribed document for instruction. That's what Miktam needs. And this psalm is a miktam of David. It is inscribed for our instruction. It is inscribed to teach us, to give us direction. To be our banner of instruction. And then, of course, remember Aaron the high priest. Aaron had a plate upon his forehead with the words holiness to God. It was a constant instruction. And the children of Israel were to bind them about their hands and place the word on their walls. God has given us a banner. Be instructed. He's given us instruction. But then also, banner was a sign of victory. A banner was a sign of victory. Be confident. When the flag was raised on Iwo Jima The soldiers knew that victory was at hand. But you realize the flag went up on Sarabacchi on day four of the battle. But the battle lasted another four weeks after that flag went up. That wasn't the end It was just the assurance, we've taken Sarabacchi, it will all fall to our hands. We're going to win this thing. There's going to be a lot of fighting along the way. But the battle is won. Jesus Christ was crucified 200 years ago, or 2,000 years ago. Excuse me. He declared, it is finished. The battle was assured. The victory was won. But folks were still fighting. We're still fighting today. We are struggling against sin. Our adversary, the devil, is still roaring. But a banner is an assurance of victory. Be confident. For the Lord will win the day. Looking back at our text, we find there in verse 5, That thy beloved may be delivered, save by with thy right hand. And hear me. God has spoken in his holiness. I will rejoice. And then God speaks, I will divide Shechem and meet out the valley of Sukkoth. Gilead is mine, and Manasseh is mine. Ephraim is also the strength of my hand. Judah is my lawgiver. What is that? Um seventh verse mean. Remember when David became king, he wasn't initially king over all Israel There were still areas that had not submitted to King David. They were following one of the sons of Saul. You know what areas those were that were still following the line of Saul rather than David? Well, Gilead, Manasseh, and Ephraim. Here God declares Gilead's mind, Manasseh's mind, Ephraim also is the strength of my hand, Judah, the tribe of David, Judah is my lawgiver. You see, the banner is an assurance that victory is coming. Be confident. And he continues, Moab is my washpot. That's the enemies. They're my washpot. That's where I do my dirty laundry. Overeat em will I cast out my shoe. Those of you that understand the Arab culture know that to throw a shoe at somebody It's one of the most disrespectful things you can do. They threw a shoe at Bush once. And when Saddam Hussein was defeated, they threw shoes at his statue. It's a very dis disrespectful thing God says, Noab, don't worry about them. That's where I do my dirty laundry. Eat them. I'm going to throw my shoe over top of them. They are nothing. Philistia, who killed Saul and Jonathan, Philistia triumphed now because of me. God says, the only way you can beat my people is when I give you the victory. And so we find that we are to be confident, that we are to be instructed, that we are to be identified, that we are to receive instruction, we are to be directed. But the next thing that we find that a banner is, is that a banner is a symbol for something greater. A banner is a picture of something greater. A banner is a type of something greater than the banner. Oh, say, can you see by the dawn's early light, What so proudly we hailed At the twilight's last gleaming. Francis Scott Key was not concerned about fabric and cotton What he was saying was, did my country survive the night? Because he knew if the banner was still flying His country had survived that night in the War of 1812, but if the banner had fallen, he knew his country had fallen as well. A banner is a symbol of something greater than the symbol itself. Be blessed! Be blessed because God has given us a banner. We're not left without a banner. God has given to his people a banner. Remember the rod of Jehovah? And all of us have heard the account in Exodus 17 when Israel was fighting Amalek. And I'll read portions of a verse that you don't need the term because I'm not going to read it straight through, but just picking pieces. But in starting in verse 8, then Amalek fought with Israel in Rephidim. And Moses said, I will stand upon the top of the hill with the rod of God in my hand. And it came to pass when Moses held up his hands that Israel prevailed, but Moses' hands were heavy, and Aaron and her stayed up his his hands. And uh his hands were steady to the going down of the sun. And Moses built an altar and called the name of it Jehovah Nisi. The Lord, our banner. You know, we often think of Moses there holding up his hands, but his hands weren't empty. It said there in verse 9, take the rod of the Lord. When Moses is holding up his hands and Aaron and her are staying those hands. The rod of Jehovah is in the hands of Moses, and the rod of Jehovah is again a picture of Jesus Christ Himself. This is the rod that was raised over Egypt and the water became blood. This is the rod that was stretched out over the streams and they brought forth frogs. It is the same rod that was stretched out over the dust and it became lice, and it is the same rod that was stretched out over the sea Red Sea and it parted. And the children of Israel walk through. A rod is a symbol of something greater than the symbol. Be blessed. God is our rod. And then remember the serpent on the pole in Numbers 21 and verse 8. And the Lord said unto Moses, make thee a fiery serpent, and set it upon a pole. You know what that word pole is? The same word banner. It's the same Hebrew. Make a fiery serpent and set it upon a banner. The Lord has given a pole to them that fear him. And it shall come to pass that every one that is visited, when he looketh upon it, shall live. And Moses made a serpent of brass and put it upon a pole. There it is again. He put it upon a banner, he put it upon a standard, where it would be seen. And it came to pass that the serpent had bit any man when he beheld the serpent of brass, he lived. Just as David was to defeat Weary and fearful Israel, after the death of Saul and Jonathan, God gave them a banner. He raised up David. So God has given us a banner And our banner is the Son of David, Jesus Christ. God has given us a banner. Be blessed Be blessed, because we're not in this battle alone. We have a flag that goes up the hill and gives us direction We have a flag, a banner that identifies us. That they were first called Christians at Antioch. We're identified by our banner. Fear not, we're not left without a banner. And as Moses lifted up the serpent in the wilderness, so must the Son of Man be lifted up that whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have eternal life. David, our banner, is Christ. In Isaiah chapter 11, verse 10 and verse 12, we find these words. And in that day there shall be a root of Jesse. Who's the root of Jesse? Well, it's Christ. A root of Jesse Which shall stand for an insign of the people. That word ensign is the banner. It's the same word again, same Hebrew word. An insign for the people, and to it shall the Gentiles seek. And the rest shall be glorious. And his rest shall be glorious. We're talking about warfare here, folks. But God's going to raise a banner of the root of Jesse, an ensign of the battle of the root of Jesse, and his rest shall be glorious. And he shall set up an ensign, same word again, for the nations, and shall assemble the outcast of Israel, and gather together that which is dispersed of Judah from the four corners of the earth. God's given us a banner. All ye inhabitants of the world and dwellers of the earth, see ye when he lifteth up an ensign in the mountains, and when he bloweth the trumpet, hear ye. Lift it up an ensign, an ensign in the mountains. Hear ye? Mount Calvary? Christ lifted up. Hear ye Jesus Christ is the banner of his people. Be encouraged. He brought me to his banqueting house and his banner Over me was love. And so we find, first of all, that God has given to them that fear him a banner. He hasn't given it to the enemies. It identifies us. It directs us. It encourages us. It reassures us that victory is on the way. Hallelujah. Be blessed. We have a banner. But that's not where the verse ends. It says, Thou hast given a banner to them that fear thee, that it may be displayed God doesn't give us this banner to hide it. God doesn't give us this banner to put it under a bushel. He's given it to us to be displayed. And here, folks, I'm not going to attempt an outline or to expound on this. I just want to read to you what the scriptures say about displaying the banner. 1 Corinthians 4, or 2 Corinthians 4, verses 1 through 5. Therefore, seeing we have this ministry, as we have received mercy, we faint not. But have renounced the hidden things of dishonesty, not walking in craftiness, nor handling the word of God deceitfully. but by manifestation of the truth, commending ourselves to every man's conscience in the sight of God. But if our gospel be hid, it is hid to them that are lost, in whom the God of this world hath blinded the minds of them which believe not. lest the light of the glorious gospel of Christ, gospel of Christ, who is the image of God, should shine unto them. For we preach not ourselves, but Christ Jesus Christ our Lord, and ourselves your servants, for Jesus' sake. That doesn't need any explanation, does it? You get it. You understand. And then again in Romans 1, verses 15 and 16. Here Paul says, so much as is in me, I am ready to preach the gospel unto you that are in Rome also. Was Paul clueless? Did he know what was waiting for him in Rome? You better believe it. He knew and he was warned, if you go to Rome, they're going to kill you. Don't go to Rome, Paul! He says, no, so much as in me, I'm ready to preach the gospel in Rome, for I am not ashamed of the gospel of Jesus Christ. Christ. We've been given a banner that it may be displayed. And then again, 2 Timothy 1, verses 12 and 13. For the which cause we suffer these things, nevertheless, I am not ashamed, for I know whom I have believed. I know who my banner is. I know whom I have believed and am persuaded that he's able to keep that unto him keep that which I committed unto him against that day. I have confidence I see the banner. Oh, the battle's still going on. The flag is on Sarabacchi. It may take another four weeks or another four thousand years. But the battle will be won. Hold fast that form of sound words which you have heard of me. And then the words of Christ Himself in Matthew 5, year the star of the earth. But if Slaughterth lost his savour, wherewith shall be seasoned? Ye are the light of the world. A city that is set on a hill cannot be hid. God, thou hast given a banner to them that fear thee, that it may be displayed. But why is it necessary that the banner be displayed? Thou hast given a banner to them that fear thee, that it may be displayed because of the truth. Because of the truth. Folks, what's under attack today? Christians? No truth. Truth is what's under attack. Man came from animals. Kill your babies if you want to. A man can become a woman. Truth is under attack. But we as the people of God have been given a banner. We've been given it to display because of the truth. We are the light of the world. We have to share the light of the gospel because of the truth. But folks, think about it. On the battlefield, it was far more easy to identify and shoot at the flagbearer than it was to identify and shoot at the general. And you find throughout wars that there are time and time again when one flag bear falls and another man picks up the flag and he gets shot and another man picks up the flag and he gets shot and another man picks up the flag. Far more flagbearers get shot than generals and captains and corporals. Corporals are pretty low, but the flagbears, they're the ones that get shot. And yet, folks, we've been given a banner. And it's a banner could be displayed because of the truth. We'll get shot At for sure. Yea, and all that will live godly in Christ Jesus shall suffer persecution. But we've been given a banner that it may be displayed because of the truth. Look at the end of the chapter, chapter 60, and verse 9 and following. Who will bring me into a strong city? This is David speaking. Who will bring me into a strong city? Who will lead me into Edom? Wilt not thou, O God, which hast cast us off, and thou, O God, which didst not go out with our armies? God didn't go out with the armies when King Saul was leading. And David says, Lord, you didn't go out with our armies then. Will you go out with our armies now? David realized I can't go into Edom on my own. It must be with God's help. Verse 11 and 12. Give us help from trouble, for vain is the help of man. Through God we shall do valiantly. Ah, that valiant, brave flag bear. Bullets biting at the flag, bullets going through his uniform, bullets going in his to his chest till the next man picks up the flag. I've been studying Colps Hill. My ancestors, the Witherspoons, fought on Culps Hill at Gettysburg. The Union flag on Culps Hill had its staff shot out five times. And they kept binding it together with stretcher straps and putting it up again. And putting it up again. Putting it up again. Through God we shall do valiantly. Through him, we'll hold the standard high, regardless of the shrapnel. Coming at us. For he it is that shall tread down our enemies. Thou hast given a banner to them that fear That it may be displayed because of thy truth. It is an inconceivable blessing to have a Banner. To carry the flag was one of the highest honors of a regiment. God has given to his people a banner because we fear him. It's not the enemy's, it is ours. God has given it to us, not to hide it, but to display it. And we must display the banner because of his truth. The Son of God goes forth to war, a kingly crown to gain, his blood red banner streams afar. Who follows in his strain in his train? In Isaiah fifty-nine we read these words So shall they fear the name of the Lord from the west and his glory from the rising of the sun. When the enemy shall come in like a flood, the Spirit of the Lord shall raise up a standard A standard against him. There it is again. A standard. The enemy comes in like a flood. The Spirit of the Lord raises up a standard against him. And a redeemer, who's that? And a redeemer shall come to Zion, and unto them that are turned from transgression in Judah, saith the Lord. As for me, this is my covenant with them, saith the Lord. My spirit is upon thee, and my words which I have put in thy mouth shall not depart out of thy mouth Nor out of the mouth of thy seed, nor out of the mouth of thy seeds seeds. That's a grandchildren, children, folks. That thus saith the Lord from henceforth and forevermore. Read it with me again, folks. Psalm 60, verse 4. Thou hast given a banner to them that fear thee. That it may be displayed because of thy truth. Selah. Let us stand for prayer. Father, we thank you that we follow Jesus Christ. Indeed. He is our banner. We march beneath the banner of the cross. May we never let the banner fall. May we not be ashamed of the testimony. But rather may we hold the testimony of Christ dear and may we hold it high. Because of thy truth, we thank you, Lord, in Jesus' name. Amen