And darkness was upon the face of the deep, and the Spirit of God moved upon the face of the waters, and God said, Let there be light, and there was light. But that principle, that harnessing of all of these things coming together to form something that can hit our eyeballs and become light, that concept wasn't there, and that's what God created. That word light there is ma or a, which means light bearer. It's very unique. And they put out so much energy in that vicinity that they are unstable in their orbit. And if you have a spinning ball that God created the earth, you would see 24-hour periods of light and darkness. Yeah, Mercury they thought was gone. And what that is, is the spew of ions that are coming out of the sun, these highly charged high-energy particles, and they hit our And gravity's pulling it in and it ever increases in its speed, it's increasing very, very rapidly, and it hits that atmosphere. I'm not sure I'd use the word divide, because when you divide something, you're cutting it in half. You know, isn't it interesting when God divides, it tends to multiply. And it was very interesting how a seed is made. And it lands finally on some beach somewhere, and it hits that sand, and it gets partially submerged, and I don't know what triggers inside of it, but that's exactly where it's going to crack out a root, and you have a I've never been able to make something that can reproduce itself, not even as a software program, that would last through the millennia. The white moonflower vine, lamb's ears, and lady of the night orchids only bloom after dusk. So that means there has to be a creature that can see well that flower in the night and it just goes on. Yeah, they move with incredible speed. It doesn't say let the birds bring forth fish or let the fish bring forth birds. So God also fed the creatures with plants. You need something kind of sharp. Some lions have been raised in captivity on milk. So they try to find a way to put their foot in both camp and say, I'll make peace with both of them, I'm good with that. Sorry to burst your bubble, there's no puppies in heaven. Some people are workaholics. And you have about, on a good night's sleep, you'll have five of those, at least five. Well those first four cycles are all about doing body repair. You know, they take a siesta in the middle of the day and sleep because it's too blooming hot. But he was a tremendous inventor. And you've just got to stop and rest. And it's very tiny. Is it ten, Katie? And he told us about it. Now, what's really strange, and this is where your evolutionary friends are going to have a problem, is they say, the ungodly say, the stars and the sun came before the earth. So day three, the dry land appears, but it appeared out of the waters. How does it get light to photosynthesize? And the ungodly say the plants came a long, long, long, long, long time after the sun In fact, the sun would have baked that ground so hard, I don't know how anything would have cracked the ground to grow in it. Alright, so the ungodly say the fish crawled onto land and then decided to fly. Lo and behold, a boy pulls it up and has it for his lunch. So we get to the first day in Genesis 1. So Genesis 1, I'm going to read the first five verses. And they mock it because of the listing of the light source in day four. I thought that was interesting. And I came across some interesting uh facts about the sun. And unfortunately it printed out on my printer on like six and a half point font. It would take you over a year to get from one side to the other. You see these little solar models as a kid where you put a big orange basketball in the middle and these little popcorn ball size things farther out. And that's what drives our planet. stability but too much tidal activity like on Jupiter's moon Io can smother any life. to constrain the habitable zone where temperature permits liquid water. No, it's not that. Most of the water came from underneath the earth. If I were making a creation account, and of course I haven't written any, and I don't think I could, I know I couldn't, I would maybe use words like add or multiply. God has laid this foundation for the waters, and He has established a certain region that waters can and cannot go. It says this, they go up by the mountains, they go down by the valleys unto the place which thou hast founded for them. Plant that didn't produce a flower, doesn't produce any fruit, no seed, it just has green leaves on it. Same thing with humans or dogs or other animals that might eat that fruit. Plant, you want to kill a plant, put salt water on it. a palm tree that shows up, a coconut tree that shows up. What about dandelions? Hardly will the dirt, will a rock stick its head up and say, you know, I'm tired of being a rock. Our God has no limit to his imagination. This is nonsense. It said, out of the ground the Lord God made it to grow every tree. One of those fellows is a man named Dr. on the fourth day so that the sun and the stars that were already there could now appear on the earth. He's talking about God made the two great lights, that same word used elsewhere. And God created great whales and every living creature that moveth, which the waters brought forth abundantly, after their kind. And God blessed them, saying, Be fruitful and multiply, fill the waters in the seas, and let fowl multiply in the earth in the evening and the morning of the fifth day. They're looking at a vehicle through a fluid medium. or seals and and walruses that can somewhat uh be mobile and land and some birds can uh run around quite a lot. I mean that lion's got big, big teeth. He's quite content with that. uh that they had to be carnivorous. It's a mechanism, a tool of the devil. The creation of man is very different from animals. God blessed the Sabbath day and sanctified it, because in it he had rested from all his work, which God created and made. I'm going to read a quote from a theologian who made an interesting observation. Some of the Bible bee people have been studying the book of Genesis. It's just further away. No, you'd say that's ridiculous. Would you say that rock just somehow carved itself? See, the Bible says that God created all things in the space of six days. Light. and see a laptop sitting there in the dirt halfway and you say, wow, look at what the pounding of the waves did. It's without form and void. Well, that's not right. How'd it get hot? Well that doesn't work. We've got all kinds of problems here, folks. But they can stay alive for one day without a sun. in the earth above the heaven. And they will refer to it as quote a living fossil, unquote. He wasn't crawling. You're not a fish. So we looked at creation in general. I've got a little presentation at the end when we bring the children up and uh they'll take a look at that. uh cherubims, their seraphims, how they're different, uh things that they can do, things they cannot do. He divided the water and the earth? has what kind of a light? the light, there was darkness, and he divided the light, verse four, from the darkness. and the darkness he called night. God made two great lights, the later light, excuse me, the greater light to rule the day and the lesser light to rule the night. That's what causes light. the sun would melt it. Scientists will tell you our sun is like a star, and they will falsely tell you, well, it's just like any old other star. And any planet trying to live near that would face wild fluctuations in the amount of energy coming out. electronic disruptions, those who are sensitive to that with certain types of electronic equipment will certainly know about those. I think somewhere in here I read that, this is of interest to me. uh puts out 700,000 uh watts of power you know per hour, some phenomenal amount like that. It doesn't produce these wild flares. Alright, let's go to the second day, and I'll have another question for you. And God said, let there be a firmament in the midst of the waters, and let it divide the waters from the waters. And divided the waters which were under the firmament from the waters which were above the firmament, and it was so Um it in fact encapsulates I think I'm getting the planets correct here. captures all of the light and nothing gets out, all the energy stays in. Scientists are, I'm reading a quote here, scientists are now realizing that a delicate balance is required. magnetic uh shield, which is part of our atmosphere, and it blocks it from the earth and it kind of traps it up in that northern part there. earth. And the earth brought forth grass, and the herd yielding seed after his kind, and the tree yielding fruit, whose seed was in itself after his kind. When I first read through this and I noticed this word divide appearing quite a lot, I thought, now that's interesting. See, God has different ways of doing things to multiply for his people. Went everywhere, preaching the word of God. There's three great classes back in Genesis 1 of things that he made. I'm always impressed by the variety of seeds that are out there. Given the right moisture and the temperature, not light, it doesn't need light, it'll spring forth and it'll crack open. are essentially the same that Adam and Eve saw. It has this hard outer shell that they refer to it as a jacket or a coat, and it's very protective. One of the most fascinating seeds to me is the coconut seed. veins, these little tiny whisk like feathers, not feathers, but they're just little tiny sticks basically that are almost spider web thin And as soon as the wind blows, off it goes. have this interesting mechanism where as they dry they come under tension. uh bring forth grass does not mean let the dirt develop by its own inherent force over millions of years into vegetables. hundreds of species of all kinds of trees and different types of flowers. Let them be for signs and for seasons, and for days and for years. It's the light of the moon that causes those plants to bloom. atheistic evolutionary view of how the universe came into being. slideshow presentation for them. Genesis 120. Fish bones are more like cartilage. uh of a uh uh um oh like trusses, building trusses that have all these cross membranes. uh what a what an amazing creature those birds are. I like it when they fly overhead. I mean they just flew a really long distance. You know, you run a quarter of a mile. He's he's still got plenty of energy to hawk. Again, very different. You don't find any kind of cross-breeding there between the birds and the fishes. And God made the beasts of the earth after his kind, and cattle after their kind, and everything that creepeth upon the earth after his kind. And God said, Let us make man in our image after our likeness, and let him have dominion over the fish of the sea, over the fowl of the air, over the cattle, and over all the earth, and over every creeping thing that creeps upon the earth How God created everything. Well, that doesn't sound like coming at it with an open mind. finding perfect satisfaction in the contemplation of his production. His radiant countenance shines upon it, and is productive of showers of blessing. Is there something I can do to improve my sleep? Now, younger people need more sleep, obviously, and older people need less sleep, but in general, that's the nature of those cycles It turns out the first four cycles do something very important. Oh, I'm a computer guy. Have you ever woken up after a very short night's sleep and you still kind of feel foggy and you know physically you're able to operate, but you just you just felt like you just didn't quite get enough sleep? You know how long you can go with that? Yeah, all the good stuff's up there. Tornado? You don't want to eat those things. evidence of designs all around us. spirochete. Didn't have water. say the ungodly say the dry land came first, then the oceans. That's good. Who says true? to a bird, to a giraffe, to a whale. refers to reptiles. and I'd catch 'em and I'd unfortunately kill 'em. They'll not acknowledge the fact that, no, man lived with dinosaurs because we're living with one now. Fins help him to stay upright and do that. not long periods of time, not theistic evolution, none of that stuff. And let's kind of go back over the days of creation and what happened on each day. that God out of nothing created everything. But light penetrates darkness, it drives darkness away. It's a reflected light. You know, you can get a moon burn. Explanation, a very good scientific explanation. on that same high-speed train from Earth to reach the sun. It produces just the right amount of heat. So that is the marvelous thing that God created there. This alternation of light and darkness can occur if you have a spinning ball. and that there's an interplay between tidal reactions and volcanoes, because when a volcano explodes, what does it do? you get from uh X-rays, you get it from atomic bomb, and you get a lot of it with an atomic bomb, and that's what obliterates people. You ever heard of meteorites and asteroids and things of that nature, little space rocks flying around? You'd have all kinds of space junk falling on your head, but the atmosphere, in fact, is quite firm. Certainly our engineers who deal with rockets have learned that when you put something up in space, you need to protect it. was then the source of all the water for the flood of Noah's Day. And God said, let the waters under the heaven be gathered together into one place, and let the dry land appear. And God called the dry land earth, and the gathering together of the waters called he sees. Verse uh nine, let them be gathered, and as he was gathering, he's he's separating the uh waters into one place, and he's separating it from the dry land. The church was first centralized in Jerusalem, and you read about it in Acts 8 that a man named Saul, Saul of Tarsus, was wreaking havoc on the church, and he captured a lot of the brethren and he put a lot of them in prison. multiply things. Thou hast set a bound that they might not pass over, that they turn not again to cover the earth. And also fruit trees. introductory to life sciences class when they were, oh, ninth grade, I think Victoria was seventh grade, and we were studying at one point about seeds. If you're going to try to be consistent with the scriptures. After their kind means uh that there's a unique distinction between them. But that's not what is talked about here. a fruit tree and get a a fracon or I don't know what you would call it. match. uh signs, yes, to divide uh day from night. Uh and uh uh so the days and years that would be a uh the the the seasons, seasons, days and years, that I think would be one purpose. uh and we're more appreciative of the sun, but in fact both lights support plant development. There's uh chance just it doesn't it just isn't there. That would be a big problem for several reasons. There's other crazy ideas like that as well, but I'm not going to go into all those. The clouds look very waterlike. I'm sure you've seen penguins at the zoo. Birds, on the other hand, have very hollow bones, and they have these very strange little cross-section members in them that are like girders of a Uh it says they that wait upon the Lord shall mount up with wings as eagles, so who knows, someday we may be able to do that. Now, pay attention to this the next time you see geese coming because we're coming up on the fall and we're going to see some geese coming in soon. But when you watch them land, watch them when they land and they stop and they start walking around. That goose lands and he's not huffing and puffing and trying to suck in air. He actually breathes when he inhales and when he exhales. Both with the upstroke of the wing and the downstroke. He's well oxygenated as a result of that. that are very efficient in pulling oxygen out of the air. He tells them to be fruitful and multiply. You're not killing a tree when you eat it or a fruit. Well, let me tell you what really, really big teeth means in an animal. over long periods of time somehow allowed matter to just self-organize into very highly complex things like a human being. that he'll look at everything except for anything that might lead to God. scholarly type, but i it it's it's not something I would want to sit and teach through. And what we find here is God says in verse 1, Thus the heavens and the earth were finished, and all the host of them. He was happy about it. And so he rejoices in his creation, for in it he recognizes the reflection of his glorious perfections. was the commandment to rest on the Sabbath the seventh day, the Sabbath day, because that's the day that God rested. Isn't that interesting? Okay, what about uh what about that? He has webbed feet in the front, he has claws in the back, he has a tail like a beaver, and he bears eggs, and the eggs hatch and they nurse. That's his propeller. It's got bearings, it's got a rotor, statters, it's got a bushing, a U-joint, it's got a flange. to the bushings on the what did you call it? Mm-hmm. Totally full of water. How do deep oceans form? Because if you're trying to hold the Bible as true and God made plants and then later made a sun, that would mean these plants are sticking around for thousands of years before there's any sun to give them light. When a fish crawls on land, he dies. And then the birds came, and then a giraffe came, and then a whale came. That is just absolutely ludicrous. And boy, something big got onto his line. He pulled up a Coelacanth, I think I'm pronouncing that right. four fins. That little animal is the first one that crawled up on land. Much like you would see a goldfish do at the bottom of the tank. Science simply hasn't caught up with the Bible. So nobody told him he was extinct. in uh in that way. Uh science itself proves that light doesn't find its sole source from the sun, but its emanation, it's an emanation of waves and or particles produced by energized electrons. And God called the firmament heaven. There are other planets that have atmospheres. And it seems like a planet's atmosphere, according to ICR, I've got another paper here from Institute for Creational Research, they said the atmosphere of a planet appears to be tied to its geology, the structure of the planet itself. in in volume. So that's what happened on our second day, and that's our thermament. And God made two great lights. Now, what's interesting about the creation of birds and fishes is that from an engineering point of view, both are designed to move very efficiently through a fluid. Uh wouldn't you love to be a bird and rush hour traffic just to lift out your wings and get above all of this stuff and just fly out of there and just be able to freely move around? uh the key parts of it that I want to hit on. Now, let the earth bring forth does not mean, again, let dirt develop into animals by their own inherent force. uh go down that path. Now there's other strange views about this, but I'm not going to talk about those. There's nothing wrong with rest. Yeah. There's the Bible. Now let's review the creation days real quick, shall we? Well they say nobody times nothing is everything. Day two. Where's the w how's the water gonna create a a a canyon? Well, interestingly enough, there is the ungodly, of course, say that dinosaurs died long before man Yeah, you're Samuel. that um uh it it just it bakes the planet, it encapsulates it in sulfuric acid. It uh protects us in many ways. God said, Let the earth bring forth grass, the herb yielding seed, and the fruit tree yielding fruit after his kind, whose seed is in itself upon the earth and it was sowed. He speaks even of the sea, that their proud waves can only come so far. But given the right conditions of just a simple amount of water, and you would think there's plenty of water in in when you drink, but it doesn't, it it protects against that. Long, long distances. Fourth day. Uh you can't get there from here. That's all it means. So evolution, evolution is uh from the uh from the goo to the zoo to you, right? Years later, when Moses would receive from God, written by the finger of God on tablets of stone the Ten Commandments, the fourth commandment, which would have taken up a third of the tablets of the writing on it When you sleep at night, there's different phases you go through. Were they actually there? He had the sun and the moon and the stars. In the bottom of the ocean? Alright. He made the land animals of the sixth day. You say, huh? Earth. It's interesting that darkness can't get rid of light. It's something that God did. God set them in the firmament of the heaven to give light upon the earth and to rule over the day and over the night and to divide the light from the darkness, and God saw that it was good. And the evening and the morning were the fourth day. Very creative how our Lord has done this. So would the creatures. Evolutionists don't believe that animals came directly from mineral materials anyway. The negative, the downside, not the downside, but the negative is that no work was done on this day. And it is. Yeah, light. And then day four you had the light. That's right. Hey uh Cam. Uh if you were to drive, if you were to ride in a high-speed train, now of course And the evening and the morning were the third day. And so it protects us in that way. So I don't know how to defeat them. I remember doing a study on sleep, and the reason I was doing this study is I was having a hard time sleeping. But the very last cycle is the one that refreshes your mind. But the seventh day, you gotta get it. What is that? Oh zero. Water. Where's the water gonna go? After birds God made. Yeah, I gotta spill all over an either napkin or something paper towel. And God saw the light, that it was good, and God divided the light from the darkness, and God called the light day, and the darkness he called night, and the evening and the morning were the first day. have a complete separation of the two. Uh what'd you say? Theistic evolution tries to find a way to say, well, I hear the scientists, and I don't know how to refute them, and they're pretty smart guys, and they're on television, and they look like they're very professional, and they speak very Okay. Land, animals, and man. Okay, life created first on the land or in the oceans? Darkness. In Genesis 1. The air looks very much like a fluid. That is a galaxy. That is a Franken creature. Don't eat rockskey. And they have all kinds of uh uh ideas as to why that happened. But I'm trying to get as much mileage out of that as I can. That's quite impressive. So there is a specific limit within that, and it's hard for us to understand where that kind variation is. Yeah, it does look like a tornado, doesn't it? Yeah, that's Earth. Think the earth? Oh, purple basil, yeah. Now I know I'm talking about the light of the fourth day, but I wanted to kind of spend a little time on that. Are you a fish, Samuel? Yes, the atmosphere, exactly. Oceans. He made a bunch of land animals, didn't he? I find that very interesting. You can't be a Christian and believe the Bible and think that evolution can somehow fit in here. That's right. But if you could be in a high-speed train going right through the middle of the sun from one side to the other at a hundred miles an hour Even in the spirochet's tail you can uh see some design. Sea creatures and flying creatures, that's right. Water. Let's see. Signs, seasons, days, years. I'm throwing some terms about here, but let me do a quick check. Separated the waters from the waters. Huh? How do you get a plant that needs light all the way at the bottom of a dark ocean canyon? God said, Let the waters bring forth abundantly, the moving creature that hath life, and fowl that may fly above the earth in the open firmament of heaven. It's like defragging the hard drive. He gave us some information about it. I'm still stuck on this subject. Now you've got the sun, the moon, and the stars as light bearers. Sorry, I had to finish off my coffee there. So the early creatures were all plant-eating creatures. He was giving his brain a rest. You know what that is, Katie? It can turn 10,000 RPMs and stop in a quarter of a turn and go the other direction. Last question. Now think about if you're a bald eagle and you like to eat fish. I don't know if you can see it, but he's got two on top and two on the bottom that stick straight out. Earth? It actually has a very tiny bit of atmosphere there, so that planet is very cold. Ah here comes the footsteps. Yeah, how do you get everything from zero times zero? He got separated light from darkness. Can they repeat the experiment? I mean we got legs, you know, we got muscles in our legs. Worms. It was a big hot molten blob. It's not a river of life. A panda bear has large teeth too, but he's quite content to eat uh one of these things. They would work around the clock. So where do you think all of this stuff came from? How many say the earth? Yeah, you don't think of darkness as something that's being created. It doesn't emanate light on its own. But this has been a source of ridicule by the the uh evolutionists because they say, well, see which one came first, uh uh uh light or the sun? I hope they uh enjoy that. Creatures would eat that too. They could have absolutely eaten plants just like the uh the uh big uh uh panda bear does. And so it's uh it's a tremendous benefit to us. That's how he moves. How did it get hot? What's Yeah, yeah, that that monkey's laughing. Alright, well let's see. That's what reptiles do. He was using it to upright his body, his head down, his tail up, and he would bounce around on the bottom of the ocean floor eating food. You can actually lay out on the beach at night and expose your, you know, parts of your body to the moon and people can get literal moon burn. That's what gives us our plants. We finally figured out after all these years, God had it right. There's billions and billions of stars and there's galaxies and there's supposedly billions of galaxies out there. All right. Alright, very good. Oh false, okay. Yeah, here it says God made the beasts of the earth, cattle, and everything that creeps upon the earth. 3 is the word light. Hugh Ross. Who made all that stuff? Obviously somebody left their poor laptop behind and it's getting soaked in the dirt. I haven't seen them in the ocean. That's who you heard. It's a certain range of the electromagnetic spectrum is where you find light coming out. And boy aren't we glad for fruit trees. They don't believe God. Sometimes the body just simply has to recharge. Allie's got zero. That's contrary to what God's Word says. Maybe that's your purple basil growing there, Katie. Who says false? There were large subterranean chambers, and when the earth split and cracked open in the middle, all the water came out. Well you can actually go six days missing that last cycle and still function. Yeah, don't look behind the curtain here. Or these ungodly men. God creates man and the land animals. And heaven. This has been a source of ridicule for a while by the theistic evolutionary crowd or the uh evolutionary crowd The apostles were stuck in Jerusalem, but it was the church members at the time who went abroad. We've got some significant problems. Alright, true or false. We talked about the spiritual world, how God has angels and how he created them, the different types of angels. Also I noticed that there's a lot of separation. I think that's a very impressive design. They a floating seed. They just seem to flip those stiff little fins and they can zip around the water at at incredible paces. So they must be right. What am I doing wrong? Lots of water. Very good. Uh he didn't divide the water just yet. Yet our atmosphere blocks all that. It doesn't present anything in here. Yeah, you know what a galaxy is? Where do you get these deep trenches? They kind of navigate him around to do that. It's just that they're moving at a much slower pace than physical water does. It's in God's creation in the galaxies, it's in God's creation in the duckbill platypus, and you keep going deeper and deeper and deeper and zoom in and zoom in and zoom in and you see his handiwork even down Now let's ask some questions. There's a lot they haven't learned yet. That's a pretty sure way to get rid of it. They're solid, but they're very flexible and bendy. How does the fish, who needs gills to pull oxygen out of the water, how does he develop lungs? He's very content to make you think that you came from rocks or baboons or birds or fish or something stupid like that Then later on day four he made two great lights. Where do you go? Well, he has now sea from dry land. How can that thing do that? I'm fascinated by it. They're quite fascinating. You know, like these low life-flying bombers that, you know, they just kind of barely flap their wings and they're just moving right along, really. Fish don't create birds and birds can't just decide to start sucking in water. Verse 29, he says, I've given you every herb bearing seed, the fruit of the tree. God gave that lion big teeth. That favorite pet you had, sorry, he goes to the earth, and that's the end of that animal. He doesn't go very far. In the beginning, God created the heaven and the earth. There's light and then there's a light bearer. Lastly, God said he made these trees after his kind. They uh they were cubs when they were caught. No, you'd say somebody's been chipping away at this thing. After birds, God actually I got two more questions. Why would a giraffe want to all of a sudden go jumping back in the water and say, I think I'll be a big whale in the ocean? So that's interesting because I think we'll see that show up more. It's a very stable source. They kind of had you do a dissection of a seed. And you know, I just see it across my lawn and I think, oh, did I put out weed poison or not? One, that would be the one day God actually didn't create anything. God said, Let us make man in our own image. Huh? That makes no sense. No, no, Samuel's not a fish. The evolutionary idea is that nobody times nothing made everything, which is nonsense. Candace you look like you know. Yeah, it's the atmosphere. In Genesis 2. They're very, very different from each other. He was letting his cells recharge so we could think clearly. He's still around. Now, it's not uh what are these waters? He has a ministry called Reasons to Believe. God designed him so that he has no problem whatsoever. Yep, that's right. I think it's impressive. God saw everything good, everything that he had made, and behold, it was very good. Okay, it's like going through and and tossing out and reclaiming bits and and replacing things and just cleaning up your mind and refreshing it Okay. Worms? God said, Let the earth bring forth grass, and the herb yielding seed, and the fruit tree yielding fruit. But uh these things will keep growing. And the evening morning were the second day. It uh keeps a lot of the harmful rays from the sun out. Psalm one hundred and four and verse eight Alright, what are the four purposes for the light bearers, sun, moon, and stars? To give light, yes, light for the earth. How how does that work? There's stories, uh real accounts, I should say, not a story, because it's not fictional, of lions. They don't know God is behind it all, but God must be behind it. That doesn't sound like going to where the data may lead you to. Lots and lots and lots of water. I've seen them on land. It's very efficient. You also notice back in Genesis 1, at the creation of light. We're not talking about species. I think God created him out of all the parts of the other animals to say, Wiggly evolutionists get a hold of this I think he just really wanted it. You know what's interesting about that? That's what made our atmosphere. He starts pulling this thing up. That's what warms the ocean. It's just boiling hot on the surface there. So here the earth is putting forth grass. And certain foods to avoid at night and all that sort of thing. In six days the Lord made heaven and earth to see and all that in them is, and rested the seventh day. Very good. Well because there was a bang. How does that come about? A lizard crawls around, maybe you find them in the summertime. The greater light to rule the day, and the lesser light to rule the night. So they couldn't work unless there was a nighttime light bearer. If you watch it in slow motion, if you've ever seen slow motion photography of a storm coming into a city, somebody sets a camera out there that takes a picture once every minute or so It says the earth was out form and void, darkness on the face of the deep, and the Spirit of God moved upon the waters. God said, Let there be a firm in the midst of the waters, let it divide the waters and waters, and then later he says, Let the dry land appear. So now what this means is that you've got a problem, again, if you're trying to show long ages for the days of creation. 24 says this, God said, let the earth bring forth the living creature after his kind, cattle and creeping things, and beasts of the earth after his kind, and it was so What do you think those are? Alright, how much is nothing? That's what he made. Heaven? God said, Let there be lights in the firmament of the heaven to divide the light from the night. So for the fifth day it was the creation of the birds and fishes, and we read about that here. It fixes the body. Here comes the herd. Yeah, heaven and earth is there too. Plants were created before the sun. He went sideways and he used those four fins to crawl up on land. Alright, so that was a little thing for the kids. What kind of light does the moon have? We know the moon doesn't burn. That's the word ore in the Hebrew, if I'm pronouncing that right. That's how massive the sun is. Think about the loaves and the fishes and the bread. Every beast of the earth, every fowl of the air, everything that creeps upon the earth, I've given every green herb for meat Say you were doing something in the garden and you cut your hand on a thorn or something and you got a tear in your skin. Yeah, what's that thing behind Earth? Well I guess they're a spirochete. Can you say, hey, I'm going to go create everything in the lab today? Now the ungodly say this. They're still fundamentally plants that have that seed within them that replicates. They just kind of totter around back and forth, and boy, when they get in that water, are they acrobatic. What is that thing? You ever done math? This thing can float in salt water on an ocean for thousands of miles. There was no death. Just look over there, right? And that's verses 6 through 8. Yeah, thanks. Here's a seed that has its own hang uh parasol. Now there are those who uh are allegedly Christian ministers and are also so-called scientists. Now some people say, well, wait a minute, uh lion Somebody's remembering. Hmm. We don't no animal or plant life I know today eats rocks. Alright, that is true. So it's interesting that there's that property if you've ever thought about that It's not a solid vault. I'm I'm just highly impressed by those kind of things. 9, if you skip ahead to the next chapter, which we'll briefly discuss at the end Have you ever run anything close to a mile? That makes no sense whatsoever. Okay. You need something soft. It says he made the beasts of the earth and the cattle and everything that creeps upon the earth. His way, his course of multiplication is called division. We you know, we're kinda we can run. They don't believe God, I know that. If there's any evidence that possibly leads to a designer, I'm going to rule that out out of hand. Alrighty. How many say the sun? You ever seen that fly? He's quite content to be at the bottom of the ocean. Because it just so happens that we're looking at the same material. The digestive system doesn't destroy that seed. Yep, signs, seasons to divide the day from the night. They both have comparable methods of procreation, and again, they were both created after their kind. When you see an animal with really big teeth, what that means is God gave him big teeth. What? That they could do. It would take you a hundred years at that same speed. And it becomes so much tension that it explodes and it shoots the seed thirty, forty feet away. It's a bunch of stars and a bunch of other galaxies. God. They say the guys on the left, I should have put the the bad guys on the left, uh That's right. And and it wreaked havoc in the church, meaning the laity, the person in the in the pew. Now there's a lot to be said for that. These ungodly men on the right say it all just came out of matter and dirt and it just happened. See there's some plants growing up. Okay, no light. You know the corn that you and I eat and the types of trees we look at, unless they've been hybridized and somebody has crossed crossed them with other types of cherry trees or things like that. Other mechanisms of moval have seeds that have burrs in them, so they get on the sides of animals and they're transported great distance. The bird breathes air. The first fish flops out on the land, he dies. You have to give enough time to do that. AIL came out. Well, the uh the answer is it first came on the land. Because animals need something to eat, don't they? They'll say it's seventy million years old, uh but And as I read it, I want you to think about what was created, because I've got a short question for you, and you can tell me what was in fact created, right? The only way that you get rid of light is you have to eliminate the light source. Then we go to our third day, our third day, and verses 9 to 13. Uh there is a fourth one. They both came together, didn't they? True or false, man lived with dinosaurs. And you in fact are made in God's image. What else? And so I'm going to strain my eyes to try to read this thing. He says, well those were created first and it was just a big, a big cloudy day for a long time before God dispelled the clouds and then they all of a sudden revealed the sun and the stars. I've never noticed that until somebody pointed that out in a book. There's no language in here that allows that. Well it's actually not. What's on day one? Well that doesn't sound very nice. They have it totally the opposite. Time. I'm not sure if I can put my finger on it quickly, but it talked about one square yard of sun That's what uh heats us. Let them be for lights in the firmament of the heaven, to give light upon the earth, and it was so Turns out your body is very much set up for a seven-day work cycle. And so this is a chance. What do you think those squiggly things are? What did you call that thing? How are you gonna get any of that stuff? You know, that's something else that's very unique to our planet, is that we have this protective bubble called an atmosphere. So you have to have these three habitable zones all lined up nicely for life to be there. This is an interesting thing that God now produces. I think I'll be a vegetable right about now. Kind has to do with the fact that I can't take a pecan and cross it with, say Obviously that big teeth means he's a meat eater, because look what he does. Which came first, the earth or the sun? Alright. I was uh trying to scan through this here And that won't work either, because you'd have to have way too much water and that canopy would be way too thick and we wouldn't have normal life functions. And you'd think that you're making it smaller When I say theistic evolution, do you know what I'm talking about? You're stopped, you're not moving, great time to set up a repair shop. Let's look at that. So we had the oceans first. Oh, what is this thing? God creates light, yet say this microphone here would be a light source Mercury has an atmosphere. This coconut can float for thousands of miles across the surface of the ocean They're both unstable on solid ground, whether it's a fish or a bird. And they're about 90 minutes long. We are in Genesis and Mr. All the water came first. I am a fish. Alright. And it's unusual among other planets, or excuse me, other stars that give off energy. If you go really far north to Canada or very far south and you look up you'll see something called the Aurora borealis. Alright, now we go on to the sixth day, the climactic day of creation, and that's in 24 to 31. Animals would have lived forever, just as humans would have. Just because they had big teeth doesn't mean that they were not uh uh You really gotta get a good night's sleep that seventh day, or some significant damage starts to occur to the body. It's a petypus. Yeah, who made all that stuff? All right. That comes later. Sky. I think the iris has the most number of species that are out there. What's day two, remember? And day seven, what do you make day seven? But you know what? He just kind of pecks his way around, but he wants to do it for a long time. It has a very consistent temperature that it gives to us, and so it, as it were, seems to be just custom fit for our purposes. So now we have another day of separation here. Mm-hmm. The mother died or something, and they brought this little cub in and they fed it milk. Then there's the Sabbath day itself in Genesis 2. All right, well I'm at the uh what am I at? We call it a firmament. You caught a living fossil. So actually when science finally caught up, the Bible is actually describing a very good God is the one that made it to grow out of the ground. Now it's not equivalent to our species. Uh y you you're not gonna get that. And hey look at that thing. It's got purpose, it's got symmetry, it's got point, sharp edge. All right. He says that's kinda ridiculous, sir. We talked about why the Bible insists on six 24 literal hour, literal, 24 hour days. There's five things. Now, there's a parable going on there, but uh we also see it the case of oceans and landforms. He made grass that would be flowerless plants. I do want to get to the fifth day and the sixth and the seventh, and uh then I want to save time for the kids when they can come up because I've got a little Then the sun came, so he made the earth first. And the earth was without form and void You know, you think about frogs, but have you ever dissected a seed? Both directions still introduce oxygen into his system. Man has a soul, animals do not Okay. Okay, let's hold up our hands. You know, I've tried digging a fence post in hot Texas soil, and let me tell you what, you ain't getting very far. It just simply serves as a big mirror and it reflects light There's herbs. And there's four purposes. Look at how that thing is made What was day five? That's what the ungodly say. Yeah, time allegedly. Uh if some were if you were to describe to a child what is darkness, how would you describe darkness to a child? It's the size of 393,000 Earths. Now when we read the earth, let the earth He made it out of nothing. That can't be. I do have a paper if you're interested in some of these other views on the days of creation. He says this: like the rest of an artist, gazing on his masterpiece. What was day six? It would have been like on a solid piece of granite. Carla and Sylvia have already seen it, so no fair cheating. You read about that in verse sixteen. Um uh let's see, which is the one that uh has uh oh uh Now both are luminaries, obviously, but What is that? No, not unless somebody threw it over their shoulder in a fish shop or something, but that's not going to fly anytime soon. So he over he overachieved in providing water for my uh And I'm going to try to go through this in a fairly straightforward fashion You you would you'd just be totally overwhelmed by the gases there. It answered the purpose of God and corresponded to the divine ideal. So that gets you close to your seven and a half, eight hours of sleep That's when it goes through and starts to refresh your brain and to improve things. So these guys, were they actually there? Anybody remember? God said let the earth bring forth grass, the herb. If you uh uh if you don't kill 'em, if they keep getting plenty of food and water, they'll just grow and grow and get bigger and bigger and bigger It was considered to be extinct. So Genesis 1, 6-8. Well yes our atmosphere, so they're clouds. And inside that seed it's got a little miniature version of itself and it's got a little tiny bit of food, just enough food to feed it. Edison did the same thing. That's right. Did you see that? And that's what it has been discovered to be. As you some of you know, we homeschool our children, and I had the privilege to teach my children a And he believes that God simply dismissed the clouds So he believes that the the stars, because again he's trying to force a But I believe God. That part's called the flagellum. Zero. What are you going to do if um you're if there's no fish? He's deep, deep fishing. Dry me off here. And that is what darkness is, it's the absence of light. Soft light. Some people have speculated that the earth first had a water layer, a canopy above it, that Cam, what do you think that is? You wouldn't say if you came across an Indian arrowhead in the ground You plant some seeds, you watch it long enough and poof there it comes. There was a little boy fishing off the island of Madagascar. God builds all this up and it just didn't come out around I I just um He would just have removed something that was blocking the vision. It's not gonna happen. True or false? So that's interesting. Because when it comes back in He took them, he gave thanks, and he divided it, and he gave it to his disciples. It doesn't fit. Now, they're kind of not really huffing and puffing real hard. See, you can see it over there. Alright. Next one. The ungodly say the fish came first. Huh? I hope you all enjoyed that And then we looked at this account in Genesis 1 about the days of creation, that in fact it was six days There was a division made. Sky? This means you have to have a tidal habitable zone and a UV ultraviolet habitable zone Let's just flip for a moment to Psalm 104 and verses 8 and 9. What I find impressive is the geese. And so God did that because he knows that man by nature is going to want to work himself to death Hint, you can't eat them Alright, what was day three? And life. So there's no problem there at all, that that would be a six-day twenty-four-hour period In fact, it's so protective, birds can eat it, it goes right through their digestive system, and it doesn't destroy the seed. I'll talk more about that when we get to the animals here. They don't seem to hurt that way. You just gotta rest the seventh day. A spirochete. We had a bunch of lizards in Texas. On the other hand, Venus has an atmosphere and it is so hot, it's so thick A dynamic crust is vital to the atmosphere's And God saw that it was good Maybe we just lost our feathers. He could fly 200, 300 miles and land and walk around and not be out of breath Yeah, we're just we're sleep-deprived. Well, the um so the answer is true. Yeah, there you go. I think I really need to be producing some tomatoes And you do that and you know, boy, at the end of that you're you're just, you know, begging for oxygen and water. What's that little That's right, that's the moon that's behind the Earth, yeah. That looks like a motor, a high-speed motor. It made an Intel processor and a computer. After birds, what did God make? Uh so that's kind of ridiculous. What's also interesting is that creature has It's way too hot. If it doesn't have protection on it, it'll burn up. You know why? Very good. That's right, the earth came first. They have the land first and then the oceans. The waters brought forth moving creatures and the fowls that fly You're not a fish. Now the light of day one where it says God called the light day. Their energy plays off of each other and it's uh it varies in intensity over time wildly. On purpose. What do you think that is? Katie, seven is nothing? Now the ungodly say the earth was a hot molten blob. That's not gonna work. Oceans. So don't be fooled. Um but yes, so he's got uh we've got earth, heavens, water, light, and one other thing. Now again, I'm not talking about the sun, I'm going back to the first day. Have you heard of gamma radiation? You know, some trees can cross-pollinate, others can't. So this presents a problem to those who want to hold a theistic evolutionary view. Heaven and earth. That's evidence for a bottom-feeding creature, not a land-crawling creature. Uh hardly. He created these things. Now, what's interesting is your evolutionary bubble. And they said, Aha see It was just some incredible power ratio that it puts out That's I mean obviously without that we would just be a frozen ball in space and there wouldn't be anything to talk about. That doesn't sound very open to me, and it's not. Why do we rest from our work after six days because God rested? Well it turns out that So who is right? Water. You study more and more about seeds. It it just won't By being hollow, it reduces the weight, and with the trusses inside, the little cross members, they're very strong What did he learn? The rock isn't going to say, I think I'll be a gorilla today. If you're a hot molten blob, uh what happens when it dries? Now have you ever seen the fish crawl on land? You're not a fish. But our sun is very stable Okay. Well if you didn't have w an atmosphere, guess what? So he's speaking about how He puts a boundary to those things. See if you can pick out these four purposes as I read this passage on the fourth day. Structurally, they're both very, very different. So the Lord God took time to stop and look and admire. It's a duck-billed platypus. Well, no, you can't do that experiment. In fact, you can go now to the uh down in DC, the Museum of Natural History, and you can walk into their exhibit Turn to Genesis chapter one. But they're both a fluid medium when they study how a plane flies Hey, you know what? Um land animals and It's ninety-three million miles away. Now we have something called a firmament. It's just very inhospitable. And it will so That can also be vegetables, that can be grain that yields seed. You think about how long, and under such a wide range of conditions I mean it's and these things just fly for You can eat that. So what I think is that the scientist have simply figured out And on the seventh day God ended his work which he made. He was fired from a job because he was napping I'm at the 45-minute mark and I have a little 15-minute thing I want to show, but I wanted to have the kids in here for this How are you gonna get springs of water? That word creeping upon the earth. He's pulling, pulling. They don't blend together. We have solar flares that hit us from time to time, and it can cause It uses this phrase, whose seed is in itself. And of course the evolutionist is quite happy to let you talk about that because as long as you accept his science, which by the way insists What is that thing sticking out of his tail? That didn't just evolve out of dirt and rocks. Well Mr. True or false? Most stars in the universe are actually binary pairs. Did you notice that? That's a pretty tough jacket. He made the stars also. And so that's when they come forth. You go into this deep cycle for 90 minutes and then your body kind of wakes up a little bit. Yeah, there's nothing fun here. He made a hammock. Now the ungodly say the plants started in the ocean. Have you ever tried to run like a quarter of a mile? But trees and plants, we could eat that. Land animals of the sixth day. It doesn't do it justice because it's not the scale. It throws a bunch of junk up into the atmosphere, and that has an impact on it Yep And he just happened to use evolution to do that. Uh you've seen it. So what are they eating if there's not plants first? You're Samuel. There was It causes all kinds of cancer and horrible diseases. Exactly the way the Bible describes it. I would expect Because he has a very interesting mechanism for breath. Cluth has a little uh presentation here for you. Of course, he's talking about our sun and the moon. And you would look at that and go, how can that benefit? There are some plants I found out, such as the evening primrose, the devil's trumpet He spoke it into existence. Nothing. Does that make any sense How much is nobody? Water went to one place and land came with vegetation. It has these little tiny It won't fit Well, when they observed him in his natural habitat, you know what he did Dan, if I could trouble you to read those verses there, I'd be grateful. He's speaking about the uh the earth here. I don't know. Geese aren't panting like you and I when they land We started off as vegetarians. In fact that little bitty dot that you see right down there in the corner, that little dot is another galaxy too. Professional Microbiologist over here is going to give us a twelve cylinder word. And that's why God says, I'll never do it again, because all the water that was underneath there came out already. That's not what that uh can be construed to mean Where do you think all that came from? It was considered to be 70 million years old. There's And God saw that it was good. No, no, you're destined for Harvard, I can tell. Heaven and earth, yep. Some say oceans. Yes. Bamboo. The earth was first covered with what? It's just utterly huge. So we have a marvelous thing that protects us. He keeps talking about separating. He attacks things. That's what God was dividing in order to multiply. The ground didn't come up with the idea. Maybe it's too obvious. Notice that again. It's ridiculous That's right, he rested that day. Right? So those It bears light, it creates light. It's not a sea of glass. It doesn't work. That's what evolution is, that these quote so-called random processes The positive is that God took delight in his completed work. It starts to do the healing of the physical body. Alright, next question. The next fish flops out on the land. Well, theistic evolution is a big problem because the Bible won't elect you. In the beginning, God created the heaven and the earth. And guess what he pulled up? That's the message. And I haven't done anything like that How do you go from a fish And it's whatever source causes that. And God made the firmament The atmosphere does a very good job of burning up things that fall to the Have you ever noticed geese? He was there. Again, if you go from a hot molten blob to solid land I'll show you what he looks like. You And in verse 14 it says, Let there be lights in the firmament of the heaven. It really is not. A shark has no bones in his body, and he also never stops moving. It's all up there. You ever try to eat rocks? It's interesting in the Hebrew, it's one word, just light Now, you know how rough salt water is to any kind of Yeah, he loves to eat bamboos. You just gotta recharge. That's right, you can't think through it. Be a little more precise. Okay, that's the third day. And of course they've got to be pollinated. That's not the word used here How many people is nobody? That just doesn't work. But there were some interesting facts I thought that were just amazing to me about the sun that There's Victoria. True or true. Don't let anybody tell you you're a fish. But for the most part their home really is in the air and the water You you really wouldn't want to be there at all. And I was trying to figure out Now that is a very interesting creature. It was a big bang, puff, and everything just came along. That's just not gonna be there That's almost incomprehensible for us to understand Any idea what a firmament is? It's not something that was just hidden from them and they didn't realize it was there. Alright, which came first, the dry land or the oceans? They're really kind of flopping around. You know what that is? And Chris, if you uh would you like to read that It has a way of of sending the seed off a far distance. And you know what? They're not there. You can trust your Bible. And what else? It's a firm. Some have said, well that must be the sea of glass that you read about from Revelation chapter 6. And every winged fowl after his kind, and God saw that it was good. I'm just not going to go down. Well what about this? I like that day. What do you think? If you were to try to drive Have you ever seen plants grow? It's an island off the southeast part of Africa. Verse 6, let it divide the waters from the waters Not going to happen. And of course he did that for a reason. That's great. It was He looks like that. Why would we come out of the water, hang around on land and go back? So day three you had the plants True. You ever been walking around the beach All right. It doesn't work too well. Right. What happened? You can actually get a uh burn even off a reflected light It's a tremendously far distance away, but oh what a perfect distance it's set at. The sun pumps that out He rested on the seventh day from all his work which he made. How much You're going to have a hard time. You know what else it protects us from? We read that for you in verse 20 I've got copies. True or false? He can't breathe because he doesn't have lungs. And you know what? Well that's because you missed that very last cycle What is uh zero? What's the big thing? That's one of my favorite days. Well you know it's true. Other seeds That lion was quite content to drink milk all of his life. There's no experiment they can do. Katie answered this question. There's all this separation going on It was true even in the Church of God when it first started If we wait here another three weeks we'll have an upgraded laptop It's not just what you and I would call herbs, like an herbal tincture. So Sylvia knows that I fixed this one because I messed it up, the Bible B. Those are the two great lights that we have, the moon And God held that it was good Look at that, and it's kinda got a nice little atmosphere around it. It dries really hard You're not a fish, Samuel. Well, by doing that, man, everybody was fed. Psalm 104 and verses 8 and 9. It didn't think this thing through. Where's the first place that life was created? Where do you think that came from? You know, the Mexicans have it right It was considered to be a prehistoric creature. I know there's a few fish, like a walking catfish, that can lumber around. Bamboo's pretty thick. You can read that in your own time and it's kind of more He's set those boundaries as to where they may go One did not develop from the other You know You ain't getting real far. You're going to be eating grass is what you're going to be doing. So my question is, what was created the first day? So the atmosphere is very important. Okay? No. Fish came after birds. A priori will not entertain that idea. You don't have to say live, you can say we live with. It's a spirochete. We know why he did that. He has a bill like a duck. She said time is where it's too And then it goes down into another 90-minute cycle and it wakes up again. So it's a mammal that lives underwater. And frankly He saw everything and he delighted in it. They come in pairs and they rotate around each other. And it's got a very reliable fuel source, very efficient. There's all these they're called northern lights. You know that? Have you ever tried to cut bamboo? No. What was day four? But God was there So let's start in verse 14. He dies. And um And the whole cycle starts all over again. I'll just read Yeah. There's no DNA and dirt. When he stops moving, he's dead. Zero times zero is what? They would obviously die Pretty impressive There's such a wide variety of seeds. What is that Wow, we know 'em as bacteria. Samuel's not a fish. What if it's a rock? You know what? He was fishing I mean it's a it's a hard run. What did he learn? Isn't that pretty cool? Quack, quack. We can go in even closer. They're very colorful. It's more than that.