Pictures of Christ and uh this is a one that I uh am personally am quite interested in because for covering such a common passage of scripture John chapter 3, it is very rarely referenced. I've very rarely heard it referenced in pulpits the many years I've heard passages spoken about from John 3. But let's go to this account in Numbers chapter 21. Numbers chapter 21. And we're going to look at the serpent on the pole. The serpent on the pole in Numbers 21. This is one of the encampments of the children of Israel as they're coming out and still wandering around the wilderness. And we read in verse 4, they journeyed from Mount Hor by way of the Red Sea to compass to go around the land of Edom. And the soul of the people was much discouraged because of the way. They tried to take a shortcut for Edom, but the king wouldn't let them. And the people spake against God and against Moses, wherefore have you brought us up out of Egypt to die in the wilderness For there is no bread, neither is there any water, and our soul loatheth this light bread. What was that light bread that they were complaining about? Manna. Yeah, God was feeding them in the wilderness still to keep them alive, just enough to basically sustain life, nothing further. So they're complaining. They gotta go the long way. And we read in verse 6, the Lord sent fiery serpents among the people, and they bit the people, and much people of Israel died. Therefore the people came to Moses and said, We have sinned, for we have spoken against the Lord and against thee. Pray to the Lord that He take away the serpents from us. And Moses prayed for the people. And the Lord said unto Moses, Make thee a fiery serpent, and set it upon a pole. And it shall come to pass that every one that is bitten, when he looketh upon it, shall live. And Moses made a serpent of brass and put it upon a pole, and it came to pass that if a serpent had bitten any man when he beheld the serpent of brass, he lived. Alright, a couple of questions here to kind of get us going. Have any of you seen the common symbol in the medical industry? There's a very common symbol that the medical industry uses. You know what symbol I'm talking about? It's a uh It's a cross and it's got this serpent wrapped around it, doesn't it? Does anybody know what the name of that symbol is actually called? It's called a codicus. So the medical symbol, you will see this frequently. Different hospitals have them. It's a cauticus. It's actually a little cross, sometimes just a pole, and it's got this serpent and it goes big at the top and then he loops around smaller at the bottom. Can you spell the name? Uh C A U D A C U S. Codicus. Yes. I think there may be an E-U-S in there. Uh it may come from a French derivation, but I believe that's the uh Uh don't quote my I'm not as accurate on the spelling as I am the pronunciation. So uh you would have to stump me right off the bat, wouldn't you? I can hear it well in the case. Oh sure. Well, uh back to our and of course that symbol I believe came from this passage. It's a very ancient uh symbol and one of health and and healing. But getting back to our text in Numbers 21, why were the serpents sent in the first place? To remind God that you should shut uh to remind the children they should shut up. Yeah, okay, true. Alright, to remind the children they should shut up. Yep, that's probably a pretty colloquial way of putting it. Um they uh certainly was a judgment by God. He was sending a judgment on these people. We would refer to that as a temporal judgment, meaning a punishment that came in this present, space, and time. Now, why did the people die? Now I'm really dropping it in first gear here Why did the people die? This is a trick question. Isn't it because the serpents hit them? Yes, because the serpents bit them. And uh but there's a lot of serpents that'll bite you. Uh the yes, the the the ul the the the root cause for that was because of their cell. So poisonous venomous. Okay, the poison, you're right. So let's talk about poison. Poisonous, venomous, yeah. Joey knows something about venomous snakes here. All right. So they ultimately died because of the venom that was in their blood. Judgment. Um no I'm I'm I'm I'm dropping down to the uh you're you're jumping ahead to the ultimate ultimate reason. I'm looking at a very narrow reason. They died because of the poison in their blood. Okay? And the poison came in their blood because the serpents bit them. And the serpents bit them because God sent the serpents among them, and God sent the serpents among them because of their sin. But the proximal cause, the immediate cause of death that a physician would write up would be blood poisoning. Snake bite, blood poisoning, right, that's what kills them. And I'm gonna make a point about that in a bit. Um Uh actually I'll make it now. The people died because of the the poison in their blood. They didn't die because of failure to look. You see, failing to look was failing to avail yourself of the remedy. The reason for the death was the poison in their blood. Even so, you and I die before God Not because men refuse to believe Christ, but because of the sin poison that's already in them. That's why they die. That's why they go to hell. And it's a subtle point, but I think a significant point. It's not that they failed to look, it's because they were going to die because of the poison in the gut. The remedy was what would have cured them Why is this important? Well, we jump ahead to the third chapter of the book of John, which of course is referenced by the Lord Jesus Christ, and it's practically skipped over many a time in messages that deal with John chapter 3, but it's a great picture that Christ points to, and he himself uses this as a figure to point to himself. He's speaking at night. The scene is the nighttime setting with a ruler of the Jews, a man named Nicodemus, and he's asking questions, and Jesus says, I are you a ruler of the Pharisees, are you a ruler of the people and don't know these things? And he says here in verse 14, As Moses lifted up the serpent in the wilderness, even so must the Son of Man be lifted up. Well, what's interesting about that is there's no other account of Moses lifting up a serpent. And it wasn't a physical serpent, it was a representation. This is the only account. Numbers 21, our account, is where Moses lifts up this serpent. Jesus Christ Himself is pointing back to that and comparing it to himself As Moses lifted up the serpent, even so must the Son of Man be lifted up. Well that's interesting. So in that point, map out the parable for me. What is Jesus equating here? What equations is Jesus making? What parallels is he making? Son of man equals serpent. Yeah, son of man is the serpent. As Moses lifted up serpent, even so the Son of Man, Christ, must be lifted up. You see, he's saying the Son of God must be lifted up, and if the Son of God is the one lifted up, well that would mean that serpent somehow pictures the Son of God Isn't that interesting? You'd never thought of the Savior as a venomous serpent on a pole. And it gives you a new respect for venomous serpents. And he continues. That whosoever believeth in him should not perish but have eternal life. Alright, let's continue the mapping. How is it that the Jews that were bit by the serpents, how did they get freed from the poison in their blood. What did they have to do? Yes, they had to look right. They had to look at the serpent Even so, those who believe in Christ. So there's a comparison made, a connection between looking and believing. We have a passage in here that says, look unto me. And it's more than just a glance, it's more than just an observation that Jesus was a historical character. It's a matter of faith. It's believing And then he continues, For God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son that whosoever believeth in him, again, now belief is in there twice, should not perish but have everlasting life. And the implication of perish is an eternal perishing. And the implication of life that they had there would be eternal life. So the poison from the serpent would have given them is a picture of being infected with the judgment of God through these serpents, and it would damn them forever And it's interesting, how does a serpent inflict his deadly payload? How does that serpent inflict a deadly payload? How does it come? He bites. That's very unusual among animals, isn't it? If you're going to be attacked by a hyena or by a uh a ravening lion or something, I mean they've got claws You know, the claws are significant, they'll they'll bite and they'll break your neck, but it's the the the the mechanical force of the bite, the rending and the tearing that's more vicious. Whereas for the serpent, it's that which comes out of his mouth from inside of him, inflicts this poison, and that comes into your system and takes you out. Now I'm drawing this out. I'm really drawing this out because the Lord Jesus Christ Himself points to this account. And he's not going to point to something that's a half-hearted example of what salvation is. That poison from the serpent, the judgment of God, coming from the serpent's mouth, and that serpent is a picture of Christ Himself. What comes out of the mouth of God is the law of God, the Word of God. And to a sinner It's going to condemn them. It's going to point out sin in the flesh. It's going to point out you're going to die. You've violated the law of God. You're a sinner. Romans the Apostle says, For uh I had not known sin, but by the law, that sin revived, that the law came. And I died. When all of a sudden you realize in the book, oh my, I'm facing the judgment of God, the wrath of God, I'm under the wrath of God, I'm doomed. But the very solution is to look to him that's inflicting the punishment. You see? You see the irony there? You see the irony? Well, there's a lot of interesting points to this. I'm kind of jumping ahead, but I wanted to build up on that point about what is it was the immediate proximal cause of their death, and it was the poison in their blood Well, the one thing that we see in this case clearly once again is that what man provides, and what man provided for these people was a great sin. You know, it's a sin of murmuring. Is this the first time we read about the people, the children of Israel, murmuring in the wilderness because of how hard the way was? Is this the first time we've read about it? You know, sadly it's not. And we like to look at Israel and we like to beat up on them and we like to say, oh, how could they have been so discouraged? But this was a 40-year period. How many of you have had a 40-year adult period of your life starting from age 20 going forward? Have made it from age 20 to age 60? Not many of us. Some are getting close, some have certainly crossed that threshold If God were to look back on the panoply of your life over the past 40 years of your mature adult life, how many times would He count in your life that you've murmured and discouraged because things are just a little hard Things aren't going the way we'd like them to go. They're not going the way they're supposed to go, God. Don't you know the shortcut is over here? Why am I going this long, encompassed way? It seems so plain and obvious to me we could just cut right through here and everything would be fine. And God says, No, I'm going to send you over here. And he does that a lot in our lives. And our natural human response is murmuring. I'm not trying to beat up on anybody here, but I am trying to draw you into a relationship that we relate to this text. Man provides a great sin. And it's not the first time there I've given you a passage from Numbers 11, just 10 chapters earlier, when likewise they were complaining. And it also says that there was a mixed multitude among the people. You know, sometimes we get caught up in this business of murmuring. Because of the unsaved that are around us, who don't have the promises of God, who don't consider the blessings of God, who haven't perhaps seen the deliverance of God in their life, or perhaps they have But they're ultimately not saved. All they can do is complain and gripe and gripe and complain. Complaining seems to be a national pastime, frankly. We deem it an American right. If I can't complain, it's just undemocratic. But this is not the first time. They complained in Numbers 11. They complained in Numbers 14. They complained in Numbers 16. Is it a small thing that you brought us up out of the land that flows with milk and honey to kill us in the wilderness? And their complaint every time is aimed directly at the one who's been and continues to sustain them to get them to where they're at. I don't think many of us have missed many meals in our life. Well, these people just had basically bread and water to survive in the wilderness. God was keeping them alive in a miraculous way in a place where people are not expected to survive, and that a large multitude. And so many a time they complained. And in fact, if you look at the very chapter we're at in Numbers 21, you back up three verses, God had just given them a tremendous military victory. It was a tremendous military victory. The king of Arad, the Canaanite, dwelt in the south, heard Israel came by the way of the spies, then he fought against Israel. He took some of them prisoners even And Israel vowed a vow unto the Lord and said, If thou wilt indeed deliver this people into my hand, then I will utterly destroy their cities. And the Lord hearkened to the voice of Israel and delivered up the Canaanites They utterly destroyed them and their city, and he called the name of the place Hormah. Isn't that interesting? They had a great military. They just came off a fantastic victory by a powerful king. And have you had that where God has just given you a tremendous successful deliverance of something? And then one minor inconvenience pops up. And there's murmuring and complaining. We're we're sort of pretty close to these people, aren't we? It's very hard for us to distance themselves and Yeah, we're so much more righteous and upright than they are. We can't go there if you're going to be honest with the passage and if you're going to be honest with your own experiences. So you see a lot of that You know, in general, murmuring is pretty serious business. I know I almost whimsically compare us to that, but but frankly, uh God takes great offense to murmuring. Let's uh look now, for instance, uh in uh uh John chapter six. Uh John chapter six, it's on the back side of your handout sheet. If some of you don't have a handout, perhaps one could be passed back to uh Some of the people who just came in. John chapter 6 and verse 41, it says, The Jews murmured at him because he said, I am the bread which came down from heaven. Again, Jesus comparing himself to another symbol. from the Old Testament and this wilderness sojourn, this bread that came down from heaven, this bread that kept people alive, and Jesus says, I am that bread of heaven. We're looking at a passage where he's basically saying, I am that fiery serpent on the pole. I am that bread of life from heaven They said, Is not this Jesus? This is now back in John, the son of Joseph, whose father and mother we know. How is it then that he saith, I came down from heaven? Jesus therefore answered and said unto them, Murmur not among yourselves. Jesus knew their thoughts. Murmuring is called, uh there's an English word for it. I may mispronounce it. Please don't ask me to spell it. It's called an automatopoeia, where the word sounds like It's meaning. And isn't that how it is? This just beneath the breath grumbling This not quite outright rebellion and showing up with a pair of horns and bare chested and doing some wild things, but This grumbling. And frankly, does it even have to come out of our mouth? Can't it even be in the heart? You know, because our God hears much. And he takes that business seriously. John 7, later in the book, it says there was much murmuring among the people concerning him, for he said he's a good man. Others said nay, but he deceives the people. Jesus didn't have any middle ground. They either loved him or they hated him. Those who hated him, they started off with a lot of murmuring, with a lot of grumbling. Jude talks about the false prophets that they're murmurers, complainers, walking after their own lust, their mouths speak great swelling words, having men's persons in admiration because of the vantage I love all the examples given there. But that is the description given of the false prophet, is that they start off as murmurers, as complainers. You know, the sin of ingratitude God takes very seriously. A um cheesy illustration someone gave me a long time ago is the father whose son went off to college and He was concerned how the boy was doing and thought, well, he might need some assistance and things. He's kind of went down there with his bicycle when the city's large. Perhaps he needs something to ride in. He doesn't have a watch. So he sends his son a Mickey Mouse watch and he sends him a uh a nice uh gift of a of a uh uh of a uh a Porsche. you know, one of these high-end Porsches. Perhaps it might be an interesting car. And the son writes back, Dad, thank you so much for the watch. It's fantastic. It keeps great time. I use it for all my classes. Gotta go, love you. See ya. Bye. Hmm, that's strange. The next letter comes back, Dad you wouldn't believe this watch. It fell off my wrist the other day, but I was able to put it back on. The strap survives. Fantastic. Thanks again for such a great watch. See ya. You begin to wonder, did he actually get the car? He uses it, but he's not saying anything about it. He doesn't seem to be too terribly interested in it. And it's a cheesing illustration of what great gifts has God given you. And you thank him for the small stuff, the really trivial things. And we don't thank him for the really big things we have. We're mindful. This business of murmuring, you see how it can be a great sign of ingratitude. And don't think that the present speaker is one delivered from these sins. Not. I see myself in a lot of these things. It's very cutting. And when they murmur, what they're actually doing is they're directly speaking against Christ Himself because in Him we live and move and have our being 1 Corinthians 10, that's the next passage there, which references this. They actually are speaking against Christ. It says in 1 Corinthians 10, verses 9 and 10, Neither let us tempt Christ as some of them also tempted. and were destroyed of serpents. Notice that connection. Because murmuring is a form of tempting, and that word tempt is a very strong word. It means to thoroughly try God. It's to really grate his nerves. It's to really kick hard against him. Don't thoroughly tempt the Lord your God with this murmuring business. Neither murmur ye, as some of them also murmured, and were destroyed of the destroyer. It's talking about a direct attack on tempting Christ himself. And so that's why This is such a pointed passage, and perhaps why maybe it's not spoken of in too many contemporary evangelical circles. Well, we get back to our account here of God sending these fiery serpents Um you know I think this is an interesting account. Imagine for the moment. You're in this wilderness, it's already bad enough, enough for you to start to complain, and I'm not gonna Cut it short, I'm sure it was a drag that they had to go a different path. You know, we tend to carve out roads on an easier path. It's more level, it's next to the stream, not going up and down over rocks and thorns and difficult to traverse. And uh the serpents come, they're biting the people, they're they're dying from them, children as well. I mean this was not limited to just, you know, adults, it's whoever was murmuring and complaining And of course the children are the first to complain, and they'll also the first to follow their parents in complaining, and they'll just join right in. Why do you suppose a serpent was the symbol to look at instead of something else? Why not a nice little fuzzy bunny rabbit? Why the serpent? He already sent the serpents. Yes, he sent it already done. Yeah, that's interesting. So let's draw on that. I like where you're going with that He sent the serpent, but that's the thing he's going to make as the symbol. Why? Why what reasons can you surmise that he would have you look at the very thing that's causing you such great great grief and pain? Because you believe. Okay, uh you're you're making some interesting connections, Jim? Could it be that? Because he doesn't have a backbone It's fine, it's better than you know, more or less can get into things that other people can't. I like I like your out-of-box thinking, brother, but you're out of my box right now. It's all right. I give you an aid for effort. So who did we say the serpent was a picture of earlier? Christ himself, as Moses lifted up the serpent in the wilderness, even so must the Son of Man be lifted up. If you got a serpent lifted up here, Christ lifted up here He's equating him to Christ. Why would God send a serpent to typify Christ? So let me posit a suggestion for you. It would be a picture of God both as judge and as savior He is both the judge, he is your judge, but he's also the savior. In that unique instance, by lifting up that serpent and putting him on the pole, He is highlighting two things. That God's plan of salvation is not coming from a third party. God's plan of damnation for those who fail to believe is not coming from a third party. The offense comes against God Almighty. So the solution comes from God Almighty. Eternal damnation comes from God the judge. Eternal salvation comes from God. Now manifest as the Savior. You see, this would be hard for the people to do. This would be hard for them to do. God is depicting Himself both as a judge and a Savior in that very same image. It would be hard for the people to do because they'd have to look. They'd have to squarely look at the very thing that is actually causing them death and great pain. And is shoving their way back in their face. He's repaying their way of murmuring. Like an insidious little venom poison that goes through the body and eventually kills you because it leads to discontent, to grumbling, to action, to maybe even murder. God is forcing you to look right back at that and to say, but I've got to trust him. I've got to trust him. Yes, Penny? So we connect that also to the verses that talk about Christ being made sin for us. We're that we're looking on God to face our sin and he was made sin for us on that cross as he wore the judgment. Yeah, there's a corollary to that. I don't see that as an immediate representation here because the serpent isn't depicted as a sinful thing. the aspect of imputation isn't there. I guess I'm thinking of the It's behind the scenes, it is. I'm thinking of the judgment aspect they're looking for certain. 'Cause the bite was the judgment for their sin, and they're looking at Christ who is being judged for our sin on our behalf. Um Maybe I'm gonna stop believing a little too far. Yeah, yeah. It's really I'll get you in a second, Joe. So it really is uh so you're you're you're trying to draw out the concept of imputation, and that I think is more clearly given when the priest lays his hand upon the the the animals for the burnt offering And then he's imputing the sins of the people to the beast and then the beast is sacrificed. Uh this is clearly the venomous evil thing there's Nothing depicted as wrong about the serpent in there. He's depicted as a righteous agent of God, if I could use that term, to inflict the judgment that they owed due upon them Uh so uh I really just see very much a a a very heavy uh symbol of judgment here. Okay. Well the serp the garden serpent bore the curse. The curse was placed on the garden serpent. In the same way Christ Well, bore the curse for us. The curse was placed on him rather than on us. Yeah, this is one of the unique cases in Scripture where God takes an animal that normally is considered bad news, in this case a serpent And he's now depicting him as uh uh as Christ himself. In the scriptures there's always a type and an anti-type, right? Satan always comes with a counterfeit that that is going to be attempted to use to steal Satan is depicted as a lion sometimes, but we have a lion from the tribe of Judah who's mighty and conquer, so that's just an example off the cuff. So you do see types and anti-types. Alright, so these fiery serpents If you'll go back to your handout, there's something I want to point out, because in Numbers chapter uh 21 in verse 6, it says the Lord sent fiery Serpents. And there's an interesting um interesting thing going on with that word fiery. The root of the word is seraph. From where we get our word Seraphim. And the Seraphim happen to be the angels that are around God that we read about in the book of Isaiah. So for instance, in your handout, Isaiah 6 and verse 2, Isaiah's vision of the Lord, high and lifted up on his throne, above it stood the Seraphims. That's our word fiery. Each one had six wings, with twain he covered his face, with twain he covered his feet, with twain he did fly. Then flew one of the seraphims, Ms, IMS in Hebrew is plural. Themes, plural seraps, multiple seraps, having a lie of coal in his hand would you take it from off the tongs of the altar, or with the tongs off the altar. So um This business of a fiery serpent is tied into the same nature of these seraphim that fly around the heavenly throne. There are a couple of types of angels that are listed in the Bible. There's seraphim and there's cherubim. We have songs that sing about that. Holy, holy, holy is one of those songs. And um that word seraph is interesting because it relates to the color of copper. It relate has a relationship to something being burnt. Certainly if you have a uh a poisonous snake bite you, it's going to have this burning sensation in you. There's this sense of burning. And this angel apparently has no difficulty going out with his hand to take a coal off the altar and touch it to Isaiah's lips. I think personally that Seraphims are these angelic beings that can handle hot fire, very hot fire. I believe it was Seraphim that rained down fire and judgment upon Sodom and Gomorrah, casting down the sulphurous uh fumes and uh in the sulfur upon the nation and just uh upon that city and overthrowing them with the deluge. Uh the cherubims are those that have these covering wings. They're the cherubims that are over the mercy seat. I'm kind of getting off a little bit into a study of angels, but I'm just doing that, doing that to distinguish the seraphim from the cherubim, and there's this aspect of fire, of burning Isaiah in his vision here, a lot of the imagery is coming out that God is judged. He's on his throne, he's high, he's holy. The seraphim is around him, there's these very powerful angels that can handle coals. And um uh that's who we have as the uh as the fiery serpents. They're not angels, all right, but it's that same word in that they're fiery. They they they can handle intense heat, they they they they give intense heat through the poison. That's the sense of it. Um now getting back to the uh uh uh the book of numbers And we see that these people have been bitten in the wilderness by snakes. Was there a human solution to the problem at the time? Anybody see a possible human solution to the to what they had? So, Joey, if you get bit by a venomous snake, about how long does it take for it to kill you? And I know depending on the snake, assume it's the most poisonous snake you can think of, because I will assume these snakes were not mildly venomous because it says people were dying and then they came and asked Moses for help. How long will it take you up? 45 minutes. In as little as 45 minutes. They've done tests where they will take a snake's venom and they will put it into a frog and they will monitor what happens Uh it's horrible. Uh some of it gels up the blood so thick that the heart simply can't pump it anymore. Uh other places it's a it's a nerve agent where it acts where it just totally uh zaps your involuntary nervous system. It's extraordinarily lethal. And so from what we can see As quick as it came and as lethal as it was, there was not a human cure in sight. I know that when I worked uh down at a facility in Washington, D. C. And as I was uh doing some work and going down the halls one time to go see where some of my workstations that I was the in charge of deploying was going to go, I was in a facility uh that made certain kind of maps And the maps they made were printed on tie back and silt, and they were given to pilots and they would put them in their pockets if they had to bail out over the region of operation if they could survive. And one of the things they pointed out was, oh by the way, if you bail out in this desert, watch out for these animals. And they would list out certain types of spiders. and snakes, that if you got a venomous bite from them, they would also list where you can get the antidote. And some of them, there was no known antidote Or Israel was the only place that had an antidote for this particular desert viper. There's all kinds of nasty things out in the desert, folks. And so this was a very real threat and a very real problem. There was no human cure available to these people. And from the Book of Romans, we find that insofar as man's sin is concerned, there is no human cure for your sin. There's none available. None can be found. It's just not going to happen. We read in Romans 7 in your handout, what shall we say then is the law of sin, God forbid. See, that's why I was bristling a little bit, Penny, when you were kind of connecting it with imputation Nay, I have not known sin but by the law, for I have not known lust, except the law has said, Thou shalt not covet. So the sin of murmuring was an evil. God simply added the extra ingredient to show that it leads to death. I had not known lust, said the law said you shall not covet. Sin, taking occasion by the commandment, wroth worked in me all manner of concupiscence, evil lusting. For without the law sin was dead. I was alive without the law was. But when the commandment came, read. Serpents, poison, okay, sin revived, and I died. And the commandment which was ordained to life I found to be unto death Now I'm mixing the metaphor a little bit here to try to illustrate this point of no human solution. For sin taking occasion by the commandment, deceived me and by it slew me, wherefore the law is holy, and the commandment just, holy, and good Christ chose a serpent lifted up on a pole to be a symbol of salvation and of a solution to their present thing. He wasn't holding up something evil. And therefore we have to view it as good because the Son of Man is held up on that pole. He too was lifted up. And we can only view him as holy, just, and righteous. Yea, he did nothing wrong. And yet, God is the very one who brought forth that word of God that points out sin in our life, and that word of God will be lethal to you. Because it points out sin in the flesh and it condemns sin in the flesh. And it will in fact effectively judge righteously all those on that great day. It will bring them about to the law. Well, God provided a remedy. And in a sense, this judge, in a sense, is crucified when Christ died on the cross. It says in Colossians 2. 14, blotting out the handwriting of ordinances that was against us, which was contrary to us, and took it out of the way, nailing it to his cross. God even speaks to this law in such a way sometimes uh as if though that is the thing that is the enemy to us, and in a very real way it is. Ultimately it's sin But you see, the very lawgiver himself was put on the cross to die for us, as our substitute, God, as it were, through the book at Christ. And that blotting out of the ordinances that was against us is, in a sense, hidden from us. The child of God is no longer under that. That's an amazing thing. Ephesians says in 2. 14, next verse, he is our peace, who hath made both one, and hath broken down the middle wall of partition between us Having abolished in his flesh the enmity, listen to what he refers it to us, even the law of commandments contained in ordinances. He called that the enmity. You see, that was our enemy Without Christ, the law of God is your enemy. Because it's there to point out sin and it condemns sin in the flesh and it does a very good job of it It says, the soul that sins, it shall surely die. It's God's crusade against sin. And it will succeed and it will win. And yet Christ abolished that enmity to make in himself of twain one new man, so making peace, and that he might reconcile both unto God in one body by the cross, having slain the enmity thereby. You know, it's almost hard for me to speak of that as if though the the the the very law of God itself was crucified. It's hard to even speak of that because we talk about the eternal law of God, and it is eternal And it's a thing, it's a concept, it's words, it's ordinances. But I would assert that that is no more difficult than to say the Son of God himself died on the cross. He's eternal. Why would he die? He's perfectly righteous. In fact, he is the word that became flesh and dwelt among us. And so, yes, the apostle has great liberty and I believe reason to say that you could say, even the very law of God itself, in a sense, died on the cross for us. It's a i it's a strange concept, isn't it? Maybe not one you've considered, but I've got two passages that point to that. What do I do with that? And the only thing I can do is to say, that points me to the Savior. That points me to the one who has removed that penalty, the sting of of uh of sin, that that death blow that's coming down And then the favorite part I like to get to, and I've got only a couple of minutes here. So what was the remedy for the people? What was the remedy given? To look To look. Just to look. And that look I would submit to you is a look of faith. You wouldn't bother looking if you didn't think it would work. You wouldn't bother looking. I got to look at a serpent. I'm sick of these serpents. I see serpents everywhere. They're in my tent. They're over here. You want me to look at a serpent? That's the last thing I want to look at. You know, it's not unusual that people who are uh atheists are actually quite angry against God There are people who are uh were trying to run from God and they've got their problems and they blame all their problems on God. And someone comes to them with a gospel track and says Look unto me, and be ye saved, all the ends of the earth. And they're like, I don't want to look to him. He's the one that's the source of all my problems. Well, that may be true. Maybe he's allowing you to reap early But you still have to look to him, because that's the only cure given. That's the only solution put out there. And just to help round this out some, I'll probably close here with the um This passage in Isaiah chapter 9 and verse 13. The people turneth not unto him that smiteth them. Neither do they seek the Lord of hosts. You see, God may providentially be bringing about in an individual's life very difficult and hard circumstances, smiting them as it were. It may be for their sin or other sets of circumstances, or God is not limited. And he brings these very hard situations about in their life, and he's doing it for a purpose Look unto me, turn unto me, look unto me, look unto me. He's thumping them, he's getting their attention, he's irritating them And a prayer from the old, uh one of the old uh reformers was to he prayed for men that God would give them no rest until they find their rest in Christ. And that's a good prayer. That's a good prayer for someone who's not yet saved, that God would give them no rest until they find their rest in Christ. They've got to look unto him.