Turn with me this morning through Second Samuel chapter nine. Let me just proceed the reading of the word by just sharing with you that this chapter nine is a tremendous testimony. Of what God will do in the lives of people if you just keep your word. If you do what you say you're gonna do How God blesses it abundantly beyond what you could ever ever imagine. In verse, or rather chapter 9, beginning at verse 1 through the end of the chapter. And this was after all the wars that David had fought. He'd probably been king now for about fifteen years over Judah and uh Israel. And things have gotten quiet. as he defeated so many of the enemies surrounding Israel. And sitting back and meditating and contemplating, David said in verse 1, Is there any that is left of the house of Saul? That I may show him kindness for Jonathan's sake. And there was of the house of Saul a servant whose name was Ziba. And when they had called him unto David, the king said unto him, Art thou Zebba? And he said, Thy servant is. This he and the king said, Is there not any of the house of Saul that I may show the kindness of God unto him And Zibah said unto the king, Jonathan hath the other son, which is lame on his feet. And the king said unto him, Where is he? And Zebah said unto the king, Behold, he's in the house of Makur, the son of Amiel, in Lodabar. And then King David sent and fetched him out of the house of Makur, the son of Amiel, from Lodabar. Now when Mephibosheth, the son of Jonathan, the son of Saul, was come unto David, he fell on his face and did reverence. And David said, But Vivishheth. And he answered, Behold thy servant And David said unto him, Fear not. For I surely show thee kindness for Jonathan, thy father's sake. And I'll restore thee all the land of Saul, thy father. And thou shalt eat bread at my table continually. And Betheshet bowed himself and said, What is thy servant that thou should look upon such a dead dog as I am And the king called to Zibba Saul's servant and said unto him, I have given unto thy master's son all that pertaineth to Saul, and all to his house. Thou therefore and thy sons and thy servants shall till the land for him, and thou shalt bring in the fruits. That thy master, that is Saul's son, may have food to eat. But Mephibosheth, thy master's son shall eat bread always at my table. Now Zebba had fifteen sons and twenty servants. And then Ziba unto the king according to, said Zibah unto the king, according to all that my lord the king hath commanded his servant, So shall thy servant do. As for Mephibisheth said the king, he shall eat at my table, as were the king's sons. And Mephibosheth had a young son, whose name was Micah, and all that dwelt in the house of Zebba were servants unto Mephibosheth. And so Mephibosheth dwelt in Jerusalem, for he did eat continually at the king's table, and was lame on both his feet Keeping your word has a great deal to do with how God will Will bless you and others. This week, a congressman has written a small book called The Confessions of a Congressman. They do need to go to confession, there's no question about that. They will not release the anonymous congressman, but uh Publisher said that he is a Democrat And he writes in the small book and Confessions of a Congressman voters are incredibly ignorant. about our form of government and how it works. It's far easier than you think to manipulate a native, a nation of naive self-absorbed sheep who crave instant gratification, free cell phones, yada yada, and so forth. Voters are nothing but a bunch of disconnected idiots. Who let Congress abuse its power through their own incompetence? Most in Congress, including myself, are dishonest career politicians Who revel in the power and the self-interest money that's lavished upon us by the lobbyists, and myself included, we don't keep our word. Don't expect us to keep our word. He says that he's a liberal. He votes liberal. He's one of the most liberal voters in all of Congress. And he says, but I'm not a liberal. But I want to keep my job. And I'm in a liberal district and so I always vote liberal, even though I'm not liberal. And those who lavish money upon me are liberal. And so that's what Congressmen do. The main job is to get re-elected. It takes precedence over everything else. Fundraising is so time-consuming that we congressmen rarely have time to read any of the bills that we vote on. So he was elected, hand on the Bible, sworn to uphold the Constitution, swore to uphold the things that are godly and righteous, you know, as he hand on the scriptures. But he says, we don't keep our word. We want to keep our office, wherein we grow quite rich. Psalm fifteen and four says, The Lord honoreth them that fear the Lord, and he that sweareth keeps his word to his own hurts and changeth not. There's something to be said about a person who makes the promise and then keeps it to his own hurt. Let me just slip into this. Sometimes you might say to your children, uh, today after church or to t or tonight after Bible study or something, we're gonna go get ice cream and basket and robins And then on the way to Basket of Robbins the children were expecting that night, the father says, You're not getting ice cream because I didn't like the way you behaved yourself after church in back. Fathers, you didn't keep Keep your word. If your children need disciplining, fine, discipline them. You know, shut off the TV, take away their cell phones. But you promised them ice cream and you're now you're changing your word We must be people who change not our word even to our own hurts. And that's what we see here in the scripture that David does. Jonathan had asked David back in 1 Samuel, we're in 2 Samuel, back in 1 Samuel chapter 20, verses 14 through 16. Jonathan could see the writing on the walls. He knew he wasn't going to be king. He knew that David was going to be king. And he also knew that kings of those days, when they took over, they would eradicate the former members of the family, of the royal family And Jonathan said that he was he and David had a a a wonderful fr uh relationship and and David hears from John that the Jonathan feared that maybe like all the other kings throughout the Middle East that when I'm long dead or gone or when you're now king that maybe you'll eradicate my family as well. And David was just about in tears. He said, I wouldn't do that, I wouldn't do that. And Jonathan says, show me the kindness of the Lord And also my house forever. And David says, I swear. I'll show you the kindness of the Lord. David promised to spare Jonathan's family, showing him the kindness of the word And we have to go back and think about it. David had been involved in all these wars that the Philistines and and uh all these different countries that's surrounding the area, uh the the Ammonites and And and now things were quiet and David in the quiet was doing what? He was meditating on the conversation he and Jonathan had had. To show kindness to the household of Jonathan. He was meditating on that covenant, on that promise. And in fact, that covenant, that promise is written in the Bible. So actually David was meditating on the word of God when he was meditating on the promise as it's recorded in Scripture. And I have to say that the blessings that meditating on the scriptures will bring to an individual or individuals When we look at this, had David not been meditating upon the Word of God, he would have not known of Mephibosheth, he had never seen Mephibosheth, he had never conversed with Mephibosheth And but by meditating on the word of God, he discovers that there is a Mephibosheth and that he's alive, and a relationship develops with him. Much like the relationship that David had had with Jonathan. David was not going to purge the family of Saul or the family of Jonathan. And we find that later on other kings of Israel did. Basha in 1 Kings 15 wiped out all the royal family before him. Zimri in 1 Kings 16 wiped out all the family uh before him of the royal family. Jehu in 2 Kings 10 wiped out, you know, Ahab and all of his family, and Jezebel and so forth But this promise David would keep, that he would not wipe out the family of the royal family of the seed of Saul andor Jonathan. Actually, he'd only promise not to wipe out the seed of Jonathan He hadn't promised not to wipe out the seed of Saul, but But this would endanger David's life to keep them There was always the fear that if you didn't wipe out the seed of the royal family before you there would be an uprising as the children or grandchildren got older. uh your your throne or your kingdom or or perhaps endangering the life of the rest of your family. If they couldn't get to the king, they might get to the king's parents or some of the king's children. And so it always seemed like a wise thing to do. But David was going to stick by his promise, he was going to stick by his word. even though it could be to his own hurt, as Psalm 15 and 4 said, and he would not destroy the royal seed of Jonathan's house. David, like Christ, would honor his word and keep his promise to his own hurt. Christ, in the scriptures, the promises were made. We're told in Isaiah 53 that Christ would come and he would give his his life for others And Christ kept that word that was promised to Isaiah. And there may have been a time when Maybe the Lord would say, you know, I don't know how I want to go through this. But he kept his word in Psalm twenty-two, didn't he? In Daniel nine and twenty-six, when it says the Messiah will be cut off Christ is in Jerusalem and they're about ready to crucify him. And does he say, I'm not going to keep Daniel 9 and 26? No. Christ kept his word as David here was about to keep his word. Christ, our Savior, kept his word to his own hurt, didn't he? And if we're going to be Christ-like we need to keep our word to our own hurt if it comes to that. Verse 1, David said, in verse 1, David said, Is there any left of the house of Saul that I may show him kindness for Jonathan's sake? Apparently, David had not known that Jonathan had a son, or at least that his son Mephibosheth had survived, because he doesn't ask, is there anyone left the house of Jonathan? So apparently he didn't know Jonathan had had a son, or the son had survived. And so he says, is there any left of the house of King of Saul? You might wonder if he could be so close to Jonathan how you wouldn't know that Jonathan had a son named Mephibosheth. But if you go back to 1 Samuel 31 and 6, which describes the death of Saul and his sons and the death of Jonathan and the battle on the on Jezreel and then you go to 2 Samuel 4 4. Just go back that In 2 Samuel 4 and verse 4, and Jonathan Saul's son had a son that was lame on his feet. He was five years old. When the tidings came of Saul and Jonathan out of Jezreel. So little Mephibosheth is five years old when the word comes out of the Jezreel of the battle that his daddy, Jonathan, is dead. Why didn't David know about this five-year-old? I mean, he's been with Jonathan, and then five years uh later we find out that he's got a five-year-old son, and Jonathan dies, and it's all recorded here and Well, surely David would have known about that, would he? No. The last time David had seen Jonathan, there was no son They part never to see each other again, and now for the next seven years, David is in the wilderness, he's in the caves, he's fleeing from Saul, he never sees Jonathan again. At the meeting they had Jonathan couldn't say, oh, by the way, as we're parting, my wife is pregnant. Or by the way, uh I've just had a one-year-old uh named Mephibosheth. That had not happened When Jonathan and David parted there was no son named Mephibosheth. And so for six or seven years, as they're he's running away in the wilderness and being pursued by King Saul, he knows nothing of this child. If he's heard anything about the child at all, he has never seen him, never laid eyes upon him And by the time the war is over, by the time Saul and Jonathan are dead, and David's been king in Judea for several years, and now he's up in Jerusalem as king, he knows of no survivors of the family of Jonathan And probably didn't even know there was a Mephibosheth. We don't know that he knew or didn't know, but we know he had never seen him. And at this point in 2 Samuel and verse 9, he thinks all of Saul's seed is dead, whatever seed there was there. And so he asks about the family of Saul. The promise to Jonathan was that I will not destroy your seed. But not only does David keep that word, that promise, that covenant, but as a man of God, because there is to his knowledge no seed, no children of Jonathan David of his own heart. It's called here the kindness of the Lord. And I want you to understand what the kindness of the Lord is. David, under the kindness of the Lord. And Jonathan said, Under the kindness of the Lord, please do not destroy my seed Under the kindness of the Lord. Show me the kindness that God would show. David expands his promise to encompass even Saul's family. His arch enemy, the one that tried to kill him, the one that drove him out of out of Jerusalem, drove him out of Israel, that tried to kill him so many times, the driving the javelin into the walls and I mean, he expanded John and C I think they're all dead, I think they're all gone. I would expand the promise to Saul's family. Wow. Talk about forgiveness. Talk about standing by your word. He doesn't have to expand the covenant promise to Saul's family, but that is the kindness of God. kindness of the Lord, that our our love for others expands to a point well beyond the imaginations of fallen man, well beyond the imaginations of society, that you would stand by your word And make it even better than the world heard it to be. David here goes well beyond the kindness expected of any man by saying, well, how about anyone in the household of Saul? Pilgrim, do you do good to them that hate you? Saul hated David. And here's David wanted to do good to Saul's seed. Do you pray for them to persecute you? Matthew 5, 4. That's what Christ instructed us to do. That's what Christ told us to do. If we're to be Christ-like, then we must show the kindness of God or the kindness of the Lord to others. In other words, a kindness that goes above and beyond what the world would expect of us. I was telling my wife, I think it was today on the way to church said, I have no animosity to the North Vietnamese. I mean, they just were told to go out and fight and kill American boys And that's what my government told me to do, go out and fight and kill the North Vietnamese boys, right? I mean we were just following the orders of our country. I don't have an animosity for them And David has to have an animosity for soul. And I don't think you can have that kind of kindness for your previous enemy unless your heart is touched by God. I know that I can say this other Vietnam veterans, and they will not understand that at all. I haven't got an animosity, the hatred for my former enemies I don't. And some have no hatred for their former enemies in Germany or Japan either. But it takes God to touch your Heart to show the kindness of the Lord or God to your enemies. And that's what David had here. It goes beyond human expectations when we can love the ungodly. The unsaved, our personal enemies. And we find in verses 2 and 3 that there was of the house of Saul a servant named Zeba. And they called on him, David did, and David said, Is there any of the house of Saul that I may show the kindness of God to? And Zeba said, Jonathan hath the other son. Boy, I think that was news to David. In fact he says it as though he wouldn't know it, which is lame on his feet, and I don't think David knew that either, but you go back to uh chapter four where we looked at where he was five years old and it says that when they heard that Saul and Jonathan were dead, his nurse picked them up and he she fled the country fearing that they're going to come in and kill all of Jonathan's seed and she drops the little baby. The little child of about, you know, that was five years old, this little child that she's running away with, and he lands and breaks his feet, both feet, and he's lame for the rest of his life. David didn't know about this He said, by the way, and he's lame on his feet. Zibba know that this had been a hidden well-kept secret, that one of Jonathan's is still alive. what his name was, and where he was hidden, and by the way his lame must be. It really appears that David was totally clueless that this child existed or was still alive if he did exist. The mention of one of the house of Jonathan surviving Those must have been thrilling words to David. He loved Jonathan. Not the Eros love. We're we're talking about the Agapi love. They were they were as tightly knit as any two brothers could be David so loved Jonathan, and when Jonathan was dead, we we read of him weeping and and how it hurt him so bad. And and now we're talking twenty years later, by the way. We know it's at least that long Because he was five years old when he broke his feet on the day that he was it was told that that his father Jonathan had died. And by the way, how much do you think Mophibus knew about his father Jonathan His father Jonathan is out to war all the time. He doesn't see his father. He probably by the time he was twenty years old had no recollection of Jonathan at all. And it says here that that he had a son named Micah in verse 13 So Mephibosh is at least twenty years old. And here's David. It's been twenty years since he's seen Jonathan. And he says, is there a seed left of Saul? He said, there's a seed left of Jonathan. Oh. That must have thrilled his heart. That must have been something so exciting. Oh. A seed of Jonathan, I didn't even anticipate that. It must have been thrilling words for David to hear It would be like you hearing that here he hears that Mephibosheth has been saved. He didn't die. He wasn't executed. He wasn't destroyed. Mephibosheth, he's been saved through all this. It's kind of like us when we hear that someone's soul has been saved. We are so taken back and it's so exhilarating and so exciting. They got saved? Wow And that was where David was. There's one of Jathas who is saved from all this turmoil, all this war, all this backstabbing and executing of loved ones. Gave us, I want an opportunity to bestow the unmerited and the unexpected kindness of the Lord on Mahibhashet. That's the promise I gave Jonathan to bestow upon him unmerited and unexpected grace or mercy, as it were, the kindness of the Lord. Because God has bestowed upon me, David could have said here, the kindness of the Lord. God has bestowed upon me what was unmerited and unexpected. He's made me king of Israel. How can I not bestow upon somebody else when God has been so good, so gracious, so merciful to me? And if you're a Christian sitting here this morning, how can you not look for opportunities to bestow upon others? God's kindness that's been bestowed upon you, His graciousness, His mercy. Did not Christ teach us? Be ye therefore merciful as your Father also is merciful in Luke 6 and 36. We ought to be a merciful, kind people, looking for opportunities to bestow upon others a kindness of the Lord that we ourselves have experienced. So, pilgrim, have you been kind to someone recently So kind to them that it was unexpected? Beyond all human expectation, what you did for them I'm not just talking about your wife or your husband or your children. Has there been someone out there that you would love to draw to the Lord? Let him know about the kindness of God, and you did something so unexpected. But Bibbishef it says in verse 3 was lame on his feet. In verse 13 it says it was both of his feet. So we have some here in Mephibosheth that there really isn't anything he's capable of doing for David. I mean, he's a cripple. He can't walk, he can't approach David. He has nothing to offer David, just as we can't approach the Son of David, Jesus Christ. We have nothing to offer Christ. Christ has nothing to gain in our salvation. And Mephibosheth can offer nothing to David for his kindness. David's not going to gain anything by being kind to Mephibosheth. In fact, it's going to cost them He's going to give all the lands of Saul and all the houses of Saul, all the wealth that was grabbed of Saul back to Mephila. It's going to cost him. It's going to hurt him. But David's going to do all of this. Because David would have it known that a promise he made he would keep. I gave my word. Oh, I know it's 20 years ago. Sometimes you've got to get over some of those promises. You've got to move on, right? Hmm. That's what some people say after they've been married thirty years. Time to move on. I kept the promise. I kept the marriage covered. I gave it the old American try. You know. And now I'm gonna divorce her for an older lady. No, no, I'm sorry. It's always a younger one, isn't it? Or a richer one We live in a society that doesn't keep the word. They don't keep the covenants they make before God. And David had made this covenant before God. I will show the kindness of the Lord. I will show the kindness of God. I have promised this to Jonathan. And you know, we don't read that there was a large crowd around when he did it. It was just him and Jonathan. Nobody even knew about the promise. King Saul didn't know about it. Oh my god, he probably killed Jonathan right on the spot if he knew about that promise. Nobody knew about the promise. I don't have to keep it. Nobody knows about it. But God knew about it. And if you're a congressman, you ought to keep your word when you go down to DC. To your own hurt. You may not get elected. Maybe all your other Democrat or Republican buddies will turn their backs on you and you'll have no friends. If you keep your word. That's what they hate about Senator Cruz. He keeps his word Do you seek pilgrims to do others good that are not able to return to you any favor? That's one thing to do a favor for someone, you'll quit pro quo, and now you'll get something back later on down the road. A lot of people do that But do you do a favor for someone, an unexpected favor? Show them a kindness of Lord, and there's nothing they can ever do to repay you. Wow. Wow, but you don't know what it's been like being married to him for thirty years. No, I don't But I do know what it was like for a theologian from Princeton named B. B. Warfield. He was married to his wife for 39 years He said, well, must have a good girl. B. B. Warfield and his wife were married and they were over in Germany on their honeymoon. On their honeymoon, she is struck by lightning. Is an invalid the rest of her life. He was like her nurse and her babysitter for 39 years. I mean, wouldn't there be an excuse? I'm on a honeymoon. That's not the woman I married four and a half hours ago or yesterday or this week. That's not the woman I married. I mean it's it's early in the covenant that the the ink is still wet on the marriage certificate. I mean God will understand No, what God understands that we keep our word. And B. B. Warfield had sworn in sickness and in health, and better or for worse, that he would love her, and within a couple of days he is taking care of her. He is his nurse. her nursemaid. And for the next 39 years, B. B. Warfield, the great Prince of Theologians, people talk about B. B. Warfield, the great theologian and the great Calvinist and the great Reformed theologian. I love him more than anything else. And he kept his word. To the day she died. Couldn't leave her for more than two hours at any time. And so when we say we will love one another in sickness and health for rich or poor I don't mean just staying together. I mean showing love to one another. And so David here had promised that he would do that. A promise that probably nobody else even knew he'd made except Jonathan and he was dead. And he says, fetch him, verses 4 and 5, out of the house of Makur in Lodabar. Makur. Makur. Did you ever occur to you who Makur is? I mean it's in Scripture. It's probably important. I mean, is there anything in Scripture that's not important? But who's MacCurr? Maybe some here knows who McCurr is. I didn't until this past week. I mean I just figured there might be something else said about McCurr So who is he? Years from now, while Mephibosheth is still eating at the table of Jonathan in Jerusalem, Absalon tries to take over the kingdom. Remember, he drives out King David and King David's fleeing in the wilderness and fleeing for his life. He's got about 600 men with him. And nobody wants to get caught, you know, helping David at all Well one does. He doesn't get caught, but he helps King David and his seven hundred men six hundred men. His name is McCurr. From Lodabar. From Lodabar. And he brings in food and water and sustenance and animals and sheep and And I think the reason he does it, I think, is he saw the kindness of the Lord. Yeah, I mean remember Mephibosheth is being tended to as a cripple in the house of Makur, and he sees later in those years when David the king is so kind to Mephibosheth. And he says, How can I turn my back on a king that's been so good to Mephibosheth? And so McCurr at the risk of his own life. Cares for David and his men while he's fleeing from Absalom. Bakur cared for King David. King David cared for Mephibosheth. And if you learn nothing else from the story than this, I want you to know that the Lord Jesus Christ He careth for you. How do I know that? Because he careth for you is a quote from 1 Peter 5. 7. I know the Lord careth for you, and he careth you more than David from Ephibosheth. And more than McCur cared for David, the Lord Jesus Christ, he careth for you even more so. For we read in Matthew 5, 12, Great is your reward in heaven. The Lord Jesus Christ has rewards for us. He cares for us. Now in verses six and seven, Mephiboshes was come unto David. I mean, think about this. He didn't say, uh send word to Mephibosheth, I'd like him to come to Jerusalem. He didn't say to Mephibosheth, I command you to come, or I've invited you to come. It says David sent people to fetch him. So you're hiding out in the house of Makur in Lodabar, and then comes I don't know if they were guards with swords and spears or shields or what. I suspect they were well armed because David who had long to meet this Phibosheth when he heard about him, He didn't want anything to happen with him in the travel, so he sent an armed guard to escort him back to make sure that nothing happened to him, the seed of Jonathan, whom he wanted to see. And so the armed guard shows up knocking the door and says, We're here to fetch you for the king of Israel, David, the archenemy of your grandfather Saul. And Vavibish says, oh great, yeah, I'm going to go, yeah, sure, let's just do it. No, Vavibish says, you've got to be kidding. He found out where I am. You've come to fetch me. I know what he does to the I know what they do to the royal families to see. I oh my goodness, oh what am I okay, uh they take him off Pick him up and they carry him back to Jerusalem and he comes in before David. Now read it again in verses six and seven. And when Phibosheth was come unto David, he fell on his faith and he did reverence He was trembling. He was frightened. What are they gonna do to me? And David saw him. He looked upon the face from a fibbishheth And I think that David saw, I think, a resemblance in his face of Jonathan. Wow! And David not only restores everything to him of Saul. But he adds, Ma'Fibhasheth. And remember how he says it? He doesn't say Mafibishheth. I think he said it the way I read it, Mafibasheth. I want to restore everything of souls to you. And not only that, I want you to eat at my table continually as one of my own sons. Wow. I mean David, he he had promised Jonathan, I won't wipe out your seed, Jonathan. I won't wipe out. He didn't promise Jonathan, I'll restore everything of Saul's to your children. He didn't promise. Jonathan, I will bring them in like my own sons and dish. They'll eat at my own table with me. I'll treat them like my own children. He didn't promise that. He just promised he wouldn't wipe out the seed of Jonathan He went well beyond the promise to Jonathan, didn't he? He showed him what he perceived as the kindness of the Lord. To eat at his table, to treat him like his own sons. What has the king of the Jews promise to us? That we will eat at the marriage feast of the Lamb. We read about that in Revelation. And what are we going to be treated like? Like the sons of God. Wow, that's even better than what David did, right? I mean what a promise to believers in Revelation 19. 9 And you say, well, how is that going, showing the kindness of God? Because God said, I'm going to bring you in at the banquet table, you're going to sit down at the marriage supper that I have, I'm going to treat you the sons of God. This goes beyond just restoring the Garden of Eden to us, doesn't it? I mean in the Garden of Eden God walked with Adam, but here God restores everything to us at the Mary's Supper of the Lamb, and we get to sit down with God and to eat with the Lord. It's so much more than anyone can imagine. Unless they've read the scriptures and they see it for themselves. And David says unto him as he's still lying prostrate, and he's heard about the house of Saul, the property of Saul being restored to me, I'm going to eat at his table. I mean, he says, Fear not. Fear not. Jesus I'm I'm but a dog who my eyes are why why? And David must have shared him at that point the promise that he had made to Jonathan to show the kindness of the Lord. A promise he'd made with Jonathan before Mephibosheth was even born. Our Heavenly Father has made such a promise to believers. Romans 9, we read this morning, be not yet born, neither having done good or evil, that the purpose of election might stand, not of works, but of him that calleth, as it is written, Jacob have I loved before he was born. God loves us before we were born. 2 Timothy 1:9. God has saved us and called us with a holy calling, not according to our works, but according to his own purpose and grace. Which was given in Christ before the world began. That's the kindness of the Lord. He loves us before we are even born. Not only having done neither evil nor good, but God knowing the evil we as sinners will do, He still loves us before we were even born and calls us and saves us. And treats us like the sons of God, and we sit down at the table in heaven continually, as the Mephibus does here with the King David. There's there's so much, you know, Christ is called the Son of God. Or sorry, Christ he is called the Son of God, but he's also called the Son of David People in Jerusalem is coming in riding on the on the cold of the fall of the ass are saying, A Hallelujah and praise praise to the Son of David. Save us, save us, son of David. Why is he called the Son of David? There's so many similarities between King David and King and the King of Kings and the Lord Jesus Christ. When David says you're fear not, well Christ said that in Luke five ten, fear not. Christ said that in Luke eight fifteen. Fear not. Luke twelve seven, fear not. Luke twelve seventy-two, fear not. John twelve fifteen, fear not. I mean they are so alike. You can't help but see the resemblances And our Lord Jesus Christ, does he not love believers? Does he not love those who are saved by grace? Does he not treat us who are fallen through the sin of Adam? And here's Mophibosheth being treated by the king of Israel who had fallen? One being carried by the nurse. I mean there's so many similarities you can't help but pick up on some of them. And so he hears here. I would assume the kindness of God, the kindness that Jonathan and I had sworn to do to each other, and hearing this for Jonathan's sake, that he would be restored in a month of astonished and overwhelmed and flabbergasted Mephibosheth. He's coming in to be executed. That's what he's got to be thinking. And instead he comes in and becomes rich And he sits at the king's table continually, treated as we're the sons of David. I mean, talk about being astonished and flabbergasted when I got saved. I was astonished to find out why God saved me. It wasn't for any good I had done. By his grace, by his grace, by his grace, his mercy, his kindness And verses eight through twelve Mephibosheth bowed, and of course, as I said, he said, What is thy servant? Thou shalt look upon me. I'm like a dead dog. And the king said, Mephibosheth that thou shalt eat at my table as one of the king's sons And so in Jerusalem did he eat continually at the king's table. The Fibeth experienced the kindness of the Lord For the king of the Jews who fetched him. If you're saved this morning, you have experienced, have you not, the kinds of Lord. When the Lord Jesus Christ sent his Holy Spirit to fetch you. I don't know if you ever think about sitting at the table of the Lord at the banquet feast in heaven, the marriage feast, and the conversation that must go on there. But think about sitting at the table of David continually. and being treated like one of his sons and eating. What were those conversations like? David says in a fibushet I was your father's best friend. You you were five years old when you died. Would you like to hear some stories about your dad? Oh, can I tell you stories? You know your grandfather wanted to kill me. Your dad one time he ate honey after a battle and your dad won your grandfather wanted to kill him for eating honey. Have you heard that one? I mean, you know, he could have gone on and said y there's all kind can you imagine the campfire stories that David and Jonathan had shared, the things that happened in their lives and how he could share with them a fibish I can tell you more about your dad than anyone else in the kingdom of Israel. All those nights in battle with one another and battling together, Jonathan and I. Oh, the war stories I could tell you And one night while they're sitting there eating, David comes in and he lays the bow and the sword before Mithibuseth. He says, Your dad gave me this. Your dad gave me his own bow and sword, and I want you to have them. Wow. Can't imagine the stories that must have been told as he ate there every day And I don't think we can imagine the stories we'll hear in heaven at the banquet, peace of the Lord. So has Christ sent his Holy Spirit to fetch your heart? Oh, if you're missing if he hasn't. If he hasn't sent the Holy Spirit to fetch your heart, pray that he will. For if the Spirit doesn't fetch us, oh my. Oh, whoa. Is me will be your eternal cry. You have no idea what you'll miss out on. Supping at the banquet feast, the marriage feast The king's table. Continually forever. What you will miss if you don't pray, the Holy Spirit will come and fetch your heart. Let's pray. Father, we thank you this day for the story of David's kindness of the Lord to Mephibosheth, who may it we cause us to reflect upon the kindness of the King of the Jews, the King Jesus, the King of Kings. And the kindness that He has done, though it ca he did it and kept his word to his own hurt for our souls, O Lord, may we consider today What Christ has done and no longer ignore it, no longer push it aside. May we drop down and bow before Him and praise Him for His kindness. We ask all this today, oh Lord, move on hearts. Fetch hearts this morning before they leave this building. In Christ's name, fetch a heart. We pray. Amen.