When we last visited the book of Samuel a couple of weeks ago, we discovered that The high priest of Israel, Eli's sons, were stealing from the sacrifice. They were stealing not only from those who brought the sacrifice, but they were stealing from that portion of the sacrifice that was to go to the Lord. And we found out also that they were laying with the women who were coming to the tabernacle to pray and to give service to the Lord And their their lives were a just a very carnal wickedness that had to be dealt with. And Eli the Father wasn't dealing with his sons. So we pick up this morning Where God sends a man to deal with Eli and his sons. 1 Samuel chapter 2, beginning at verse 27 to the end of the chapter. Verse 27. And there came a man of God unto Eli, and said unto him, Thus saith the Lord, Did I plainly appear unto the house of thy father, that is Aaron in the line of Levite when there were when you were in the Egypt in the Pharaoh's house, and did I choose him out of all the tribes of Israel to be my priest, to offer on my altar, to burn incense, to wear an ephod before me And did I give unto the house of thy father all the offerings made by the fire of the children of Israel? And of course the answer to all those questions were yes you did. You were very good to the tribe of Levi and to Aaron's children's children's children. But in verse 29, this man of God says, Wherefore kick ye at my sacrifices and at my offering, which I commanded in my habitation, and honor thy sons above me. To make yourself fat with the cheapest of all the offerings of Israel, my people. Wherefore the Lord God of Israel saith I said indeed that thy house and the house of thy father should walk before me forever. But now the Lord saith Be it far from me. For them that honor me I will honor, and they that despise me shall be lightly esteemed. Behold, the days come that I will cut off thine arm and the arm of thy father's house, that there shall not be an old man in thine house. And thou shalt see an enemy in my habitation, and all the wealth which God shall give Israel, and there shall not be an old man in thine house forever. And the man of thine, whom I shall not cut off from mine altar, shall be cons shall be to consume thine eyes and to grieve thine heart, and all the increase of thy house shall die. in the flower of their age or when they're very young. And this shall be a sign unto thee. Remember he's talking to Eli. That shall come upon thy two sons, Hophne and Phineas, in one day they shall die, both of them. And I will raise me up a faithful priest that shall do according to that which is in mine heart and in my mind, and I will build him a sure house, and he shall walk before mine anointed forever. And it shall come to pass that every one that is left in thine house shall come and crouch to him for a piece of silver, a morsel of bread, and shall say, Put me, I pray thee, into one of my priests' office, that I may eat. A piece of bread. Well, Eli wasn't doing his job as a father, he wasn't doing his job as a high priest of Israel. And so God moves a man of God. We're not told his name. We never do find out who this man of God is. But he comes to Eli and he says, Thus saith the Lord! Did I appear out of the house of thy father Aaron in Egypt before the Pharaoh? Did I not choose Aaron and the tribe of Levite out of all the tribes? To serve me and to serve me in my tabernacle, to offer upon my altar. And the first thing we see here is this man of God comes and he reminds Eli of the wonderful things that God had done for those of the house of Levites. And of those of the house of Eli. And I would say this morning, what has God done for you this morning? Surely, if you stop and think about it, God has done some good and wonderful things for you. And we could as we do on Thanksgiving Day service, we could stand perhaps even today and share the things that God has done for us. If you're here this morning, you don't think God has done anything good for you in your life isn't going so well, then let me remind you, you weren't born in the ghettos of Kenya. You were born in the richest nation in the world with air conditioning and heat and food and prosperity. and jobs, galore. You were born not in the ghettos of Kenya. You ought to be thankful for that. I don't think anyone here was raised in a crime or drug-infested neighborhood. I don't think anyone here has been deprived of an education. None of you here have been innocently imprisoned. None of you are shoeless this morning or helpless or Christeless, I hope. At least there's no reason to be shoeless And helpless and Christless. We've got it good in America. We've got it good in Kingsville We've got it good in Maryland compared to the rest of the world. And so we should be able to say also that God has been good for us. And that's what he's reminding Eli. Has God not been good to the family of Eli, to the tribe of the Levites And yet he says to Eli, Yet wherefore are you kicking against my sacrifice, Eli, and you honor your sons above me? And we we looked at that last week. Of the sons who were taking from the sacrifice, in other words, the people who brought the sacrifice, they were taking that portion of the sacrifice that belonged to the one who was bringing the sacrifice And they were also taking from that sacrifice portions, especially the fat of the sacrifice and other portions that belonged to God. They were stealing from the altar of God. The things that didn't belong to them. In fact, it says in verses 15 and 17, we didn't read them this morning. But if you go back to verses 15 and 17, we read there that his sons abhorred, loathed, hated the offering. Wow. How do you do a job that you hate? How do you bring an offering before God and you hate your job, you hate the offering, you steal from the offering? And Eli knew all this, we realized that a couple weeks ago as we were reading this chapter. Eli knew what his sons were doing. And he chose to coddle his sons. He chose to show them some sort of honor. Rather than honoring God's holy word, he chose to just coddle his sons and overlook these things. When professing Christians tolerate evil, they only encourage more evil And more sin. We have a Christian community in this country that for the longest of times we were told to tolerate the gays that are among us. And so some of the community, the children speaking out, they tolerated the gays that were among us. And then eventually we got gay civil uh civil uh they weren't really called marriages or some sort of civil communion or acts that were done. And then we got gay marriage And now what do we have is we have it uh we're there's a persecution now against us who are straight. We're called Bible bigots and it's turned aga it's only gotten worse, has it? When you tolerate sin, when you when you just let it go or try to it just gets worse, the same with abortion. We were told that abortion was only beef for the girl that was raped or the girl that was molested or or or you know or maybe there was something wrong with the baby. We were told that that would be the only thing. And then eventually Uh you could abort the babies if you wanted a boy and it was a girl. And then you could abort the babies because you decided you didn't get that job promotion and you couldn't provide enough for the baby. And so you could abort and it got to a point where you didn't abort the baby at three months or six months, you could abort the baby at eight months and twenty-nine days, one day before the baby's born. Because when you tolerate sin, it only gets worse. It doesn't go away. It doesn't get better. In fact, after we tolerated abortion for a while, we found out what? Now they're starting to pull the plug on grandma and grandpa, aren't they? You know the new health care bills, they've got the death panels on there. And they decide whether you get the operation or not. The government makes that decision. They decide whether you can have the operation, or we'll just give you, as our president said, the medication to make you comfortable It might even be a little black pill. I don't know. So you tolerate abortion and then you get euthanasia, and now they're talking about infanticide. When you tolerate sin, it's going to grow and get worse And that's what Eli was doing. He was tolerating the sin of his sons. They were stealing from those who bought the sacrifice. He tolerated that. Well then he starts stealing from God who the sacrifice is to go to. He tolerated that. And then we found a couple weeks ago that they were to begin to lay with the women who came into the church to do worship and to give prayers. He was honoring his sons and his children. Above God and God's Word. The discouragement that we have when we find Christians that just look upon God's word as something to be toyed with or not to be g considered uh seriously. We find that of The Israelites, when they were in the wilderness, God was going to take care of them. He promised to take care of them. Water was coming out of the rock manna was coming down from heaven, daily manna to feed them, and yet they're out there and over God's promise to take care of 'em, they get discouraged They start saying, we're going to die in the wilderness. God said you're not going to die in the wilderness. We're going to die of thirst. God gave you water. We're going to die through starvation. God's given you bread There's just all this discouragement going on all the time. And it says that there came to a point, though they were drinking and eating every day, it said they came to loath this light bread. We read in Numbers Chapter twenty twenty-one and verse five. They loathe the mannah that fell from heaven. So God was providing for him, promise and give them life. They became discouraged and they didn't believe it. And so here we find that Eli, he has the Word of God. He's the high priest of Israel. He's supposed to be preaching the Word of God. But all of a sudden he's he is honoring his sons and and neglecting the word of God, despising the word of God as it were. He's showing more honor to his sons than he is to the Word of God, to the Holy Word. He's doubting. You know what happens when you when you tolerate sin? The Bible makes very clear what sin is, and when you tolerate sin, what happens is this. It casts doubt on the authority of the Word of God. I mean, if killing babies was really wrong, surely all the Christians would be opposed to it. But when you when you when you're not opposed to clearly laid out sin in the scriptures, it casts doubt on the authority of the Word of God. As bad as it was that they were kicking at the sacrifice In the days of Eli and his sons, as bad as that was, they were casting doubt on the fact of whether a sacrifice was necessary, whether a sacrifice was was real that important at all. And when we when we uh tolerate gay marriage and when we tolerate abortion, what we're really saying is, you know, the the the the authority of God's word it hasn't got that much authority in our lives. It isn't that powerful. It isn't that important. The Word of God is here, as we look at this morning, to warn us about the authority of God's Word and how important it is to obey it. To believe it. To stand by it and not to tolerate things contrary to the Word of God You say, well, Eli's sons, boy, God dealt pretty hard. He killed them both on the same day. Boy, a father losed both sons on the same day in the same battle. What a horrible thing. But you know, they had been forewarned. This wasn't the first time that some of Aaron's children, some of those of the of the Levites, some of those who were priests had done things wrong. We go back in the book of Leviticus ten and there was Nadab and Abahu, and they said they came and they were supposed to offer up you know incense and fire the Lord, but they brought a strange fire before the Lord. We don't know what kind of fire it was. But it was not the typical fire that was brought before the Lord of God. It was strange fire before the Lord. As you read through that story of of of the two men, uh Nadab and the Bahu, it appears that they also came drunk before the Lord, offering up strange fire to God. And it says a fire came out from the from the Lord's altar and it burned them up, devoured them, and they died before the Lord. And so here is you got Nadab and the Bahu back in the book of Leviticus Going before the Lord's altar and drunk and bringing in in a sacrif a fire, a strange fire, contrary to the word of God, and God devours them with flames You would think that Eli's sons would say, We better be careful about how we approach the altar of God. You know, the last two Levi traces approached the altar of God without a reverence, without a fear, without a love for God, he burned them up with fire. So they've been forewarned. But it didn't stop them. The Bible is full of warnings for us because God cares. The Ten Commandments are not there to make our life miserable or to keep us from having fun. The Ten Commandments are there to protect us from the things that happen. You steal, someone might shoot you. You commit adultery, somebody might shoot you. You might get a disease. I mean, those laws are there, those commands are there to protect you. They're not to take all the fun and joy out of life. They're actually helping to enjoy life more. But these warnings in Leviticus of the two sons of Nadab and Abihu brought in a strange fire when they were drunk before the alt of the Lord, that didn't seem to be enough of a warning for Eli's two sons. It didn't stop them. We find also in Malachi, this this goes on. It doesn't just stop with, you know, once Nadab and Nabai who were dead, and once uh Eli's two sons, Finney and Hopnish are dead. Well, that must take care. But from that point on, we never see priests doing things inappropriate. Well, we know all the way up in the days of Christ, right? The Pharisees and the Sadducees were doing things contrary to the Word of God. It just never seems to stop. We'll find it going on today too, as well. But when you get into the book The Old Testament after the after these two sons of Eli and Hothi. It said that they're going to be killed, they're going to die in the same day, and we find out that that the curse was even worse than that. We're going to find that out in a minute But it didn't stop there. In Malachi, we find the same thing going on. It says in Malachi chapter 1, verses 6 through 8, the priests despise my name. We have that happening today. We have chaplains and ministers I've talked to, those going into the chaplaincy, those in the military right now as chaplains, they tell me they do not pray in the name of Jesus Christ. They said, look, he knows who I'm praying in the name of. I don't have to say it in front of the congregation. I mean, I could lose a promotion. I could get the motor. I could get kicked out of the military if I pray in Jesus' name And so, I mean I love Jesus, but I'm I'm not going to use his name because you're honoring the government, the military. Fear a man more than the Lord. You give more honor to a man than you would give to God. Christ said, if you ask anything in my name, you know He'll take care of us. He says to ask in His name. Not once, not twice, it's a half a dozen times in Scripture. And I think that men who won't pray in Christ's name out of fear of man or for whatever other reason they have, they in fact despise the name of Jesus Christ. Our Lord and Savior. That's the only conclusion I can see. And we find here in Malachi the same thing. It says, The priest despise my name. They offer, oh, here comes the offering. What do they do with the offering? Remember the the offering that uh That Nadab and the Bailey came that the offering came with strange fire. The offering with Eli and the offering uh of Eli's sons, hop me and finished. It came what? Without the fat. They took the fat for themselves. The fat was supposed to go on the altar of the Lord And so now what are the priests doing in Malachi? Of the offerings, they come, they offer polluted bread, moldy, fungusy bread. They bring the worst of the bread, the hard bread. You know the bread is sold and nobody can eat it anymore anyway. Let's offer that for the Lord. So they bring in polluted bread upon mine altar, and they offer the blind for a sacrifice. You were to bring a lamb without spot or blemish A perfect lamb, the cutest lamb of the flock. He didn't have a limp, he wasn't blind, he wasn't deaf. He would bring the best. But what are they offering here? They're not only offering the polluted bread upon the altar. They're offering the blind for a sacrifice and the lame and sick. Is it not evil? Malachi says, When we don't bring the very best we have to offer to God. So you come to the Lord's house this morning, collection plates are found, and the collection is taken. And did you give God your best? The Bible says we're to be cheerful givers. Did you cheerfully give this morning? Or not. The Bible says that w our attitude in the way we offer a sacrifice is so important. So what was your attitude? The attitude of Of Eli's sons Phineas and Hopni, the attitude of Nadab and Baihu, it fell short, didn't it? And so what what is is your attitude when it comes to the ultimate sacrifice, Jesus? Christ. Isn't that what we're here about? We talk about the sacrifice that we come here on s on the Sabbath and the Lord's Day. We we show due reverence to not some bullock Not some lamb, not some turtle loves or sacrifice. We are here talking about the ultimate sacrifice of God's Son the Lord Jesus Christ. And we ought to be more reverent and more fearful and more conscious of of coming before the Lord in exactly the right manner because it's not just some turtle loves being sacrificed. It's talking about the sacrifice of the blood of Jesus Christ his Son. More important. So what is our attitude that we bring to the Lord's house? Do you offer God your best? How much thought do you give To what you give to the Lord. Do you offer God the best of your time, the best of your day, or does God get those fleeting moments? Oh, got a short prayer here. Sorry God, no time right now. You know, do we just give them those free or the scary moments? Whoa, that car almost hit me. Oh God, thank you. And that's all he gets. Is that what he gets? Or you lay down at night and you're oh I'm really tired, Lord. I know I gotta pray, but I'm so tired tonight. Uh I'll catch you tomorrow, all right? I mean is that what we give God? Do we give him our best our fleeting moments our scary moments our sleeping moments or do we wake up in the morning when we're fresh and ready to go and give God some wide awake precious time? Do we give Him our best? Now we note here in verse thirty. Wherefore the Lord said, Them that honor me, I will honor. The title of the message this morning is The Honor Roll. Are you on God's honor roll? Are you on is God going to honor you when you die? Them that honor me, them will I honor. And it doesn't stop there because the Lord Jesus Christ said the same thing in John 12. And 26. It carries to it from the Old Testament to the New Testament. Well, that's the Old Testament. Well, Christ does it in the New Testament. Christ said, If any man serve me, if any man serves Christ, if any man serves me, him will my Father honor. You don't have to be a pastor to serve the Lord. You don't have to be a Sunday school teacher. You can serve the Lord as an electrician, as a plumber, as a carpenter. I mean, you can serve the Lord. With your prayers. By witnessing, by evangelizing, by sharing the gospel, dropping tracks somewhere. You can serve the Lord in so many ways. If any man serve me, him will my Father honor. John 12 and 26. God takes note when we don't serve the Lord properly. You know, people just think, oh worship service. Oh, it just kinda comes together, they get the bullshit all typed up and and that's what they do in this church. And you go to another church, you have a bull, oh they do something different here in that church. I'll tell you what, there is a consistency in Bible churches as to how to worship the Lord. And it comes out of the Bible. We don't just pick and choose how we want to do it. We look at Scripture to find out what we're supposed to do And that's what we do. Some do it better than others, but most churches, Bible churches at least, they're aware that there is a way to worship God and there's a way not to worship God. There's a way to honor God and a way not to honor God. And we find that in the life of King Jeroboam. King Jeroboam is a perfect example of how not to worship God. King Jeroboam is going to worship God. You know, when you read the story of King Jeroboam in the book of Kings, you know, he remember that that's at the time when Solomon has died and his son Rehoboam takes over and And son Rehboam says, I'm going to be harder than Solomon ever was. If you think Solomon's strong was hard, I'll make his I'm going to I'm going to be like like my whole handed fist is coming down on you. You think he beats you with what's I'll beat you with scorpions, Rahboam says. And the people didn't like that. They didn't want a king that was going to be so overbearing like that. And Jeroboam was out there, and Jeroboam said, I'll treat you a whole lot better than Rehoboam. Maybe you ought to think about it. And the Israel splits Ten of the tribes go with Jeroboam, and only two go with Solomon's son Rehoboam. But Rehoboam's got Jerusalem. He's got the tabernacle, and so Jeroboam with all of Israel and Samaria and so forth, he doesn't have a tabernacle. What's he going to do? Well he notices that during those certain times of the year, the Passover and special the feast of the Booth and the Feast of the Temple Tabernacle. The people, his people are going down to Jerusalem. And he he doesn't want that. He said, No, if they keep going down to Jerusalem, eventually they're gonna join Ray of Bohem and I'm gonna lose my kingdom. My my ten tribes are going to become nine tribes, eight tribes, seven. I don't want that. So Jeroboam says, we've got to set up some worship up here in the northern kingdom. And so Jeroboam does just that. And he he's going to figure out a way to worship God And it's so contrary to the word of God what he does. And the people go along with him. First off, he changes the city. He changes the place of worship. You don't have to worship in Jerusalem anymore. You can worship up here at Bethel, or you can worship in Dan. In fact he said we're going to set up an altar there So first thing he does he changes the place of worship. He had to come to the tabernacle in Jerusalem every year, two or three times a year. No, don't do that anymore. We're going to change all that. You can come to Bethel, you can come to Dan, I'll give you a couple places where we can go. Make it convenient for you Let's make church convenient, you know? I know. You don't like workers on Sunday? Get things planned. It's a football game. Hey, let's worship Saturday morning instead. The Catholic Church did that many years ago, and now the purpose-driven churches are doing the same thing. You can worship on Saturday instead of Sunday. I liked it when it was just Sunday It's the first day of the week. It's the Lord's Day. That's when Peter and Paul and all the people came together. They gathered on the first day of the week. That's what the Bible tells us. Uh in Acts twenty and verse seven, they gathered on the first day of the week, the Lord's Day But we know let's make it Saturday instead. Be more convenient. People got things to do on Sunday. Well the best sales at Sears are on Sunday. Have you noticed that? You get the flyers? Let's do that instead Oh, the football games and the baseball, they all start about one o'clock. It's not time to get out of church and get home or get down at the stadium. So let's so that's what the church will do. Let's make it convenient. And that's what Jeroboam said, Hey let's let's we can you can worship in Bethel, you can worship up there in Dan. Let's make church convenient. He did that. He he changed the city, he changed the worship there. And also he decided Well we don't have a tabernacle, so what can we worship? Oh, I know, he said Let's I'm gonna make some golden calves. That's what we'll do, golden calf and Bethel, a golden calf in Dan. Now where do you get that idea to make a golden calf to worship? Back in Exodus, right? Isn't that what the Israelites are doing when Moses came down at the mountain? What are you doing? You made a golden calf. So we already knew once that that wasn't right, but that's what Jeroboam does. He says, look, they used to do that Didn't go so good there, but maybe it's maybe it'll work this time, you know? Repetition uh people getting used to something like that. So Jeroboam changes the city and he puts up the golden calves. Uh he he needs priests. Oh I gotta get some priests you know can sacrifice at the altar of the golden calf up in Bethel, up in Dan. Okay, I need some priests. Well I got ten tribes that Yeah, the Levites didn't go with me. Oh, I know what I'll do. I'll just grab some people out of the other tribes. So he grabs priests and he makes them he grabs people out of the other tribes who are not the tribe of Levi and he makes them priests They're not called of God, they're not ordained of God, but that's okay. I know we're gonna we're gonna make this worship service, we're gonna make it work, you know? We're gonna make it convenient. We can do it on a Saturday. Okay, you've got to put some people in the pulpit there and called of God. We do that today. We ordain women and put them in the pulpit. And there is there isn't there isn't an there isn't a jot or a tittle that gives any any Carly did they cardles at it all? Moses was told to pick out seventy elders. Those were men, wasn't it? Christ picks out twelve disciples. They were men, weren't they? Paul in in in Timothy and in Titus he's told that they are to ordain elders, men, right? I mean all over the scriptures. It's only men that are called the priests, not priestesses, right? I mean the priests, the Sagittarius, it was always the men. Where do they get the idea that, well, you know, it's convenient. It's it's just quick. It's just it's just it's an easy thing. It'll be popular. And so Jeroboam said, I'm going to grab some people with the priesthood. Oh, they're not for the tribal Levite. That's okay. Oh, we're going to get some people to fill the pulpit. They're not men, they're women, but that's okay. It's contrary to Scripture Suffer a woman not to teach or usurp authority, first Timothy two twelve. How do you get around these things? It's because like Jeroboam The churches today, they change the day. They change those who are in charge of the worship services. This is what Jeroboam does. He changes the tribe. He changes the place of worship. And then he, you know, the Feast of the Tabernacles. He changed the day of the Feast of Tabernacles. He changes the day too. He made it a whole month different from the original Feast of the Tabernacles. Just changing the day, changing the place Changing to the golden calves, changing who's in charge of the priest. Sounds like we're following Jeroboam today, Jeroboam today, with our worship services. So we read in Malachi 2, verses 8 and 9. You have departed out of the way. I think this fits it today. You've departed out of the way. You have caused many to stumble by the law. The law is not important. We don't care if it's as women preach or men preach, we don't care if it's on the Lord's Day or some other day of worship service You know, we you you caused many to stumble at the law. You've corrupted the covenant of Levi. Well Jeroboam got rid of the Levi priests, he got some from the other tribes instead This is what the Lord of hosts says. Therefore have I made you contemptible and base before all the people. Isn't that about what's happening in America today? What do most people think about Christianity today? They have contempt for it, don't they? There's so many different types of Christianity out there. We've got the Jimmy Swaggers and we've got the Jimmy Bakers and they're running off with prostitutes. That's what Jimmy Swagger did. You know, every Tuesday or Thursday he had a he had a liaison with a a prostitute and Jimmy Baker fell in the same kind of problems and then we got them all out there the the the the the name and claim it the blab it and grab it that you can be rich and prosperous too and what has happened in America is Christianity people have a contempt for it and that's what was happening in the days of Malachi. And Jeroboam and Eli, the what what the Eli's sons were doing, pe the the the the true faith became contemptible. Therefore have I made you contemptible and base before all the people, according as you have not kept my ways But have been partial in the law. You picked and choose what part of the laws you wanted. That was in Malachi. Of course, it took place in Exodus. It took place here in Samuel. It took place in Malachi, and now it's taking place in the church today. We just pick and choose what we want to follow in the Bible. We undermine the authority of God. We think that some of the things we're doing different are are small. Do you really think it's a small thing when the church has changed the service from the Lord's Day to Saturday. You really think that's a small thing? For convenience sake? Discouraging people from worshiping and gather forsake not the assembling together of the brethren on the Lord's Day? Isn't that discouraging assembling together? on the Lord's Day. We read in Hebrews that we're we're to assemble together and and they discourage but that's a little thing. Is it a small thing that churches ordain women to conduct their worship services? Some people think that's a small thing. It's not all important You think it's a small thing that churches advertise casual worship service? Oh, if I had a dollar for every church sign I saw here, casual worship service on Sundays. Casual worship is that a small thing? Do you know why they have the casual worship service? Well, the pastor will tell you, look, we're trying to attract the lost. We're trying to attract the lost. You know, casual worship service, you've seen the come in flip-flops, be muted shorts, you know. It may fill the fuse. Some have claimed that, you know, it has saved a soul or two here and there. But the only the only thing you can be really assured of is a result. The only thing when you have casual worship May increase the pew attendance, may increase the collection, maybe somebody gets saved, maybe these are all maybes. But I'll assure you of the one thing that it does do. The one thing that it does do is this. It offers Christ Casual worship. Follow this. Casual services offer casual worship to a Christ Who died on the cross for you, it offers casual worship to Christ from unsaved creatures. That's what A casual work service is to bring in the unsaved and so you fill the church, you know, with maybe balloons and bubblegum and you cut the pastoral tie off and he swallows the fish Sunday All this kind of stuff. This idea of the worship service, we've got to find some way to bring in the lost on Sunday morning. You bring it in for this casual worship, you're bringing in unsaved people to worship Christ who died for our sins Do you think the Lord really wants casual worship from unsaved preachers? Because that's what the casual worship service is. That I assure you is what really happens. And yeah, maybe the collection plate gets full, or maybe the pews are more full, or maybe maybe somebody gets saved. But is it more important that somebody gets saved on Sunday morning? Or that God be worshiped according to his word. That we attract people on Sunday morning who love the Lord and want to serve the Lord. We you know how you attract people? You invite people to come to church. I want you to come to church. If you love the Lord, we'd like to invite you to church. And come with a contrite heart and a broken spirit. That's how you invite people. Well, they won't come. That's okay This is a worship service, a worship service made up of believers. We're not to saturate our worship service with unsaved lost people with all kinds of tricks and gimme and switch and bait to get him into the worship service and offer the Lord Jesus Christ who shed his blood on the cross for us to offer him casual worship from unsaved preachers? What could be wrong with that Am I the only one that sees that? Are you content, maybe when you're your wife, your newlyweds, and she just gives you a casual kiss? Do you really want a casual kiss from your from your bride? Or your groom? Who wants a casual kiss? Oh, kiss on the cheek. Wait a minute, we've only been married three or four days. We're only married a week or a month. Well, what's with the kiss on the cheek saying? I don't want a casual kiss. I bet you loved me. You do something really great at work and the boss comes by and says, Hey Jim, that that contract you signed, that was really great. Boy, we made a million bucks on that. Uh thanks a lot. Wait a minute. I don't want a casual thank you. I worked hard on that. I put my lifeblood into that. He's all by the way, thank you. I appreciate that. You don't want a casual thank you. Do you want a casual hug from those you love? Or a casual kiss from your bride? No. So do you think the Lord Jesus Christ wants casual worship from unsaved creatures? Boy. All right. Let me slow down a bit and That you hear from Jeremiah chapter 48 and verse 10. Cursed be he that doeth the work of the Lord deceitfully. Is it deceitful to do the work of the Lord with women in the pulpits? Is it deceitful to the work of the Lord by changing the door the day of worship? Is it deceitful to bring in casual people, the casual service, and those are just there just casually lounging about in their flip-flops and their Bermuda shorts, their arms across the back of the fuse, and they're gonna worship Jesus with you Does God want that? You do the work of the Lord deceitfully, Jeremiah says. Come as you are, no. Come with a broken and a contrite heart. David says in Psalm 51 and 17, where did Eli, the high priest's casual attitude about worship, get him? And I say this because where is this country going? This country is going down the tubes. And it didn't start in the Senate, in the Congress, and the White House, it started in the pews and the pulpits all across this land forty years ago. When churches started doing the work of the Lord deceitfully, just trying to build the crowds. Eli, his casual attitude towards his son's sin life. Eli's casual attitude towards how they represented the sacrifice, how they treated the sacrifice, the casual adult, how we treat the sacrifice of the Lord Jesus Christ, dying in the cross, holes in his hands and his feet, and a hole in the side, and we treat that with casual worship He wasn't landing across casually, just, you know, something to do today. That was a a reverential, that was a serious moment, and we need to be more serious and reverent in our worship. The music that we offer in a casual service to God. You've heard me say this before Maybe it get in and stick today. How is it that in these churches who offer casual worship And all kinds of music and all kinds of instruments never once sing a psalm. Never once. We try to do it every Lord's Day here. We don't succeed. Probably should do it more than once a day, but I mean we're told to sing the psalms There's something wrong with churches. I've asked some of these people, how long has that church been? Oh, we've been here for 20 years. The church is growing. We start with 20, we're up to 2,000. I said, how often you sing a psalm? Psalm. We've never sang a psalm. How long have you been there? You've never sang a psalm in twenty years. You do the work of the Lord deceitfully. There's something wrong. We we're missing. We are missing. That's why I like the Trinity Hymn. It's full of psalms. Uh the Magic Hymn has some psalms in it. Casual attitude about worship today. Eli's casual attitude, where did it get him? Verses 31 and 32. Behold, the prophet of God came, the man of God came, said the days come that I will cut off the arm of your house, your father's house, and there shall not be an old man in thine house forever. Wow I bet everybody sitting here's got a grandpa, maybe even a great grandpa or a great grandmother, right? You got an old person in your household, right? Maybe not right in your house, but in the household. You've got some old people. Eli stroller will never be an old person in your house ever again. He said, I will cut your men off at the flower of their age, which means about 30. 25 to 30 was a flower of the age in Scripture. I woke you will never have an old man in your house again. That's quite a curse. It wasn't just that your two sons are going to die in the same day It went much further than that. Eli was ninety-eight years old. He's the last old man in the house of Eli You know, there was a time when young people had a respect for age. They knew the old people had experience, they had knowledge, they had authority, they made mistakes, and they knew how to avoid those mistakes. Young people say, oh no, listen to my mom and dad. They made so many mistakes. They never even should have gotten married. You know something? They know that. They know harness men. They don't want you to make the same mistake. They want you to marry a die-in-the-roll, bloodwashed, born-again Christian And they didn't they thought they were or they knew they weren't, or whatever it was, they made a mistake, they learned the mistake. Don't don't chalk your parents off as I'm not listening to them because they made so many mistakes they're not worth listening to. Well I tell you, the people worth listening to the most are the ones that made the mistakes and they know it. There was a time when the old sage, the old white haired man, that the Bible talks about the the hoary head or the that means the white or the grey head There was a crown of glory we read in Leviticus 15 and 31. And that you were to honor the face that said, honor the face of the old man, Leviticus 19 and 32. And there was a time when when we appreciated the elderly and we didn't pull the plug on them. They hardly wait till they die, so they get their inheritance. The loss of a wise old sage was thought in Japan. In Israel, in America at one time, the loss of a wise old sage was a great loss. And now what are we told about the old people? They're a burden to Social Security, they're a burden to Medicare, they're a burden to society. They were the blessings of the whole world. And now all of a sudden how things have flipped and flopped and switched. from what the scriptures teach, and what the scriptures teach is true. The wise old sage it was a great loss to lose one. But to be told in your household there will never, ever, for ever be a wise old man, that's a major curse that was to follow the household of Eli There will never be an old man and any of your children or your children's children or your great grandchildren are all gonna die young And we see it happening and we go ahead in a couple of weeks. This is 1 Samuel 22, verses 18 through 20. David's out running from Saul, Saul wants him dead, and David ends up in the city of Nob. Nob's about two miles north of Jerusalem. For some reason that became the community where all the Levite priests lived. They lived in in Nob, and then when it was their turn to come down and work in the tabernacle they would But they all lived up in Nob in that community. And so David fled from Saul and he thought that's the best place I can go. Let me get a cu I want to get a community with a bunch of Christians I can trust and maybe they can help me And they gave David some bread, and they gave him Goliath's sword. And Saul finds out about it. And he goes up and he has a man named Dog, like a dog, and he says, I want these priests executed. And he kills 85 priests in the city of Nob And the women and the children and their animals. They annihilate them. Only one of Eli's blood escapes Came through pretty quick, didn't it? Eli, none of your family will live to be an old of old age. Eli neglected to uphold the word of God. Eli neglected to require that his sons hold to the Word of God. He paid dearly. His whole family paid dearly for Eli's mistake. Pilgrims, are you neglecting the scriptures today? Are you neglecting the Savior today? Are you neglecting instructing the souls of their children? Because if you are, you will pay dearly. You'll pay more than you ever expect to. It will haunt your household for the ages to come if you're not teaching the scriptures, if you're not praying with your children, if you're not concerned about their souls. It'll haunt your household for ages to come. And we're not done yet with Eli's curse. You know, he's told that his two sons will die all on the same day. But in verse 33, the man of whom I shall not cut off, oh, there will be some that won't die as early as others, but they shall be left to live, it says, grieve your heart. You know, oh, we're not gonna kill everybody in your family. There's gonna be few of them left, but those who do live to be 20 or 25, they're gonna grieve your heart. The children who lived longer would prove to be more wicked than the ones that were died. They would prove to be scandalous and vexing, of greater grief to your family than those who died young You think it's a great grief to lose someone young? I'm going to leave you as sons of Eli that they'll live long enough to be so scandalous that you'll wish they had died instead. There'll be a greater grief to you than the ones you lost at a young age And this shall be the sign, your two sons, Hopni and Phineas, in one day they shall die, both of them And that day came. We'll read about it in 1 Samuel 4 and 11. A messenger comes running up to Eli. He's all out of the body. What happened? What happened? I said, I've just come to the battle. I've just come to the battle. Israel's been defeated. Oh no. They your two sons have died. Oh no! The Ark of the Covenant's been taken by the Philistines! Oh no! And Eli falls backwards, breaks his neck, and he dies. You see, he was just told his sons were going to die. But he found out it was worse than that. The Ark of the Covenant would be stolen. Israel will be slaughtered, and he was going to die on the same day also. We have to learn from that that when when God gives us warnings. And we we read these warnings in the Bible and we think they sound so terrible and and we don't want to talk about them that it's probably worse than the scripture tells us. What do you think Christ has in store for us who kick against his sacrifice. This is how bad it is when you kick, he said, kick against the sacrifice of God, verse 29. You kick against the sacrifice, sacrifice of turtle dogs, the back of the sacrifice of a lamb. or a goat. But how about the kick against the sacrifice of Christ? The Bible talks about how we trodden underfoot the Son of God and counted his blood as unholy. Hebrews ten and twenty-nine. There are people out there, they just they could care less about the blood of Christ. They care less about the gospel. They just trample upon the you know you you see a Bible you leave a Bible track somewhere in a restaurant somewhere in a bathroom you come back an hour later and what do you find? It's on the floor and people have been walking all over it. They're just trampling on the gospel. They don't care anymore today And what do you think it will be like for those who kick against the sacrifice, Christ's sacrifice, the ultimate sacrifice? There is a hell, you know. There is a hell. Eternal. It's not just some evangelists who try to make it soft and and fuzzy. A hell is a place where you're eternally separated from God You ever heard that one? Look, most unsaved people would be happy with that. They don't want to have anything to do with God here, and if they can spend eternity being separate from God, that's fine with them. But that's not what the scriptures calls hell. Christ talked about what hell was like. He calls it in Matthew eight twelve, eight chapter eight and verse twelve. It's a place of outer darkness. The blackness of darkness forever. Christ says in Mark 9 43, Hell, it's a place where the fire shall never be quenched. Christ again says, and this is the Lord Jesus Christ, not me. This is Christ saying in Matthew 13 and 42, it's a place of wailing and gnashing of teeth. It's a place of torment. I could just tell you it's a place where you'll be eternally separate from God. But that's not what Christ describes. But at the end of this chapter that's given us hope. And I realize that time is short now, but God reveals that there's still hope for Israel in this chapter as he's talking to Eli with this holy man talking to him. There's still hope for Israel. There's still hope for believers. In verse 35 and 36, he says, I will raise me up a faithful priest. Thank God Israel's gonna have a faithful priest, the believers are the faithful priest, God has provided the world with that priest, His name is Jesus Christ He is the high priest of those who believe. He is approachable by all. He is willing to provide the smallest of needs to us. And verse 36, come for a morsel of daily bread. He'll give it to you Our next prayer. Our next prayer, pilgrims ought to come from our heart. Come even now and come quickly. We ought to include in our next prayer, forgive us our sins. Lead us not to temptation. Deliver us from evil. May our names be found in the Lamb's Book of Life. They are names beyond that heavenly honor role. Oh, can we just pray that before we die and do it soon? Let's pray. Father, we we thank thee that as we look about the scriptures, we find that America is not in any worse shape than Israel was. And you came back time and time again and gave Israel a second chance and a third chance. And Lord, I don't know how many chances America's had, but we pray that there's still time for a space of grace again f that our children and our grandchildren might know the country, might know the God, might know the faith that we grew up with May this not be the last generation to bow the knee to the Lord Jesus Christ. May this not be the last generation that loves, quotes, and memorizes your word. May this not be the last generation, Lord, that That has an interest in the Lord. Raise up among us priests. Holy Royal, the Holy Royal Priesthood we're called as believers, Lord. Raise up among us. Faithful, faithful people of God. And we ask this in Christ's name. Amen.