Turn with me this morning to 2 Samuel as we continue our pilgrimage through this book, chapter by chapter, verse by verse. 2 Samuel, 2nd chapter, beginning at verse 12 through the end of the chapter. We don't usually take that larger portion. But this is a a storyline here that needs to be uh begun and finished in one reading. Verse twelve. And Abner the son of Nur And the servants of Ephbesheth, remember he was the king of Israel, Eshbesheth, the son of Saul. And uh he went out from Mahanan to Gibeon. And Joab, the son of Zeruiah, and the servants of David, went out and met together by the pool of Gibeon. And they sat down, the one on the one side of the pool, and the other on the other side of the pool. So you had the captain of the host of Israel, Abner and his men on one side And the captain of the host of Judah, that is Joab, sitting on the other side of this pool. And Abner said to Joab, Let the young men now arise and play before us. And Joab said, Let him arise. And then there arose and went over by number twelve of Benjamin, which pertaineth to Ifesheth, the son of Saul, and twelve of the servants of David. And they caught every one his fellow by the head and thrust his sword in his fellow's side. So they fell down together, wherefore that place was called Helkath Hazarim. Which is in Gibeon. And there was a very sore battle that day, and Abner was beaten, and the men of Israel before the servants of David. And there were three sons of Zeruiah. There Joab, Abishai, and Asahel. And Asahel was as light of foot as a wild roe. And Asharel pursued after Abner. That's the captain of the host of Israel. He pursued after him. And in going he turned not to the right hand nor to the left from following Abner. And Abram looked behind him and said, Art thou Asahel? And he answered, I am. You've got to remember this is a small country, and the captain of the host of Israel, he knew who the captain of the host of Judah was. They knew family and friends, Benjaminites and the tribe of Judah were very close by. Thought he recognized them. He said, Are you Astah Hell? And he says, I am. And Admiral said to him, Then turn thee aside to thy right hand or to the left. Lay thee hold on one of the young men, and take thee his armor. But Ashel would not turn aside from following of him. And Admar said again to Asel, Turn thee aside from following me. Wherefore should I smite thee to the ground? How then should I bol hold up my face? to Joab thy brother. Albeit, Asal refused to turn aside, and wherefore Abner with the hinder end of his spear smote him under the fifth rib, that the spear came out behind him. And he fell down there and died in the same place. And it came to pass that as many as came to the place where Asahel fell down and died, they stood still. And Joab and Abishai, the two brothers of Asahel, they pursued after Abner. And the sun went down when they were come to the hill of Amoth that lieth before Gilgiah. By the way of the wilderness of Gibeon. And the children of Benjamin gathered themselves together after Abner, became one troop, and stood on top of a hill. You want to take the high ground when you're losing. It's a good place to fight from And Admar called unto Joab and said, Shall the sword devour for ever? Knowest thou not that it will be bitterness in the latter end? How long shall it be then, ere thou shalt bid the people return from following their brethren? So here's Joab saying, Hey, we're we're brothers. It's enough of this stuff. It's going to end bitter. Let's not fight anymore. Well, he's losing. Of course, that's his plea. And Joab said, verse 27: As God liveth, unless thou hast spoken Surely then in the morning the people had gone up, every one, from following his brother. So Joab blew a trumpet, and all the people stood still, and pursued after Israel no more, neither fought they. Anymore. And Abner's men walked all that night through the plain and passed over Jordan and went through all of Bithron And they came to Mahanahem. And Joab returned from following Abner. And when he had gathered all the people together, they lacked of David's servant nineteen men And Asahel. That's how many were killed, 20 on David's side. And the servants of David had smitten of Benjamin and of Abner's men, so that 303-score, or 360 men died So twenty on one side and three hundred and sixty on the other. And they took up Asahel and buried him in the sepulchre of his father, which was in Bethlehem. And Joab and his men went all night, and they came to Hebron. At break of day. Titled The Message this morning: The Quarrel. And of course the quarrel was between whether David should be the king or whether Ishbesheth should be king. Well Judah had made David king over Judah. And uh the the tribes of Israel, the twelve northern tribes had made, at least the tribe of Benjamin for sure, had made Ishbesheh tribe over the rest of Israel. And there was a quarrel. Who should be king We know scriptures have prophesied through Samuel that David should be king, but Abner, captain of the host of Saul's army, he wanted to remain captain of the host. And he had put the son of Saul in place as a king. And so here's the quarrel. Who should be king? And so Abner and his men they come down to a place by the pool of Gibeon. And this is this is a foray. This is a kind of a seeking out and poking and prodding and probing to see whether there's something they could do to drive David's men out of Judah uh to drive them from the throne and so forth. It was a probe, a friendly probe at first, but they were just testing the waters, Abner was, to see if David and his men might back off and release the crown and and let Ith be the king. And so Abner met Job by the pool of Gibeon, and Abner said to Job, Let the young men arise and play before us. And Joab said, let him play. And they both understood that before long the play would become a little rough. And they're a little aggressive and well we'll see where it goes from there, but I think they both knew what was gonna happen. King David was not one to aggressively provoke Saul to aggressively provoke uh Israel. He was not that way at all. He would not attack whom he considered his brethren. He would not oppose them Like sec second 1 Corinthians 13, 4 and 7, David well felt that love or charity suffereth long. He was willing to wait until God gave him the crown of all Israel uh love suffereth long, beareth all things. David had already bore a lot, hiding in caves and running from Saul and and being persecuted and so forth. He was going to bear all things, endure all things. He was not going to force his kingship on Israel. He would take the wrong, it says in 1 Corinthians 6 7, take it the wrong, suffer to be defrauded. That was David. He would take the wrong and suffer to be defrauded. Rather than get into a quarrel, Where blood might be shed. But his captain, Joab, did not feel that way. His captain Joab felt it's David's crown to take, it's David's crown to have. He's being defrauded. He's not being treated right. This is not right. He's endured enough. He's barred enough. The heart of Joab and the heart of Abner was not the heart of David David would have loved the brethren, and he would have been courteous to the brethren. We're told we're to love the brethren. We're to be courteous to the brethren. 1 Peter 3:8. But this was not the spirit we find in the pool of Gibeon. And so we find that when they could have sat at the at the pool, one group on one side and one group on the other side, and his admiral proposed that maybe we should get up and play together and And Joab accepted all this. Perhaps they they could have had time really to hesitate, as brothers in Christ should have, and and they could have had time to deliberate, and they would have had time to negotiate, and there would have been time to cooperate But no, they get in this engagement. They get in this let's play sort of thing The first thing I want to say this morning is Ahab said to Joab, while we play, I I dare you to send your men out, I'll send my men out. I dare you, we'll get through this play. You know, maybe a little game of tap me laugh, a little slappy slappy here and there. And of course the little tap me lasts and the smacking and person becomes harsh pushing and shoving and punching, and before you know it they're dead But it was a dare. I dare you to get your men up. Let your men get up and play before my end. Man, let's see who has the greatest agility. Let's see who is the swiftest. Let's see who is the strongest. I dare you. And Joab took the dare. Pilgrim, is it wise to accept every dare proposed to you? You you young people sitting this morning. In your life people are gonna propose to you things. They're gonna dare you to run that stop sign with your driver's license within a week you have your new driver's license Someone's gonna dare you to run the stop sign, run the red light. Someone's gonna dare you to you can speed. There's nobody around this time of night. This road is built to do 70 miles per hour. They're gonna dare you to do it. I dare you. I double dare you Oh, don't dare you to disobey your parents' curfew. They said to be in by midnight. Well, quarter after twelve is close enough, isn't it? Daring you to disobey your parents. They'll dare you to drink. I don't mean drink a whole beer. I don't mean get drunk. I mean just just sift it. Just sift it. Or maybe to take some drugs. Or maybe they dare you to go out with a girl that they know that really she's really pretty or she's really nice or got a great personality, but you know she's not a Christian You know she's not saved. You know that be unequally yoking yourself, but they say, I dare you to go out with her. Is it wise to accept every dare proposed to you? You young people think about your peer groups and the pressure they put on daring you to do something that they've already done. And they'll feel a lot better if you'll do it too. You know, misery loves company And so the dare was, let the young men play before us. And Joab, well He just he just couldn't walk away from a dare. He was a man. Not gonna let somebody laugh at him that he didn't dare do something. I'm as brave as anybody else I think my men are just as strong, just as fast, and just as skillful. Let the men play together. How often a proud heart Stirth of strife. Proverbs 28 and 25. How often are proud hearts take the dare, and strife follows If only Joab had been advised by someone like the Apostle Paul in Colossians 4 and 6, let your speech be always with grace, seasoned with salt. That you may know how you ought to answer every man. When someone dares you, we need to make sure that our response is seasoned with salt. That is that what we say in our response will preserve souls and not cost souls. It's so much I dare you to speed. Well now, will that preserve a soul or maybe cost a soul's life? Maybe maybe we'll be wrecked out on the highway tonight if I take the dare. Well our answer has to be in such a manner that it will preserve Saul's souls, that our speech should always be graced with seasoned with salt, that it will preserve a life, not maybe cost a life And because it's seasoned with salt, it means that our answers ought to be palatable to the hearers When our children ask us the question and the answer is no, we ought to make it at least a palatable no. It ought to be something that they would understand when we speak to our spouse. We ought to speak them in such a manner that that the answer, if it's not the one they were hoping for, at least it is sweet and it and it comes in it's something tasteful, it's something that they can swallow at the time and understand that it's for the best of them Let your speech be always with grace and seasoned with salt, that they may know how you ought to answer others. So let it be palatable to your spouse and to your children. Let your answers be, though they're a no, or sometime later, although you're going to put off what they want to do now. Let the answer be in such a way that it falls easy upon their ears The answer to a child is no, I said no and that's the end of it. That's not gonna fall easy on the earth. Because I said so, it's not gonna fall Easier on the world. Because that's the way it's always been. Or because my mother and father made me do it, and my grandfather made me do it, and so you're going to do it too, and there's no other explanation given. We need to explain to our children sometimes why the answer is no Make it easy on their ears. No that somebody had said to Job that morning, Proverbs 25, 8, go not forth hastily to strike. How eager we are sometimes to get into a battle of things. We think we got all the information, you know, that we got all the the arguments and the weight on our side, and we can just nail them to the wall and beat them in the argument, and maybe you can But you don't gain a friend. You don't win the day. You just drive them away and they'll never come back. Go not forth hastily to strive, even if you think you can win. Joab thought he could win, and he was right. But his brother died. He didn't think about that, did he? We can beat these guys. Abner and his men off. We'll beat them. We'll beat them 10 to 1. And that's just about what he did. They lost 20 and they lost 360. Oh man. But Joab lost his brother, Asahel. Verses 15 through 17, sure, let's do it. And they arose twelve of the Benjamites and twelve of the servants of David, and everyone thrust a sword into his fellow aside. All twenty-four died And the reason all twenty-four died is these twenty-four men were individuals who would neither beg for mercy nor would they give mercy. We got twenty-four men here, and not a one of them has any ounce of compassion in their body You're getting into a fight with someone with a sword or a spear, and you you you gouge them in the shoulder and they drop their sword and you back them against the tree. Where's the call for mercy? Where's the compassion? Not one of these men was compassionate towards the other. That is so contrary to the things that we're taught in school. Scripture to not show compassion? For those of you who've got family and friends who have been in Iraq or Afghanistan and fought in wars, you you capture some of this wounded You don't execute them. You take them to the corpsman and you fix them up. You try to find out what information you get from that. You give them a meal. But these men had no compassion Scripture tells us that we're to be tolerant of one another, forbearing one another, forgiving one another. If any man have a quarrel against any Even as Christ forgave you, so also do ye. They have a quarrel. They're swinging the swords. They're nicking and dinging each other, and there's blood being let. Let's show some compassion. Let's be tolerant Forgiving one another. Okay, we started this game. Let's play it. It's gotten a little carried out of hand, but let's show some compassion. This quarrel has become a fight to the death You ever get into a quarrel with family? Co-worker? Neighbor? How'd it turn out? Did you expect it to go as badly as it did? We as Christians need to be a little more More compassionate. Especially when you know you're right. When you know you're right. Joab knew he was right. Dave was supposed to be the king. He could say, I'm not going to get up and play. I know that game. I'm not taking that day. I know I'm right. I'm with King David. The Bible says it. Samuel says it. He's to be the king. We don't have to fight to the death over this. When you know you're right about something You should be able to be calmly say, well, I'm sorry you feel that way. The scripture says this, this, and that. And I guess we've we've come to an impasse. Walk away. Joab couldn't do that. And now his brother lies dead. Someone as I said it started out with a tap me last. Have you ever played that in your house? Tap yeah, you try to tap the person jump back and then don't want the tap you and then they tap you and pretty soon somebody gets a little mad and they swing really hard and hit someone kind of hard and someone cries and they're hurt and you know turn the other cheek. Isn't that what Christ taught us If this starts out, the quarrel's getting out of hand. Rather than ending into what here is described as a very sore battle that it went, can we not turn the other cheek? That's the way Christ would have handled it. They smite you on the cheek, offer them the other, Luke six and twenty-nine. But it didn't end that way because these commanders, these two commanders, Joab and Abner, they did not have the fruits of the Spirit. In fact, when you look at the fruits of the Spirit, the fruits of the Spirit recorded in Galatians 5. 22, you look at the fruits of the Spirit, we got love, joy, peace, long-suffering, gentleness, and goodness. If it had any one of them, they don't need all of the fruits of the Spirit. There's nobody here that's got all the fruits of the Spirit. But can you imagine Joab and Admiral? If even one of them had love This wouldn't have happened. If even one of them had had joy. You know, happy people don't want to fight. It's usually when you get in a fight with some they're not a happy person. But happy. If they'd had the joy of the Spirit, there wouldn't have been a fight. If they'd had the peace of the Spirit, there wouldn't have been a fight. If one of them had just been more long-suffering than the other, there wouldn't have been a fight. If there had been some gentleness among these two men, there wouldn't have been a fight. If there had been some goodness. There wouldn't have been the quarrel, there wouldn't have been the strife, there wouldn't have been the death, everything would have been dissipated and dissolved Do you know some quarrelsome Christians out there? It it's it's almost an enigma to me Oh that guy's a Christian. Boy, look at the boy he's getting it with somebody over there on the other side of the job. I wonder what that's all about. Man, they're really going to it. I have a problem with Christians who are so argumentative over non-essential things and they get so bombastic. Walk out of a family gathering or a family reunion and it just it just amazes me how there can be these the these Christians who should have some of the fruits of the Spirit I would encourage you as Christians to seek the fruits of Spirit rather than the gift of tongues, alright? You see if you don't have the fruits of spirit, you're going to use your tongue in a wicked way and you just don't need an extra tongue. You know? It's bad enough that you're going to fight people in one language. You don't need to know two or three languages and fight other people in other different languages. You need the gifts but rather the fruits of spirit. Spirit. More than we need the gifts of the spirits. Encourage the people You look at 1 Peter 3 and 4, he says, and you find this author of scripture, what we're supposed to be like. A meek and a quiet spirit, Peter says. Christians are to have a meek and a quiet spirit, and in the sight of God it is of great price. Well, God's looking down on us, and he sees some of a meek and a quiet spirit. and a quiet spirit. When you're in your household and something goes wrong, and a quarrel starts to simmer on the back burner, and you can see some strife coming. Think about being a meek and a quiet spirit. There shouldn't be that finger pointing in the face and that finger jabbing in the chest. That's who means the pushing and hitting and shouting. If there's a meek and quiet spirit, there ought not to be the husband demanding that he's the boss, he's the headship, and I will be obeyed here or else. Where's the meek and quiet spirit? Christ never spoke that way to his disciples. Nor should it be that threatening voice from the spouse towards the husband. Saying, oh, is that what you think? Well I'll tell you what, it'll be a long cold day in you know where before you get a warm meal again It'll be a long cold day before your bed isn't cold for a long, long time. It'll be a long time you've got a rough road ahead of you, husband, after that comment. Really? Is that a meek and quiet spirit, wives? To threaten your husband with a cold meal, cold bed, rough road ahead The servant of the Lord must not strive, but be gentle. Okay, here I'm going to go to meddling on this one. The servant of the Lord must be not strive, but must be gentle unto All men. Ladies, that means your husband's a man. That means you are to be gentle unto him. as well. It says here that a gentle servant of the Lord must be not strive and must be gentle unto all men or her husbands And it says, Behold, we will count them happy, which endure. There are things we have to endure in a marriage, there are things we have to endure in a home. Things we have to endure from our neighbors and things we have to endure from our co-workers. But it says, Behold, we count them happy which endure. This is what this is written of Job. We count them happy which endure You have heard the patience of Job and you've seen the end of the Lord. And the Lord was very pitiful to Job. And he was of tender mercies. James 5:11 records that. We are to endure all things. We are, we know that when we do that, God will show us tender mercies. And so men, you don't think you got the wife you thought you married? You're to endure God will be tender towards you. Your bride, by the way, if she loves the Lord, is of the royal priesthood. You are married to a princess. You are married How do you think the Queen of England is treated by everybody over there? She's treated with respect. And if your wife's a saved lady And she is a bride of the King of Kings, you better treat her with respect and reverence and tenderness. And we are to endure all things, and we look at how people endured in the scripture. Stephen, he's there, he's there about the stone, and the rocks are flying. He kneels down, he cries out, Lay not this into their charge Wow, that's enduring a lot, isn't it? So husbands, if the wife's throwing pots and pans at you, just get down your knee hands and knees. I don't know what this will do. If your wife is saved and she just has one of those days, right And she throws a pot or a pan at you or something like that. Get down on your knees and say, Lord, lay not this sin to her charge. But endure it. Come on, guys. A pot or a pan from your wife? Did that did you feel like your your life was in danger? Did you see your life pass before your eyes? Of course not I remember one of our households, the family, I won't mention the name, but there was a wife that she was uh she loved to throw dishes. And she would throw dishes at her husband. Everybody knows who it was. Broke this plate. It was early on the marriage, broke another plate, broke another plate, and she'd throw coffee cups at him. And there were dings and holes in the wall, and and the husband, he just took it. He just endured it all. And one day she grabbed the cup, she raised back and said, No, not that one. She says, Why not? He said, Because it's the last cup in the house. That's why not. She'd been through all addition. He endured. They're still married. Happily married. It takes some enduring sometimes. And no, that wasn't my wife, by the way, in case you're wondering. But we are to endure. Stephen did he kneel down and cried, lay not the sin to their charge. As David said, David said, here's Absalom. Absalom goes out and he and he captures the concubines of David. He's trying to kill trying to kill his father David. And David says Deal gently with Absalom, 2 Samuel 18. Deal gently with the guy trying to kill you. Deal gently, the guy's got all your concubines up on the rooftop, and he's having his way with them to embarrass you and to defile your name. And he says, be gentle with him. But there was no gentleness shown this day by Joabner or by the men on either side. And they both claim to be Israelites, following the God of Yahweh. And look how they treat those within their own nation. Look how they treat those who would Worship at the same tabernacle. No compassion And so in verses eighteen through twenty three, Asahel he's pursuing after Abner, and Abner says, Lay hold of one of the young men, howbeit he refused to turn aside, whereby Abner then killed him with the hinder and the hinder end of his spear. I just want you to see this. Here's Asdal. He is really fast. And the the men are in retreat. And Ashel's chasing and there's men that he's passing by that he can shove a spear into or take a sword and kill, but he wants the king. And he he outruns some of King not the adver, but he wants the adver as a commander of King Ishbazim But he wants the captain of the host of Israel. He wants, that's the prize package. Take the captain of the host. Take him, capture him, kill him, the whole army will be in disarray, they'll fall apart, and maybe David will be king by tomorrow And so he's charging up the hills, he's chasing after uh after Abner, and there's other young fellows around that are fleeing as well that he could he could kill, maybe some lieutenants you know, maybe some corporals or something, but he wants the prize. He wants Abner. And Abner turns around and says, Aren't you Joab's brother Israel? He said, Yes I am. He said, Well turn aside. Go after with the young men They're not as as experienced a warrior. They're more along your level. You're a young fella. You haven't fought that much. You don't know mu that much about warfare. This is no match. Me and you, it's like a cat and a mouse. You haven't got a prayer Just if you want a if you want a trophy, kill one of these men. Take their shield, take their helmet, and go trotting back to David and say, Hey, look at the shield I got. Look at the trophy I got. Look at the helmet I captured off someone that I've I've taken out But don't try and take me out because it won't work. And how will I explain to your brother Joy I better kill you? And Ashao, he he knew he was fast, he knew he was quick. And he thought this old man Abner, he he's not as quick, he's not as fast, he may be strong, but I've got the edge on him with speed and agility But Abner, the old warrior that he was, he had some things that he knew about combat that At the hell didn't and I wish I could take it up here and maybe I can. So you understand it. He's standing there and he says to Here's I'm Abner. Asiel, go after somebody else. Don't go after me. Go after somebody else. And Abner turns and Asiel jumps. And he back thrusts it. spear. He'd never seen that move. He thought that Joab or Abner was turning and walking away. His spear is pointed that way, but he thrust so hard with the back of the spear He went on the fifth rib and it killed him. The wiles of a warrior who'd been around a long time Asiel didn't have a chance. Never suspected, never seen that move before And you know, there's a wiles of the devil, dear friend. He's been around a long time. The devil is quite a warrior There's so much more that he knows that we know. And just as Astiel never saw it coming, there are times when the devil is so smart out there and we think we're smarter than the devil and we don't see it coming. We go out somewhere with a crowd of people and we don't know them very well, but you know, we're not stupid. We're not going to get drunk. We're going to drink cocoa all night long. And somebody slips something into your drink, young ladies, and you don't remember nothing after that. The wiles of the devil I won't go into details, but Lay we knew when we used to meet over at Kingsville Elementary School, this church, before we had the building, but there was a young lady there and she came out one night, I think it was Kmart, her car had a flat tire Starting to rain. The security guard came out and said, No, no problem. I got an umbrella inside. I'll help you change the tire. Wow, thank you very much. They never saw her again. Some months later they found her head. And a couple years later they discovered that the six security guard that she trusted was the one who had flattened her tire. And after he fixed her tire, he said, Oh wow, he said, it's really coming down now. He said, could you just run me around the backside of Key Mark where my car's parked? She said, sure. He hopped in the car. She never saw it coming. The devil is so smart. My credit card got lifted in the Target scam a year or so ago, along with about a million and a half other credit cards. I never saw it coming. I take that credit card up, I don't let them hold it, I slide it through myself. But the devil, he's so wise and his people are so wise, they found a way to hack in the target. And maybe some of you here always had your credit cards taken that way. The wiles of the devil Do not think that you're safe to go out and drink with some crowd and that you'll be safe. Put on a whole armor of God, the Bible tells that we may be able to stand against the wiles of the devil. Ephesians 6:11. And so we find in verse twenty-four, after Asiel is dead, that Joab and his brother uh their A Abishar are not happy with this and they begin to pursue And 24 Joab also pursued after Abner. Now Joab knows how to fight. He probably knows about the spear and the back thrust of the hind end of the spear. And he goes up there and he he's got the army with him, and they're pursuing Abner The hatred and the animosity that we see here, you would think that Joab was pursuing the Philistines or something. And sometimes I see uh professing Christians fighting and arguing and yelling at one another, and you would think that they were they were Fighting with an atheist or agnostic or something? I I don't understand the anomatomy here sometimes. Should we be fighting Over what the Scripture clearly addresses. Why are people fighting over things that the Scripture clearly addresses? And yet there'll be people who are fighting, who claim to be Christians, and they'll fight over what is sin and what isn't sin There they'll be fighting over uh hell, whether it's really in literal or physical or not. It's literally what it's described as. Why even fight over it? They'll fight over that these miracles that took place in the Bible were really miracles. Dear friend, if you've got to argue with someone about that, just walk away You're wasting your time. If they don't think there's a hell, if they don't think there's miracles in the Bible, if if they don't think that sin is sin, We find people quarreling and fighting over what Scripture has made so clear, and then we find them fighting over things what Scripture hasn't made clear. Why are we over there fighting over about the timing of the rapture? When the Lord's coming back I don't know when he's coming back. Well some say it's pre-trip, some say it's mid-trib, some say it's post-trib. I don't know when it is. I hope it's pre-trib, but I don't know when it is It's not worth fighting over You talk about baptism. Well, should you be sprinkled? Should you be forward? Should you be immersed? Well, if you're immersed, is it three times backwards or three times forward? Or is it one time? Does it have to be in a river? Can it be in a stagger? I mean, on and on it goes. And people fight about these things. Why? Just be baptized. Fighting over things that just aren't that clear in the scriptures, the return of Christ We know he's coming back, but people fight. Well, I know it's going to be in 1984. I know it's going to be in 1994. I know it's going to be 2011. People datesetting all the time. It's not set in the scriptures. And yet people fight over it and leave. We had people leave this church in 1984 Because we said that the Lord wasn't coming back, even though Harold Camping said he was. I went to the fellow and visited network and I said, Well, the Lord didn't come back. It's been a month past October We'd like you to come back to church. And he said, I can't. I'm too embarrassed. So he went off and joined the Mormons. Wow. The things we fight over, and then we get so embarrassed about them we can't face each other afterwards. Remember the disciples of Christ they disputed among themselves. Who should be the greatest? Mark 9 and 34. Who should be the greatest? Well, it's the one that will wash your feet. It's the one that will take the position of the servant. It will be your greatest. You don't, Christians, you don't want to be fighting among yourselves. You don't want to be fighting among those who might they might not be professed Christians, they might not be very strong Christians, but you don't want to be found fighting where people know you're fighting with other Christians or profession. You don't want that to happen because you know why It it tells us in Psalm 80 and verse 6, our enemies will laugh among us if they see us fighting among ourselves. You don't want the enemy to have something to get to claws. Call themselves Christians. They're always fighting, they're always squabbling, they're always striving. And they laugh. We need to yearn for the spirit that Abraham showed Lot. Let there be no stripes, said Abraham. That's not a quarrel. I pray thee between me and thee and thy herdsman and thy herdsmen. You know, quarrels will come, and quarrels will go. There's going to be some strife. But those are opportunities when we have some strife in our household, when we have some quarrels in our household, those are opportunities to show our children the love of Christ. To show our children how forgiving we can be the next day, how we can turn the other cheek at the moment the strife is taking place. To show your children that you can admit it when you are wrong. There's nothing wrong with some strife and some quarreling, but may it be in a Christian realm, may it be in a Christian environment where the children they finally hear one or the other and say, You know something? You're right I admit you're right. I was wrong. We ought to see in a in a household, our children ought to see more kissing than hissing. Our children in a Christian household, they ought to see more cooing than cursing one another. They ought to see more flirting than fighting. Is that the scripture of your household? It should be more kissing, more flirting, more cooing. Than hissing and fighting and Cursing. Amner said, Let's let's stop this He finally confesses that he was wrong. He said there will be bitterness in the end. We can't do this anymore. Let's follow up the things which make for peace, preferring one another. He didn't actually say that part, but Paul did in Romans 14, 19. Follow up the things which make for peace, preferring one another. And it says Joab and all the people pursued after Israel no more. Neither fought they anymore. Wow, wouldn't that be nice in our household? We had a real knockdown Donny Brook a couple months ago with the family and at this gathering and And we made up and we haven't fought anymore. That would be a wonderful thing in a Christian household to hear that there's no more fighting. Well, you don't know what happened. You don't see this. They killed Joab's brother. They killed 360 of our people. If they can have peace and no more fighting, has someone killed 360 people in your household? I just can't imagine what it is that keeps families struggling and fighting and quarreling or at work or in the neighborhood. It just ought not to be. They reached this peaceful agreement. They should have reached it a day earlier. Do unscriptural decisions still produce dreadful results today You marry outside of your faith and you'll find that's a dreadful decision that would produce dreadful results even If you become an alcoholic, the same thing. If you abort a baby, you'll see the dreadful results will follow you into eternity unless you repent. If you get a divorce and you got children involved, don't you even dream that they're that the uh children are are uh able to uh get through that. What they say they say children are not the word's not pliable, it's the word they use. Children are um Resilience, they'll get through it, they'll be okay. They won't get through it. I know families of with a mother and father got divorced after thirty-five years of marriage, and the children who are about thirty-five years old were forty now They're struggling with it still. Children are not that resilient. Nobody's that resilient. Unscriptural decisions will produce dreadful results. Therefore, be kind one to another, Paul writes in Ephesians 4:32. Be kind one to another. Tender-hearted, forgiving as God, for Christ's sake has forgiven you. Oh Christian, oh pilgrim, are you a tender-hearted, compassionate person? Then there ought not to be any fights, any quarrels, any Strife. Wisdom that is from above is pure. Wisdom that is from above is peaceable. Wisdom that is from above is gentle. Wisdom from above is easy to be entreated. Full of mercy. James 3 and verse 17. Are you open to what Scripture teaches about being entreated? Are you full of mercy? Proverbs 24, 29 says, Say not, I will do so to him as he hath done to me. That's not like people, I'm gonna get even, I'm gonna have my revenge. Rather, it's Christ. When he was reviled, reviled not again. When he suffered, he threatened not, first Peter two twenty-three. He was oppressed, you know, afflicted Brought as a lamb to slaughter, and yet he opened not his mouth. Isaiah 53. That's Christ. We're to be Christ-like. We're to open not our mouth when we're oppressed, when we're afflicted When we're reviled, when we're suffering, when we're threatened, we are now open not our mouth. And as followers of Christ, that's how we are to be. And if you're a follower of Christ this morning, if you're a follower of his word, I want you to know one thing. The Lord Jesus Christ, if you're following this word and following Him, He has no quarrel with you today, and we invite you to His table. as we partake in remembrance of him. I'd ask of our elders to come forward and our Deacon Mike to help distribute the elements this morning. Come into something.