If you would, please open up your Bibles to Matthew chapter 21. And as is our custom, we stand for the reading of the Word of God. If you are able, please stand as we read. As I read to you and you follow along, Matthew chapter 21, and I'm going to read the first 11 verses of Matthew chapter 21. Hear now the word of the Lord. And when they drew nigh unto Jerusalem and were come to Bethphage, unto the Mount of Olives, then sent Jesus two disciples. saying unto them, Go into the village over against you, and straightway you shall find an ass tied, and a colt with her. Loose them and bring them unto me. And if any man say aught unto you, ye shall say, the Lord hath need of them. And straightway he will send them. All this was done that it might be fulfilled, which was spoken by the prophet, saying Tell ye the daughter of Zion, Behold, thy king cometh unto thee, meek and sitting upon an ass, and a colt, the foal of an ass. And the disciples went and did as Jesus commanded them and brought the ass and the colt and put on them their clothes and set and they set him thereon And a very great multitude spread their garments in the way. Others cut down branches from the trees and strawed them in the way. And the multitudes that went before and that followed cried saying, Hosanna to the son of David, blessed is he that cometh in the name of the Lord, Hosanna in the highest. And when he was come into Jerusalem, all the city was moved, saying, Who is this? And the multitude said, This is Jesus, the prophet of Nazareth of Galilee. Thus ends the reading of that portion of the word you may be seated. I'm going to cover today five historical aspects of this passage. We're going to lay that down first. The journey. The animals, the procession, the praises, and the reception, those five points. Touch on those historically. You've all heard a message on those five points Once we dust off that foundation, just kind of get that fresh in our mind, we're going to pull out our spiritual microscope and we're going to focus on three facets of this text. But I'm going to conclude with one challenge question. Alright. The journey, verse 1, the first historical point. It says, they drew nigh into Jerusalem and were come to Bethphage, unto the Mount of Olives. This account of the Lord's triumphal entry is captured in all four Gospels, one of the rare accounts that is captured by all four Gospel writers. And it's very instructive and helpful to us. And I will be making references and allusions to John and Mark and Luke 19, as well as what they add to it. In this account, we find that Jesus finally arrives at Bethage, the Mount of Olives. We have here the first day of the crucifixion week. It's called the week of his passion, his suffering. This is the first day of that week, that horrible week. He has made a long journey. He has made a long journey. He's left Jericho, and it's a long uphill journey, about 17 miles. Jericho's in the valley. Jerusalem up on the mountain. And he didn't take a cab. It's all on foot. And so he walked seventeen miles and he arrived at the house of Martha, Mary, and Lazarus. And John recounts that when he arrived, much stir was made That, hey, Jesus is in town. Now, this would have been on a Friday as his travel ended before the Sabbath at the house of Mary, Martha, and Lazarus. We read in John 12, then six days before the Passover Jesus came to Bethany and made him a supper. And then later in verse 12, in the next day, much people were come to the feast. The Passover was on the 14th, this is the tenth day. And the Passover was Israel and Jerusalem's largest event by far. It was a crowd gatherer. Historians would note. that it was not unusual for a million people to swell into that city at that time, which in the ancient world, that's a lot of folks And so for traveling up, this was a long road, and it would have started off with a small band of people coming from every quarter and eventually joining a larger throng. What is interesting is that Jesus in fact covered most of this trip before the Sabbath, lest he be considered a Sabbath breaker for traveling too far on that day. Did you notice where it says he drew He was come to Bethphage and to the Mount of Olives. Like any traveling dignitary, you don't show up at the ultimate meeting location, you come to a place nearby. And this is what he did. Beth page was his staging area, if you will. We read in Acts that the Mount Colalabet is from Jerusalem a Sabbath day's journey. And so where he is at means that within a Sabbath day, that high and holy day, he could make his way. to Jerusalem without breaking the law. So my first point is this. Even in this little detail of verse 1, Jesus keeps the law. He is within the Sabbath day's journey. There can be nothing that Jesus did that you could point to and say, aha, at this point you messed up. Oh no. He does all things well. Even in the keeping of the Sabbath before that Passover day, not traveling too far. He obeyed every jot and tittle of the law. And you see that here. Verses 2 to 7, we have the animals, and I say animals plural. Most accounts refer to the the fold of an ass or the colt. It's very clear in Matthew's account that there are two animals. Jesus sends two people to retrieve two animals that they've never seen before. By way of a very simple request, and it worked. If any man say, why are you taking them? He gave them a message. You give them this message, I guarantee you, they'll release the animals. Hmm. That's interesting. But I want to focus on the historical aspect for just a moment. Why two asses? Why two? It's very clear it's a Jenny and her colt. Interestingly enough, we do find references to asses or donkeys in the Old Testament. And we find in the book of the judges that judges would ride them in the Old Testament The prophet Samuel made a circuit by way of Gilgal and Bethel and other places to judge Israel. We read in Judges 5 10, Speak ye that ride on white asses, ye that sit in judgment, and walk by the way. What a fitting animal to use for a judge. Oh, he's not on a fine horse and a steed racing to judgment. I've got to get there so we can hang this little boy. No. He's on a slow-moving, base, common animal. Slow, methodical. We're going to take this one step at a time. That's what a judge would ride. You read also in Judges 12, after him Abdan, and he lists the number of his sons, judged Israel, had forty sons and thirty nephews, rode on seventy ascolts, and he judged Israel. This is what judges wrote on. And this is what our Lord would write on coming in. And so in doing this, he, of course, fulfilled Scripture, as Matthew and Luke recounts. The disciples didn't understand this at first. Later it dawned on them, hey, you remember when he wrote in to Jerusalem? What was he on? Ah. Zecharias says, Rejoice greatly, O daughter of Zion. The king cometh unto thee, he is just in having salvation, lowly and riding upon an ass, and upon a colt the fold of an ass. Zechariah specified two animals, and that's exactly what Christ came in on. And I don't know exactly how that works out. I know one pastor who astutely pointed out that it was a colt whereon never man had rode before And yet our master was able to sit on it. And what do you do, ranchers, when you sit on an animal of the four-legged type that's never had a person on the back? Do they just greet you in? Hardly. But not this one. Because here the ox goeth the master. You immediately submit, yes, I will absolutely transport you to where you wish to go. That's exactly what the animals do. So the point is this. It's evident that Jesus came as a judge, because the very next section of Matthew has him clearing the temple. He's got a whip, and he's driving out the money chambers and overturning the tables of them. That soul dove saying, You've made my father's house a house of merchandise, but it shall be called a house of prayer. He's a judge. He's judging the temple. He's cleansing and he's driving them out so much for Jesus being some limp-wristed weakling He's got a whip and he's beating people with it and he's driving them out of the temple, for the zeal of his house has eaten him up. Jesus came the first time, folks, as judge and king. Jesus will come the second time, folks, as judge and king. How he enters in here is no different than how he enters in the next time. Judge and king. Here symbolically, then with a real shoe drop. Third point of history I want to cover is the procession. The procession. And this is our text from verse 8. A very great multitude spread their garments in the way, others cut down branches. And we read, of course in uh John's account that they were palm branches. I don't know why our calendar calls this palm sundae, because they really ought to call it Garment Sunday. If anything's important about this is not the palm branches, it's the garments. But no, we're going to focus on a palm. How nice. But it's the garments that are interesting. What is also interesting is the makeup of this multitude. I want to talk about the garments for just a moment first. These garments, the multitude are spreading their garments. They're not only on the cult, but they're also in the way. They're as it were taking off some of the clothing they have because they're on a journey. And you take extra clothing because you would be there for a while. They maybe pull them out of their bags and use it to decorate the place, maybe just to throw it on the ground, but it was not just decoration. It was not just to make it look pretty. The point of this was that it signifies submission to Jesus as their king. You are our king. This is exactly what Jonathan did. He stripped himself of the robe that was upon him and he gave it to David. Jonathan's saying, oh, I know my lineage of the house of Saul, but you, David, are my king. For those taking notes, that's 1 Samuel 18, 3. In 2 Kings 9. 12, they anointed Jehu as king, and they took every man his garment and put it under him. It indicated submission. You be our ruler, you be our king. This multitude is doing that. And the branches, John 12, as I mentioned, talks about branches of palm trees. Why palm trees? Why would they cut down branches? Really anti-environmental? No. These Jews, in fact, are rejoicing as if though they were at the Feast of Tabernacles And I want you to listen as I read this historical note about the Feast of Tabernacles. We read about it in Leviticus 23 and verse 40, because it's a token of their hope of prosperity under Jesus. At the Feast of Tabernacles you would do this. You shall take on you the first day the boughs of goodly trees, branches of palm trees, and the boughs of thick trees, and willows of the brook. And you shall rejoice before the Lord your God seven days. Now this wasn't the Feast of Tabernacles. It wasn't that event But they're so happy that he's here, that they're also doing this, as if though they were rejoicing as at the Feast of Tabernacles, a symbol of prosperity. We will prosper under you You be our king. We will prosper unto you. They're all in with Christ. But who is the makeup of this multitude? I was prepared to speak what is conventionally spoken of, that here they are praising him on day one and three days later shouting crucify, crucify. I have, after studying this passage, have come to the conclusion that that is not the case at all. That is not the makeup of this multitude at all. You've often heard people praising Jesus in that fashion Ready to crucify him a few days later. I want you to turn with me to Luke chapter 19. Keep your hand in Matthew. We're going to come back and look at Luke 19. Luke is a first-rate historian, and he points out some very interesting things. He says this beginning in verse 37 of Luke 19. And when he, Jesus, was come When he was come nigh, even now at the descent of the Mount of Olives, the whole multitude of the disciples. You catch them began to rejoice and praise God with a loud voice for all the mighty works that they had seen. It was a multitude of disciples, not just any old crowd. Saying, Blessed be the king that cometh in the name of the Lord, peace in heaven and glory in the highest. And some of the Pharisees from among the multitude said unto him, Master, rebuke thy disciples. You see, even the Pharisees recognized that the disciples of Jesus were the ones praising him. That's who this multitude was. You see, Jesus had in fact believing disciples that walked with him into Jerusalem. Others would later shout out, crucify, crucify. Because the Pharisees came and stirred up the people. Well, they certainly had plenty of people to stir up. It would be many of those in Jerusalem who were sitting back saying, Who is this? Who is this? Ah! The Pharisees say he's a bad man. We'll crucify him. But the multitudes, no. Not this group. These are not the ones that are gonna shout, crucify. I don't believe it. I don't believe it The praises as we look at that in verse 9 back in Matthew 21 Of course, you know the word hosanna means to save now. It also means to be propitious. I've talked much recently about expiation and propitiation. Expiation is taking care of the sin debt, taking care of the penalty. Propitiation means you take care of it in such a way that the judge says, I really like the way you paid that debt. I want you to be an inheritor of my will. Your act of paying off that debt is so tremendous that it favorably disposes the one you've offended Very much towards you. Be propitious. Be merciful to me. Mercy in putting away my sin, but also make me prosperous. Increase my house. Make things bigger. Turn to Psalm 118. We read that earlier today, but it's that verse 25 and 26, and I had Anton read that for us a little louder. But now I want you to pay attention to this phrase that is in there of Psalm 118 and verse 25. I promise I won't make you turn too many times, but there are some that are important that I want you to pay attention to Psalm 118 in verse 25 says, Save now, I beseech thee, O Lord. That's the word of who save now I beseech you. That phrase is Hosanna. That whole phrase. O Lord, I beseech thee, send now prosperity. You see, this is what they want. They want not just forgiveness of sins, not just mercy, but prosperity, prosperous. Cause us to grow and flourish like the palm tree, like the cedar tree in Lebanon. Make us to flourish. Blessed be he that cometh in the name of the Lord. We have blessed you out of the house of God. So the point here on the praises back in Matthew 21 is that it's pretty clear to the average Jewish worshiper that this crowd holds Jesus as their king. It's pretty clear. Showing the branches, putting down their garments, singing and saying messianic. Praises to his name. It's pretty clear to a city steeped in religion that they are clearly holding out Christ as King. And then I would have you to note the reception. The reception. When he was coming to Jerusalem, all the city was moved, saying, Who is this? I tell you, I nearly wept as I meditated and thought about that passage. What a statement. The multitude said, this is Jesus, the prophet of Nazareth of Galilee. And I'm not going to cover anything historical here other than the very obvious, and that is he had a very bipolar reaction Two opposite extremes. There was tremendous praises. There was a side that was shouting loud hallelujahs. You are our king. We will prosper under you. And the other side Who is this? Who is this? Very cold Very disturbing perception. Having laid down that historical basis for you, alright, I now want to cover the spiritual facets Jesus often said, if I have spoken unto you earthly things and you understand them not, how shall you understand and I speak unto you of heavenly things? What is my basis for looking at this in a spiritual context? Well Romans tells us that whatsoever things were written aforetime were written for our learning, that we through patience and comfort of the scriptures might have hope. Furthermore, Isaiah says, Verily thou art a God that hidest thyself. He does. Jesus hides himself in the Word of God. If you were to put flesh and blood on this book, You'd have Jesus Christ standing right in front of you and how often we miss him. He told some Jews, search the scriptures, for in them you think you have eternal life, and they are they which Testify of me. Well Matthew wasn't written yet. He just fulfilled Zechariah 9. They are they which written of me. He just played it out. There's vignettes in the scripture. Little snapshots, little scenes, teaching us spiritual truths. Paul told the Corinthians, the natural man receiveth not the things of the Spirit of God. They're foolishness unto him. These things are spiritually discerned. And so I want you to put on your spiritual lenses as we look at this account And consider for a moment that perhaps what Jesus did, oh yes, he fulfilled the scriptures, oh yes, he fulfilled Zechariah 9, but our master is so efficient in everything he does. You look at this creation and there's tremendous synergy across all the creatures. You know they tried to bring the vanilla plant. When they discovered it in Mexico, back to Britain, and they got it to grow, and it produced beans But it never had the vanilla flavor. They could not get it to produce the vanilla. They had to go to Mexico to get it. What they didn't bring over was the bee. There is a vanilla bee that has to pollinate. That vanilla plant. And it's a special bee. He has a probiscus that's a little longer than most. And he can actually get to the nectar and he can pollinate it Our God's very efficient in what he does. He ties together many things. That's just one tiny example. So when Jesus walks into Jerusalem, don't just think he's just making a little trip. This is a whole lot more. And there's a depth here that we'll just I don't know. We'll see what it does. So we're going to consider three spiritual facets. Number one, Jesus writing on two acids. Two assets. Number two, we're going to consider the multitude. And number three, we're going to consider Jerusalem, the city. We're going to look at those spiritually. So let's begin with the two acids. In the Bible, man is gloriously represented by an ass. Stubborn, slow, unpredictable at times. Job 11, 12 says, For vain man would be wise, though man be born like a wild ass's colt. Oh no, you're not a lion. You're not powerful. You're a donkey. Smelly, stubborn. A mature Jenny is worth, on Texas market rates, $35. You're gonna get a cow, you're gonna sell out six hundred to a thousand dollars. But a donkey, not worth a plug nickel. A jack is even worth less. A pair of asses represents those and typifies those who are freed by the Savior. Pair, Pastor earlier talked about sending out the disciples two by two. In the book of Revelation, there were two witnesses Jesus sent out the 70 by two, a pair, often a picture of the church of God doing their work. They're freed Job says, Who hath sent out the wild ass free? Who hath loosed the bands of the wild ass? I also think it's interesting that it was a It was an ass and a foal. The colt uh the colt of an ass a colt, the foal of an ass. That's a family, folks. That's a family. I've called you one of a city, two of a family, he says in Zechariah. I believe that's a picture of those redeemed of God. And think about it. Here these donkeys, these asses are tied up in bondage to another master. But Two disciples. The church comes and speaks. And what is the mechanism of freeing these donkeys from their old master, from their old bondage? What is the method of their freedom? You shall say unto them, the Lord hath needed him. It was his message delivered to his donkeys for His purpose at that time and the method of delivery you shall say unto them. That's how the Church of God frees brothers and sisters in bondage. We speak the word of the Master, and they're freed. Was there any resistance? None. Did they need arms? No. Why? The word of the Lord was sufficient. It was more than powerful enough. I like that verse where it says in verse 6, and the disciples went and did as Jesus commanded them. Kind of a duh verse. They didn't make things up. They didn't change the message. They just said the Lord has need of him. Oh. Here you go. Immediate deliverance. And those wild asses where on never man had ridden before? Oh yes, when Jesus comes, when Jesus calls, you better believe there's a change. You better believe the word of the Lord comes. How can a donkey understand words? It's impossible. That's correct. Except the word of God come to you, you'd never understand it either. Amen. He's got to change that understanding. He's got to change that thinking. And when the word comes, here you are. But what do the disciples do? They jump on and right to Christ? Two donkeys, two disciples, long way. Oh no, that's for the master juice. We're taking you to Christ. That's what a good church does. That's what a good discipler does. You see. John the Baptist had two disciples. The disciples heard Jesus speak and they followed him. John was a good evangelist. He didn't point them to himself. I'm pointing you to Christ. I've espoused you as One virgin to Christ, you see. And that's what these do. They bring them to Christ and only to Him. Christ is our ruler, He's our Lord, He's our Master And these donkeys were now brought under his direction, his use, his authority. Where these donkeys are going to get ridden to, they haven't the foggiest clue. They don't have an idea. They've never been ridden before. They don't know what this is like. Writing, and it doesn't say he rode the Jenny. He said he rolled rode on the cult, the youngest one. Lord, why would you take the weakest? Of course, but my strength is made perfect in weakness. Why would you choose me, Lord? I'm the weakest. I don't have any talents for this. I've never done this before. I've not experienced in this. No. You're perfect. That the strength be not of you, but of him. That's how God operates. You see it? I mean I'm just talking about animals here, folks. But I'm also talking about you. Christ is going to ride him into a friendly audience, but he's also going to ride into a hostile audience. But the hostility never fell on the donkeys. They didn't kill the donkeys. They didn't crucify the donkeys. The ill that happened to him Didn't fall on these animals. We don't read about them anymore. They did their service, they delivered the master, and they were done. I think what's not there is almost as interesting and telling as what is there. We are called by his messengers. We're moved into new service and uses. Where he goes, we go. Where he directs, we go. That's the two asses. Jesus riding on the two asses. You with me on that? You following that? I hope I'm not saying strange things to your ears. Then we look at the multitude, and this is the verse that got me excited about this three weeks ago when I recommended to brother, hey, you ought to take a break. You're going to be doing some traveling. You're going to be weary. Because I got excited about this verse. It's in your bulletin. It's that verse that talks about the multitudes that went before and that followed cried. Because God gave me an an insight, I think, into what's going on here. Don't think Distance, folks. Don't think distance. Think time. Think time. There's a multitude that went before Jesus. They're the Old Testament saints. There's a multitude that followed Jesus. That's us, the New Testament saints. And the multitude that went before him, what did they cry? Hosanna, blessed is he that cometh. That was their message. And the New Testament saints, after Jesus has come, what is their message? Hosanna Blessed is he that cometh. We have the same message as they did. We're the same group of folks. We have the same message. They praise the same Jesus. They're all casting down their garments. In the scripture, garments often represent your external appearance unto men. Dare I say your righteousness the right things about you. Jesus uses that language to typify your salvation. It says in Isaiah 61. 10, he's clothed me with the garments of salvation. Elsewhere it says, the king's daughter is all glorious, her clothing is of wrought gold. That's talking about the garments of salvation. That's what he's wrought for you. Don't you know the account of the the the man who made a wedding for his son? And a man came in, which how did you not come in here without a Wedding garment? You see, to go into the marriage supper of the Lamb, you've got to have a wedding garment. Brother Jim, if you ain't got a wedding garment, you're going to be cast out. You're going to be speechless. You've got to have a wedding garment, and it better be the garment that he gives you, because that's the only one that's acceptable. Because it's the only one that's perfect So they're happy to take off their garments. I don't want this thing. It's dirty and dusty from a long journey is filthy and it's got holes in it. Have you ever noticed in the Old Testament how they get excited so-and-so got a change of garments and like, woo-hoo! I'm like, I got a closet full of 'em. But it's a big deal in the Old Testament. But here, put it down. And the Old Testament probably meant more to them than it does to us now. So it is with your righteousness. You've got to lay it down. Amen. And I'll put it to you this way, the people of God, they do lay it down. They're happy to lay it down. They're like, not mine, but thine Lord. That's what he wants. That's what they get. Our righteousness is what? Filthy rags. His righteousness is what? His raiment is as white as the light. glistening like the lightning. This is the name wherewith she shall be called, the Lord our righteousness. You see, that's what they want. Save now. Beseech thee. Be prosperous to us. The Old Testament saints declared the promised Messiah as Lord and Savior before his arrival. The New Testament saints declared Jesus Christ as Lord and Savior at his arrival. Both groups are praising him at his coming. They got the same message. Same message. Same group of folks. You also notice where they're walking with him in the way to a cross. That's just coincidental, I'm sure. Oh no. Oh no And where do they go into Zion? Where else would they go to? But now I want to talk about that city of Jerusalem. And I'm going to close as we consider this city of Jerusalem This is not the Jerusalem which is above, which is free, which is the mother of us all that Galatians speaks of. That's not this one. Spiritually, this is the Jerusalem which now is and is in bondage with her children. In other words, this earthly Jerusalem is the religious unsaved. They're full of religion. They they you got enough religion religion to choke every horse in Solomon's stables. They're close to the kingdom of God, yet so far. You remember the answer the Lord gave to that one fellow? He says the scribe who answered Jesus discreetly says, you're not far from the kingdom of heaven. But he also didn't say you're in it. He said you're not far. You're close. These are the spiritually blind under Moses' covenant. They cling to the pictures and they don't see the person. I do want to give one illustration of this, and we have some recently espoused people here that I think they will appreciate this. A man and a woman are on two separate coasts, and they're writing letters to each other and calling and talking and exchanging, and the relationship is flourishing. Emotions are running high. Things are kind of looking good. She's thinking, wow, I I think I found somebody. And he's thinking, I think I found somebody too. She's really hot. I got a hot deal. She's the woman. And they exchange pictures. And he sends her all kinds of nice pictures. He's in his nice suit. He's playing volleyball, just happens to be flexing his muscle. Just happens to be, you know, sends her all the nice pictures and she takes these, oh, look at my beloved All these wonderful pictures. She's so happy. She's just so happy. She frames them, puts them up. And then the day comes. They haven't met each other in person. It's a long-distance relationship. They can't, they're separated And and then the day comes, and he's there to see her, and he arrives, and she says, Who are you? You come near me, I'll kill you. I don't have anything to do with you. But The pictures. That's me. I love these. Yes. I love that. I don't know who you are. He came onto his own. And his own received him not. What an understatement. Received him not. It plotted against him Oh, we love the pictures. And you'd go, what kind of a person is this that can't see me? I sent you these pictures. I gave you all this. Jerusalem, your city exists because I fought for it. I gave you the ground. I gave you the kings. I gave you your law. I gave you your tabernacles. Priests, I gave you your job. I wrote the job description. On all those things. You come near me, I'll kill you. We don't like you. What would you say of such a one? Blind. But religious. Isn't that sad? So close. So far. That phrase that says Jerusalem, that says the city was moved, those are two important words. All the city is moved. That word moved is a word that we have lifted into the English language. We refer to it as seismic. An earthquake happens. It's a seismic event. It's also rendered agitated, caused to tremble. They're thrown into a fearful tremor. There's a deep disturbance. There's a seismic occurrence that's hit. This is the most troubling phrase, folks. Not only are they blind But they're trembling. They're trembling. Because you see, I don't think things have changed in 30 years in Jerusalem. News of Jesus' arrival produced deeply disturbed hearts filled with fear and lying words of unbelief. Oh yes, they were blind, but they were willingly ignorant. They were suppressing the truth and unrighteousness. This is a depth of evil you cannot imagine. They're lying when they say who is this? They knew who he was. You better believe they knew who he was. We know it's a lie because Jesus healed great multitudes indiscriminately. Surely everybody had heard and seen a credible story of someone they knew, of a healed relative or friend. In Galilee, he calmed storms He healed diseases, he cast out devils. It says a multitude came in, he healed them all. It says the fame of him Spread abroad. In Cana he turned water to wine. In Capernaum he healed the centurion servant, the sick of the palsy, through the roof. In Bethana he fed five thousand In Jericho, he healed blind Barnabas. In Bethany, he raised Lazarus. John 12 makes it very clear in the entire context. That when they heard Jesus was at the house of Martha, Mary, and Lazarus, a multitude of disciples came out, not only to see Jesus, but also to see Lazarus This thing wasn't done in a corner. They knew who he was. Shall not the Christ come and do more miracles than this? Surely this is the promised Messiah. But they were moved. I want you now to consider that what Jesus did openly, openly healed people, openly entered Jerusalem, openly received praises and rebukes. Amazingly enough, later in the very chapter, the Pharisees, after Christ drives out the money changers from the temple, what by what authority do you do these things? This is our question for you. John the Baptist, he of God or of men? They reasoned among themselves. Well, let's see. If we say it as of God, they're going to say, well, why didn't you believe him? But if we say of men, people are going to stone us. So what do they say? Oh no. You see it's a lie? See it? That's right. Jerusalem says, who is this? It's a lie. They know who he is. You better believe they know who he is. I don't know who is this? Folks, I'm telling you right now it's a bad answer. I had a rule in the Kluth house when I would ask my kids, all right, who did such and such? If the answer was I don't know, it was an automatic admission of guilt. That was my standard. They better figure out who done it. Because when Danny comes and asks They can't give I don't know or they're gonna be guilty. I don't know is a bad answer. Don't buy it. I ain't buying it. You have no reason for ignorance. Turn with me to Matthew chapter 2. This will be the last passage we go to because you see, things have not changed in 30 years. Nothing has changed. Matthew chapter 2, verse 1. When Jesus was born in Bethesda When Jesus was born in Bethlehem of Judea in the days of Herod the king, behold There came wise men from the east of Jerusalem, saying, Where is he that is born king of the Jews? For we have seen his star in the east, and are come to worship him. When Herod the king had heard these things, what? He was troubled and all Jerusalem with him. Things haven't changed. Harry, do you notice that star out there? No, I've had my head and my iPhone all day long. Are you kidding me? How can you not know that this same star is sticking up in the sky How can you not know and see that? They were not distracted with the modern-day distractions. They didn't have light pollution, city gas lamp district, none of that. They would routinely look up. That was part of the Abrahamic covenant. Look up and count the stars. So shall thy seed be. Maybe every now and then they would gander up. Yep, so shall the seed of God be. They see a rainbow. Oh, there's a covenant promise of God. Wonderful. These are things that they could see. It's not in a corner. This isn't hidden. They knew. And they hated him. So they pretend naivety and they utter, who is this? Inside, moved. Fearful expectation. A willing suppression of the truth and feigning ignorance is clear evidence of a wolf in sheep's clothing. It's okay to be ignorant folks to truly and simply not know something. But here's the difference. Honestly, ignorant people don't tremble Honestly, ignorant people don't quake. They seek to be informed and they want to learn. Oh, what what what's what what okay, I don't know something, tell me. But now I have a challenge question. What about you? You know Jesus is the Christ. You know he's the promised Messiah that came into the world and you know he's coming again. Some people feign ignorance of him. They hide behind excuses. We got a lot of excuses to hide behind, don't we? They'll hide behind authority Pharisees, Sadducees came up. By what authority do you do this? We're the authority. We'll tell you what is important or not. They hide behind that. Oh well the authorities. None of the rulers have believed on him They'll hide behind seminary professors, neo-reformed or otherwise. They'll hide behind a democratic machine. They'll hide behind the Chinese Communist Party. They'll hide behind dictator Kim Jong-un. This is a problem which worldwide. They'll hide behind authority structure. Authority provides a nice hiding ground. They'll hide behind science. Pharisees tried to kill Lazarus a second time. His miraculous resurrection is too powerful. We gotta kill the evidence. How stupid is that? Guy was raised from the dead. Like this is really gonna work the second time? Atheistic science teacher with vain babblings of just sell miracles never before witnessed. They have their miracles The willing suppression of clear evidence of God's handiwork all over this planet, they know. God doesn't believe in atheists. He don't believe in atheists People hide behind their clothing, literal clothing. My dad told me once, and he is such a memorable statement, if you dress up a baboon and stick him behind the wheel of a brand new automobile and put him down the freeway, people will think he's successful. Don't think he's successful. Man, look at that chimp. He's really come a long way. That's impressive. They'll hide behind fancy clothing. They'll have shaded windows in their BMW, big houses full of stuff, reeking of wealth Is Jesus just too plain for you? You don't donkey. Is he too down home and dumpy looking for you? Who rides a donkey? Is Jesus too unsophisticated for you? Not flashy enough. This Christian stuff is I have to give up too. That's just not flashy enough for me. Doesn't look very presidential When news of Jesus reaches your ears, do you suppress this truth? Do you tremble in fear? Do you have a fearful looking of judgment and fire indignation? If so, you're in that old city of Jerusalem. Just waiting for its destruction. Just waiting. And it will surely come. Or Are you in that crowd of simpletons, throwing your garments down to exalt him, praising his name loudly with all the excitement as if your team just won the championship? Is his coming your chief joy? Does his coming give you eternal hope of a real lasting prosperity and peace? Do you find that Jesus and Him alone is worthy of praise? I got some real good news for you. Rejoice, and again I say rejoice. That Jesus came to die for you. That Jesus came to save you. That Jesus came to inherit you, to guide you, and to triumphantly lead you into a city which hath foundations. Builder, the maker is God. Stand for prayer. Father God in heaven, let there not be a reprobate in our midst. Bless your word gloriously today, we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen.