Open your Bibles again to that third chapter of Daniel. What a glorious account it is. I'm sure many of you first heard it as young children. Some of you may have heard it for the first time But what a glorious, true story it is. I love the way it keeps using the names again and again and again. So there's no mistaking the truth of the account There's no mistaking who was involved. It is indeed the Word of God. Let me read two brief scriptures to you. You won't need to turn. Just keep your Bibles there in Daniel 3. But let me read two passages, just three verses total to you. In 2 Timothy 3, 16, 3, verses 16 and 17, all scripture is given by inspiration of God. And it's profitable for doctrine for reproof for correction in right for instruction in righteousness. The man of God may be perfect, thoroughly furnished unto all good works. In other words, every passage of Scripture has its prophet And I believe we can all see that there's a lot of profit in this scripture. There's a lot to be gained spiritually. And then the other passage by way of introduction is Ecclesiastes chapter 1 and verse 9, where Solomon says The things that hath been, it is that which shall be, and that which is done is that which shall be done. And there is no new thing under the sun. There's an old phrase, history repeats itself. And it is very true. Over and over again, we see the same things happening. If you look at history It is man's folly again and again and again. History is filled with kings and rulers who shook their fists in the face of Almighty God. History is filled with men who have tried to destroy the Bible, tried to eliminate the Word of God. And yet God's word is forever settled in heaven. And there is one true God. There's an old hymn we sing, We're are kings and kingdoms now. Here we find the great Nebuchadnezzar. And we find that history repeats itself. I had intended to read through the chapter for you and and Brother Vince suggests that we make move it to the responsive reading, and it I'm glad he did now because We're actually going to kind of go back through the chapter again and hit the highlights as we go. And we're going to, by way of introduction, see how the things that were happening in Nebuchadnezzar's day and in Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego, Hannah, Azariah, and Meshal by their Hebrew names. What was happening then was nothing new. And just as we read from Solomon, it's happening again. We see it in our day And so the chapter begins in verses 1 and 2 with the king making a great golden image and calling on all men, all peoples. Kings, princes, sheriffs, counselors, you go through the list calling them all to bow down to his image. Today we don't necessarily have a golden image sitting in the Capitol, but we have a society that is calling us to bow down to iniquity. And the God of this world, the image of the day, the wokeness of this world, calls us to call good evil and evil good. It calls us to bow down at the altar of homosexuality and transgender and anything else you want to bring up. And if you don't bow down to our God, we're gonna come get you. I did not watch the opening ceremony of the Olymp of the Olympics and I had no intention to watch any of the Olympics. But I understand that they had a golden calf at the Olympics And they had transgender reprobates uh mocking the Lord's Supper. And they expect everybody just to go along and bow down. So the first thing we find was that in Daniel Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednis Day's day, there was a normalization of iniquity. The normalization of iniquity, of idolatry. And we have that today We also find that involved was a who's who of the mighty and powerful. If you look at verse 3, the princes, the governors, the captains, the judges, the treasurers, the counselors, the sheriffs. And all the rulers of proverbs were gathered together. You see, the smart people know this is right. The powerful people say this is good. Fifty-two intelligence officers will tell you something. And this many scientists will tell you that the worst world is warming and it's all man's fault. And you have a huge who's who of the mighty and powerful of the world, the rich and powerful, they're saying, hey everybody, you've got to get on the bandwagon and get your shot. And then we find also a command that could not be obeyed. A command that could not be obeyed. The herald cried in verse 4, To you it is commanded, O peoples, nations, and languages. You can't pray in Jesus' name. That's offensive. Well, that's a command I can't obey. Because I can't pray in any other name. You can't call sin because you're not kind. You can't tell me that I'm not a man or I'm not a woman. You better call me by my chosen pronoun. Well, no, God from the beginning created the male and female. Male and female created he them. And I cannot lie by calling you something you are not. You see, today, just like Shadrach Bishad, we have commands we cannot obey We will be true to the Word of God, or we will bow to the image of Nebuchadnezzar, but you can't be in between. You can't do both. It appears that this command came almost without notice. Nebuchadnezzar set up his image And then Shadrach and Meshach and Abednego were obviously present. But then the hero called, hey, you better bow down. You see, they were surrounded by what the world was doing, but then all of a sudden the world said, Okay, now you're going to obey And we see that today. We see what the world's doing, but then some new law, some new command comes out, and suddenly you better conform, or you're in trouble. And we find threatenings if you do not comply. Verse 6, Whoso falleth not down and worshipeth shall be that same hour cast into the midst of the burning fiery furnace. If you don't do this, you can't get on an airplane. If you don't do X, Y, or Z, we're going to take your passport. If you speak against that, we're going to charge you with hate crimes and throw you in jail. We're going to close down your place of worship if we don't like what you have to say. That's what I have to hear in the U. S. But it's happening in Canada today, and it's heading our way. And then we find emotional and psychological manipulation. At what time you hear the sound of the cornet Flute, harp, sack book, psaltery, dulcimer, and all kinds of music, ye fall down and worship the golden image. And then verse 7, and all the people heard the sound of the cornet, flute, harp, sack books, psaltery and all kinds of music. All the people, all the nations fell down and worshipped the golden image that Nebuchadnezzar the king had set up. Why is it at all these big rallies there's basically a concert? What political rally is there without a lot of music? Why why didn't the person just come out and not and I'm not talking about any people in your party, I'm talking about all of them. Why don't they just come out and speak? Because you gotta get the people started off first They've got to get the emotions flowing, get everybody excited, and when you get people excited with music, they will all in unison cry stick hiles, deak tiles, stick tiles. Right? You look historically at how every one of Hitler's rallies began with music. You see, it's like psychological manipulation. This is good. This is acceptable. You've got to get on the bandwagon, churn up the music, and that is why we sing hymns. Because you see, true biblical music affects the heart and not the foot. It affects the inner man. It convicts of sin. It does stir the emotions, but it is a spiritual historian of the emotions. It's not just simply Taking the world's music and forcing it into the church and putting some quote unquote Christian words on it No, it affects the inner man, the heart. It is God glorifying and God wrought. There's nothing wrong with music. Some of these same instruments, the harp, was David's chosen instrument. The world takes what God created for good and uses it for wrong. But we find manipul um we find hysterical manipulation. We also have the everybody's doing it persuasion. Verse 7, when all the people heard the sound of the cornet, flute, etc. , all the people, the nations, the languages, verse 3, the princes, governors, captains, what's wrong with you people? Don't you get it? Why aren't you doing the right thing? You're gonna make your neighbor sick if you don't take our poison. You're gonna offend this person over here if you don't hire anybody who wants a job. In fact, you've got to have the right number of them in your business You see, everybody's doing it. They can find accusations and lies. If you look at verse 8, this is a particularly interesting In verse 8, wherefore at that time certain Chaldeans came near and accused the Jews. That word accused is only used a few times in Scripture. I don't have the exact count in front of me, but it literally means to devour or to eat up. It means to devour, eat up. It's the same word that is used in 27, Psalm 27, verse 2. When the wicked, even my enemies and my foes came upon me to eat up my flesh That phrase, eat up my flesh, is the same Hebrew word as accused in this verse. And then again in Psalm 14, have the workers of iniquity no knowledge who eat up my people as they eat bread. They didn't come just to say, hey, here's Shadow Shadow. They came to eat them up. They came to destroy them. You see, not only Do they want us to accept their iniquity? They want to wipe out Christianity. They want to destroy Christianity. Penny and I were discussing earlier that if the opening of the Olympics had a mocked Muhammad or Islam. A a friend of mine said that Paris would be on fire. And he's right. There there would there would be um whatever that thing is they put out when they put a price on somebody's head The Olympics would not take place if it hadn't been Islam. But when it's Christianity, when it's Christ They get away with it. Men hate the truth. Folks, they don't just want to silence us, they want to wipe out Christianity. And that's what was happening here. They weren't just accusing Shadrach Mesh. They were trying to eliminate Shadrach Meshach and Abednego. They want to eat up their flesh. And we find lawfare. Verse 10. Thou, O king, hast made a decree Thou O King has made a decree. But that verse speaks an awful lot. If you look at the verse in its entirety, The O King has made a decree. that every man that shall hear the sound of the cornet, flute, saplock, and separate shall fall down. Um My eyes are not finding the verse I'm looking for. Oh, here is this verse twelve, I'm sorry. Um there are certain Jews whom thou hast set up over the affairs of the province. That was the problem. You see, these Christians, these Jews had come to a power a place of prominence, and it was a bit of jealousy. It was lawfare. You set them over the province. We've got to get rid of them. You see, we've got to drive Christianity out of the state. We've got to take prayer and Bible reading out of the schools. We've got to eliminate the Ten Commandments. We've got to tear down any statue that has scripture written on it. They're using lawfare against God's people. And then again we find an angry king. If you watch some of these people on TV, they're spitting fire. They are so angry at the righteous. A king so angry that the visage of his face was turned, it was skewed up. I won't start naming politicians, but there's a lot of ugly people spitting nails against the truth. But ultimately what they had done is they had defied the Almighty God. Verse fifteen, who is that God that shall deliver out of my hand? And then we find that they're abusive and heavy-handed in the way they do things. Look down to verse 19. Then was Nebuchadnezzar full of fury, and the form of his vision was changed. And he commanded that they should heat the furnace one seven times more than it was wont to be heated. Well that wasn't in the decree. No, the decree was if you don't bow down, we're going to cast you into the fire furnace. But now he said, oh, we're going to heat it up seven times too. We're not we're gonna we're gonna do this right, folks You see, there's an overbearing. You see, if you protest abortion, we're going to send 25 SWAT members to your house and arrest you at gunpoint in front of your family. Even though you said I'll just come to the police station and turn myself in. Yes, that happened in Pennsylvania. Because he protested outside of the abortion clinic. You see an overbearing use of authority. And here Nebuchadnezzar gets the mightiest men of the FBI, I'm sorry, the mightiest men of his army. And he sends them on a raid. To bind Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego, and to cast them into the furnace of fire. And so In spite of all this, we find three men who were willing to stand, who were willing to pay the consequences. Who are willing to say, okay, God can deliver us if He wants to. But even if God chooses not to deliver us, we will stand, we will not bow down. Now that's all introduction. If you look in the bulletin, you'll see the title of the message today is The Blessings of the Fiery Furnace. Folks, the blessings of the fiery furnace. And the first blessing of the fiery furnace is the fiery furnace is a place of purity. They didn't get there by being iniquitous. They didn't get there by casual Christianity. They didn't get there by going along with the crowd. It was a place of purity. Yea, and all that will live godly in Christ Jesus shall suffer persecution. My father used to say, any dead fish can float down the river. But it takes a live fish to swim against the current. And folks, if you were alive in Christ, it is your spiritual obligation to swim against the current It was a place of purity. Beloved, think it not strange concerning the fiery trial which is to try you. But rejoice in so much that you are partakers of Christ's suffering. that when his glory shall be appeal shall be revealed, ye shall be glad with exceeding joy And in 1 Peter 2, verse 19 and following, Peter says, For this is thankworthy. If a man for conscious sake toward God endure grief, isn't that what we're talking about? For conscious sake. If a man for conscious sake before God, this is uh 1 Peter 2:19, if you're taking notes For conscious sake before God endure grief, suffering wrongfully, for what glory is it if ye be buffeted for your faults, ye shall take it patiently. But if, when ye do well and suffer for it, yet or ye take it patiently, it is acceptable with God. For hereunto were ye called, because Christ also suffered for us, leaving us an example that we should follow in his steps. The place of purity. Only the pure ended up there. There were other Jews who were called to the dedication of the idol who probably bowed down. And they were like the chaff. They were burned up. They didn't get thrown in the fire. But scripture makes no reference to them. They disappeared. And so the fiery furnace is a place of purity. You have to be pure to get there. But also the fiery furnace is a place of pure purity because it continues to purify. Don't you think Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego came out of the fire with more faith than they went in? And how great was the faith with which they went in. Folks, the the the fires that Satan sets only serve to purify the believer. They make us stronger The trial of your faith, being much more precious than of gold that perisheth, might be found under the praise and honor and glory at the appearance of Christ. Paul said in 2 Thessalonians 1 verse 3, we are bound to give thanks to God always for you, brethren, as his meat, because your faith groweth exceedingly. And there is certain and the charity of every one of you toward all and each other abound us, so that we also ourselves Glory in the church of God for your patience and faith in all your persecutions and tribulations that ye endure, which is a manifest token of the righteous judgment judgment of God, that ye are counted worthy, but the kingdom of God, for which also ye suffer Job said he knoweth the way I take. And when untried, I'll come forth a scald. Do you think Job had more faith at the end of his trials than he had at the beginning? Folks, the fire furnaces is a place of purity. It's a place where God continues his perfect work of purifying himself a glorious church without spot. And without wrinkle. But secondly, the fiery furnace is a place of deliverance. It's a place of deliverance. Folks, have you ever gone into a great trial and known That the only way you survived it was the grace of God. Maybe not a fire of a fire of flame. But you go through a trial and it is pressing on you, and you know that you're fighting a righteous battle. You know that the the gates of hell are trying to prevail against the church and they cannot. They cannot stand. There's deliverance in the fiery furnace. Now, folks, there have been many martyrs. There have been many that have left this world. Their dying flesh was not delivered, but they were delivered in the end. Yeah, I was thinking about this And maybe it's too sarcastic a way to put it, and I don't mean to sound like a fatalist. But Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego, bow down or we'll throw you in the furnace of fire. Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego, bow down, or we're going to send you to heaven today. Hallelujah, what a savior! For to live is Christ and to die is death. You mean I get to go today? Oh, the process will be painful. We we fear death because we don't want to go through the unknown, but we know what's on the other side of the unknown. Folks, the fiery furnace is a place of deliverance, not a place of death And in our account, God gloriously delivered them through. And as I started to say, I've kind of switched my subpoints here a little bit. But I believe many of us have been through trials and we come out the other side and say, you know what, the only way I got through that was Christ was walking beside me. And he was protecting me. And this isn't the message for today, but I've mentioned before in the last few years of preaching from this passage, our gods are consuming fire. And I believe what happened here was Christ came into the fire, and his fire was greater than the furnace, even though it was seven times hotter. And the fire of Christ pushed aside the fire of Satan. And made a safe dwelling for these three Hebrew children because they were in Christ. The fiery furnace is a place of deliverance. Nebuchadnezzar had challenged the God of heaven. In verse 16, they say we're not careful to answer thee. We don't have to stop and think about it, King. There's no choice to be made. We will serve our God. Peter was in prison. Herod was going to be heading the next day. Peter is chained between two soldiers. And the angel of God came in and the chains fell off and Peter was delivered. Paul and Silas were in the Philippian jail and uh Earthquake came and shook the jail and shook off their chains and opened the doors of the prison and they were delivered. The fiery furnace is a place of purity. That's a blessing. The fiery furnace is a place of deliverance. That's a blessing. Certainly, the fiery furnace is a place of liberty. It's a place of liberty. These three men, verse 21, were thrown down into the furnace bound. But in verse 23, they're walking. They were thrown in bound, but the bindings of man could not hold them. Because in Christ there is liberty. It's actually verse 25, loosed, walking in the midst of the fire. Paul wrote most of his letters from prison. Say it again. Paul wrote most of his letters from prison. What blessing we receive from the words that Paul wrote in prison. You know you don't have much time to write when you're walking the roads. Right? When Paul was walking the roads, traveling, spreading the gospel, he didn't have time to write. But when he was confined in prison, then he wrote And the messages that Paul preached as he walked those roads, a few are recorded, but a very few. But the words that he wrote continue to bring peace and comfort and strength and encouragement to the church today. Folks, Paul was not confined in spirit, only in body. The fiery furnace is a place of great liberty. John wrote the book of Revelation. While he is imprisoned on the Isle of Patmos. John Bunyan wrote Pilgrim's Progress from Prison. The believers that were sent to Siberia by Stalin's regime, by the by the Soviet regime, Testified that when they got to Siberia they had religious liberty they'd never known before. Before they were arrested and sent to Siberia, they had to hide to worship But in Siberia there was really no one to pay that much attention to them. They were able to gather and sing hymns and worship more openly when they were sent to Siberia than they'd ever been before. See, God's not fooled by a fiery furnace. It doesn't matter if they bind you and your hosts, your your coats, and your hats, and your hosen, and all the things that listen there. They're walking. And folks, the burst of affliction is a place of liberty. And again, folks, when we're going through great trials and great afflictions, it is very hard at the moment, and yet I can testify to you personally, and I've heard the testimonies of others in this room That even though the trials are pressing, there was a liberty in prayer you hadn't known before. There was a freedom in calling out to God from the midst of trials. Folks, there's liberty. In the furnace of fire. Number four, there is victory. There is victory in the furnace of fire Verse 22. Therefore, because the king's commandment was urgent, and the furnace exceeding hot. The flames of the fire slew those men that took up Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego I did some some reading, some study on this passage uh this week, and the uh opinion uh from a scientific viewpoint Is that it wasn't actually the flames themselves that burned these men. Have you ever been sitting by the side of the campfire and you had to move? You don't have to actually get in the fire itself. That outer extreme aura of heat itself is deadly. And these men go to throw Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego in, and they the the men fall down outside the furnace dead, and Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego fall down into the furnace alive. At last and walkie to walk. Folks I gotta say this carefully because I don't want to, you know, those people that participated in the mockery of the Lord's Supper Oh, how close to the flames they are, with no understanding of what they're doing. Can you imagine the axemen that cut off Paul's head? Folks, there's victory. Everything that the world does to the Christian is kept in a book. And the books shall be opened. And folks, the martyrs Under the altar cry how long how long how long Every stripe that was laid upon the back of the Apostle Paul is remembered in a book. Folks, there's great victory. The world that oppresses the child of God is just building up their book. There's victory. There's victory. 2 Thessalonians chapter 1, the last part of verse 5, and going into verse 6, which is a manifest token of the righteous judgment of God. that ye may be counted worthy of the kingdom of God for which ye suffer, seeing it is a righteous thing with God to recompense tribulation To them that trouble you. It is a righteous thing with God to recompense tribulation to them that trouble you. Nebuchadnezzar, you're not doing anything to us. You're doing to yourself. Soldiers, the mightiest of the army that would throw us into the fire. You're doing it to yourself The furnace of fire is a place of help. Three within. But four walked folks. I will never leave thee nor forsake thee, even in the furnace of fire. It's a place of help. Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego were not fireproof folks. And neither am I. And neither are you. There's no trial. There is no difficulty that I am able to stand against. But my big brother stands with me. For Christ is, according to Scripture, my elder brother. And he's with me, and he fights for me. I am not alone, I have help. No matter how alone I what a place of blessing. You see, these three men, when they bow would not bow down, when they stood while everyone else bowed, they only saw the three of them. The help was there, but they didn't see the help until they were in the fire. You see, the fire revealed the help. And again, I think many of you can testify that you look back on trials and you say, oh boy, the Lord was with me. And folks, my times of devotion were stronger than. I got more out of reading the Word of God than. My times of prayer were greater than because the help was evident. There is help in the furnace of fire. Daniel and the lion's dead, we won't go into it. You know the story. Oh Daniel, was your God able? My God has sent his angel and has stopped the lion's mouth. My dad, I know I refer to my dad about a lot, but he was my pastor as well. Father. But my dad used to say that that our Daniel laid his head on a lion for a pillow And it was pretty comfortable so you ever cuddle up with your dog or cuddle up with your cat, you have. He laid his head on the lion, slept very peacefully. The lion was no harm to him. The fire furnace is a place of safety. It's a place of safety. Again, my father used to say, Joe, the safest place in the world is the center of God's will. He said that to me when when I was A teenager growing up and talking about going to the mission field and the dangers we might face. Dad used to say the safest place in the world is the center of God's will. You are safer. In the midst of any violence on the mission field, than you are here out of God's will. The safest place in the world is the center of God's will. And the place for Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego at that time was in the fiery furnace, and it was the safest place in the world. Christ himself is with it. And so the fiery furnace is a place of pure purity. It has the blessing of deliverance, the blessing of liberty, the blessing of victory, the blessing of safety, and then finally, the fiery furnace is a place of vindication, folks. It's a place of vindication. Then Nebuchadnezzar spake and said, Blessed be the God of Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego. who has sent his angel and delivered his servants that trusted in him and have changed the king's words. Have changed the king's words. Bow down. Well, that command didn't go anywhere. Never vindicated. Change the king's words. and yield their bodies, that they might not serve nor worship any God except their own God. Notice the small g on the first God, the big g on the second. Therefore I make a decree that every people, union, nation uh ever every people, nation language that speaketh anything against against the God of Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego shall be cut in pieces, and their houses shall be made a dunghill. For there is no other God that can deliver after this sort. Folks, that may not happen until we stand before the judgment seat of Christ. But when we do, God will divide the sheep from the goats. God will make separation. But folks, in the fire furnace, there is vindication. And some of you know that I you know I pray often, Lord, vindicate your truth, not your servant. Vindicate your word, not my word. Vindicate your work and not my work. But the fire furnace is a place of vindication. In the seventh chapter of Daniel, just two verses, and I'll close. In Daniel 7, verses 21 and 22, Daniel says, and I beheld The same horn made war with the saints and prevailed against them until the ancient of days came And judgment was given to the saints of the Most High God. And the time came that the saints possessed the kingdom. The day is coming when we will the saints will judge the earth and we will possess the kingdom. And so fat friends, it all all is happening around us, it's nothing new We're not the first generation to face any kind of trials. And we have not faced any trials like past generations yet. But I fear they're coming. I fear these dear little children in their midst will have to stand up against the fiery furnace. God will be with them. But folks, it's not new. And so may we have grace from God to stand and having done all to stand. Yeah. Let's stay for prayer. Father, we thank you that all scripture is given by inspiration of God and is profitable for doctrine, for proof. And Lord, that the man of God may be perfect, thoroughly furnished unto all good works. Father, through thy word this day, continue to furnish us. With the faith we need to do that which is necessary for thee. Father, bless this word to our hearts. Use us for thy glory. Bless these dear children in our midst, Father. Protect them by thy grace. In Jesus' name. Amen.