Our Father and our God, we thank you that you have ordained a day of rest, for truly we do need that rest. You've told us to cast all of our care upon you, for you care for us. You've told us to come ye apart yourselves and rest. And Lord, we come and we rest in thee and rest in thy word. Lord, in our pastoral prayer later on, we'll mention a lot of burdens and a lot of trials that we face. But oh God, as we gather in this place, May our hearts be stilled before thee. May we be still and know that you are God. And Father, may you this day be the preacher in this audience Father, may you open my lips that I might faithfully proclaim the glories of thy truth and thy word. And Father, may we be enriched by Thee. May we be made more like Christ. Through our obedience of not forsaking the gathering ourselves together. Lord, bless those that join with us online. We pray. And Father, we pray these things in Jesus' name. Amen. Stand with me, please. As I read our call to worship this morning, reading from Second Thessalonians chapter three. And a verse that will directly relate to our message from the Word of God. Finally, brethren, pray for us that the Word of the Lord may have free course and be glorified, even as it is with you. Good morning, everyone. Good to see your bright and shining faces here. Turn to your blue songbook to our opening hymn. We'll be number 57. Jesus I am resting resting now I think when we selected this hymn we didn't anticipate that the song leader would be tired. So if I start to sleep in the middle of Jesus and I am resting, resting, someone will have to tell me that this is not to be taken. Literally at the moment Jesus, I am resting, resting. Number fifty-seven, I would point out that the chorus, uh, there is a chorus at the end of the four stanzas and or four staffs, and then you'll see that at the first and second staff at the bottom. uh it will be to the uh same music you find in the first uh two sections. All right, all three stanzas. Jesus, I am resting, resting in the joy of what thou lord I am finding out the greatness of thy loving heart. Thou hast been beginning. And thy beauty fills my soul, for by thy transforming power, thou hast made me whole. Jesus, I am resting, resting in the joy of what thou art. I am finding out the greatness of thy loving all Simply trust in thee, Lord Jesus. I behold thee as thou art And thy love so pure, so changeless, satisfies my heart, satisfies thy deepest longings. May supplies every send me run with blessings, thine is love in me. Jesus, I am resting, resting in the joy of what thou art I am finding out the greatness of thy loving board Ever lift thy face upon me as I work and wait for thee rest beneath thy smile, Orange. Earth's dark shadows flee, Reness of my father's glory, sunshine of my father's face. E am of trusty, resting, fill me with thy grace. Jesus, I am resting, resting in the joy of what thou art, I am finding out the greatness. Please be seated. I love those songs that are somewhat repetitive and simple, yet somewhat uh biblically oriented. It helps me to have something better going through my head through the week than the things I pick up at the grocery store So brother Anton, if you would. Good morning. Please turn to the back of your bulletin. We're going to continue going through the canons of Dort, and this is the ninth and last article of the second head of doctrine And then we'll look next week, Lord willing, at some of the, we'll start looking at the uh rejections that are related to the second head of doctrine But this ninth article is regarding the fulfillment of God's plan. Christian, in what do you believe? This purpose, proceeding from everlasting love towards the elect, has from the beginning of the world to this day been powerfully accomplished. and will henceforward still continue to be accomplished, notwithstanding all the ineffectual opposition of the gates of hell so that the elect in due time may be gathered together into one, and that there never may be wanting a church composed of believers. the foundation of which is laid in the blood of Christ, which may steadfastly love and faithfully serve Him. as their Savior, who as a bridegroom for his bride, laid down his life for them upon the cross And which may celebrate his praises here and through all eternity. In John seventeen, in the Lord's Prayer in verses twenty and twenty-one, Christ said, Neither pray I for these alone, but for them also which shall believe on me through their word, that they all may be one. as thou, Father, art in me, and I in thee, that they also may be one in us, that the world may believe that thou hast sent me This is God's plan. He's gathering throughout all time the elect, and it's all to be gathered together into one. Even from the early days when Adam lived. We see the redeemed and all throughout. We see uh in the Old Testament and New Testament. In the Old we see Abel, Noah, Abraham, David, and in the New Testament, Peter, James, and John. And there's those that are listening today that are in Christ, many that we know here, in this room even, that the Lord's effectually worked in their heart. and pull them out of their situation to draw them into this one. And also in the future, if the Lord tarries, there will be many others. But this is that great work that the Lord is doing. He has a remnant of this uh great multitude of people, all that have turned against them, and yet he has a remnant that he casts his love upon that he is gathering from the very beginning of the time, even until now, and however long the Lord tarries, he's going to continue this work. And he does fully save each one and he loses none of them. That's a great blessing. And they're all gathered together to be as one. Though the world tells you to glory in your uniqueness. Whatever kind of strange sin desire you have. Go ahead and enjoy that, live it up and have your own unique glory of whatever kind you want. The Lord's message, the Lord's plan is very different for his people. He's gathering them together to be separate, to be as one group. They have different gifts and abilities and different tasks in the kingdom. But they're all drawn together as one. They have a similar identity, despite the different backgrounds and different multitudes of sin that they're have in their past, their one identity is that they're redeemed by Christ's blood. They're sinners saved by grace. And uh the drawing in and unifying the elect, that was the Lord's prayer there. And it will be accomplished. Indeed, all wheat at the end will be gathered in to the Father's barn as one. And I'll leave you with this scripture regarding the tares and that wheat that's drawn in. Matthew 13, 30. Let both grow together until the harvest time. And in the time of harvest I will say to the reapers, Gather ye together first the tares, and bind them in bundles to burn them, but gather the wheat into my barn. Amen I know my sheep, and they follow me, Jesus declared. We have much to be thankful for. The Lord has answered many prayers in recent days. We have much to pray for. We have learned of new health needs within our families and within our congregation. Let us go to the great God of heaven, who knows exactly all the requests we bring before him before we ask. And yet he says ye have not because ye asked not. Let us pray. Our gracious Heavenly Father, we come to you this morning. And as the hymn says, No merit of mine own, thine anger to suppress, we have no right to come before the King of heaven other than the right obtained for us through the blood of Christ. Because we are children of God through faith in Christ, through the redemption received through that blood. We are bidden to come boldly to the throne of grace. And so, Lord, we come before you this morning. And indeed, as always, thanking you that you know what things we have need of before we ask. And Lord, we thank you that you know what things we have need of, because we really don't know what we have need of. We often come before you with vain requests of things that we think we need, but are not truly what we need. And so, Father, when the disciples were taught to pray, give us this day our daily bread. Indeed, it was a prayer, Lord, give us those things which are needful for us, and not those things which are unneedful. Lord, we have many health concerns. Father, we have many in our congregation, Lord, that are Dealing with grievous physical ailments that have upcoming procedures. Lord, may you bless in each of these according to thy will Father, we thank you, Lord, that you know these bodies better than any doctor can know them. Father, we thank you that it is your hand that holdeth our soul in life. And Lord, our lives are not our own, they are thine. And so, Father, we pray that you would work your perfect will in our bodies. Father, we pray that you would give us wisdom in the treatments that we pursue, O Lord, that we may be in accordance to thy will and accordance to thy word. And Father, indeed, the steps of a good man are ordered by the Lord, and he delighteth in his way. And so, Father, give us a plain path that we may know wherein we should walk. Father, not only are there are their physical needs immediately in our congregation, but there are many that uh do not worship with us and yet their names are brought before us. And Father, we pray that you would touch their bodies, O God You are able in these things. Lord, we pray for the unsaved loved ones of our congregation. Lord, we have two husbands in particular, Lord, that we raise before you. Their names are before thy throne, O God, and we pray for their salvation. Father, this congregation has mentioned uh fathers and mothers that know you not, and aunts and uncles, brothers and sisters, children, cousins. And Lord, if we were to enumerate all of the connections to this congregation that are unbelievers at this day, Lord, it would number in the hundreds. Father, we cannot save. They would be saved already if we could save. But Father, we thank you that Jesus Christ has come to seek and to save All that the Father giveth to me shall come to me, and him that cometh to me I will in no wise cast out. And so, Father, we pray that you might bring about salvation, and O Lord, bring about it right early, we pray. Father, we Pray for the spiritual needs of this congregation. Lord, as my brother has mentioned and talking with several this morning already, we've had a rough week. And Lord, how the things of the world so quickly intrude in upon our fellowship with thee. And Lord, how easy it is to be so consumed with the rushing about that we are not sitting at the feet of Jesus and receiving the good part. And so, Father, in all of our chaos, in all of our broken machinery, in all of our trying to provide for our parents and for our families in all of our preparation for business ventures that are needful, in all of our preparation for things that are coming upon us very rapidly. Father, may our heart and our focus be upon thee and thy word. Great peace have they that love thy law, and nothing shall offend them. And so, Lord, when we find ourselves offended by all the chaos around us, it is for lack of a love of thy law. And so, Father, teach us to love thy word. May the most important part of the day of each person of this congregation be the time spent in prayer. May the most important part of our day be the time spent in thy word. Make us men and women of prayer. Make us men and women of thy book. How much more important it is to read the Word of God than to read some nonsense news on the computer. How much more important it is to spend their time meditating on thy truth rather than fretting about politics. Lord, this world is hell-bound and rushing thither. And as we were reminded this morning, we are a remnant. We are in this world, but we are not of this world. And so, Father, forgive us for allowing the cares of this world to overcome our joy in the kingdom of God. Turn our hearts to the Father, as we open thy word together this morning, we pray as always that the Holy Spirit would be the teacher, would be the preacher in this room O Lord, I will endeavor to open thy word and to expound upon it and to compare Scripture with Scripture. But O Father, if Thy Spirit does not bless thy truth, what we will have this morning is nothing more than a lecture. And Lord, your word does not say that faith cometh by you have not chosen the foolishness of lectures, but you've chosen the foolishness of preaching. And so, Father, may your spirit preach truth to our hearts this day. And Lord, we pray these things in Jesus' name. Amen. It was a great blessing to have uh Pastor Maggie Scott with us a few weeks ago. And I share with you how I first met Pastor Maggie when we were both uh very young men, both teenagers, and the Lord allowed us many years of glorious fellowship together. Today my heart is full. Today we have uh Pastor Marvin Daly with us. Um he came into one of our youth meetings at about 11, 12 years old. And uh I had the great privilege of baptizing him and his cousin on the same day. I had the picture actually in my computer of that day down by the seaside there in Smithfield. Uh Pastor Daly graduated from uh GC Foster Teachers College and Not is it Foster, what is it? GC Foster, yeah, G. C. Foster Teachers College, and began a career teaching in the public school system for the Ministry of Education. and was very involved with several churches. I'm gonna let him tell his story instead of me telling it, but uh very involved with several churches and the Lord called in the preach. He went back to college a second Got a degree in pastoral theology, pastoral studies from Fairview Baptist Bible College. And today he's the pastor of the Linux View Baptist Church. there in Jamaica. So I'm going to have Pastor Daly come and he's going to share with you a little bit about his his ministry and whatever the Lord lays on his heart. Brother I love you. So he's my pastor, right? So just letting you know of the the bat. Um I'm so happy to be here, to be in your midst. It is such a privilege. And I'm so thankful I want to thank my pastor and family for this opportunity and for the church in extension for the privilege to worship with you today. Thank you you very much. So I am married. I am married to one wife an only wife. Um and I'm so thankful for that and I have two children, a girl and a boy. Um One the girl is three years old and the boy is one. And indeed I teach at this current moment in the public system in Jamaica I am a primary school teacher where I teach the national exam of the island. And I'm also a coach of the same school and I r I am in charge of five schools. one college and one high school and three primary school that I give oversight where physical education is concerned And also I have just become the elect president for the parish of Hanover where I give insight. um and expertise to more than 20 schools in this parish of Hanover And as I was at the embassy, the the the attendant there said to me, but I see also that you're a pastor. Mm-hmm. And I say, yes full time. I'm a full time pastor at the Lenox View Baptist Church. where I I pastor there every Sunday I travel there one hour to church. Every Sunday. Uh it's that far from my my house. Um when the pandemic started I was not at that church but I had the privilege to be under a Akichi, the Aki is the national dish. Part of the national dish of Jamaica. And I was under that tree when the Jamaica was locked down and had the privilege of having persons out the place in Jamaican language was full. fill of people and just the privilege to minister even within COVID and have people hungry for the word Uh I I was so thankful to God that I could minister to people in that capacity. Uh I am here in the States and last week my church had VDS. And I was so thankful that I'm not there. That I am here. And they were able to have VBS and eleven students there made a profession of faith and I am so thankful for that and we sent three students to camp at Fairview Baptist Barber College And I am so thankful that the church was able to do that with the help of those outside of the church. Also We we are on Facebook every Sunday, but I'm here so we're not on today. I are yes yes. Um so um we have a building project and we had a few churches that came by What I love and I continue to love is where bridge can gather together. Iron sharpened iron because God is not divided by geographical location. And we as saints, we should not be divided by political persuasion. We should not be divided by ethnic situation. Because we are all one body for God's glory and how good it is when Virgin can dwell in unity. And I I am only here as a testimony to demonstrate when a man and a woman Because they didn't exist then. A man and a woman can leave comfort and to go into a foreign land to spread the gospel. So that others may hear and can be saved. And I am a fruit of that reality. In spite of Man's limitation. I am a fruit of that reality. And I can traverse all over the world. And demonstrate and tell others that missions is important. It is real. The Apostle Paul did it, and it is because of what the Apostle Paul did why we are here. He went to the Gentiles. He went to a people that was not his own. So As I see my pastor cry. I am basking in that. My pastor has always been a strong man and I am thankful for that. To have him in a tender age with his youthfulness leaving America. The place of opportunity. Thank God for a place of opportunity. And for moving persons from opportunity to a place where there was limited resources. to spread the gospel. So that his wife of a tender age journeyed with him to make the journey a little bit more comforting. They came. And I am a fruit of that reality. So my encouragement to us all: God is still moving, He is still at work. Don't give up on missions And a message to my pastor and wife. I love you very much. And thank you very much for sharing. Can I get the home before I go and see my dog? This is the beer hug, everybody. We'll uh continue now with our responsive reading. If you will, please turn in your Bible to Psalm 119. And uh we're going to be reading verses 17 to 32. Once you've located Psalm 119 in your Bible, please rise And start in verse seventeen and finish with verse thirty-two Deal bountifully with thy servant that I may live and keep thy word Open thou mine eyes, that I may be wondrous things out of thy law. I am a stranger in the earth. Hide not thy commandments from me My soul breaketh for the law that it hath unto thy judgments at all times. Thou hast rebuked the proud that are cursed, which do err from thy commandments. Remove from me reproach and contempt, for I have kept thy testimonies. Princes also did sit and speak against me, but thy servant did meditate in thy statue Thy testimonies are my delight and my counselors. My soul cleaveth unto the dust. Quicken thou me according to thy word. I have declared my ways, and thou heardest me. Teachest me thy statutes. Make me to understand the way of thy precepts. So shall I talk of thy wondrous works. My soul masses for heaviness. Strengthen thou me according unto thy word. Remove from me the way of lying, and grant me thy law graciously. I have chosen the way through. Thy judgments have I laid before me. I have stuck unto thy testimonies, O Lord. Put me not to shame, and altogether I will run the way of thy commandments when thou shalt enlarge my heart. May the Lord add a rich blessing to the reading and hearing of His Holy Word. We turn now to our red song book, Singing of a Psal from the Psalter. No, all the way towards the back of your songbook number 138A. An adaptation of Psalm 138. 138A The tune is O Son of My Soul. Hopefully it should be a familiar one. Number 138A, and there are two stanzas below the staffs you see above, so we will sing all six stanzas. Thread all my heart, my thanks of praise, before the God, thy praises Thou worship in thy holy place, and praise thy name for truth and grace. For thou love thy name on door, and write them by thy word The day I called my help here, when they were straight, my soul was cheer. All kings of earth shall pay such war when they have won my words of Lord Cherobas praise thou celebrate the glory of the Lord's praise. All over, all we want to say. For those that grow and hold me on, he always only prom Thine stress and thou wilt hold against the rabble my foe. I handle Lord shall set me free, and perfect God consolidating. Thy mercy, Lord, forever steps, leave not the word of thy own hands. Leave not the work of thine own hands, but a great comfort and reminder God will not fail to leave his people. He will always keep his things. Turn in your Bibles with me, please, to the book of Jeremiah and chapter 36. Last week we were in chapter 35. And this week will be in chapter 36 of Jeremiah. What an appropriate psalm for the message today. The Lord coordinated that, not man. Uh actually that psalm was chosen for this week before I had let the church leadership know what passage I would be preaching from. The Lord is good. I I learned that psalm in song. twenty some years ago from this same book of Psalms for singing which we use and it is a glorious uh if you if you follow the words there and then go back to the scriptures you'll see that line upon line precept upon precept. It is directly from the Word of God. Psalm 36. I said last week I was going to read a longer passage than typical, and this week I'm reading a longer passage than last week. As I read the Word of God, read along with me how easy it is in the public reading of Scripture for our minds to wander. But may our hearts be focused on the Word of God. Jeremiah 36, beginning in the first verse. And it came to pass in the fourth year of Jehoiakim, the son of Josiah, king of Judah. that this word came unto Jeremiah from the Lord, saying, Take thee a roll of a book, and write therein all the words that I have spoken unto thee Against Israel and against Judah and against all the nations from the day I spake unto thee, from the days of Josiah, even unto this day It may be that the house of Judah will hear all the evil which I purpose to do unto them That they may return every man from his evil way, that I may forgive their iniquity and their sin. Then Jeremiah called Barak, the son of Nerah, and Barak wrote from the mouth of Jeremiah all the words of the Lord, which he had spoken unto him upon the roll of the book. And Jeremiah commanded Barak, saying, I am shut up. I cannot go into the house of the Lord Therefore go thou and read in the roll which thou hast written from my mouth the words of the Lord in the ears of the people in the Lord's house upon the fasting day And also thou shalt read them in the ears of all Judah that come out of the cities. It may be, they will present their supplications before the Lord And will return everyone from his evil way. For great is the anger and the fury that the Lord hath pronounced against this people. And Barak, the son of Nariah, did according to all that Jeremiah the prophet commanded him, reading in the book the words of the Lord in the Lord's house. And it came to pass in the fifth year of Jehoiakim, the son of Josiah, king of Judah, in the ninth month, that there proclaimed they proclaimed a fast before the Lord to all the people in Jerusalem And all the people came from the cities of Judah unto Jerusalem. Then read Barak in the book the words of Jeremiah in the house of the Lord in the chamber of Gemiah the son of Shaphan the scribe, and in the higher court, at the entry of the new gate of the Lord's house in the ears of all the people. When Makiah, the son of Gara uh G G uh Jeremiah, sorry The son of Shaphan had heard out of the book all the words of the Lord. Then he went down into the king's house under the scribe's chamber. And lo, all the princes sat there, even Elishema the scribe, and Deliah the son of Shemiah, and Eli Al Nathan the son of Abel Akbor, and Germiah the son of Shiphan, and Zedekiah the son of Hananiah, and all the princes And Micaiah declared unto all them all the words that he had heard when Barak read in the book in the ears of the people. Therefore all the princes sent Jehuda, the son of Nerah, the son of Shemiah, the son of Kush, unto Barak, saying Take in thine hand the roll wherein thou hast read in the ears of the people, and come. So Varakh, the son of Uriah, took the roll in his hand, and came unto them And they said unto him, Sit down now and read it in our ears. So Barak read in their ears, read in it in their ears Now it came to pass when they had heard the words, they were afraid, both one and other, and said unto Barak, We will surely tell the king all these words. And they spake, and they asked Farak, saying, Tell us now, how didst thou write all the words that are in his mouth? And Barak answered and said, He pronounced all these words unto me with his mouth, and I wrote them with ink in the book. Then said the princes unto Barak, Go hide thee, thou and Jeremiah, and let no man know where ye be. And they went into the king's court. But they laid up the roll in the chamber of Elisha the scribe, and told all the words in the ears of the king So the king sent Jehuda to fetch the roll. And he took it out of Elishama, the scribe's chamber, and Jehuda read it in the ears of the king, in the ears of all the princes which stood beside the king. Now the king sat in the winter house in the ninth month, and there was a fire on the hearth burning before him And it came to pass that when Jehuda had read three or four leaves, that he cut it with a pin knife, and cast it into the fire that was on the hearth, until all the roll was consumed in the fire that was on the hearth. Yet they were not afraid, nor rent their garments Neither the king nor any of his his servants that heard all these words. Jason and Deliah and Jeremiah had made intercession to the king that he would not burn the roll, but he would not hear them. But the king commanded Jeremiah, the son of Hamalek, and Shiriah the son of Azal, and Shemiah the son of Abel. to take Barak the scribe and Jeremiah the prophet. But the Lord hid them. Then the word of the Lord came to Jeremiah after the king had burned the roll and the words with Barak wrote at the mouth of Jeremiah, saying, Take thee again another roll, and write in it all the former words that were in the first roll, which Jehoiakim the king of Judah hath burned. And thou shalt say unto Jehoiakim, King of Judah, Thus saith the Lord Thou hast burned this roll saying, Why hast thou written therein, saying the king of Babylon shall certainly come and destroy this land, and shall cause to cease from thence man and beast Therefore, thus saith the Lord of Jehoiakim, king of Judah, he shall have none to sit upon the throne of David, and his dead body shall be cast out in the day to the heat, and in the night to the frost. And I will punish him and his seed and his servants for their iniquity. I will bring upon them and upon the inhabitants of Jerusalem. Upon the men of Judah all the evil that I have pronounced against them. But they hearken not. Then took Jeremiah another role, and gave it to Barak the scribe, the son of Nariah, who wrote therein the M wrote therein from the mouth of Jeremiah all the words of the book which Jehoiakim, king of Judah, had burned in the fire. And there were added besides unto them many like Words. Gracious Father, what can we add? What can we say about the past? For Lord, it declares so plainly that your word cannot be destroyed of man, that your word is indeed from the very mouth of God. But now, Lord, help us as we endeavor to expound upon the passage and to compare scripture with scripture. May you give us a great love for your word. May you give us a great fear before your word. And Lord, may you give us a great confidence that we indeed have your word. Bless your truth to us this day in Jesus' name. Amen. If you studied literature or history, you're probably familiar with the name Voltaire. Voltaire in the Age of Reason. Voltaire was a French philosopher who hated God. Who hated the scriptures? Who hated Christianity? He spent his life denigrating Christianity. And in 1764, he wrote his philosophical dictionary. In his philosophical dictionary, he says this, the Bible That is what fools have written, what imbeciles commend, what rogues teach the children, and children are made to learn by heart. He continues, we are living in the twilight of Christianity. And in a pamphlet written in 1762 called Sermons on the Fifth He attacked viciously the Old Testament, the biblical miracles. He pointed out what he called biblical contradictions. He denigrated the Jewish religion and the Christian God. He abused the virgin birth and the Christ's death on the cross. He said the four gospels were he wrote of the four gospels: what folly, what misery What penuril and odious things they contain. They're filled with contradictions, follies, and horrors. Voltaire regarded most of the doctrines of the Christian faith, the incarnation, the atonement, the Trinity, Communion, as folly to be believed. And he called Christians to believe them to be the extreme of butal stupidity. What a man In 1776, Voltaire made a prediction. His prediction was that within 100 years of his death Christianity would be nothing but a fable or a fairy tale. There would be no more believers. It would just be some past historical event. He died two years later in 1778. Move forward in time. To 1836. In 1836, and this is all documented history, in 1836, only fifty-eight years after Voltaire's death The Reverend William Awkworth of the British Foreign Bible Society visited the home of Henry Tokin, who was a captain in the Dutch army, and this home was in Geneva The home that Token owned had been once owned by Voltaire. And in that home there was a large room, probably larger than room we're in the day Where Voltaire, among his writings, wrote several plays, and he would have his friends come when they would have these plays in that room that mocked Christianity, that mocked Christ And they would have great parties and celebrations mocking Christianity. But by 1833 When Reverend Alcott visited there in the Troc Trokin home, the home was now owned by a devout Christian. You see, Henry Trokin was part of the Evangelical Society of Geneva Eva. And the reason the Reverend Alcott was sent there to visit in the Tro Trocan home was because the room in which they had had these plays mocking Christianity was now filled to the ceiling with you got it Bibles. Because as part of his work with the Evangelical Society of Geneva, Trokin was storing the Bibles and the tracts and he didn't have a place big enough for them, but he had this big room in his house that he had nothing to use for. He didn't have drunken parties And so in the home of Voltaire, thousands of Bibles were being stored. Fifty-eight years after his death, the man that said, within a hundred years of my death, there won't be any more Bibles. We have before us this morning the story of the man who burned the Bible. And the king thought that he could burn this copy of the roll which had been hidden from him. And when he burned the roll, it would be gone. It would be done. But just like when you stamp on a fire and the sparks fly everywhere and start all new fires, God knew every word that he had spoken. And many. Like words were added. I'd like us to consider, first of all, the source of the Word of God. We believe in and we preach the verbal inspiration of Scripture. This passage gives us a glorious example of the verbal inspiration of Scriptures. God said these words. God spoke them. If you look at the passage, there in the first verse it said, the words that came to Jeremiah from the Lord saying Take thee a roll of a book and write therein all the words that I have spoken unto thee against Israel, against Judah, against the nations, from the day that I spake unto thee, from the days of Josiah. even to this day. Now, if you've ever been involved in writing literary documents, footnotes are required. If you open up a book, in the front leaf of the book, you will find the copyright date. That's what we have right here. Okay? It says that this came to pass in the fourth year of Jehoiakim, king of Judah. That's the copyright date. This is about 607 years before Christ, according to our modern commentary. Now A book of fiction that's talking about something that happened a thousand years ago or two thousand years ago, it can't pinpoint a date. It can say long, long ago in a land far, far away. You ever heard that? Once upon a time But the Bible gives its dates. And over and over again, archaeology and history have proven it to be true. But not only is the copyright stated, the authorship is stated. This is the word that came to Jeremiah from the Lord. This is not some fable that's been passed on generation. No We we we know exactly the the the source of it. In fact, eighty-four times in the fifty-two chapters of the book of Jeremiah, Jeremiah attributes his message to Jehovah Eighty-four times he says, Thus saith the Lord. The word of the Lord came unto me. This is the word of the Lord. Eighty-four times in fifty-two chapters he tells us exactly where his message came from. The media is given to us. Take a roll of a book and write therein. Okay, this wasn't scribbled on a rock and found somewhere in a tomb. No, there was a role of a book. It was written down. It's not oral history. It's not ideas that are told one person to the next and the story can change. Did you ever play the game? Where everybody sits in a circle and the first one whispers something into the ear, and they whisper it and whisper it, and it comes around to the end, and then the last person tells what they think the message was. And by the time it gets there, it's completely different. Folks, that's not the word of God. We have the meaning here. Take a roll, write it down. Why is that important? Well, because it was written This wasn't doing your crossword puzzle and pencil and erasing your errors and changing it later. The media is given to us. This is clear evidence. This is clear evidence of verbal inspiration. Look at the method that's given there Write therein all the words which I have spoken. Jehovah It says, write the words that I have spoken. Turn with me back to Jeremiah 26. It should probably just be a few pages in your Bible, 10 chapters back. Jeremiah 26. And look at the first two verses. I'll give you a moment. I hear the page is turning Jeremiah 26, verses 1 and 2. In the beginning of the reign of Jehoiakim, the son of Josiah, king of Judah, came the word of the Lord saying, We have another date stamp here, folks. This is four years before chapter 36. Chapter 36 says the fourth year. This is the first year. The word of the Lord came, saying, Thus saith the Lord, stand in the court of the Lord's house, and speak unto all the cities of Judah which come to worship in the Lord's house, all the words that I have commanded thee to speak unto them. Diminish not a word. The last four words of this verse are very important. Diminish not over God says, go speak the words I've told you, and don't leave one out. Don't change one. Because I'm the God of the jots and the tittles. Diminish not a word. Folks, this is a strong argument for the verbal inspiration of The Word of God. That's what we have here. Now it's under attack today. Satan hates it. He would burn every row of the book leaf by leaf if he could. And he raised up men like Voltaire that said, give it a hundred years and it's gone. But God has a sense of humor. And so his house became the storage room for thousands of copies of the Word of God. In Ezekiel 3, verse 10 and 11, we find these words. Moreover, he said unto me, Son of Man, all my words that I speak unto thee, receive in thine heart, hear with thine ear. And go and get thee to them of the captivity, unto the children of thy people, and speak unto them, tell them, thus saith the Lord. Folks, if I ever stand in this pulpit and give you my own opinion, please kick me out. Because it is the job of the preacher to declare the truth of God's word. We're not here for story time. We're not here for the nonsense of this world. We're not here for a discussion of politics. We're not here to refute some Nonsense. We're here to proclaim the Word of God. Yes, we do refute nonsense that opposes the Word of God. Don't misunderstand me. But this book, this book is what Proverbs 2, verse 6, for the Lord giveth wisdom, out of his mouth cometh knowledge. David said, The Spirit of the Lord spake by me, and his word was in my tongue. Even Christ himself in John 12 said these words, 12, 48 through 50. He that rejecteth me rejecteth not my words. Uh uh sorry, he that rejects me and receiveth not my words, hath one that judgeth him. The word that I spake, the same shall judge him in the last day, for I have not spoken of myself But my father which sent me, he gave me a commandment what I should say and what I should speak. Even Christ said, the words I'm saying is not something that I have come up with. My Father, which is in heaven. Jehovah, thus saith the Lord. So the first thing we see here is a very clear exposition of the verbal inspiration. But secondly, notice the purpose of this word. In verse 3 and in verse 6, it may be that the house of Judah will hear all the evil which I have purposed to do unto them that they may return every man from his evil, that I may forgive their iniquity and their sins. And verse number seven, it may be that they will present their supplication before the Lord Wasn't God gracious? The purpose was repentance. The purpose of God sending this word was that he might spare them. Jehoiakim burned the owner of the world. Only hope that his nation had. The purpose was repentance. Faith cometh by hearing, and hearing by the Word of God. Now, what does that say about a nation that takes the Ten Commandments off our courthouses? What does that say about a nation that removes prayer and Bible reading from the school system We have our brother from Jamaica here this morning. I have pictures of my wife standing on the second floor of a basic school with about 300 kids Standing in the heat, standing in the sun, no seats for them to sit down, the sun beating down upon them. But she was asked to come to the school to teach the Bible. The word came as a word of mercy The word came as the source of salvation. Faith cometh by hearing and hearing by the word of God. It came to proclaim, thus saith the Lord. It came to proclaim, except ye repent ye shall all likewise perish. It came to proclaim, the Son of Man has come to seek and to save that which was lost. It came to proclaim That there would be a death on a cross that could free my soul from death in hell. And yet, as we see further on in the passage, it also came as a book of judgment. For it was declared that Jehoiakim's body would not even be buried. He was the king, but he wouldn't dwell wouldn't his body wouldn't rot in a king's tomb. It would be thrown out for the beast and the frost and his son Would never sit on that throne. The purpose of the Word of God is to bring us to salvation. The purpose of this book is to bring us to repentance. Why do men hate it? Why do men hate this book so much that they would declare that within a hundred years of their death it would be gone Well, because Christ declared, My sheep know my voice. All that the Father giveth to me shall come to me, and him that Come unto me, I will noise cast out. No man can come unto me except that we're given him of the Father. You see, folks, I'm not saved because I was better than them. I'm not saved even because I made a good choice. I did make a good choice. But only because God made a choice before me. That's right. Because He chose to give me His word. He chose to open my ears, which were deaf. He chose to open my eyes, which were blind. Jehoiakim saw the word of God as something to be burned. But the child of God sees it as something to be loved. You find the proclamation of the word there in verse six or verse five. And Jeremiah commanded Barak saying, I am shut up, I cannot go into the house of the Lord. It doesn't tell us why I shut up, but looking Hiding. I am shut up. I cannot go into the house of the Lord. Go thou therefore and read in the role. Isn't it amazing, folks? I've I've mentioned before in our scripture readings. That I do not have anything inspired to say to you today. But I read the inspired word. Go read it. Go read it in the ears of the people. That's what it needs. It doesn't need a light show. It doesn't need a fog machine. It doesn't need some big band to get the people all stirred up before we preach it. It doesn't need a clown to come and entertain. It doesn't need some kind of drama. It does not need anything but to be read. Line upon line, precept upon precept, God has chosen the foolishness of preaching to save them that believe. The delivery is laid out here for us Verse 6, go thou therefore and read in the role which thou hast written from the mouth, the words of the Lord and the ears of the people in the Lord's house upon the fasting day. On the day of worship. Go read the book. Verse 10. Then read Barak the book of the words of Jeremiah in the house of the Lord. They read the book. That was the method of delivery. So then faith comes by hearing, and hearing by the word of God. Preach the word. Be in season, out of season, reprove, rebuke with all long-suffering and doctrine. Go and stand and speak in the temple to the people, the words of this life. Acts 5, verse 20. But also this chapter shows Use the response to the Word of God. It shows us the way it was received, and we've already touched on this. Some hear and fear. Look down to verse 14 and following. Therefore, all the princes sent Jehudai, the son of Nathanael, unto Shemiah, forgive me for murdering the names. The son of Kushai unto Barak saying, Take in thine hand the roll wherein thou hast read in the ears of the people, and come So Barak, the son of Nariah, took the road in his hand and came unto them, and they said unto him, Sit down now and read in our ears Come, sit down, read it, we want to hear it. So Barak read in the read it in their ears. Now it came to pass when they heard all the words, they were afraid, both one and another. They heard the word of God and they were afraid. I remember as a young child Hearing the word of God, and I was afraid. As a young child I heard the word of God and I realized that I was a sinner. Hadn't murdered anybody. Hadn't committed adultery. robbed the bank. You can name all the quote unquote big sins. I hadn't committed any of those. But I was a six-year-old sinner. And I knew, I knew that it is God who holds the soul in life. And I knew that except ye repent, ye shall all likewise perish. And friends, every believer has come to fear when he hears the word of God. They heard the word. They heard heard these words. They said, come read it to us. Come read it to us. And they heard it and they were afraid. And the response was, We've got to go tell the king. We've got to share this word with others. We've got to go give we got to warn people. Hell is real. Hell is coming. And accept you repentance. They heard it with fear. They wanted to know the truth. They wanted to know its source. They're in verses 17 and 18. They said, how'd this happen? And he says, well, well, God gave Jeremiah the words and Jeremiah spoke the words and I wrote them down. That's where it came from. He heard the word of God with fear. Isaiah 66, verse 5, just part of the verse, hear ye the word of God, ye that tremble at his word. Isaiah 66, verse 2, again just part of the verse, but uh to this man will I look, even to him that is a poor and contrite spirit, and trembleth at my word. God said, I'm gonna look to the man. I pay attention to the man that trembles at my word. Some heard with great fear. Look down at verses 22 And following. Verse 22 of Jeremiah 36. Now the king sat in the winter house in the ninth month, and there was a fire on the hearth burning before him. And it came to pass that when Jehudai had read three or four leaves, he cut it with a penknife and cast it into the fire. was on the hearth, under the roll was consumed in the fire that was on the hearth, yet they were not afraid. nor rent their garments, neither the king nor any of his servants that heard these words. They were not afraid. Think about this, folks. What was on the hearth? Fire. Would Jehoiakim have stuck his hand into that fire No. No. Why? Burning. Where is Jehoiakim today? I am sure scripture does not tell me this and don't kick me out of the church for saying this is not my opinion. But I would imagine that every second of eternity his mind's eyes sees that image of the Word of God. Burning on the hearth as he stands within the fire. And I would also imagine that Voltaire is not far from him. But they're not enjoying the company. You see, some hear this precious word and they fear. Others hear it and they have no fear whatsoever. No fear whatsoever. But finally, this passage gives us the permanence of God's Word. The preservation of God's Word. We find, first of all, that there was a reliable replication of the Word. Look to verse 16. Now it came to pass when they had heard all these words, they were afraid both one and the other, and said unto Barak, We will surely tell the king all these words. And they asked Barak, saying, Tell us, how didst thou write all these words at his mouth? And Barak answered them, He pronounced all these words unto me with his mouth, and I wrote them with ink in the book. Now, why is that verse important to us when we consider the preservation of God's Word? A lot of talk about the original autographs, and people say we don't have the original autographs. We have copies. We have copies. Well, you realize that what Jehudai took and Jehoiakim burned Was a copy to begin with. God gave the word to Jeremiah. Jeremiah repeated the word to Barak. Barack wrote the word on the roll. So already with the first quote-unquote copy, there has been a transmission. But then when Jehoiakim burns the book, God gives Jeremiah the ex Exact same words again. And so the preservation of the word was not based on the talent of the scribe, it was based in the mouth of God. And so people will say, Well we really don't know what the Bible says because all we have is copies of copies of copies But remember when God told Jeremiah in chapter twenty-six, diminish not a word. Folks, if you tell me something And then I try to tell it to Brother Vince, there will be alterations. There will be changes, and I will forget one of the main things I'm supposed to tell him Because what you tell me is not inspired of God. What you tell me is not forever settled in heaven. And what you tell me, God doesn't care about the jots and tittles But here we find the faithful replication, the faithful transmission of the Word of God from God to Jeremiah, Jeremiah to Barak, Barak to a role. And even when the role was destroyed, God gave another role just like it and added some more to it. And so, first of all, in the preservation of God's word, we find a reliable replication for reliable transmission of the word. But secondly, we find a reliable handling of the Word of God. Look with me at verses 5 and 6. And Jeremiah commanded Barak, saying, I am shut up, I cannot go into the house of the Lord. Go therefore and read in the roll. He doesn't say go therefore and give them a summary. He doesn't say go therefore and give them cliff notes. He doesn't say go therefore and just, you know, whatever's on your heart. Go thou therefore and read in the roll which thou hast written from the mouth from my mouth the words of the Lord and the ears of the people in the Lord's house upon the fasting day. Barack understood what the commandment was. He understood that he was going to read the Word of God, not the Word of Man. There was a faithful handling of it. He handled it well. Don't make up something. Read the role. But then look down the verses 19 and 20. Then said the princes unto Barak, Go hide thee, thou and Jeremiah, and let no man know where ye be. And they went into the king's court, but they laid up the roll in the chamber of Elishama the scribe, and told all the words in the ears of the king. Okay, before this role that God dictated to Jeremiah, and Jeremiah faithfully spoke to Barak. And Barak faithfully wrote it down, before the king got his filthy mitts on the roll, the roll was hidden. That's very significant. It was put away. It was put in a place of protection. It was put in a place of safety. But why is that important? We know the chain of custody. We know that in between the time that Barak wrote down the words and the words came to Joachim, nobody had a time or space to mess with it. Nobody could alter it to suit their own aims. Nobody could go into it and change the judgment. Because remember what it said, this is the words against Judah, against Israel, and against all nations. Nobody can go in there and change the judgments of God according to what they said because it was put away It was not in some unknown library, somewhere in the Eastern Bloc, to be discovered someday. We know the chain of custody. Folks, that's very important. Because today there are so-called Bibles that have been written not from the preserved Word of God But had been written by some scroll that was found somewhere that some people that didn't like the virgin birth, that didn't like the Trinity That didn't like the judgments of Scripture went in and changed it to what they wanted to say. And now those errant translations are put forward as the word of God. have here in scripture an example of how God preserves his word, how he takes care of it, how he guards it. We have the record, the chain of com of of the chain of custody. We find also that those who were faithful to the Word of God paid the price for it. It wasn't easy for them. Jeremiah said, I'm shut up in verse 5. In verse 19, go and hide thee in Jeremiah, let no man know where they are. Verse 26: Take Barak and the scribes of Jeremiah the prophet and hide them. Put them away. You see, folks, Jehoiakim burned a copy, but the original was in heaven. The original is put away in a place that no man can ever touch it. Forever, O Lord, thy word is And so in Psalm 12, verse 6 and 7, you've heard this verse many times. I hope you've just got it memorized by now. The words of the Lord are pure words, as silver tried in a furnace of earth purified seven times. Thou shalt keep them, O Lord. Thou shalt preserve them from this generation, even forevermore. Folks, God promised Promised us that he would preserve and protect and keep pure his word as tried in a furnace of earth seven times. And so Jeremiah took a new role, and Barak wrote in all the former roles, all the words were in the former role, and there were added beside them many. like words. Verily, verily I say unto you, the heaven and earth shall pass away. One jot or one tittle shall in no wise pass from the law. Heaven and earth shall pass away, but my word shall not pass away. The grass withereth, Isaiah 40 verse 8. The grass withereth, the flower of the field fadeth, but the word of our God standeth forever. Isaiah 55, 11, so shall my word be that goeth forth out of my mouth. It shall not return to the be void, but it shall accomplish that which I please, and it shall prosper in the thing whereunto I Send it. My father taught me a poem when I was a little boy, and I used to recite it by memory. Today I have a cheat sheet because my mind is at what I used to do used to be. But I was probably six or seven years old when I first heard this poem. Last Eve I passed beside a blacksmith's door, And heard the anvil ring the Vespers chime. Then looking in I saw upon the floor Old hammers worn with beating years of time How many anvils have you sa had, said I, to wear and batter all these hammers so? Just one, he said, and with a twinkle in his eye, the anvil wears the hammers out. you know. And so I thought, the anvil of God's word, for ages, skeptics' blows have beat upon Yet though the noise of falling blows was heard, the anvil is unharmed. The hammer's gone Men have tried from the very beginning to destroy this book. Men have tried from the very beginning to pollute this book. Men have tried from the very beginning to deny this book. book. Men have denigrated this book. Men have said this book will disappear. But folks, there are more copies of this book than any other book in the world. And if you manage to burn everyone, you still have not burned the Word of God, for it's forever settled in heaven. I don't recommend it, but if you look at literature, if you look at fantasy stories, they try to mimic this book. Satan is the great counterfeiter. Folks, we have the Word of God. We can trust it. We must fear it. We must proclaim it. But we can load with confidence that God has preserved Let us stand for prayer. Our gracious Heavenly Father, we thank you for the Word of God. Lord, you would have been totally just To have had each of us born in a country where we would be born, live, and die, and never hear a single word of thy truth. Lord, we we rejoice in missions. We rejoice in the privilege of carrying your word to the ends of the world. And yet, Lord, you are just to leave men without ever hearing the word of God. They live, they're born, they live and they die, and they go to hell for the lack of this book. But oh Lord, how merciful and gracious you've been to us. That you have given us your word. But not only, Father, have you given us your word, you've given us a fear before your word. As Christ said, Blessed are your eyes, for they see, and your ears for they hear. Father, you have given us a heart to fear thy word. You would have been just to have sent us to hell like Jehoiakim. But, O Lord, you've removed the heart of stone and give us a heart of flesh that we might believe. Father, this day we thank you. Lord, as we go from this place later this day, may we be have a great burden to tell others. Just as they had to know, may we tell others the truth of thy word. Bless thy word to our hearts this day, we pray. O God, in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. We turn to our closing hymn today in your blue song book, number three hundred and fifty-nine. My faith looks up to the 359 as we're closing hymn in the blue song book. And we'll sing all four stanzas. Yeah. Summerleaves of Frown. Oh, cancel that September. My faithful start to thee, Alam of Calgory, Save your divine. Thou hear me when I pray, take all my sins away, hold me from this day. Praise and part straight my face and part nice. Why as thou hast died for me? Oh may love for thee no more enchant. And range around his bread be thou my God In darkness turns to make my sorrow tears away ever straight. From the Win Dream When this post all extreme shall be wrong, let's stay your hand in love. Amen. Amen. Please receive.