Turn with me this morning to First Samuel chapter twenty. If you're wondering if the message is going to go long today, it's seventeen verses. I promise to have you out of here before the Super Bowl Which starts at six thirty. So you'll you'll be home in time. All right. But we are looking at seventeen verses of First Samuel chapter twenty. So beginning at verse one, if you'll just follow with me. And David fled from Naoth. You remember last week he was in Naoth and Saul showed up, King Saul, and he wanted to arrest him and kill David, and then Saul fell into a uh prophetic uh prophesying and uh shouting hallelujahs and joining the in the chorus of the other prophets and fell prostrate on his face all that night All that day and all that night. It gave David a chance to slip away, which he did. It says he fled from Naoth, verse 1, in Ramah, and he came and said unto Jonathan, that's Saul's son, King Saul's son, What have I done? What is my iniquity? And what is my sin before thy father that he seeketh my life? And he that is Jonathan said unto David, God forbid, thou shalt not die. Behold, my father will do nothing, either great or small, but then he will show it to me. And why should my father hide this thing from me? It's just not so And David swore more over and said, Thy father certainly knoweth that I have found grace in thine eyes. And he saith, Let not Jonathan know Lest he be grieved. But truly, as the Lord liveth, and as my soul liveth, there is but a step between me and death. Jonathan said unto David, Whatsoever thy soul desireth, I'll even do it for thee. And David said unto Jonathan, Behold, tomorrow is the new moon. And I should not fall, and I should not fail to sit with the king at meat. But let me go that I may hide myself in the field onto the third day at evening. And if thy father at all miss me, then say, David earnestly asked leave of me that he might run to Bethlehem, this is his city, for there is a yearly sacrifice there for all the family. If he thus says, No, that is well, thy servant shall have peace. But if he's very wroth, then be sure of the evil he's determined by him. And therefore thou shalt deal kindly with thy servant, for thou hast brought thy servant into a covenant of the Lord with thee. Notwithstanding, if there be in me iniquity, slay me thyself, for why should thou bring me to thy father? So David reminds Jonathan of the covenant they had to have each other's back and to love one another and that if I have done anything wrong, he says, you kill me, but don't let your father kill me In verse 9, John said, Far be it from thee, for if I knew certainly that evil was determined by my Father to come upon thee, then would not I tell it thee? And David said to Jonathan, Well, who shall tell me? And what if thy father answer thee roughly? And Jonathan said unto David, Come and Let us go out into the field. And and they went both of them into the field. And Jonathan said unto David, O Lord God of Israel, when I've sounded out my father about tomorrow, any time, or the third day, that the feast would be a three-day feast. And behold, if there be good towards David, and I then send not unto thee, and show it thee, the Lord do so and much more to Jonathan But if it pleased my father to do the evil, then I will show it thee and send thee away that thou mayest go in peace. The Lord be with thee as he hath been with my father. And thou shalt not only, while yet I live, show me the kindness of the Lord, that I die not, but also thou shalt not cut off my kindness from my house, for Ever know not when the Lord hath cut off all the enemies of David, every one from the face of the earth. Jonathan says this thing if it goes south and eventually I know you're going to be the king, and he says, Please have mercy on my family. Kill all your enemies, but don't kill my family, don't kill me, we're not your enemies. And says in verse sixteen, so Jonathan made a covenant with the house of David, saying, Let the Lord even require it at the hand of David's enemies And John had caused David to swear again. So that was the second covenant they made with one another. Because he loved David, for he loved him as he loved his own soul. I titled this message this morning, The Covenanters, because Jonathan had approached David uh some time back in chapter 18 and verse 3 made a covenant with him and here he's making another covenant with him And so Jonathan and David were covenanters. They made covenants. They made vows. They made promises. That's what a covenant is. It's a promise or it's a vow that you make. in the sight of God or or you say, uh, uh you know, this is the vow I make, this is the promise I make, and God be my judge, and may God do something radical to me if I don't keep up this promise or this vow. And uh then a covenant is always solidified with something uh tangible. And then that covenant that Jonathan made with David back in chapter eighteen, uh he had given him his bow and his arrows and his armor and his shield uh as proof that Uh that he could always say, We made a covenant, I still got your shield. We made a covenant, I still got your bows and your arrows and and so there was always something tangible. Um You make a covenant those of you who someone who are married. When you got married you gave a ring to your bride or your bride gave you a ring, maybe a double ring ceremony You made a vow. In fact, we say in a marriage ceremony, we often say, and now as we're gathered together today in the presence of God and we unite unite unite these two in holy matrimony in the presence of God They make a covenant. It's called a marriage covenant. And you exchange the ring, something tangible that you can always wave at them and say, Remember this? Remember this? You promised. You made a vow, a covenant before God And uh so that's what we have here with the Covenanters. And many of you sitting here, you're Covenanters as well. Now why would David flee the presence of Samuel the prophet? That seemed like a pretty safe place to be. Samuel would certainly guard the man that he had prophesied he would become the king of Israel. And yet he does. He flees Samuel and he goes to see Jonathan, the the the son of Saul. It seems like you're going from the Maybe the fire or from the flying pan into the fire so to speak. But he fled him because as I said in chapter eighteen and verse three, Jonathan David made a covenant He felt safe with Jonathan. He felt very safe with Jonathan. Jonathan was a warrior. Samuel was not. Jonathan had his back, had promised, had vowed, had made this covenant. Uh and he and so he says here in in the uh verse twenty that he makes this promise again, deal kindly with me and with one another. So they they were covenant makers and they made these covenants and he he felt very safe uh to be with him. Covenants make promises before God that are actually more binding than any other promise you can make. People say, I promise, I swear in a stack of Bibles. That's not making a covenant before God. with one another and exchanging something like a ring. A covenant is really a very, very binding promise or vow. Does it cross my heart And hope to die. That's not as strong a vow as a covenant. a covenant. A covenant is something that is that is binding in the presence of God and it's everlasting. You don't break it. You don't break it. And so they made these covenants and they were very close. And so David comes to him and he says, What have I done? Thy father seeketh my life. David wanted to get it right. He wanted to fix it. He wanted to restore the relationship. Do you desire to restore a relationship? You ever in a situation like that where a relationship is not good with your wife? or your husband or with your children or or friends or family. If you've got a relationship and you want to restore it, the first thing you gotta do is go to them and say, What have I done? I want to make it right. And that's what David does here. He said, What have I done? My father seeketh my life. What have I done? And you might be surprised by the answer. Sometimes you don't know what you've done, and sometimes you don't think what you've done was all that bad, and sometimes what you uh you think is the problem isn't really the problem. In fact, uh David is surprised as well. He said, What have I done? And and John the reply is, God forbid, it's not so. My dad doesn't want to kill you. That was his response. What have I done? What's his response? Well you've done this. No, he doesn't say His response is, it's not so. My dad doesn't want to kill you. Now David did not believe that. That had to really shock him that Jonathan didn't think that Saul wanted to kill him. We tend to defend our families quite a bit when there's some charge made against them, don't we? That's what Jonathan's doing here. My father doesn't want to kill you. He's standing up for his father, right? Don't we do that too? You know, we we we tend to defend our children. My son isn't a bully. Who said that, right? My daughter would never use a word like that. Who how dare you say that? My dog doesn't point Well, he's part of family, isn't he? You got a dog, you know that. But we do, we just tend to defend our families. So John just says, it's not so, it's not so And yet, in chapter nineteen, just the chapter before, Jonathan was there. It says Saul spoke to Jonathan and all his servants that they should kill David. I mean How does he forget that? How does Jonathan not remember that he heard his father say, I'm going to kill him, and I want everyone here to try to kill him also And and how does he not know, you know, how the gossip would fly through through the courts of Saul and in the gossip and you know families and people talk about what happened how was your day today what happened today. He said, Well did you hear about Saul and he threw a javelin at David, chapter 18. Well did you hear about Saul today? The king he threw a javelin at David chapter 19. I mean he's throwing javelins At David. He's telling Jonathan the servants to kill David. And yet he doesn't think it's so. My father doesn't want to kill you. My son's not a boy. We defend family to the nth degree Saul had sent messengers onto David's house to slay him. Chapter 19 and verse 11. And Michael David's wife is Saul's daughter. You don't think Saul's daughter, Michael, David's wife, you don't think that Saul's daughter told Saul's son Jonathan, your father sent men to our house last night to kill my husband David. I mean, Jonathan's got to know all of this. And yet he says it's not so Well, he'd remember Saul saying, and in fact Saul had back in chapter 9, that was a long time ago, he remembered Saul swearing, As the Lord liveth, David shall not be slain. But after that, javelin, javelin, sending out men to kill him, sending out messages to kill him, telling Jonathan, I want you to kill David. Tell the you know, it's just So here's Jonathan. He's got to believe his father, or he's got to believe David. Pilgrim, do people believe your word over somebody else's because you're a Christian? Do people believe your word over others? Should people believe your word over others? That might be a better question that only you can answer. We find in Scripture that people's words are not always very good. The father came with two sons, the one to go in the vineyard and work. Right? And the one son said, I'll go, Father, I'll go. And the other son said, I'm not going. But the one son said, I'll go, Father, I'll go work in the vineyard. And The Lord comes to Cain in Genesis chapter 4. Cain, where's your brother? Of course, he'd already killed his brother, Abel. The blood was crying out to God, and God says, Cain, where's your brother? And Cain says, I don't know. What am I my brother's keeper? His word wasn't any good. Jacob comes to his father, and his father's lost his eyesight. And he wants to reward the man that would bring him some venison and Jacob comes with the fake hairy arms on his mother wrathless arms and goat hair and he touches the arms of Jacob and he says The voice is that of Jacob, but the arms are that of Esau. Jacob was a liar, wasn't he? Didn't say Jacob wasn't saved. But it all comes down to, as a Christian, is our word trustworthy? Do people believe what we say? Should they believe what we say? I would hope that They learn to believe what we say, and what we say is always true. So Jonathan has to figure out who's telling the truth, Saul or David So David in verse 3 says, As the Lord liveth, there's but a step between me and death. I'm just one step away. The next step may be a javelin coming to the window or coming to the door. I'm one step away from death. Anybody here feel like that this morning if they're one step away from death? Because the reality of the fact is that We're all just one step away from death. Don't know which step it's going to be, but there's going to come a day when you're going to take that last step. It could be today Christ said, the hairs on your head are numbered, Matthew 10 and verse 30. And so too are your days determined, Job 14 and 5. Your days are determined. I don't know how many days you got left. I don't know how many steps you got left. I know that it says in Psalm 37, 23, the steps of a good man are ordered by the Lord, and when those steps run out, you've just taken your last step Your next step or your last step may be your next step in the bathtub, in the shower, going down the stairs or up the stairs, maybe your last step A patch of ice, that's easy, around here this time of year. You don't know when your next and your last step may be. But David, and David didn't either. David felt that his next step was his last. That's a good way to live, really At least you try to keep your heart right with God. You try to keep up with your uh apologies and repentances and Talk to the Lord about what you've done that's wrong and ask him to forgive you, knowing that your next step might be your last. And so this is David. He thinks his next step is his last and but it wasn't And so he told David and Samuel David knew, or rather he didn't tell David, David had told Jonathan, and Jonathan knew that David would be king someday. He knew that And although God had told David he would also be king someday, David thought he's just one step from death. I'll never be king. I mean, Samuel's told me I'll be king. Samuel prophesied. Samuel came to me with the word of God. He says, You're going to be the next king of Israel. He said, How can I be the next king of Israel? I'm just one step from death. He didn't really, he'd lost confidence, as it were. In the Word of God. And you people can lose confidence in the Word of God. They can be saved and lose confidence. And usually they lose confidence in the Word of God when they're not in fellowship with the people of God. When they're not contemplating and meditating on the Word of God. And this is what was happening with David. David was running, running, running. He was being pursued, pursued, pursued. He didn't have any fellowship He was out there by himself. He seemed like he had no friends at all. And there wasn't time to stop and to meditate on God's word and to read God's word. He was just trying to keep alive And when you live that way, without a time of fellowship with other believers, when you live that way without a time of corporate prayer and praying with one another, as no doubt uh David is going to pray somewhat here with Jonathan. When you're living without a good prayer life, when you're living without a good time of fellowship with other believers, you can get discouraged You can start questioning the Word of God. We find that with John the Baptist. Tim mentioned this morning, John the Baptist, the greatest man ever born of woman. That's what Christ said of John the Baptist. That's a pretty good endorsement If Christ says that. It's a great endorsement, no matter who says it, but Christ says it. That's a wonderful endorsement. John the Baptist, wow. And yet we read of John the Baptist when he didn't have fellowship anymore, when he didn't have a fellow With the scrolls or scriptures, whether he's locked up in a prison by by Herod, he says, John heard in prison, the works of Christ And he sent two of his disciples and said to say to him, Art thou the one that should come, or do we look for another? We read about that in Matthew eleven two and three. So here's John the Baptist. I mean you can't ask for anything but I mean Talk about a spiritual guy. He's the voice trying the wilderness, making way, the making straight the roads for the Messiah. But without fellowship, locked in a prison, without the word of God that he can read, without others to be there to pray with him, he's discouraged, his spirit is quenched, and he wants to know, is Christ the one or do we look for another? And this is what's been presented to Jonathan by David. I think your father's ought to kill me. No, he's not. Yes, he is. No, he's not. Who are you gonna believe, your father or me? Hmm. All right. I gotta fix the problem. Do you are you a fixer? Some problems just can't be fixed, I know, but sometimes they can be and we need to pray about it. So Jonathan says You know, in order to fix the problem, David's spirit's been quenched and he's discouraged and he's down. He says, I love his answer. And this is what you say, you come to someone and say, someone's out to kill me, or what have I done? What have I done? And Jonathan says, whatsoever thy soul desireth, I will do it for thee. Wow. What have I got to do to calm you down, David? What have I got to do to realize I got your back? What do I got to do, David, to maybe make things right between my father and you? You know, whatever I gotta do, he says, what whatsoever thy soul desireth, I will even do it for thee. Man, that's a friend, isn't it? Is that a friend? You got a friend like that? I mean I that's quite a commitment. You don't even know what he might ask you to do. He just says whatever it whatever it takes, whatever I have to do, whatever you want, whatever life, soul desires, that's quite a commitment. That's quite a friend. And that's what Christ said. In my name ask, and you shall receive. John 16, 25. That's why we look for friends who are Christ-like. Friends like Jonathan, of course, too. A Christ-like friend, some that will say to you, hey, whatever you need. I'm there for you. What can I do for you? That will be good for you. I'm not going to do something that's going to be bad for you Well, I'll do whatever I can for you. That would be good for you. That's what Christ says. Christ isn't going to answer everything we ask for, because some things wouldn't be good for us Oh Lord, I want to marry this guy. He's so great. And the Lord said, no, no, no, no, no. I know more about this guy and what he's going to be like in 20 years than you do. No, it's not the one you want to marry. He might say no. He might say yes But that's the Lord Jesus Christ too. We ought to be Christ-like. We ought to look for friends who are Christ-like. Like Jonathan. What a generous offer. What a generous friend. Have you a friend that's that gracious, that giving, that generous? Have you got a friend like that? That's what you want to look for in a spouse, by the way. Someone who's generous, giving. Ah. And are you that generous Are you that giving and forgiving and that gracious? Are you like Jonathan? Are you are you Christ-like? Jonathan says, whatsoever thy soul desireth, I was Do it for me. That kind of what guys say to girls. I'll climb the highest mountain, I'll swim the deepest sea. Oh, you know, they give a long litany of things to do. Will you go to the opera with me? Uh oh now to the opera. Right? Now note, verse five, David said, Tomorrow is a new moon and I should sit with the king, as no doubt David had done before. Now a new moon came up uh about every month, all right, just like we have today. The the moon hasn't changed, still coming. The Israelites held a feast day and they'd bring burnt offerings before the Lord and they bring peace offerings before the Lord and before they would feast on the remains themselves also. What was left after they'd you know given honor to God and given him the fat of the bullocks, the two bullocks of the one ram and the seven lambs and we read about that in Numbers ten and ten and Numbers twenty-eight eleven and and again Psalm 81. 3, that these monthly feasts were held for God, in God's honor. And uh they would last three days long. And so he says this feast day is coming up. And he knew that Saul would have a feast day. Saul had a feast day every month. Saul made sure to honor God every month. Saul Who had murder in his heart. I want you to note this. Saul, who had murder in his heart, kept the feast days religiously Isn't that amazing? Here's a guy that wants to kill David, the man after God's own heart. Here's a guy that he's got murderers or he's tried to kill David If you go back over the last couple chapters, I think it's at least a dozen times he's tried to kill David. He's got murder in his heart, but he is religious. He keeps the feast days. You know, it's like the rich young ruler we read about in Luke 18 and Matthew 19. The rich young ruler said, Oh, I've kept all these commandments of my youth up. What less is there for me to be saved? he says the Lord Jesus Christ. I've kept go he was very religious Saul of Tarsus. He was a Pharisee's Pharisee. You couldn't match him. He was very religious, and he had murder in his heart. He's on the road to Damascus, heading for Damascus to find the Christians and jail them and bind them up and accuse them and put them to death. And he's that murder. You religious people may not be reformed. You know, you look at some of those they seem externally they're full of devotion But internally there's no reformation, there's no regeneration, there's no reconciliation with God. No reconciliation with God through the blood of Jesus. Jesus Christ. But they can be religious people. They can be very full of piety and have murder in their heart. We've got senators and congressmen who they go to their uh church every Sunday, but they're for abortion abortion. They've got murder in their heart. And these churches even serve them communion, knowing they got murder in their heart. That won't happen here. Well, first off, probably no politician would ever step to those doors If my father missed me, David says at the feast day, verse 6. If my father missed me, David asked, tell him that I asked leave to go to Bethlehem. For the yearly sacrifice there for all the family, and there probably was the family also did the feast days, and this is a particular feast day when they all got together, a big family reunion. And if so be very wroth, verse seven, be sure he determined, be sure evil is determined by him, he said. If he is very upset that I'm not David thought, he wants me there so he can poison me with a cup. He wants me there so I'll have an accident. He wants me there so someone fulfills his desires to kill me So if he's really wroth that I'm not there because I'm with my family for a family festival, for an annual family gathering, if he's really wroth, then you know that evil is determined by your father Therefore deal kindly with thy servant, David says, but I was brought thy servant into a covenant of the Lord with thee. He says, So Jonathan, if you see your father's really mad, and you realize he really wants to kill me Be honest with me. Deal kindly with me. Let me know that you now believe what I said, that he wants to kill me. Let me know that what I said I'm just a foot just one step from death. Let me know that you agree with me. Let me know that you still got my back. After all, you brought thy servant into a covenant of the Lord with you. David didn't initiate that covenant back in chapter 18. Jonathan did. And so David reminds him of that covenant. Is it wrong to remind people of the promises they've made to you? Is it wrong to remind people of the vows they've made to you? Is it wrong to remind you of the covenant that you've made? And most of you here have made covenants, even if you're not married, or you've been a part of a covenant, parents. Did you not make a covenant? When you either dedicated your child or had your child baptized, you made a covenant to train up that child in the way he should go. Proverbs 22 says six. Train up a child in the way he should go. Did the Baptists do that? The dedication they promise to raise up a child in the way he should go. Learn not the way the heat is they promise that. Have you kept that promise? Whether it was a dedication or baptism? You made a vow in the presence of God, in the presence of God's people in the church service, you'd raise your children in the way they should go I won't go into today, but well, you go back in the Corinthians and some of the other verses of the New Testament, and you find that God he lumps covenant breakers with murderers, idolaters, adultery. And there's no difference. You lied to God. You bowed a bow to God, you broke it How about when you got saved? You're sitting here this morning saved, I'm a covenant maker? Did you not when you were saved? Read those words in Mark 10, 21. Take up the cross and follow me and you said, Oh, that's gonna be me. God has saved me. I'm so excited about my salvation. I'm never gonna miss church again. I'm gonna start reading the Bible. I'm gonna read it from cover to cover At least once a year. And you make this vow to God, I'm going to be loyal to you. I'm going to take up the cross and I'm going to follow the Lord Jesus. Broke that covenant once in a while I think we all have. We need to repent. Ask God to forgive us. How about the when you got married? It's called the marriage covenant. I mean if you want to just you know it's not just called marriage, it's called the marriage covenant So have you broke that marriage covenant? Well let me read a part of it that is said in every marriage summary I've ever been to or ever attended or ever conducted myself Here's the promise. Here's the vow. Here's the covenant that all you married folks made. You promised to love cherish. Honor and obey your spouses Now you may say, but I've been honoring them. I love them and I I've uh you know I uh I I get things done around the house that's gotta be done. I I pretty much pretty much obey him Cherished. If I was to ask your spouse, does he or she feel cherished? Like the day you started dating them. I mean that they still see that look in your eyes and still opening the doors for them and Running little errands no matter how late at night or how rotten the weather is or They got that handkerchief and their nose is running and her eyes are red and they're just sniffling and they're sickly and and you run and say, What can I do? I'll get you some Do you still cherish? That was your vow. You would cherish. Now I love them. I love her. Sure I love her. She knows I love her. I haven't said it in a couple years, a couple decades, but they know I love them. They know I honor them. They got a rope over their heads, they got food in the refrigerator, they got a blanket on the bed. I mean, they know I honor them. Do you cherish them? I think there's some really special people here in the church. You know, if I was married to them or or uh I think they're cherishable, you know And I think vice versa, some of you ladies, you look around you and you might see the other men in the church, and you know they're they're they're worth being cherished, aren't they? Keep our covenants, especially our marriage covenants. Now Jonathan responds to all of this if I knew certainly that evil was determined by my father Would not I tell it thee? Verse nine. Verse ten. And David said, If thy father answers thee roughly, and Jonathan said, O Lord God of Israel, I'll send thee away. If I meet my father's, I'll send you away myself and the Lord be with thee as he has been with my father. He's saying, Jonathan says here, if my dad's really that bad, I'll warn you, I'll tell you to get out, and by the way, the Lord be with you. He's he's he's ending this with a blessing. David Jonathan says, David, the Lord be with you, as he's been with my father. He is acknowledging right here that he realizes David's the next king. John is saying right here, I want the Lord to be with you. My father Saul and he became king. I want the Lord to be with you as he's as my father. I want you to be king. I know I'm in line to be king, but I want you to be king. And the Lord be with you. In fact, he says in 1 Samuel, well I've lost my place here with a verse, but there's another verse that he that he quotes here. Maybe I'll come back to me. And he says, But deal kindly with thy servant. If evil be different and for thou hast brought thy servant to come the Lord Oh I must have the boy I'm really lost here. Hmm So John then implies this blessing upon him. In fact, this is chapter twenty-three. Here we are, chapter twenty-three and verse seventeen. If you think he's just alluding to David's going to be the king someday, like my father, the Lord bless you as he's blessed my father. He's not just alluding to it, because in chapter 23, and we'll be there in a couple weeks, there in chapter 20 says, Thou shalt be king over Israel. And I simply next unto thee. I'll never be king. That's okay. I mean how many guys are willing to say, Oh, the Lord bless their rival? How many are willing to say, Oh, the Lord bless you and make you king instead of me, and I'll always have your back? This guy, Jonathan, he's he's really a pretty special. He's Christ-like. He really loves the Lord. It's obvious when he says that that uh he's not jealous of David, he's not filled with rage that David's gonna be the next king rather than him. Jonathan, as you read through this, you find out that Jonathan is a man who really seeks first the kingdom of God and not the kingdom of Israel. I mean how many people would if you gave them a choice? You can be king of America, you can reign over the king over the kingdom of America, or you can live in God's kingdom forever and ever. Here's Jonathan. He can be king of Israel, but he seeketh another kingdom. Seek ye first the kingdom of God, and all these other things will be added unto you. We read of that in Matthew six thirty three. And that's that's the heart of David, or rather of Jonathan. That is the heart of David as well. These are two godly men, men who make covenants together. They're they're they're i i and it shouldn't surprise you that that Jonathan here would say this. uh that that you know thou shalt be king over Israel and I shall be next unto thee and oh Lord God of Israel uh uh th I'll send you away, I'll protect you, may God bless you as He's blessed. That shouldn't surprise you that This comes of a man who also is a man after God's own heart. We've already read these verses, but let me just pluck them out and read them to you again to give you a concept. These everything I say I'm about to quote is what Jonathan said in the verses we read this morning, all right Here's what Jonathan said. If you listen to Jonathan, it shouldn't surprise you that he's asking David to be blessed and David to be the king, and he's willing to play second fiddle. and to have his back. It shouldn't surprise you. Because he's a man of God. And you see this in the verse we read this morning. But let me read it to you again. He says, verse 2, God forbid And then in verse twelve, O Lord God of Israel. This is Jonathan speaking. God forbid, O Lord God of Israel. And then again in verse thirteen, the Lord do so and much more. The Lord be with thee. And then in verse fourteen, show me the kindness of the Lord. And then you have in verse sixteen And when the Lord has cut off the enemies of David, and then in verse 15, let the Lord require in verse 60. I mean, David, I mean Jonathan here is just quoting the Lord, he's just mentioning the Lord all the way through those 17 verses. He talks about the Lord more than David does. And he really means it and he really lives it. Jog was a man of God. And he's a man, if you're a man of God. If you're really saved, like Jonathan, you'll love your family because he says in verse 14 to David, Show me the kindness of the Lord and my family forever. When you become king If I'm still around, don't kill me. When you become king, if I'm gone and my family's still here, don't kill my family. Which by the way happens, and David does not kill Jonathan's son, Mephibosheth. John was a man of God. He's providing for his future. He's providing for his family. He loves his family. Do you love your family this morning? Jonathan did. If you're a man of God, you love your family. And so he says, David, when you're king, don't kill me. Take care of my family. I want this forever. Uh also my family says forever, for every generation, protect them, don't slaughter them. That might sound like a weird what are you accusing David of doing? Well when you look through scriptures, you realize that when kings took over, they annihilated and wiped out all the other children of that king. You find that in 1 Kings as the Israel's history goes on, Basha smote all the house of Jeroboam. King Jeroboam, he's gone, and Basha takes over and he kills everyone in Jeroboam's household. 1 Kings 15. 27 through 30. Zimri slew all the house of Basha. So Basha kills Jeroboam, Basha's king, in comes Zimri, and he kills Basha eventually and kills all the family of Basha. See that's how it works in those days He became king. He didn't want any of these old rug rats running around that might r rise up someday and get old loader and they try to kill you for killing their dad and and taking over the kingship. And then you have the same thing in the days of uh of uh Ahab We read about that too with um Jehu. Jehu becomes king, and it says he slew all the house of Ahab. Remember Ahab and Jezudal, 2 Kings 10. So Jonathan makes the come with David again, for he loved him as his own soul And he makes this covenant with David and says, please, David, when you're king, you know, don't slay me. And protect my family forever. That's a covenant he makes with him. You providing for your family forever. Future generations looking after them, guarding them, warning them, giving them the gospel so that they will be provided for forever in eternity in heaven Some of you here I said before I made a marriage covenant before God. And if you've listened closely to the words when they talk about the marriage covenant before God. They talk about this marriage that signifies the union of Christ, the groom, with his church, the bride. Have you ever heard ministers say that? This this marriage that symbolizes Christ who is a groom. And the bride who is the church. Revelation twenty one nine, you look at that verse if you want to see it. So coveters. It says, Jonathan loved David as he loved his own soul. Are you a covenanter? You made a marital covenant, you made other covenants in your life to raise up your children in the way they should go. Are you covenanters? If you're covenanters, then you ought to love one another as your own soul. Because Jonathan loved David as his own soul, in sickness and in health. If we're richer or for poorer, Jonathan loved David. That sounds kind of familiar, doesn't it we're to love one another in sickness or in health. For richer or poorer. Most of us have gotten through the richer or poorer. But we still got the sickness, don't we? To get through Pastor, I was reading this week. His father had Alzheimer's, was dying. And his mother, she was elderly, but she hung on and she cared for him. All the way to his last breath. It took so much out of her, she died a few months later. But the pastor said My mother kept the covenant in sickness and in health until he died. So we are to keep that covenant, the marriage covenant as well. Do we love one another as your own soul? I know marriage may not always be heavenly. I know that. I know that uh it is also, though not always heavenly, it is a covenant Is between a man and a woman before God. I also know that marriage is a biblical term. I mean, if you look at the definition of marriage, it didn't start in Psychology Today magazine. That's not where the definition of marriage comes from. If you're wondering where the definition of marriage comes from, it doesn't come from the Mother Earth magazine either If you're wondering where the definition of marriage comes from, it doesn't come from the Doomsbury comic strip, all right? Marriage goes way back before. It goes back to Garden of Meaning, goes back to Genesis. Marriage is a biblical term And it is a covenant. It is a biblical term. And that biblical term, marriage, it trumps anyone else's definition, it trumps A definition by the president, whatever he's proclaiming, Hollywood, whatever they're heralding, judges, whatever they're jumbling, and the media, whatever they're mumbling. It doesn't matter. Marriage is a biblical term. It's a biblical term Between a man and a woman before God. Are you covenanters? There's going to come a day when it's going to cost you to hold to that covenant, to believe it, to preach it, to teach it, and live it. Let's pray. Father, we thank thee for the covenanters, David and Jonathan, who set an example for us. To make vows, to make promises, and to keep them. Oh Lord, may we be a people whose word is good, people who trust us at our word, what we say. Hold us to it. And may we be a good testimony of the Lord Jesus Christ. And people hear us stand and hear us talk and hear us quote the scriptures. They will know that what we say is true, that we're trustworthy. And Lord, just give us the strength to stand in these days when the marriage covenant and covenants alike are hated. We ask Just in Christ's name, Amen.