Turn in your Bibles with me this morning, please, to the book of Matthew and chapter 11, the eleventh chapter. of Matthew. And I'm going to read just the last few verses of the chapter as we begin our consideration this morning. Matthew chapter eleven, verse twenty-five through verse thirty At that time Jesus answered and said, I thank thee, O Father, Lord of heaven and earth Because thou hast hid these things from the wise and prudent, and hast revealed them unto babes. Even so, Father, for so it seemed good in thy sight All things are delivered unto me of my Father, and no man knoweth the Son but the Father Neither knoweth any man the Father save the Son, and he to whomsoever the Son will reveal him. Come unto me, all ye that labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. Take my yoke upon you and learn of me For I am meek and lowly in heart, and ye shall find rest unto your souls. For my yoke is easy, and my burden is light. Let us bow for prayer as we consider God's Word. Heavenly Father, you have told us in your word that the entrance into your word giveth light. O Father, give us light this morning. We thank you for this glorious chapter and the teaching that is so relevant and pertinent to our heart today. Father, may your Spirit guide us into all truth. May your Spirit testify of the glories of Christ. May your Spirit convict us where conviction is due. And O God, may your Spirit comfort us in our daily walk and journey with Thee. Father, we pray these things in Jesus' name. Amen. I'm not big on sermon titles, but if you notice in the bulletin today, the title of the message today is The Great Paradox. There are five paradoxes that we're going to look at in this passage today. What is a paradox? Well, a paradox is something that seems contradictory to reason Well that's my own definition. I don't even know exactly what Webster would say, but a a paradox is something that seems like no, that's not right. That's that's not the way it should be. That's not the way it is And yet we find in this chapter five great paradoxes. And the first paradox I would have us to consider is found there in verse 25. Where Christ says, I thank thee, O Father, Lord of heaven and earth, because thou hast hid these things from the wise and the prudent. The first paradox is the paradox of the hidden gospel. Did not Christ come to be a light in the world? Did not he come to call men to repentance? How can it be that the gospel, the truth of salvation, is hidden from men? But not this alone. Christ says, I thank thee, O Father, Lord of heaven and earth And the parallel passage of this is found in Luke chapter 10, where we read, In that hour Jesus rejoiced in spirit. And said, I thank thee, O Lord of heaven and earth. So Luke adds to it, not only did Jesus thank the Father that these things were hidden, but he rejoiced in the Spirit that these things were hidden. Notice also in verse 25 how it is that Jesus refers to his father. Jesus answered and said, I thank thee, O Father, Lord of heaven and earth Do you see the majesty there? Brother Vince was talking in Sunday school just this morning about the kingship of Christ. And here we find Christ addressing his Father, the first person of the Trinity. O Father, Lord of heaven and earth, you who have the right. And the authority to raise up one and put down another. You who have the right and authority to say to one, Come and he must come, and to another, go and he must go. It is the Lord of heaven and earth that has chosen to hide these things from the wise and the prudent. And so what can Christ do but rejoice? And what too must we do? Hallelujah! The will of God be done. But the answer to any paradox is found in Scripture. And the solution to this paradox is found in the chapter. Go with me up to the first portion of the chapter where we find the disciples of John the Baptist. who are coming to Christ. This is in verse two of Matthew chapter eleven. And now what when John heard in prison the works of Christ, he sent two of his disciples. and said unto unto him, Art thou he that should come, or do we look for another? Jesus answered and said unto him, them, go show John again those things which ye do hear and see. The blind receive the their sight The lame walk, the lepers are cleansed, the deaf hear, the dead are raised up, and the poor have the gospel preached unto them, and blessed is he Whosoever shall not be offended in me. Here we find John in prison. Keep that in your mind because it's going to become very prevalent into the second or to the third paradox we're going to look at this morning. John is in prison. Who was John? He was the one who had said, Behold the Lamb of God that taketh away the Son of the World. He was the one who bore witness that the Dove had descended on Jesus, the Spirit of God that descended like a dove on Jesus at his birth at his birth, sorry, at his baptism. But here we find John in prison. Remember the disciples were asking Christ, who will be the greatest in your kingdom? John probably suffered the same mistaken thoughts. John is in the place of Isaiah, sorry, Elijah in the Old Testament. We'll see that in coming verses. But here John is in prison. He's in jail. And he's probably beginning to wonder, are these things true? Have we all been deceived? How can it be that we're not seeing the kingdom? Here I am in prison, and I'm supposed to be one of the heralds of the king. But look what Christ answers to the disciples of John. He says in verse 4, go and show John the things which you do hear and see. And what Christ does here is he points these disciples of John to the fulfillment of the Word of God. Faith taught by hearing, and hearing by the word of God. Verse 5, the blind receive their sight. They see. And the lame walk, and the lepers are cleansed, and the deaf hear, and the dead are raised up, and the poor have the gospel preached unto them. And certainly in Jesus' day it was true that there were men who could not see with physical eyes, and they saw. There were men who could not walk And their legs received strength. There were those who were lepers and they were cleansed. But verse 5 is talking about spiritual healing. That is the core meaning. Those, the people that sat in darkness have seen a great light The people that are lame leap for joy at the message of Christ. Leprosy is a picture of sin, and the lepers are cleared. Cleanse those that have no hearing, we're going to see later, blessed are your ears, for they hear. Those that have no spiritual hearing, their ears are opened to the gospel. The dead and trespasses of sin are raised. And so, to answer this paradox, why is the gospel hidden? Christ tells that these disciples of John in the same context, it's not hidden. Look at the Word of God. Look at the fulfillment of Scripture. The wise and the prudent, they're too caught up in their own selves and their wisdom to understand it. Christ came not to call the righteous, but sinners to repentance. Christ came not to call the the wealthy and the high-minded But blessed are they which are poor in spirit. And so the first answer to this paradox is found in the disciples of John. But when the disciples of John go back to John who is imprisoned Christ begins to address the multitudes. Look at verse seven and following. And as they were departed, Jesus began to say unto the multitudes concerning John, What went ye out to see and what went ye Into the wilderness to sea, a reed shaken in the wind. But what went ye out for to sea, a man clothed in soft raiment Behold, they that wear soft raiment are in king's houses. But what went you out to see? A prophet? Yea, I say unto thee, more than a prophet For this is he of whom it is written, Behold, I send my messenger before my face, which shall prepare the way before me. The second answer that Christ gives to the paradox in the last part of the chapter is that of John the Baptist. Did the scribes and Pharisees see the baptism of John? Yeah, they did. Did the scribes and Pharisees believe in the message from John? No. But Christ says to this multitude, what did you go out? Did you see go out to see a baptism? A reed waving in the wind? Did you go out to see a man wearing funny clothes? He was clothed in camel skins? Or did you go out there because this one in the wilderness Who was preaching and baptizing and preaching the baptism of repentance was saying the Messiah's come, he's almost here, the time is ready. You see, these multitude were seeking after truth. They were seeking after God. And what John the Baptist was, was the fulfillment of the Word of God. Faith cometh by hearing, and hearing by the Word of God. Look at verse 10. For this is he of whom it is. Say it with me. Written written. Written. It was the fulfillment of the Word of God And so in verse ten he says, John the Baptist was the least, uh, notwithstanding he is the least in the kingdom of heaven, shall be greater than John the Baptist. Verse 15, he that hath ears to hear, let him And we're not going to get into verses 16 through 19, but in 16 through 19, we find another illustration of why the gospel is hidden from the wise and the prudent. Christ compares the scribes and the Pharisees and the Jewish leaders to children in the marketplace. We said dance and you weren't happy. We said sing and you weren't happy with that It didn't matter what Christ did, it would never be convincing to the scribes and Pharisees, because they were hardened against in the beginning, what they did not believe, and so the gospel was hidden from them. But then the Fourth illustration of this paradox is found in verses twenty through twenty-four. Here we find the cities that would have believed and have repented if they had been given the gospel. Verse twenty. Then began he to upbraid the cities wherein most of his mighty works were done, because they repented not. Woe unto thee, Khorzin Woe unto thee Besseda, for if the mighty works which were done in you had been done in Tyre and Sidon, they would have repented long ago in sackcloth and ashes This text is one of the greatest proofs of the sovereignty of God in the salvation of a soul. Jesus Christ knew exactly what would be required for Tyre and Sidon to repent in sackcloth and ashes, but he did not give it to them. He withheld it. He withheld it from them. This goes completely against the modern idea that Jesus Christ came and shed his blood for every soul ever born on earth. Rather than the elect alone. They will take the verse, God is not willing that any should perish, but that all should come to repentance. If Christ was not willing that any should perish, but that all should come to repentance, why did he not do these miracles entire and Sidon? It's the mercy of God. And it continues there in verse 23. But I say unto you, it shall be more tolerable for Tyre and Sidon in the day of judgment than for you. And thou Capernaum, which art exalted unto heaven, thou shalt be brought down to hell, for if the mighty works which had been done in thee had been done in Sodom, it would have remained to this day Remember Sodom? God would have spared Sodom for the sake of ten righteous. But they could not be found. Lot was living in Wicked Sodom, and he's called a righteous man, even though he was living in Wicked Sodom. The angels came to Sodom. The angels could have done mighty works which would have brought Sodom to repentance. But they did not. God withheld those works from them, sparing only Lot. And his wife and his two daughters and even his two daughters looked, or his wife looked back and was turned to a pillar of salt. And so he says in verse 24, but I say unto you, it should be more tolerable for the land of Sodom in that day of judgment than for the land of And so the first great paradox we see here is the paradox of a hidden gospel. God has revealed his truth to babes, not to the wise and the prudent. But then we find, secondly, the paradox of the Father's will. Look with me at verse 25 and 26. 26 is where we're going, but I'll read 25 for context. And at that time Jesus answered and said, I thank thee, Father, O Father, Lord of heaven and earth, because thou hast hid these things from the wise and the prudents, and hast revealed them to babes. Even so, Father, for so it seemed good in thy sight. The paradox of the Father's will I'm going to give you the three subpoints under this heading, the Paradox of the Father's Will, before we even look at them. First of all, There can be no explanation for the salvation of any soul other than that it was good in the Father's sight. Secondly, there could be no explanation for the trials that the children of God faced day by day, other than it was good in the Father's sight. And thirdly, under this heading, the eyesight of God is perfect. God's assessment of every situation is perfect Now we've already covered the first point that there's no explanation for the salvation of others any soul other than it was good in the Father's sight. That's really been covered under the first heading, under the first point, the paradox of the hidden gospel. I want to jump to the third point and consider that the eyesight of God is perfect, and then we're going to go back to be. that God's working in our lives is perfect as well. God has perfect eyesight and perfect assessment of everything. Consider this with me. God saw the light, that it was good. God made the earth, and God saw that it was good. And the earth brought forth grass and herb yielding seed after her kind, and trees yielding fruit, whosoever's seed was in it after their kind, and God saw that it was good. God divided the light from the darkness and God saw that it was good. God created great whales and he saw that it was good. God made the beasts of the earth and he saw that it was good. In Genesis 1. 31, and God saw everything that he made, and behold, it was very good. Genesis 6, 5, and God saw the wickedness of man that it was great in the earth Does God need glasses? No. Does God wear contacts? No. Is there anything defective about God's ability to see? When God saw everything that he had made and said it was very good, not just good, it was very good, was he in any way mistaken? When God saw in Genesis 6 that the wickedness of man was great in the earth, was his assessment of man mistaken? Absolutely not. And so we establish in the first portion of the Word of God that God sees everything perfectly, and God's assessment of what he sees is accurate. Now we'll go back to letter B, to point B. There can be no other explanation for the events of a believer's life than that it was good in the sight of God Albert Barnes said that God does a thing is, after all, the best reason which we can have that it is right. Let me read it to you again. That God does a thing is, after all, the best reason which we can have that it is right. If God did it, it must be right. I am so prone to the wise, not the wise as in the intelligent, the wise as in God. Why? And I think if we're honest with ourselves, we all fall in to that pitfall so easily. God, why is it this way? Why is it everything I pick up falls over? Why, why, why, why? And yet the fact that God does a thing is ample evidence that the thing must be right. Because we found there in the very beginning of our scripture that everything God did was good, and his assessment, his analysis of that which he did was always correct. And so if God has done a thing, it must be right. But why is a child born with horrible birth defects? Because it was good and right in his sight. Why did a very godly, capable preacher of the gospel get stoned as a very young man. Why didn't Stephen live many years to write copious amounts of inspired scriptures? How great a blessing it would have been to us all if we had the book of Stephen in our Bible. But no. No, it was right in the sight of God that Stephen bestoned as a very young man. Jonathan Edwards died as a young man. You can go through scripture and find so many godly preachers that did not live long lives. It was right in the sight of God. Everything that God does is right. And so we read there in our responsive reading, the next to last verse we read. As for God, his way is perfect, the word of the Lord is tried, he is a buckler to all those that trust in him. But we read the entire chapter in responsive reading. Because that responsive reading comes from the day, verse 1 of 2 Samuel 22, that God delivered David from all of his enemies. Why did David have enemies? David was anointed king. Why didn't God just knock so out of the way and let David be king right away? Because God had a multitude of lessons that David needed to learn before he was ready to be king. It was right in his sight. And uh I think the second or third message that I preach for this congregation after we were established was on Joseph. Joseph stayed in prison another two years after he interpreted the dreams of the baker and the butler. Because it seemed right in God's sight. And I love the fact that 2 Samuel 22 31 is repeated because Psalm 18 repeats the same thing. Psalm 18 counts the same events as for God his way is perfect. The word of the Lord is tried. Psalm 115, verse 3, but our God is in the heavens. He hath done whatsoever he hath pleased. And of course, Romans 8, 28 and 29, and we know that all things work together for good. To them that love God, to them are called according to his purpose. For whom he did foreknow, he also did predestinate to be conformed to the image of his son, that he might be the firstborn among many brethren. Why did God choose to send the gospel to some and withhold it from others? Because it seemed good in the Father's sight. Why does God allow great trials to come into the lives of believers? Because it seems good in the Father's sight. Many of us have children that are not working walking with the Lord, and it grieves our heart daily. But God knows all about that. Some of us have aging parents whose care needs are getting greater and greater, and we realize it's going to take more and more of our effort and our love. But God knows about that. Some of us have concerns over employment. God knows about that. The devastating lives, events of life, God knows about them. Some of us have lost massive inheritances that we were depending on. God knows about that. Most of us have been betrayed by friends, and some of us grievously Betrayed by those that we loved and poured our hearts into. So it seemed good in the Father's sight. And I'd like to share with you a quote from Spurgeon that I had never heard. I actually heard of it at the conference I attended this past week. Let me read this to you. Spurgeon said this in relation to Romans 8, 28 and 29. It is impossible that any ill should happen to the man who is beloved by the Lord. Ill to him is no ill, but is only good in a mysterious form. Bad things to the believer is only good in a mysterious form. We don't understand it. It seems to us to be totally wrong, but remember, God has perfect eyesight. And God's assessment of every situation is accurate and complete. And so ill to him is but only good in a mysterious form. Losses enrich him, sickness is his medicine, reproach is his honor, death is his gain. No evil in the strictest sense of the word can happen to him, for everything is overruled for good Happy is he who is in such a case. He is secure where others are in peril, he lives where others die. And so the problems that weigh so heavy on me and so annoy my senses and offend my spirit. Every one of them are only good in a mysterious form. Folks, it's easy to stand here and preach that. It's hard to live it day by day. But here we find the paradox of the Father's will. It seems so opposite to that which we would understand or desire for ourselves. But as for God, his way is perfect. The word of the Lord is tried. Remember that's what Christ was pointing to all the comers back to, the Word of God. The word of the Lord is tried. He is a buckler to all those that trust in him. Turn over with me quickly. I know we're spending a lot of time on this, but turn to Ecclesiastes chapter 3. And I'd like to read verses 10 to 11 and then verse 14. Ecclesiastes chapter 3. I want you to get eyeballs on these glorious verses. Ecclesiastes 3 verse 10. Here Solomon, the wisest man that ever lived, said, I have seen the travail which God hath given unto the sons of men to be exercised by it. I've seen the problems, the travail that God has given to the sons of men to be exercised by it, for it to work on them. Verse 11. He that's God the Father, he hath made everything beautiful in his time. That means the problems that are given to me to be exercised by, God in his time makes them beautiful. That's a paradox, folks. Also, he has set the world in their hearts so that no man can find out the work of God, the work that God maketh from the beginning to the end. Verse 14 I know that whatsoever God doeth, it shall be forever. Nothing can be put to it, nor anything taken from it, and God hath done it that men should fear before him. God does things perfectly. So we've seen two paradoxes. The paradox of the hidden gospel. The paradox of the Father's will, but the third paradox in this passage is the paradox of the Godhead. The ununderstandable, uncomprehendable nature of the Godhead. Look at verse 27, back in Matthew chapter 11. Christ says, All things are delivered unto me of my Father. No man knoweth the Son but the Father Neither knoweth any man the Father save the Son, and he to whomsoever the Son will reveal him. The message of Jesus is to the common people who desire to know him. Remember the people in the marketplace there in 16 through 19 that we didn't really deal with for the sake of time. It was a condemnation of the scribes and Pharisees, to the Jewish leaders who didn't matter what Christ did, they weren't going to believe. Jesus is speaking to the common people to desire to know him. And he's saying, All things are committed to me of my Father. You see, the Jewish leaders were looking for Christ, looking for their Messiah to come as a great conquering king. Their perception of what God is and what God does is based on the Old Testament revelation. You see, their fathers had told them about the plagues in Egypt and the way that the death angel passed through and killed all the firstborn. Their fathers told them how the mountain trembled and shook and was covered with smoke when the law was given. And these Jewish leaders who were under the Roman thumb, they wanted a Messiah like that. They wanted a king on a white horse who would wipe out all their enemies. And again, going back to the excellent Sunday school lesson for this morning, dealing with the nature of Christ's kingdom. It's not of this earth. It's not to destroy Rome and sit on Rome's throne. is destroy the gates of hell and sit on the throne of heaven. And so Christ says, all things are given delivered unto me of my Father. In 28 and 18 of Matthew, he prayed, said all power is given to me in heaven and in earth. Jesus only knows the Father. No one knows Jesus the Messiah but the Father. And no one can know the Father but through the Son. No one can know the Father without the revelation of Jesus Christ. Oh what a mystery. Do you know God? Oh, the world knows nothing about God. The unbelievers, they talk about God and they take his name in vain. But I know him. And how do I know God the Father? Because the Son has revealed him Because this one who came to seek and to save that which is lost came to seek and to save me. I can't explain the Godhead to you, but I know it is true. Again, turn over with me To John chapter 10, the tenth chapter of John, relates very closely to this paradox of the revelation of the Godhead. And John ten and verse fourteen and fifteen, and then we'll drop down to verse twenty-four. John ten verse fourteen, Jesus says, I am the good shepherd, and I know my sheep, and a none of mine As the Father knoweth me, even so I the Father, and I laid down my life for the sheep. Look down to verse 24. Then came the Jews round about him and said, How long dost thou make us doubt? If thou be the Christ, tell us plainly. If you're really who you say you are, not hidden, not in paradox. Tell us plainly. Jesus answered them, verse 25: I told you. I told you. Remember what the sign was that Christ gave to the disciples of John to go back and tell John who was fearful in prison? The blind receive their sight. The deaf hear. The lame walk. The lepers are cleansed. The dead rise from the grave. And though those things certainly were happening in physical miracles, the picture there is of the spiritual coming from death to life. Christ says, I told you, and you believe not, the works that I do in my Father's name. They bear witness to me. You see the consistency of Scripture. It's the same thing that he told the disciples of John. These works, they bear witness to me. But ye believe not Because ye are not of my sheep, as I said unto you, My sheep hear my voice, and I know them, and they follow me. And I give unto them eternal life, and they shall never perish, neither shall any man fleck them out of my hand. My father which gave them me is greater than all And no man is able to pluck them out of my father's hand. I and my father are one, verse 31, and they all believe of one accord. No. And then the Jews took up stones again to stone him. They would not believe the great paradox of the revelation of God and the revelation of the Godhead. Here is God in their midst, and they want to stone him. The fourth paradox, moving along quickly, is the paradox of the rest-giving yoke. Here is a hundred pound weight carried along so you'll rest. Here is a great burden for you to bear that you will No, that's not what it's saying at all. Come unto me. All ye that labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. Okay, to understand this passage, we've got to remember the context of the chapter, everything in context. Context. We had the disciples of John who were coming, they were unsure, and Christ reminded them of the mighty works. Christ talks to the multitude. Why did you go out in the wilderness? Because you were looking for the forerunner of Christ. The scribes and the Pharisees, they're like the children in the marketplace. They weren't really looking for Christ. But you have come, you're seeking. Come unto me, you that are laboring under the burden of your sin. Come unto you me, you have who have come to the conclusion that you can never keep the law. For that is what the scribes and Pharisees were so proud of. They were the keepers and the defenders of the law And Christ says the law is a heavy burden which you can never bear. You can never keep the law, for if you offend in one point, you're guilty of all. The scribes and the Pharisees, they were laboring to destroy the Messiah. And they were laboring to preserve their law. Christ came not to destroy the law, but to fulfill it. Christ came to take the burden, to take the yoke of the law on himself, and to die for that yoke. And so Christ says now to the believers, Come unto me, all you that labored are heavy laden, and I'll give you rest. I will give you rest from the burden of your sin. I will give you rest from the burden of the law. And yea, even I will give you rest from the burden of this life. For we know that all things work together for good, to the will of God, to them where they call it according to his purpose. For we know that every bad thing is just good in disguise. It is well in a mysterious way. Take my yoke upon you and learn of me, for I am meek and lowly, and ye shall find rest your souls. It does not say your way will be easy. It does not say your life will be easy. In fact, the opposite is true in John 16, 33, these things have I spoken to you that ye might have peace. In the world ye shall have tribulation. Tribulation is the opposite of peace. And I think most of us here know what tribulation is. We all have heartburn heartaches. Sorry to say heartburn. We got that too. But every one of us in some way have been assaulted and offended and abused by man, buffeted by the world, struggling with health I even got voted out of a church once. Oh no. We have all been greatly hurt. And Christ said, in the world you have tribulation. But he spoke these things that we might have peace in the middle of tribulation. Take my yoke upon you. Give up the yoke of Satan. Give up the yoke of this world because we don't serve this world. This world is not our home. Our bank accounts don't go with us. Our retirement funds and 401ks that are perishing in the stock market currently will not matter the second after we're dead. We to live as Christ and the die is gained. Take my yoke upon you and learn of me Christ says, in the world you will have tribulation. These things have spoken to you that you might have peace. In the world you have tribulation, but be of good cheer. I've overcome the world. I've taken that yoke away from you. John 15, 19. If ye were of the world, the world would love his own, but because ye are not of the world, but I have chosen you out of the world, therefore the world hateth you. And Paul said, the young Timothy Yay and all that will live godly in Christ Jesus shall suffer persecution. Were to expect it. Christ says in verse 30, My yoke is easy and my burden is light. Exchange the yoke of your sin for the yoke of submission to Christ. Exchange the yoke of the world of the law for the free grace of Christ. And exchange the yoke of all the burdens of this life. For the loving touch of God. The final paradox is the paradox of the meek Messiah. Remember I said earlier that the Jews were looking for a great king to come. We saw John the Baptist in prison, and by the way, John the Baptist in prison, what was he in prison for? Well, for preaching the truth, for calling out sin. John the Baptist in prison, wondering, have I wasted my life? Is this really the Messiah? That too to it should be a blessing as well. Even John the Baptist had time, so he was down. Times when he doubted. And the remedy for John's doubting was Christ said, go back and remind him of the prophecies that are fulfilled, take it back to the Word of God. The disciples, they were arguing over who was going to be great in the kingdom. You see, not even the believers were looking for a meek messiah. The paradox of the meek Messiah. It says there in verse 29: Take my yoke upon you and learn of me, for I am meek and lowly in heart. And ye shall receive rest to your soul. The meek, lowly Messiah. Not the conquering king of this world because he didn't care about this world. Did it bother Christ that the Romans were occupying Jerusalem? Sure. You see, this kingdom is not of this world. We are of his kingdom, therefore we are not of this world. And so Christ says, take my yoke upon you. And so we read in the Old Testament that he was despised and rejected, a man of sorrows and acquainted with grief. And we hid, as it were, our faces from him. The paradox of the conquering king who was crucified The paradox of the life-giving one who seemed to fail utterly in the eyes of men. And yet he rose from the grave in great triumph. In closing, turn over with me, please, to Psalm 91. And here we find great words of comfort for our souls. Casting off the yoke of the law for the yoke of Christ's grace, casting off the yoke of our sin for the righteousness of Christ. Casting off the rope the yoke of this world for life in Christ. You find these words in Psalm 91, verse 4, He shall cover thee with his feathers. And under his wings thou shalt trust. His truth shall be thy shield and buckler Thou shalt not be afraid for the terror by night, nor for the arrow that flieth by day, nor for the pestilence that walketh in darkness. Nor for the destruction that wasteth the new day, a thousand shall fall at thy ro at thy side, and ten thousand at thy right hand, but it shall not come nigh thee Only with thine eyes shalt thou behold and see the reward of the wicked. Because thou hast made the Lord, which is my refuge, even the most high, thy habitation. There shall no evil befall thee, neither shall any plague come nigh thy dwelling. And friends, this psalm is messiatic. This psalm is a prophecy of the Messiah and a promise of the Messiah, but it applies to us as well. Like as the Father pitieth his children, so the Lord pitieth them that fear him. For we know that all things work together for good to them that love God, to them who are the called according to his purpose. It is impossible that any ill should happen to the man who is beloved of the Lord. Ill to him is no ill, but only good in a mysterious form. Paradox is something which seems contradictory to our understanding. Paradox is something that would that just doesn't seem right to us. But my friend, God has 20-20 vision. God's assessment of every situation is right. God is a buckler to those that trust in Him. We can safely trust in the yoke of the Lord. Let us staff prepared. My gracious Father, I am in so much need of these words of truth from thy word. And I believe everyone here is as well. Father, we live in a rough world. We live in a world in which you said we would have tribulation. But you've given us your truth that we might have peace because you have overcome the world. Forgive us, Lord, for our faithful faithlessness. Forgive us for looking at things through our eyesight rather than closing our eyes to the world and simply trusting you to see it right. Forgive us for fretting against the things which we do not understand and do not desire. For Lord, your assessment of every situation is right. Father, cover your people under the shadow of your wings. O Lord, you are our Father, and we thank you that indeed, as a Father pities his children So you pity us, for you know our frame. You remember that we are dust, and you will not suffer us to be tempted above that we're able. May these simple words this day be a great encouragement and blessing to hurting hearts. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.