For those of you who are here Wednesday night, and perhaps other But uh this uh sermon this morning has not been approved by the Iowa Civil Rights Commission, which if you're preaching in Iowa this morning, uh the sermons must not be offensive on any point to anyone attending the service. That's a new law in Iowa. Wow. Not to offend anyone. And I I couldn't preach on Drinking, tithing, marrying a believer. I mean it's just it's just of course I mean the list goes on and on. I think the Bible would be about as thick as this if I got rid of all the things that are offensive in it, but nor do I plan on abiding by the Iowa Civil Rights Commission. But let's turn this morning to 2 Samuel chapter 15. Just refresher to you, Absalom has been returned to Jerusalem. His father has invited him back to Jerusalem. And let's see how he behaves with his newfound freedom. 2 Samuel chapter 15. We'll look at just a the first twelve verses. And if if I did not mention before, if you've forgotten the name Absalom, it means father of peace. So we would expect a lot from Absalom. Absalom, whose name means Abba, right? Abba, Shalom, all right? Absalom. Second Samuel fifteen And it came to pass after this that Absalom, that's after he'd been invited back to Jerusalem, prepared himself chariots and horses, and fifty men to run before him. And Absalom rose up early, and he stood beside the way of the gate. And it was so that when any man that had a controversy came to the king for judgment Then Absalom called unto him and said, Of what city art thou? And he said, Thy servant is one of the tribes of Israel. And Absalom said unto him, See, thy matters are good and right, but there's no man deputed or assigned to you of the king to hear these And Absalom said, Moreover, oh, that I were made judge in the land, and that every man which had any suit or cause might come unto me, and I would do him justice. And it was so that when any man came nigh, that is to the gate of the city, I would meet him, and when the man went to do obedience to him, remember he is royalty, he is the son of the king. So when they came to bow before him, do obeisance to him, He put forth his hand and took him and kissed him. And on this manner did Absalom to all Israel that came to the king for judgment. They never reached King David. He intercepted him at the gate. And so Absalom stole the hearts of the men of Israel. And it came to pass after forty years that Absalom, now that's that forty years in staying at the gate. Uh commentary it's forty years from the time that David was anointed as king by Samuel. Came to pass after forty years that Absalom said unto the king, I pray thee. Let me go and pay my vow, which I have vowed unto the Lord, in Hebron For thy servant vowed a vow while I abode at Gisher in Syria, saying, If the Lord shall bring me again indeed to Jerusalem, then I will serve the Lord. And the king said unto him, Go in peace. And so he arose and went to Hebron. David must have been delighted. But Absalon sent spies throughout all the tribes of Israel, saying, As soon as ye hear the sound of the trumpet, then he shall say, Absalom reigneth in Hebron. Remember, he's going to Hebron to pay his vow. And verse 11, when Absalom went, 200 men out of Jerusalem that were called or specially picked. And they went in their simplicity, and they knew not anything. And Absalom sent for Ahithophel, the Gilanite, David's consor from his city, even from Gilla, which he offered while he offered sacrifice. And the conspiracy was strong, were large and bold, for the people increased continually with Absalom. Absalon, what a humble guy. You know, he starts out he we don't know how long he's been there in Jerusalem, but we we picture it's only probably been a few months. And he's gathered up a he's got chariots now and he's got horses. He's got fifty men and they run before him, announcing, the son of David, the son of David, Absalom's coming, Absalom's coming, like a town crier In previous times, Samuel the prophet, if we go back and look at the scriptures, he walked on foot There weren't fifty men surrounding him. He didn't have a a large uh body of bodyguards, you know, but here's Absalom. These men are probably all surrounding him with their swords and their spears and their chariots He feels safe, like our politicians. They're surrounded I uh I won't mention her name, but she's running for President of the United States, but She she said that Americans don't need guns to protect them. And I looked at her and she was surrounded by like six Secret Service guys with Uzies and you know pistols and and she said, we don't need guns. She needs them But we don't. Absalom, he needs these 50 people with the chariots and running along. But we don't need that. We don't want that. He's such a humble guy, isn't he? And we read in 2 Samuel 13, 29 that all of David's sons, they didn't gather themselves horses and chariots. It said they rode on mules. Now if anyone has a reason for glorying and and uh looking for to be ostentatious or or to You know, to set up something like this, maybe the Lord Jesus Christ. But when he entered Jerusalem, as Absalom was doing here, we read that Christ came meek and sitting on a donkey. Matthew 5 and 21. Be aware of people who just seem to love all this attention. And I would say this morning, if you're a Christian, do you covet royal treatment? Because Absalom certainly did. Do you cover that first class seating on the plane? You always want the presidential suite when you go to hotel? Do you want the car upgrades? You always want the applause? I mean this is what Absalom is all about. It was all about Absalom. Sometimes people think it's all about them. And so he came into Jerusalem, not meek and riding on a donkey like the Lord Jesus Christ, but He came to dazzle the Israelites with his royal splendor, the chariots and the runners. Where did he learn all of this? Well, if you go back to 2 Samuel 3 and verse 3 and 2 Samuel 13 and 38, we find that he learned it while living with his grandfather, the heathen king of Gisher. That's why he went to Gisher. You see, the king of Gisher was his mother's father. He was the king. He was a heathen king. And Absalom has been there now for three years and is he's and he he feels safe and protected by the armies of Syria so that King David and the Israelites can't get at him for killing his brother and he's up there and he's living with the king, his grandfather The king of Gizer, and he's living with him, his mother's father, and he's he's living there and he and he uh he's watching the king, and the king's got chariots and he's got horses and he's got men running beside Geezer, the king of Geezer, fifty men, and he says, Wow My father never does that. This is royalty. Boy, I know what royalty is now. This is what I want. When I'm king of Israel This is what I want. I gotta start practicing and thinking about this. And so he returns to Jerusalem. And I don't think it's long before he's doing just that, dazzling them The most proud shall stumble and fall, and none shall raise them up. Jeremiah 50 and verse 30. How did Absalom think he could pull this off? Well, if he if he was familiar with the first book of Samuel And he may have been. He knew he could pull it off because the people of Israel said in 1 Samuel 8 and 5, they said to Samuel, Samuel, give us a king like the other nations. And so they wanted something like that. They wanted royalty. They wanted you know in England what? They have kings, they have queens, they have princes, they have dukes, they have you know I asked the people in England, you elect people to the parliament, you elect people as your primary yeah. So what do you have kings and queens for? Well that's just the part of being English. We like our royalty. What do they do? Do they just are. They're just there. And they've got their chariots, don't they? And there's private jets and they know how to live like royalty. And the people Would have it so, and Israel was like that. Give us the king like only other nations, and Absalon said, My father's not a king like all the other nations But I will be the king that the people want. Absalom says, I'm going to give the people what they want. Not necessarily what they need, but I'm going to give them what they want. And I'm going to give them what they want, even if it means disregarding God's word And that's what he did, because God told Samuel, if they get a king, this is what they're going to want to do. They're going to want to have your sons, and if you go back to that, it says in 1 Samuel 8, they're going to have your sons running before their chariots. That's what God told Samuel. These people want a king. That's what's going to happen. And God lays all the other things they're going to take your daughters to be their maids and cook for them And they're gonna tax you to death. I mean God warns them. This is not good stuff. This is not what God wanted for Israel, but he said that's what they're gonna do. And Absalom comes along and he says, You know what I'm going to give them a king like all the other nations. It's not what God wants. It's what God warned Samuel would happen, but I'm going to give the people what they want. And when people are running for office, what do they do? They promise you Anything and everything. And they don't even give you our patch. Now you'd have to be pretty old to remember that commercial. The perfume. Promise her anything, but give her our pash. Okay, I see about two eyelids if remember that one. That was the TV was in black and white too. But anyway, this is what he was doing. He was going to promise them everything and try to give them everything. He's going to give them what they want. You want a king, a real king, a king like the other nations, I'm going to give it to you And in addition to all that, we find in verse 2, he rose up early. And he stood beside the gate, just on the outside of the gate. The gate. Everybody had to come to the gate. Gates were locked at night. The morning they opened up. Everybody had business in the city of Jerusalem and had to come through the gates. And there stood the son of David. There stood Absalom Where are you headed? Where are you from? Oh, you got a cause? You got a problem? You got a case? You got a lawsuit? You need to see my father? He's a busy man. But I'll talk to you. Let me hear what you got to say And so the men would come in and with a controversy, and they came to the king for judgment, it says in verse 2, but Absalom would call him off the side and say, Thy matters, let me hear thy matters, and then he would say, You know what? You're right, your matters are good and you are right. Oh, that that there's been no man deputed by the king to hear thee Oh, if there was somebody to really hear that you don't really have the kings here and there's nobody deputized to do it or no one is installed to do it, but I'm here And I'm royalty and I'm accessible to everybody. And he flatters everyone that comes in that his case is good. He's got a good case, and he'll win it if he was the king. Wow. And he flatters each one with assurance that when he is king, come back and see me. He is undermining his father's competency. as the king. You know some people do that. Our Heavenly Father will tell you, oh it doesn't do any good to pray. What God's going to hear your prayers? You think God is He's not that busy. He can listen to you living in Kearney or living in Dundalk somewhere. I mean, God's a busy first. He's running the whole universe. Come on. And they undermined the competency of our Heavenly Father This is what Absalom is doing here. And it is a display towards his father, what the scriptures call, Paul calls it, or Colossians 3 and 5 and 6, Paul calls it an inordinate affection. And an ordinary affection is one where you uh you you demonize the person that you should be honoring like a mother or a father. Honor your mother and your father. And you say how rotten your mother and your father are. You got the worst mother and father in the whole church, or the worst mother and father you ever knew in the whole classroom. Are the kids talking about their moms and dads And your mom and dad doesn't take you out for ice cream three times a week and they're just terrible. And you're demonizing your parents. And that's what he's doing here. He's demonizing King David. He's demonized them. And when you have an inordinate affection, you'll demonize those who you're supposed to honor And you'll idolize those who deserve no honor at all, like Caesar and the Pharaoh. This is what he's doing. Absalom, we learned quickly, knows how to manipulate others. Do you know something about that? like that? Worse than that, have you ever been manipulated by somebody? Even though you know they're manipulating you, you you you just you get manipulated Uh often there's somebody in the family that can do that. There's somebody in the family that they want something, they they use guilt. They they put you in a guilt trip so you'll so you'll cave and you do what they want And if not the guilt trip, they're really good with words. Or if not with words, they start to cry and you give in because you don't want to see your little darling crying. Her heart's just breaking Oh, you thought you couldn't be manipulated by a two-year-old? Oh yes you can. But they don't know what they're doing. Oh yes they do. Because this is the Umpteenth time they've done it. You know why? Because it worked the other umpteenth times. They know what they're doing, and they know that it works. And we know we're being manipulated, and yet we oftentimes fall in line anyway. Absalon, what's he's not using tears here. He's this good one With words. I mean, this is a guy that wants to be king. He wants to rule the nation of Israel. He wants to be the top dog in the political world. And generally, you've got to be good with words to do that. Ronald Reagan was good with words. John F. Kennedy was good with words. Do you like that? Democrat or Republican. I gave you both, right? I mean there are people who are really good with words That was Absalom. He was good with words. He could manipulate people. He was so good with words in verse 4 he says, Oh, that I were made the judge in the land Oh would things be different every man which hath any suit or cause could come to me if I was a top dog, if I was a ruler If I were in power, things would be different. Things would be better. Isn't that what every politician tells you? A Democrat, Republican? Doesn't matter. They all tell you this. When I'm elected, things would be better. Sometimes they are Sometimes they aren't. But this is what Absalom was telling him. Boy, would things be good. I would do him justice. Absalom was doing what God hates, sowing discord among the brethren. Proverbs 6 and 19. People who weren't really dissatisfied that much of what was going on in Israel. They started thinking about the things that Abalon had to say. He was stirring them up. Never thought about that before. He was sharing them stories, the things that have been going on in Israel that maybe they didn't know. He'd say, Which city are you from? What tribe are you from? And he would know the story or something had been going on nearby and he'd share, yeah, this is really bad about what happened down there in your in Benjamin, or it's really sad what happened up there in in uh Issachar. And I heard about that the other day. I mean he was just stirring things up that people didn't even know about. He's sowing discord among the brethren. God says six things the Lord hate you, seven are an abomination on him, and this is one of them, sowing discord. among the brethren. But he was so good with words. He said, If I were the judge, I would do you justice. In other words, under Absalom, no more inequality I'll make sure everybody's treated the same. Everyone will get a fair shake. Everyone will have free food or food stamps. Everyone will have a chicken in every pot, a free chariot. I've got fifty here. You'll get a chariot as well. And how about this? I'll give you a free rent. I'll give you a free cell phone. I'll give you a free college Not a free Bible or a Christ-centered education, but you know, we got to stop somewhere. We can't give you everything. And you don't want that free Bible anyway, do you? But he was promise them that he would he would just do them justice. Spread the wealth around. Wow, that does sound like the day, doesn't it? Maybe he was a Democrat. I'm not sure. Stop looking at again. Absalon. He knew how to reach the crowd. He knew how to reach the masses. And the way he did it best, we find there starting in verse 5. He was just a regular Joe You know? I mean when the people came up to him at the gate in the morning and they saw, Oh my goodness, that's the son of David. That's Absalom, how do you know? Are you kidding? He's the most beautiful guy, he's the most handsome guy. He belongs on the front page of Cosmopolitan Or maybe in the inside floor or not. I don't know he he's the one that's looking a hair in that guy's head. I mean he's there's not a blemish from the top of his head to the to the soles of the feet. That's Absalom, that's David Sutton Oh wow, they'd run up and they would you know do one of these stopped there, oh no no no. He said he'd lay his hand on no no no no no let him bow to him. Instead he grabbed him and he kissed him on both cheeks Now can you imagine going to England? And there's one of the princes of England and you walk up and you know the decorum very proper and you walk up and you uh you give a little bow and instead he runs away grabs and he kisses you on the boat. Oh my god you want pictures of that you want the video that you'd be f you want to show it to everybody all over the world for rest your life where's the height of your life oh the time the Prince of England Or the Duke. Hug me and kiss me and talk to me. Do you realize the power that has over people when you do that? That's why the the politicians get out there. They know how to be the regular Joe. They get out there and they remove the tie. They don't wear a tie when they're campaigning. They don't wear that that tie when they're in Congress, when they're in the Senate, when they're on TV, when they're in the White House, they got the tie on. But when they're out campaigning, the tie goes off, the sleeves get rolled up, they put on that John Deere hat And they go out to some farm. Got the cameras running? They go out there to some farm, they put the John Deere hat on. You know, they put the foot up on the rail of the fence and they're talking to the old farmer John there and and they're talking to him and shaking his hand and and they're talking about the soybeans And they're talking about the rainfall. They don't care about the rainfall. But that's what they're doing. And they're shaking the farmer's hand. Great photo op, and they're kissing the housewife's baby Where did he learn all that from? From Absalom. It says he he grabbed them by the hands. He grabbed him with his hands and he kissed them. That's what politicians do. They kiss the babies. Some kiss the interns, but you know that's that hasn't happened in a while Depending on how you vote, it will start again after November. Boy. I'll tell you. I haven't yet really told you by who I'd vote for, but Boy, somebody's got to blow the trumpet before it's over. I don't think we have a perfect candidate this year, but I if you looked at Donald Trump's wife, I think he'll leave the interns alone. Bill Clinton, hmm, not a good track record. Well, Absalom's a perfect politician, and they've all learned from him, whether Republican or Democrat, they have learned from him. Haven't they? And it doesn't end there. Verse seven, Absalom says, and it came to pass. I would think Absalom's got it all together, it's all falling in line. They're all gonna, you know, they're all gonna have they want him to be their king. It looks like it's working out great. Verse seven, but it came to pass he's not done yet. He said unto the king, he goes to his father, Oh Father, I pray thee. Oh he prays. I pray thee. Let me go and pay my vow. I made a vow. You know, like the Apostle Paul made a vow. In the New Testament, remember. He made, in other words, he made a covenant. I made a covenant. I made a vow. I have vowed on the Lord that if I ever could in Hebron, get to Hebron, that's where David first became king, was in Hebron. King of Judea. And that's where they used to worship in Hebron. That's where the tabernacle was first set up. There wasn't a temple in Jerusalem yet, so he wants to go back to Hebron And to pay his vow in Hebron, where his father started as king, he wants them to announce that he is now the king from the same place He said, For thy servant vowed a vow while I abode in Gisher in Syria. No, no. Well he was in Syria abiding with his grandfather the king. He was learning how to be a royal person with cherry. But he said, Oh no, no, I no, forget about all that. I was bowing a vow that I want to go to Hebron. And I want to serve the Lord. That's what he says. For the servant vowed a vow, while he was in Giza of Syria, saying, if the Lord will bring me again indeed to Jerusalem, then I will Serve the Lord. Oh Dad, I'm born again. I'm washed in the blood. I'm saved. I'm regenerated. I've been reformed. My heart has been turned by the power of God's Holy Spirit. I want to go there and pay this vow. And it says in verse 12, and even give a sacrifice to God. How many here have ever made a vow to the Lord Jesus Christ if you'd answer a particular prayer? And did he? Yeah. And do you serve him now because you did? Well, you didn't really mean it. Well God knew I I I didn't quite mean serve him like, you know like some people would serve him or or Or not that it means that I mean I did pray to God and ask him to answer my prayer and I even brought a tithe to church that Sunday, but uh you know, but yeah well Absalom he's not gonna serve the Lord either Do you want to be in that camp where he made a vow to God and then he didn't keep it after he kept his and answered your prayers? Whoa. You want to be in the camp of Absalom? Absalon here, he's got this religious veneer now. You see that, don't you? People out campaigning. They haven't stepped inside a church in ten years, but when they're out campaigning, every Sunday. You watch, it's gonna get worse. The end of October you're going to see uh the people who are running for office, whether it's governor or mayor, they're coming out of the church, you know, with their Bible in hand I want you to just do one thing for me. When you see them coming out of the church with their bio, whether it's the mayor of Baltimore City or who's running for the mayor, whatever, or the president of IC, whatever it is, look how nice and new the Bible looks. They haven't even cracked the binding on the idea. Oh, and you ever notice, boy, it's bigger than mine. It's bigger than any study Bible. It's a big Bible. They want you they want you to miss that It's a veneer. He says, I want to give this value of the Lord and I want to sacrifice this in verse 12. It's all calculated to touch David's heart, and you can believe that it did. I mean, David's got a son, he's a prodigal son, and David is praying that he'll come back to the faith, he's praying he'll come back and want to worship, uh, you know, that he'll want to be with God's people again. And all of a sudden, I prayed a vow I made a vow and I want to go to Hebron and I want to keep my vow and and I want to take a sacrifice to Hebron, to God, and I want to serve God You must have just grabbed his heart like, oh, what have I been praying for? What have I been asking for? Oh, for sure. Forget about Solomon. He's the next king. This is wonderful. I mean, David, he wanted to touch David's heart, and he did. I think too often we as parents or as brothers and sisters we we look for the smallest little Indication or an obligation or the smallest of donations from someone we love that they I think he's see I think he's coming. Maybe he's there. Oh, let's just be just keep praying. I mean we are just it it maybe it's just genuine. We want it to be so genuine They said they my son or my daughter said they want to start serving the Lord and want to start giving sacrificially to God and and they made this vow to God if He would just do such and such that He did and the and we get all excited about it. There is nothing pretty about a child in rebellion against his parents. The only thing worse than that, I think, is rebellion disguised with a religious veneer. A rebellion disguised by a vow. A rebellion disguised by a sacrifice in Hebron. A rebellion disguised by, I'm going to serve the Lord, the Lord. That kind of rebellion, disguised in such a manner with a religious veneer, is the ugliest of all rebellions It just doesn't get any uglier than that when they will use God's name and God's tabernacle and God's sacrifice and a promise of service to God. You make their mother or their father think they've come around. That often happens when mom and dad are making out a new will. That's a fortuitous, timely affair. Just to give you a little hint on that, if it ever happens to anyone here. Religion is so often and too often a cover for a filthy heart. We see that in Eli's son Phineas. We see that in the helper of Paul, Demas, and in the Disciple Judas. Phineas, Demas, and Judas, and there's Hafney, and there's others. On and on we can go. It is and nothing new, nothing new under the sun. It's just often religion is used as a cover for a filthy heart. And we find that when when people are filling out a job application And you had to put down their references. Do you know how many times my name is and that's okay. I mean people here, I love you. And if you need a reference, and I know your kids, that's great But I get calls for references. I hardly know them. I haven't seen them in years, and they want me on a job reference I'm just gonna tell you right now, that's probably not a good thing for you to do if if you've been gone from this church for ten years and your own pastor doesn't want to sign the reference, so you call me for it Because I will tell the truth But that's what we do. Religion, it's a veneer, it's a cover of filthy hearts. So when we're filling out a job application, we give a pastor's reference. That's great, do it. I'm glad to get those. But but you got these out there like Absalom and they'll give a pastor's reference for job application. Or if they're seeking uh someone's hand in marriage You know, all of a sudden the religious veneer comes out, carrying the Bible, quoting verses. They do all of this. If someone wants to borrow money from you, they start talking about the church they've been going to and how the Lord has touched them lately Arthur running from political office. So we find that people are out there, they're quoting the Bible, attending church, carrying their Bibles, mingling with some prominent pastor just before the elections. Oh well, I gotta tell you right now, before it's before before the end of October, you're gonna see all the high mucky mucks who are running for office and they're gonna be out there with Rick Warren or Joel Olstein. I mean that's what they do And by the way, I'm not blaming Rick Warren or Joel Olsey at this time. I sometimes I go after Joel, but I mean that's what they do. They get out with some prominent pastor that are running through office, and you won't see them again. With any prominent pastor or any low-life pastor or any pastor, you know, it it ends for four years or until the next elections. And then they also announce their eagerness to worship Oh, some of them do that too. They'll talk about Jesus when they're speaking. And they'll say, Oh, I am just I am just eager to worship Jesus. One of the most famous politicians was Quoted when he said this to Herod as he spoke to the wise men. Oh, he says, Find out where this Christ is. I am I I want to come and worship him. So when you hear someone talk that way, grab your wallet. Don't vote for them. Don't let them date your daughter. Herod to the wise men, eager to worship the Christ. So here in verse 9, the king David, how does he respond to Absalom? He He says, go in peace. Now, maybe you know this, but if you're a Jew, that's a benediction. When you meet someone, you say, go in peace, brother. In fact, what you say is, Shalom. Shalom means go in peace. In fact, if you're a Hebrew and you would read this, this is what David really said. He not only sent him away with a benediction, but he really said Shalom Abshalom. You look up Absalom. It's actually spelt like it's got an SH in the original. His name is actually Abshalom. And it's Shalom Abshalom. I think David was just, he's the poet of Israel, right? He's the poet of Israel. And he is so touched that his son has gotten born again and saved. He says, Shalom, Absalom. I mean, this is just wonderful. David is just giddy with delight. Who wouldn't be? I don't blame David. I'd be giddy with delight too if I had a prodigal son that came to me like this. And then they parted. Abshalom, with the blessing of his father, Shalom heads to Hebron. David stays in Jerusalem. And they never see each other again. Never see each other again. From the high point, Absalom, Shalom. Never see each other again. Pilgrim, if you treated your every parting from a loved one, what the last thing you see Say to him. Well, if I think someone's dying or someone's really sick or they're going on a dangerous mission to Afghanistan or Iraq, I would say, no, no, no, no, no. David had no idea he'd never see Abshalaam again. So when the wife goes out to do groceries, the husband goes off to work, the kids are in the car heading off to college, something for c morning class or evening class What do you say to them? It might be the last time you'll ever see them or ever speak to them. You have to think that way. My wife doesn't go out the door. The neighbors know it Boy, it's it's a rare, rare day. It's a rare rare moment indeed that I don't grab my wife by the shoulders and look her in the eyes and say, but I don't see you again. We just been doing that for forty years. I don't know if we started in the very beginning or not, but I remember when Vi and Ken They were in a big hurry to go to the Harvey Cedar conference and and he was getting things buttoned up at the house and you know, packing all suitcases and and vibes. She jumps in the car and she goes down the road to the bank. BAM Hit by another vehicle and killed instantly. Within earshot of the house. I remember Ken saying, we are so busy getting ready for the Harvey Seavers Christian Conference. She just left and I never had a final word with her. You never know, friend. ends with lie in heaven today. But wow. Think about when you separate for an hour for the day. What was the last thing you said to your loved ones? Was it meaningful? David's was, go in peace. That was good. But Absalom, he didn't go in peace in verse 10. He said he sent the spies throughout all the tribes of Israel to find those inclined to join with him. Saying, as soon as ye hear the sound of the trumpet at Hebron, say, Absalon reineth Boy, there was nothing on his mind about going in peace, was there, except that he wanted a peace of the kingdom. In fact, he didn't want a peace of the kingdom, he wanted all the kingdom And we'll find out before this chapter is over. Before this chapter is over, he wanted his father dead as a doornail And in verse eleven, Absalom went with two hundred men out of Jerusalem that were called or selected. They were people of reputation. They were people of some uh of dignity and he gathered them around them and they went with him in their simplicity and David probably thought oh he's even got the right kind of a crowd. He's got some good men with him, some people who love the Lord. He's gathered his guys around him and he takes them with him out. That's just wonderful as well. But they went in their simplicity. They knew not anything. They didn't know what he was up to. And all of Israel had probably concerned about Absalom and sending for Hebron to sacrifice and to serve the Lord. And look at the people he's got with him. Surely David now has put a stamp of approval on him. He's welcomed him back. He's kissed him. He's sending the Hebron for the sacrifice. And the men he's got going with him. I bet David's getting ready to retire and make him the king. And what happens? Within a short period of time, they hear that he is the king. It's being announced from Hebron, where David announced his kingship. And the people fall for it, even the two hundred men that went in their simplicity, get caught up in it. Wow He misled these 200 men. He misled his father. You ever been misled by somebody? How many people died of the Titanic? They were misled by the builders of the Titanic who said, This ship is unsinkable. Right? Wow, they were really misled. How about our biology teachers in school, for some of us who are older, where they told us creation? Are you kidding? We got the pilt down man. Well it turned out to be a pig tooth, but at the time we were in high school we didn't know that. We got the pilt down man, we got the neandhow man. Well he turned out just to be the A guy hadn't died that long ago with arthritis by the time we didn't know that. He said we got the Pilthal man, we got the Neanderthal man, we got the Java man, we got the Peking man, and they all turned out to be fraudulent I remember going down to the Smithsonian Institute and I wanted to see all these guys, you know, Piltown, Java Man, the other one, Nebraska man, all the way up to Cro Magna Man and Homo erectus and I wanted to see all this because I'd seen the pictures and the photographs, you know, National Geographic, and the Smithsonian told me Well, we don't have that here anymore. Yeah, I guess they didn't. But when I was in high school they told me creationism, he said, look, the Titanic's unsinkable and creation is unsinkable. And then my pastor told me, you know, you can't believe everything the Bible is my Lutheran pastor, you can't believe everything is in the Bible. He said, we don't even know Pontius, Pilate, and Caiaphas even existed. And so he told me, along with the Titanic being unthinkable and the creation being unthinkable, my pastor told me that the Bible is unreliable and unreasonable. So have I ever been misled by someone? Have you ever been misled by someone? You bet we have. But I'm going to tell you this: the Lord Jesus Christ has never misled anybody. Not only has it ever misled anybody, but he's pro he is even, I'll tell you how much he hasn't misled us. He has even risen as he Most this man to King David, he gets him to come as well while he's offering the sacrifice. He thinks conspiracy, conspiracy. He's thinking what he's going to do, how's he going to rid the nation of David? And he brings in David's chief consort, Ahithophel. Why on earth would Ahithophel, David's chief consort, join Absalom? He's got to be smarter than that. How would he not warn David what was happening? He's got to be more loyal than that. What is going on with the Hipphophil? 2 Samuel 23 3, 34, and 2 Samuel 11, 3. What's going on with the Hithophel? He is the grandfather of Bashaba And David bought the lie that time heals all wounds. You ever heard that? Time heals all wounds. I'm going to tell you, friends, sometimes we insult people, sometimes we hurt people, sometimes we do things And we apologize and we tell 'em we're sorry and we send them a piece of cake or a pie or a flour, whatever you do. But there's some wounds that the tongue cuts so deep. Time does not heal it. People can forgive you, but they'll never forget. And Ahithophel has not forgotten that he is a grandfather at Bathsheba and you shamed her name. And the moment I'd have you removed this king of Israel under them. That's what happens here. to Ahithophel. Many of the rabbis believe that Psalm 419, we had it in a response to reading this morning, that it speaks of Ahithophel In this prophetic messianic psalm where it says, My own familiar friend, written by David, my own familiar friend in whom I trusted, which did eat of my bread, hath lifted up his heel against me. David talking about his Jesus. calls her a close friend of Israel. He hadn't had her friend that close since the death of Jonathan. And he thought he could trust this fella. And he's lifted up the he ate my bread. He lifted up his heel against me. Christ points to the same psalm, the same verse in John 3, 18, and he says it was fulfilled again in the life of Judah Iscariot. A man who ate bread If any here have ever prayed, and I'm sure that I venture everyone here has prayed this prayer, give us this day our daily bread. You ever ask God to give you daily bread? Bread, Christ gave his daily bread to Judas, David gave his daily bread to Hithophel. Have you ever prayed to God the Father? Have you ever prayed to God? Have you ever prayed to the name of Christ? Give me this day of daily bread. If you've done that, then seriously consider the consequences of lifting up your heel and kicking against the words of Christ. If God is giving you your daily bread, you're still here, you're still alive As soon as he considered that you kicked not against the words of Christ, that you kicked not against the things of Christ, whose bread you have eaten daily How dare us kick against God's word? How dare us! There are consequences. Make us wise as serpents and meek as dunce. We've got tough days ahead in this country, tough days ahead in this world. May we be like the sun Sons of Issachar, who knew the times and knew what they must do. Oh the heart. We ask that as you consider Jesus judging this nation, that there would be pockets like the land of Goshen, that you would protect those who are loyal to you, that love you, that meditate on your word day and night. And I've already kissed the sun, lest we perish in the wave. Oh Lord, take care of the remnant this day. Bless the flock. Bless your people Oh Lord, we pray for the peace of Jerusalem. We pray for the hearts of those in Jerusalem. They need to be saved. The Israelites, they need to be saved too, Lord. We ask you not only touch uh the remnant here in America, touch that remnant in Israel today too. It's the only friend we've got in this whole world is probably the nation of Israel. May they Maybe a saved nation in the short distance of time. We ask all of this in Christ Jesus' name, our great God, our King of Kings, the King of Judea. The King of Jerusalem.