How many of you remember when we were meeting in the school on a Sunday morning and just as getting ready to preach they had a about a was it fifty or a hundred motorcycles showed up outside and were roaring around at the outside and uh That wasn't they must have they don't know where we are now, I guess. They only sent one. First Samuel chapter seven. Verses 1 through 12. And the men of Kerjaph Jerem came and fetched up the ark of the Lord. Remember they went down to Beshimush to ask them to come and get it. They didn't want any more people dying left and right. They'd opened up the lid of the ark and looked inside it. They asked the people of Kurdath Jerim if they would come and get it. So they came down, they fetched up the ark of the Lord, and they brought it to the house of Abinadab in the hill, and sanctified Eliezer his son, to keep the ark of the Lord And it came to pass while the ark abode in Kurdath Jerem that the time was long. For it was twenty years, and all the house of Israel lamented after the Lord. And Samuel spake unto all the house of Israel, saying, If you do return on the Lord with all your hearts, then put away the strange gods and Astoroth. She was a goddess. From among you, and prepare your hearts on the Lord, and serve him only, and he will deliver you out of the hand of the Philistines. And then the children of Israel did put away Balaam and Astaroth, and served the Lord only. And Samuel said, Gather all Israel to Mizphath. And I will pray for you on the Lord. And they gathered together to Mizpah, and drew water and poured it out before the Lord, and fasted on that day, and said there We have sinned against the Lord. And Samuel judged the children of Israel in Mesphah. And when the Philistines heard that the children of Israel were gathered together to Mesphah, The Lords of the Philistines went up against Israel. And when the children of Israel heard it, they were afraid of the Philistines. And the children of Israel said unto Samuel, Cease not to cry unto the Lord our God for us That he will save us out of the hand of the Philistines. And Samuel took a sucking lamb. That's a very young lamb, a newly born lamb. And offered it for a burnt offering, holy unto the Lord. And Samuel cried on the Lord for Israel, and the Lord heard him. And as Samuel was offering up the burnt offering, the Philistines drew near to battle against Israel. But the Lord thundered with a great thunder on that day upon the Philistines and discomforted them, and they were smitten before Israel. And the men of Israel went out of Mizpah, and they pursued the Philistines, and smote them until they came under Bethkar. And then Samuel took a stone and set it between Mizphah and Shen. And called the name of it Ebenezer, saying, Hitherto hath the Lord helped us. We find that verse 1 that the men of Kerjath Jerem fetched up the ark. They took it up on the mountaintop or up on the hill. They brought it to the house of a man named Abinadab. That was better leaving it out on some stone out in the field somewhere in Behemoth. They brought it into a man's house. They sanctified Eliezer, his son, to keep the ark of the Lord. And it will remain in that private home. This isn't a private home. The ark will remain in that private home for 40 years And for you young folks, that's a long time. But for 40 years it remained there until King David called for it and brought it up to Jerusalem. So now the Ark of the Covenant of God, with the cherubim and the mercy seat, that gold covenant, about the sides of our communion table, is sitting in a private home and it will stay there. I d I suspect they didn't think it would be there that long, but for forty years this large piece of furniture sat there. In verse 2 it says the arch abode and curjath Jerem twenty years. I just said forty years. So what's going on here? I said forty years, it says twenty years. Well that's because when you read forward in Samuel will find out it stayed there for forty years. What it says here is that the Ark of Boden Kurdum Twenty years and all the house lamented after the Lord. That is, it was there for twenty years before Israel began to lament and missed the ark. It was there for twenty years before Israel began to lament and say, What have we done? Where are we going? What do we do with our lives? And so for twenty years it's in this house and it didn't faze them at all. They still didn't miss it. They still didn't care that they could not have an atonement, that they could not have a sacrifice, that there wasn't a Passover feast kept. For twenty years, nothing Changed the hearts of the Israelites. We got the arch out of Beshemus, now the ark of a Current Jerem. It's been sitting up there in the house of Abinadab, and that's fine with us. And then after twenty years It says, the house of Israel lamented after the Lord. And they begin to lament, and then we find out what happens after this, how they left the Mizpah with Samuel. But it's still another twenty years that it will sit there without the atonement, without the sacrifices, without the Passover being w being uh used by the people. But here they after twenty years they begin to lament that there's something wrong, there's something missing in our life And I would say this morning, do you care if there's something wrong in your life? There's something missing in your life? May I suggest you, it's worshiping God as He would be worshipped. If you don't love the Lord and you're not worshiping the Lord in a serious manner, you you can bet there's something missing in your life. You can be bet in the That you that you will come to a point in your life where you'll be lamenting what is wrong here. There's something wrong here, something missing in my life. And that's who they were after twenty years For twenty years they didn't seem concerned about where the ark sat. For twenty years they didn't seem concerned about their sinful lifestyle or the location of the ark. For twenty years this went on. Was Samuel ministering to them? and preaching to them and praying for them, no effect. Sometimes I feel the same. 30 some years here, and I know some of you have been faithful coming, but your hearts haven't changed. Wow. Haven't grown in grace and knowledge of the Lord But after twenty years, something was happening to Israel. And they went to Samuel. He'd been ministering to them and preaching to them. And they begin to mourn over their sins. Have you come to a point in your life? Not that your sin has cost you something. You've you you got drunk, you had a car accident, you're mourning over your erection I'm not talking about that. I'm talking about you're mourning over the fact that you're a drunkard. You're mourning over the fact that you're a drug user. You're mourning over the fact You're mo not because you got caught, you see that all the time. The bank robber gets caught and he is so sorry. Are you mourning over your sins? Not because you've been caught. Or not because you're suffering some consequence for it, but if you come to a point in your life where you actually are disgusted with your life. The sin life you're living, the sins you're committing, getting by with it that nobody even knows about But are you disgusted with it? They had reached that point where they were lamenting and they were mourning over their sins. Do you regret your sins? Well, that's good. If you regret your sins, but regret isn't enough. We must repent of our sins. That is, we must turn from them. We must give them up As some someone says, Oh, I really regret that I'm such a sinner, I really regret that I I commit this sin, I commit that sin. You don't regret's not enough. We all have regrets. But can you repent? Can you turn from them? Can you give that that luscious sin up that you're in love with, that you like so much? Turn from your sins. And this is the message that Samuel had for these people In 2 Samuel 4:9, God is referred to as the Redeemer. In 2 Samuel 22 and 3, God is referred to as the Savior. And here, Samuel refers to him as the Lord. We ought to be thinking, who did Samuel believe the Lord was? He believed that he was the Redeemer and the Savior And it says in verse 3, Samuel began to speak to the people because he saw their hearts were changing, that they were lamenting over their sins. And he says, Return on to the Lord with all your hearts. Put away the strange gods and Astaroth, the goddess, from among you, and prepare your hearts on the Lord and serve him only. It's not just I I don't like my sins. I don't like the consequence of my sins. I'm just disgusted with my sins or filthy or they're dirty. Or if someone finds out what's it going to do to my reputation, but it is asking wanting to turn from, give them up, throw them away, put them off. And then to serve him. That's real repentance. That's repentance unto salvation. And he says here Turn him with all your hearts and serve him only, and he will deliver you out of the hand of the Philistines. True repentance. True repentance strikes first at the sin you love the most. Some of you have been saved a long time, and you know that you haven't gotten rid of your entire sin nature. There's still some little sins clinging on here and there, but you know that when you first got saved, the biggies went, didn't they? The ones that would have most embarrassed you as a Christian in public life, they were gone. The ones that you loved the most, the ones you committed the most, the ones that would do the most damage to your testimony as a Christian, they were just put off Disappeared, disintegrated, reared their ugly head no more. Well, you didn't become perfect God keeps us humble. There's always some of that sin nature that's still around in us. But the fact is if we've already repented, then that that sin we love the most is the one that goes the first. That's what the writer of Hebrews said. So lay aside the sin which doth so easily beset you. That's the one he wants you to get rid of first. The one that's that's always there. It's always in control, that always rears its ugly head. Set aside the one that so easily besets us And if you think that ministers don't have problems with the sin nature, we have a sin nature, we struggle too. And you look at some of the preachers in the Bible, how they struggle, and they lost the fight. Judas Iscariot, you read through the scriptures, he loved money. Are there preachers out there that love money? Oh yeah. You turn on your television set and What are they asking for all the time? Send in that seed offering. You send me in $100 and I'll send you back a piece of paper. And you stick it in your Bible and you pay for it, and you'll get more than a hundred dollars back by the end of the week. I mean, they just they want your money. That was Judas Iscariot. He won money. There was Deatrophys, another preacher He was full of pride. He liked the preeminence. He just loved the position that he had. And how people looked up to him as the pastor of the church. And then there was Demas. He says he loved the world. Paul says that Demas has forsaken me for the world He loved that party life. He loved the excitement that was out there. He loved the things the world could offer him. So we are to, if we're really saved, we are to set aside those things that so so easily beset us Israel needed to set aside the worshiping of Balaam. Israel needed to set aside the worshiping of Askaroth. We read if you go on the internet you look it up for a shock. This was a goddess. See the the Israelites, they were passionate about their worshiping of this female god She was a goddess of fertility. Her rituals included and encouraged intimate carnal activities of all sorts, not unlike what is being promoted today in Hollywood, in television, in government, and throughout our culture today So is there any hope for America? Yes If we can like Israel put away our Balaams, and we like Israel can put away our Astrods, and we can choose to serve the true and living God and serve Him only We don't have Samuel to pray for us anymore, do we? We don't have him to intercede for us. Well, I recognize that. But we have something even better We read in Romans 8 and 34 that Christ maketh intercession for us. We've got someone better than Samuel. We've got someone better than Moses We got someone better than Jeremiah that can make intercession for us. And it says that Christ sits on the right hand of God, their Father Almighty, continually making intercession for those who love him. So, yes, there's hope for America. There's hope for your family. There's hope for your friends. There's hope for your lost loved ones. There is hope We have Christ making intercession for us. What could be a better hope For the things that face you this morning. But back to Mespah, Kerja, Liam, Samuel and his people in verses five and six And Samuel and the people gathered together to Misbah and they drew water and poured it out before the Lord Yeah, you just kind of read that verse and say, Oh, okay, he got himself, let's go up to Mizpah. I said, that's that's a good place to go. Do you know where Mizpah was? You go back to chapter 4 and you read that Mizpah was the battlefield where 20 years ago Israel met and fought the Philistines and 30,000 men died. He said, let's go back to the place of defeat Let's go back to the place where our loved ones are still lying or moldering in the grave. Let's go back and face the consequences that our sins brought us to. 20 years ago. We're going to go back. I want you to stand on the mound of all the dead bodies of your loved ones. And recall their end, especially the end of those who were not saved. Here in Mespah lay the dead bodies probably of Phineas and Hapni. And many a loved one, and that's where he called it to Mizvah. You go back to chapter four, it's not called Mizvah, it's called Ebenezer, because by the time they leave Mizpah in this day, in this chapter Samuel changes the name. He raised up his own and says, Call this place Ebenezer. But this is where they fought 20 years ago. He said, We're going to go back there and we're going to have a memorial service and we're going to pray about things and just watch and see what God can do. Maybe sometimes you go back to a cemetery or graveyard and you visit a dead loved one. And you remember the good old days or some of the bad old days, and you wonder what God's going to do with your life and how soon before you're moulding beneath the sod as well It does us good to go back sometimes, to see where we have come from and to realize we're not where they were, and we're so glad we're not where they were, because now look where they are. And so this is where Samuel has back on this mound of defeat and disaster. They were demolished there by the Philistines. And he brings them back there to pray. And as they're standing there, he pours out water. Now, we can go through the scriptures and we don't see any reason in scriptures for pouring out water. Nor do we find any reason for taking a suckling lamb and just sacrificing it. This wasn't the Passover time. And if you're gonna have a a great uh time of sacrifice, bring in a bullock or something. Not a struggling lamb. You can't get a lamb any younger and any smaller than that. I mean they they stand about that high off of this table. Can't find any cuter either. They are I'll tell you. They come out and they're about they're about the size of a full grown cat. And their tail is just as long, by the way, if you don't know. Lambs were born with a tail like that long. That thing is just flickering all over the place and like a squirrel's tail or something. They don't they don't even know how to wag it yet But these weren't, these ideas of pouring out water and sacrificing a suckling lamb, this wasn't in Scripture as something to do. But where could they sacrifice? They couldn't go up to a to Abinadab's house where Eliezer would take care of the ark and walk in there and and sacrifice a lamb inside his house over the ark or something like that But he has brought them the Mizpah, and so he pours out this water, probably signifying how they needed to pour out their hearts and souls to God if they really wanted God to change things. Have you ever been in a position like that where something was so bad in your life that you had to pour out your heart to God and you're on your knees weeping, you got the door locked, you have nobody finds you in your room or comes in on you and surprises you. You just want to be there with God and let it all hang out. For your young people? I used to say for the young people, they haven't met those problems yet. They're you know, they don't have a wife dying of cancer or a husband with Alzheimer's, they don't have all these terrible things going on in their life. But there's enough young people out there committing suicide in the last few years that I I have to stop and think that there must be some pretty hard things that the young people are facing too that we're not aware of And if you are, what you need to do is drop down on your knees and pour out your heart to God. As Samuel here has all the people gathered and he pours out the water. symblematic most commentators believe in them pouring out their hearts, pouring out their souls, that there represents the tears of repentance at Mesphah. Admitting their need to be washed and cleansed of their sins, all of the symbolism that most believe was going on here. And then it says they fasted, and it says in verse 6, as they fasted and they said, We have sinned against the Lord. We all need to be brought to that point where we will admit that we have sinned not against our neighbor, and we probably have, and not against our boss, and we've may and we may have done that too, or against our parents. But we need to be brought to a point where we realize we have sinned against God. Isn't that the prodigal son said? He came back to us, oh Father, I've sinned against you, and I've sinned against God Himself. That's real repentance And they were brought there in verse 6, and it says that they cried out, and they fasted, they said, We have sinned against the Lord. They finally saw the filthiness of their hearts. They finally saw the hideous rebellion against the whole And I just wonder if everyone here, if you haven't come to that point yet, that God would open your eyes to see the hideousness of what you're doing The hideousness of what you're thinking, the filthiness of the thoughts that you want to commit or already have commit. You have to see that and repent and ask God to forgive you I realize when you're watching the world and you're watching TV and you're watching the movies that what you see is what everybody else is doing, and so you don't think it's all that bad. But God thought it was all that bad in the days of Noah. And he wiped them all out. He says he's going to come back again and judge this earth with fire. It's going to wipe them all out and it will do you no good. When people say, well, I'm not as bad as uh that that serial murderer, no, you're not. But you don't have to be that bad to go to hell. Have you seen your sin for what it is? Filthy, hideous? Rebellion against a thrice holy God. That's what you're saying. I just disobeyed. I'm just mad at my parents. I'm just being disobedient to my parents. That is honor your father and your mother. That didn't come from. You know, your mom and dad didn't write that Your mom and dad didn't write, honor your father. It wasn't Moses up and up the mouth, hey Lord, can you slip this one in here about honor your mother and your father? Got some kids to honor. God wrote that, that we're to honor. So when we don't honor our parents, we are sinning against the thrice holy God. When you recognize how filthy sin is, then you will confess and repent. And such a confession when you make it, when you and we've many of us have been there You know, whatever we're whatever our lifestyle was that if our parents knew they would have blushed. Whatever our lifestyle was that the police knew, they might have arrested us, whatever our lifestyle was. We confess it because we realize it's a sin and we want God to forgive us, but the moment you confess it, it is an open declaration of war against the gates of hell It is an open assault against the demonic dominions of Satan and all of his demons. It's a direct assault against a demonic run world and you are going to raise a stink somewhere When someone repents, when someone gets saved, it isn't going to be all quiet after that. When you you know the angels, they they may be singing in heaven, but I'll tell you the demons down here are not singing And so therefore, as they are fasting and they're pouring out water, and they're crying out, we have sinned against the Lord. Look at verse 7 and 8. When the Philistines heard that the children of Israel were gathered together And they were gathered together to pray and don't and they knew why they were gathered. They got their intelligence there. Israel is under the dominance. They are subject to They're like slaves to the Philistines. They're all over Israel. They knew they were gathering in Mespah. They knew they were going there for a prayer meeting. Sure, they thought And they're up there repenting, and they're up there praying, and the Philistines heard that the children of Israel were gathered together to pray, and the Philistines went up against them. They went up for battle. We got them all together. You know what it's kind of like We got Israel, they're under our thumb. And boy, we got we got we don't have total control over Israel because there's a few Samuels out there, you know. There's a few Christians out there, there's a few followers of of the Jehovah God, the God of Abram and Isaac. But but for the most part we got him pretty much where we want him. Well, if we could gather all the believers together in one spot and nail them, take care of them, wipe them out, we'd really have Israel where we want them And now all of a sudden there's Samuel. He's brought in all those who are repenting of their sins, all those who believe in the in a thrice holy God, and they're up there praying, and they're up there fasting, and they're up there sacrificing And the Philistines, the demonic hordes who worship Dagon, they come rushing up that hill up there in Demespah, and they said, Look, this is where we fought them twenty years ago. We annihilated them and we're ready to do it again. And and by the way, because the Philistines were in charge. And Israel is subject to them, you'll find out in chapters ahead. Israel had no weapons. You're going to find later on when they go to the battle, Israel takes up holes. your garden with and and axes to shop and down their trees. In fact they could even sharpen their axes, the Israelites. You want your sh axe sharpened? It was kinda like i they had registered you know all axes were registered, you know, like a registered gun. You had to take it down to the Philistines and he would want to know what was the axe for, where are the trees, I'll sharpen it. I mean it was very controlled. They didn't have any weapons, they didn't have daggers. They have swords, they didn't have spears, they didn't have shields, they didn't have axes, except for the few that were logging. And then they had to have them sharpened by the Philistines. I mean they were in totally in subjection here. And so here the Philistines are charging up this hill, and they they've got nothing to defend themselves with. I mean they're just it's just a they're just hopeless here They'd come to pray. They hadn't come to fight. They come to pray to God, to the God of their fathers. But the demonics worshipers of Dagon would not have any part of it. You're going to pray to the God of your fathers? Huh. You tell people today that you'd like to have a large scattering down in Washington, DC, or Baltimore City somewhere and you just want to pray to the God of your fathers. There'll be no prayers down in Washington. There'll be no preaching down in Washington. And I'll tell you for all the things that go on in Washington and all the congressmen and senators that get caught left and right, I'll tell you one thing you generally find when the Congressman sinners are caught in adultery with another woman or another guy or whatever. There's no repentance in Washington, D. C. No prayers, no preaching, and no repentance. But can you imagine here? We've got repentance We got preaching, we got prayers, and the demonic worships of Dagon, the Philistines, are not happy with that. And they're not happy in this world either when we want to pray and preach and repentance breaks out You know how I know that revival hasn't come to America yet? Repentance hasn't recome to America yet? Because if it had, there'd be such a stink out there of brewing right now. But right now, Dagon's worshippers, the Philistines are controlling this country and controlling the world. They're pretty happy with the way things are going, because there is no revival, no preaching, no repentance. No praying of any of any substance or worth that has them concerned. Israel had come to pray to God, the God of their fathers And when anyone turns or returns the Christ of the scriptures, you can expect it's going to stir up the Philistines, all right? That's what happened here in Israel And if there's ever a movement to really pray and to get together, it's going to stir up the Philistines in our day as well. The energy of God, it'll stir them up like nothing else will stir them up Because when those people start walking upright, and when you start walking upright, you know the straight and the narrow, you know what happens when you walk upright and straight? It makes all the crooked Crooks look more crooked. You know, it's okay if everybody's kind of crooked, you know. But if there's one walking upright and straight, shoulders back like a s a soldier, you know, in the army somewhere. He he stands out. You you walk to the mall and you see some guy walk into the mall like this, you go, whoa, that guy must come out of boot camp. He must be a soldier. He must be a marine. You know, what what That guy he he he stands out because everybody else is kind of slumped over and walked into society. So when when you walk in the straight and narrow it stands out and the crooks really stand out That's why they don't like Christians around too much. We make the crooks stand out, and it says that we're to walk the straight and the narrow, and they don't like us walking the narrow either. Because there are broad minded people. And if we have people walking, you know, you see a man on a tightrope, he's walking across Niagara Falls or somewhere Boy, not many people do that, do they? He stands out in a crowd, doesn't he? And the people who are broad minded, the broad as a gate and and their and they they're their heads to destruction, and the people on the broad gate You know, they just are all it's a large gathering of them and the guys that are walking across the tightrope, they really stand out. Those are on the on the straight and on the narrow. They stand out. They don't want it and it makes the broad and it makes the crooked stand out in a way they don't want to stand out. And so they don't want us on a straight and arrow, as it says in Matthew 7, 14. We make them look bad. We make them look worse than they thought they looked. But the children were of Israel were afraid, it says here. They'd come to pray, and now they can hear the hordes of the Philistines coming up the mountain. rattling the swords, rattling the spears, their shields are bumping against the trees, and they're afraid. And they said to Samuel, they cry on the Lord for us. That he will save us out of the hand of the Philistines. We've come to pray. We aren't armed. We've come to pray. We aren't trained to fight. We've come to pray. We are prepared for battle. Pray for us. And by the way, Samuel didn't have any military strategist history in his background. He hadn't gone to West Point or something like that. He wasn't a mighty man of valor like Samson. But they knew that the effectual, fervent prayer of a righteous man availth much James chapter five and sixteen wasn't written yet, but even back then they knew the prayers, the fervent prayers of a righteous man. They they knew that. They had known from their own history that Moses could stop the Pharaoh's mad charge to the Red Sea. He was a prayer warrior, a fervent prayer warrior. They knew that Daniel could take care of a den of lions He was a prayer warrior, a fervent prayer lawyer, that had one Samuel on his knees who was worth more than a nation of angry armed Philistines. Just one man on his knees. You can do the same today. It will cause them to tremble in hell if you pray fervently, effectually. Seriously. And I would ask you to do that this week. We are a nation under assault. Oh, I know China hasn't attacked our shores yet. Russia hasn't attacked our shores yet. But our own nations attacking us from within. The ungodly. We need to be in prayer. I would challenge you, pilgrim, this week, if you've never done it before. Go to pray go to Christ this week and go on your knees and pray You say, well what good will that do? I'm only one person. Moses? What good did it do? Daniel? What good did it do? Samuel? What good did it do? I'm not a Samuel, I'm not a Moses, I' Daniel Satan doesn't know that. All he hears and sees are prayers going up and panic sets in. And I would challenge you, go to Christ in prayer this week. The results will be observed and reported shortly hereafter or in the hereafter. You may see no results as a result of your praying this week, but I ask you to pray this week. Pray for our country. Pray for the souls of the people you've been praying for sporadically. This week. We may hear of great and mighty things done by next Lord's Day. We may not. But what a what a thing to do this week. If I give you any I don't often give homework That's your homework for this week. And so they asked Samuel to pray. So Sammy, he not only prayed, he took a suckling lamb, verses 9 through 11, and he offered up for a burnt offering on the Lord. He cried on the Lord and the Lord. Heard him. How much more can we expect God to hear us when we come before God, not with a suckling lamb? But we come before God on our knees in the name of Christ Jesus, the Lamb of God. You don't think that's going to get his attention? This is a suckling lamb just born, but we come before God and we raise the name of Christ. The realm of God. Christ said we're to go to Him. He said, He encouraged us to go to His Father in His name. Go to His Father in His name. Well, yeah, that's what? John 14, 13? Yes, it is Pray in my name. If you haven't want anything, ask in my name. John 14, 13. Well, I'll give it some thought. Well, give this some thought. He also said in John 14 and 14. Oh twice. Well the mouth of two witnesses. All right, I'll I'll I'll really consider it. Well how about this John fourteen and sixteen? He said it three times. Whoa, really? Well maybe maybe there's something to this praying in Jesus' name Maybe there's a reason why they don't want us, the Philistines, to pray in Jesus' name. That's right. Three times he said that Oh, he said it in chapter sixteen too, verse twenty-three. About four Oh, I'm sorry, twenty-four. Verse twenty-four also. Oh wow, look at that. Verse twenty-six. My goodness, Christ has done there's a half a dozen times here, just in the book of John, where he says, Pray in my name. If you have anything, you know. Ask of God, ask in my name. Do you know what going to prayer this week could do for this country, for this nation, for this world? Well, they went to Samuel. And it says, I love this, as Samuel was offering up the burnt offering, the Philistines drew near to battle. But the Lord thundered with a great thunder upon the Philistines and discomforted them and they were smitten before Israel. You go back and read that again. I want you to notice something Samuel wasn't through praying when God answered his prayer, when God heard him. Samuel wasn't through offering the lamb when God began to smite them and when he began to thunder. Samuel's praying, God heard him, Samuel's praying, and the Philistines heard God's thunder. It all happens at the same time. In fact, when we read this, look at it again in verses 9-11. As sh as Samuel was, he wasn't through offering it up. As Samuel was offering up the burnt offering, the Philistines drew near the battle, but the Lord thundered, as Samuel was offering up, the Lord thundered with a great thunder upon the Philistines. As Samuel was offering up the burnt offering, the Philistines were discomforted. As Samuel was offering up the burnt offering, the Philistines were smitten before Israel. They were smitten before Israel. Israel hadn't even attacked them yet. They hadn't thrown one stone, they hadn't shouted one thing. They're still over there trembling at the feet of Samuel, saying, Pray, pray, and he's offering at the lamb, and he's offering the lamb, and he's praying And already God is smiting the Philistines. Already the Philistines are fleeing in fright. And He's not even through praying yet. You don't want to go home today and sometime this week in a serious moment of your time, get out in your prayer closet. And pray for something that could really make a difference in your family, in the life of your household, in your country. God hears and may answer some of that before you're even finished praying. You know, I can pray, my wife can pray, uh, Mr. Bowles can pray, uh Matt McKenna can pray, but I mean there's some of you who's never prayed Maybe God's waiting for your prayer as he was waiting here for Samuel's prayer. These people were frightened. They were there. They were praying. But God was waiting for Samuel's prayer. And it says here that while, Isaiah says in 65, 24, while I was yet speaking, God heard. That's how quick he is to answer. You ever you ever call someone on the phone and and they pick it up before it even rings? So whoa, how'd you do that? The phone ain't even rang yet. Well I was just getting ready to call you. No kidding. Well, I I picked up the phone, I dialed it, it didn't even ring it. Not so fast God is. You know, you dial up God and He answers before the first ring. And the Philistines took flight. They took flight before Samuel was through sacrificing, before he was through praying. They took flight, they were discomforted, God was smiting him, and Israel looked down and saw the Philistines fleeing, and then it says that Israel went after them as well. Twenty years ago, on that very spot, Israel suffered a major defeat. 30,000 Israelites dead. Twenty years before that, and now all of a sudden the Philistines are fleeing. And you know what happens when an army is fleeing? They just want to get out as fast as they can They they they don't need that shield anymore. They're not going into battle. They drop the shield and that long spear's playing on they drop that sh that's they don't need that long sword dangling on their hip And the spear they're running through the woods, they're banging the trees. They drop the spear. They just drop all their weapons. They're just fleeing in fright. And here are the Israelites. It says they go after them, but they don't have any weapons. Oh, but there's a spear. Oh, wow, there's a sword. Hey, look at this fancy dagger over here. And they annihilate the Philistines. God provides the army that has no weapons, He provides them with weapons. It's amazing what prayers can do here. God meets our needs in a timely fashion every day. Israelites needed weapons to kill the fleeing Philistines and God provided them weapons. Didn't have to pay for them, didn't have to make them, didn't have to sharpen them. It was all done for them and laid out for them. Hasn't God provided for you? If you're saved, he's given you faith. If you're saved, he's giving you forgiveness. If you're saved, he's Giving you a home in heaven for all eternity So Samuel in verses twelve to the end of the chapter, he took a stone. He called the name of Ebenezer, saying, Hitherto hath the Lord helped us. And there was peace. A monument on the field of former defeat. This monument on the field of former defeat called Ebenezer. We we can defeat our temptations, friends. We can defeat the sin in our life. We can defeat that which has previously conquered us. They defeated the Philistines that previously conquered them And through prayer, we can defeat the sins that so easily beset us as well. We can't do it in our own strength, that's true, but they didn't do it in their own strength either. We can't defeat the sin nature in our life in our own strength But if we'll just continue to fail, we try to do it in our own strength. But if we have Christ in us, in our hearts, in our life, greater is He that is in you. than he that is in the world, first John four four, then we'll have some victories. Then we'll have some victories. Where once we just suffered defeat after defeat after defeat in our Are you tired of of trying to turn your back on some of your sin nature and some of the things you struggle with for the last five, ten, twenty years? You don't would you like some victories? You have to ask Christ in your heart. Greater is He that would be in you then, than all the Philistines that are in the world. Some of you have already prayed and you've had some prayers answered, haven't you? You know I'm right, you can tell others that. Hitherto hath the Lord helped us. And how many of us here could not say, hitherto hath the Lord helped me through grief? Hitherto of the Lord helped me through sickness. Hitherto of the Lord helped me through losses. Hitherto O the Lord helped me through disappointments. Hitherto the Lord has helped me through one defeat after another, and hitherafter he will help us again and again and again if we trust in Christ. And some of us haven't done that. We're stubborn, but the day will come when we'll wish that we had done it sooner. And maybe that day is the day. To ask Christ into your heart. And then go out today and this week to a special time aside and pray for somebody else who isn't saved. Let's pray. Father, we look to you today. And we do sometimes feel surrounded by hordes of problems. sometimes surrounded by uh hordes of the Philistines, the demonic realm that has come against us in every fashion and form we can think of Things we can't discuss, things we can't talk about, things we never imagined are happening in our life. And Lord, we just pray that you would come and thunder against the Philistines They're put upon us. Drive them out, Lord. These Philistines were driven out and weren't heard from again for twenty years. Lord, may you give us a time of peace as was brought to the Israelites here. In 1 Samuel chapter 7. Lord, bring us some peace in Christ's name, who gives us the peace that passes all understanding. He is the Prince of Peace. O Lord, bestow upon us some peace this day. in this world. It's in Christ's name we pray. Amen.