Last week we began in the concluding verse of chapter eight and went down through this seventh verse, and we saw last week that Great darkness is replaced with great light. Great sorrow is replaced with great joy. And great fear is replaced with rejoicing. Great pi great peace comes out of great bondage, great liberty is given to God's people. Verses six and seven could very easily consume us for an entire year of preaching. There is so much here. And each word in itself could be a message. How can you talk about Christ being wonderful? And not preach an entire sermon just on that one fact alone. But this morning we're going to endeavor to go through these two verses. And I would like us to consider, first of all, the origin of the Messiah. If you notice in your boat, in the title of our message for this morning is the qualified messiah. What is his origin? What is the provenance? If any of you are at all interested in antiques or artwork or rare items You'll know that it is necessary to have the provenance because that is the proof We don't need proof of Jesus Christ. We believe it by faith. And no proof will convince man. And yet for the believer, it's glorious that the proof is here. You know the old saying, the proof is in the pudding? Well, the proof is here. We have the providence. I have in my Lionel collection a locomotive that was the second one off the assembly line And it was pulled off the line and tested to make sure that what was being produced is was good And it has a a little tag that was made in the factory that says second off the line tested okay. And I have the paperwork from the auction house where I bid on it and I won this item. There's not another one like it. It is rare. It is proven and it's the only one. Dear friends, I would submit to you that Jesus Christ is the only one. Here's the provenance. But we didn't purchase him. He purchased us. And so this morning I want us to consider from this glorious passage in Isaiah, the qualified Messiah. The Messiah with all the providence that could ever be imagined. And we find, first of all, there in verse 6 It says, For unto us a child is born. Where did he come from? Well, unto us a child is born. And this phrase emphasizes the humanity of Jesus Christ. He was born of a virgin's wound. In the beginning was the Word. The Word was with God, and the Word was God All things were made by him, and without him was not anything made that was made. Christ was in the beginning with God. Christ in the beginning was God. Christ made all things. But John 1 continues, and the word was made flesh and dwelt among us. Unto us a child is born. When a child is born, we think of beginnings. When a child is born, it brings great joy. It is a new beginning. It is a new life. And many families have experienced the birth of a child in their family shortly following the death of a loved one. And there is a restoration there where a new life comes into the family when someone has died and it brings with it great joy and great peace. A birth is a new beginning. But the birth of Christ is extraordinary, for he did not begin in the manger of Bethlehem. This was the eternal God, the God who always was, but unto us a child is born. He became flesh and blood, just as you and I. And as I was contemplating this, I thought of the words of Job in Job chapter 14 and verse 1, where Job says, a man that is born of woman is of a few days and full of sorrow. Hear the eternal God, who always was and who always will be. Unto us a child is born. He was born in a manger, born of the body of a woman. And he who was eternal came into that which is mortal, that which is dying of a few days. And he was a man of affliction and acquainted with grief a few days and full of sorrow. And At in his early 30s, young 30s, about 33, he died in a body of flesh. And so this passage in Isaiah teaches us of the humanity of Jesus Christ. Now, why is that important? Because if he were to be the sin bearer, if he is to be our sacrifice, he has to be one of us. He had to come in flesh. God, the Father, is the righteous God of heaven. He could not be our sin bearer. It is his prerogative to forgive sin, but there had to be a substitute And the had substitute had to be like unto us. And so we read in Hebrews chapter 2, for verily he took not on him the nature of angels An angel could not be our sin bearer, an angel could not be our savior, but he took on him the seed of Abraham, wherefore in all things it behooved him to be made like unto his brethren. And so we have not a high priest which cannot be touched with the feelings of our infirmities, but was in all points tempted like as we are, yet without sin. Unto us a child is born, fully man, with all the sorrows, all the trials of humanity. I mentioned that a birth is a time of beginning. But he did not begin in the manger. He always was. And yet there was a beginning there. For the birth of the Messiah was the beginning of the fulfillment of the plan of God. For all the way back in the Garden of Eden, God had promised that the seed of the woman would bruise the serpent's head. God had promised a Messiah, and now the Messiah is come. His birth was a fulfillment of all the plan of God. But not only do we find in this passage that he's qualified to be the Messiah because he was man But we find also that he's qualified to be the Messiah because he's the Son of God. Unto us a child is born, a human being of flesh and blood comes into the world. But then it goes immediately to say unto us, a son is born. So what it says. No, unto us a child is born, unto us a son is given For God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life. And so here we see the beautiful uh joining of the human and the divine. Of God in human flesh. Emmanuel, which being interpreted as God with us. This child is born But this child is like no other. This child's birth is not the birth of a human father as mine was and as my sons were. But rather, this birth is God the Father giving his Son. Unto us a child is born. And unto us, a son is given. God has given us his own son to be our rece our Savior. The redemption of the elect has begun. The defeat of Satan has begun. And so we read in Galatians four that when the fullness of the time was come, God sent forth his son, made of a woman, made under the law And already made reference to uh two chapters back here in Isaiah chapters uh the book of Isaiah in chapter seven Where the Lord will give us a sign, behold, a virgin shall conceive and bear a son, and his name shall be called Emmanuel. The most important event in a Jewish family was the birth of the firstborn. Not the firstborn daughter, the firstborn son. And that event would be celebrated. And it was because of the value of the firstborn that God's judgment on Egypt was on the firstborn. And God declares, all the firstborn are mine. The firstborn son of the family was redeemed with a sacrifice. The firstborn lamb was a sacrifice. Unto us a son is born? No. Unto us a son is given. The deity of this one who is given as this babe in the manger stands out boldly to us. He's qualified to be the Messiah because he is fully man. He is qualified to be the Messiah because he's fully God. And the government will be upon his shoulder. This emphasizes his authority. The king is born. Remember what the wise men said when they came? Where is he that is born to be the king of the Jews? No. It says, where is he that is born king of the Jews? You see, he was king of the Jews when he was born. And that's why the wise men did obeisance. They brought their offering to the king. The government shall be upon his shoulders. Daniel said in Daniel chapter 2, verse 44. And in the day of these kings shall good the God of heaven set up a kingdom which shall never be destroyed And the kingdom shall not be left unto other people, but it shall break in pieces and consume all the kingdoms, and it shall stand forever. In Zechariah, in Zechariah 14 and verse 9, and the Lord shall be king over all the earth in that day. There shall be one Lord, and his name one. We read Psalm 72 for our responsive reading this morning. The title of Psalm 72 is A Prayer of David for Solomon. And yet, as we read through Psalm 72, just about every verse contains something that cannot be said of Solomon. Were all nations blessed in Solomon? No, never. And I I would love to go to Psalm 72 and preach through that because again and again and again, David prays for things for Solomon that are impossible to Solomon but are perfectly applicable To Jesus Christ. This one born in the manger is qualified to be the Messiah. because he is born with all the authority of the universe. The government is upon his shoulder. This baby in the manger He's the king of the universe. This baby in the manger is the ruler of all And yet he is wrapped in the form of an infant. In Revelation 17 and verse 14, these shall make more with the Lamb. And the Lamb shall overcome them, for he is Lord of Lords and King of Kings, and they that are with him are called chosen and faithful. And again, in Romans, uh Revelation 19, he's the King of kings and the Lord of Lords. And so, first of all, we find that Jesus Christ is qualified. To be the Messiah because of his origin. He was fully man and fully God with all authority. But then we find that he is qualified by the names by which he is called. And here we go Into the last part of verse 6. And his name shall be called Wonderful Counselor, the Mighty God, the Everlasting Father, the Prince of Peace. Now, uh my mom used to lean out the back door of the house and call Joe. And I had an aunt that would call us Tom, John, and Jo, but If I was the only one there, she still caught all three because it took her through that pattern, Tom, John, Joe, to get to Joe. I was the youngest. My name was called. Is that what's being said here? Not at all. This word called is also translated cry proclaim, read, and preach. These are other translations of this same word call. It's not just like I hey Bob That's not what this call is at all. But rather what is shown to us here. Remember when uh Oh, I just lost the name. Esther Esther's Esther's caregiver. Was it name it? Mordecai, yes. Remember Mordecai. And the hero went before him. This is the one the king desires to honor. The herald goes before. That's what is being pictured here. The king is coming And the heralds are crying before him, just as we read in Isaiah where the seraphims cry, holy, holy! Holy is the Lord of hosts. Here this baby is born in the manger, and the angels say, Glory to God in the highest on earth, peace, good will toward men And here is this prophecy of this one who will be born, who will be given, and upon whose shoulders will be the government. And as he proceeds in his glory, his name is declared. Here comes the wonderful one Here comes the counselor. Here comes the mighty God. Here is the everlasting Father. Bow the knee. For the great God in all of his glory is proceeding forth before his people. It's not just that these names are assigned to him, but rather that they are proclaimed as the qualities of the king. His name is proclaimed. Wonderful. And what does that word wonderful mean? Well, it means full of wonders. Filled with wonders. Stand at all, O ye people. Bow the knee before this one who comes. He's qualified to be the Messiah, for he is full of wonders. There is not another like him. Remember the disciples of the sea, afraid of the winds of the waves, and Christ sleeping in the boat, and Christ has awakened from his sleep and he rebukes the winds and waves and there's a great calm and we read that suddenly a great fear came upon him. What manner of man is this? But even the winds and the waves obey his voice. Oh, he is full of wonders Fear ye before him. Stand in awe of the great God. He is qualified to be Messiah, for he is full of wonders. This word wonders is only found 13 times in our scriptures, and twelve of those thirteen times is applied to the attributes of God or the works of God. There's only one time when it's applied to anything. but God in our Bibles. Exodus 1511. Who is like unto thee, O Lord, among the gods? Who is like unto thee? Glorious in holiness, fearful in praises, doing wonders And again in Psalm 107 and verse 8, oh, that men would praise the Lord for his goodness and for his wonderful works among the children of men. Ah dear friend, Jesus Christ is full of wonders. His name is proclaimed wonderful. And a striking passage in the New Testament. Different word than these 13 words. The 13 words I'm referring to are in the Old Testament. So a different word used in the New Testament, but carries the same message. When Christ is speaking to the scribes and the Pharisees in Matthew 21, verse 15 And when the chief priests and scribes saw the wonderful things that he did, and the children in the temple crying and saying, Hosannah to the son of David, they were sore displeased. He's declared to be wonderful. But here the the scribes and Pharisees, they see the wonderful things he's doing. And the children are crying to Zannah, and they are displeased. He came into his own, and his own received him not. But this one, Jesus Christ, he is qualified to be the Messiah because he alone is wonderful Despised and rejected of men, a man of sorrows. And we hid, as it were, our faces from him. That's exactly what the scribes and Pharisees were doing. But oh, when Christ captures a heart. If you were a believer this morning, doesn't your heart cry out, He is wonderful. He is wonderful. But then we find the herald cries another quality of Christ. He's the counselor. And often we find these two words sort of linked together, wonderful counselor, and it is fitting we do so, but it's actually two separate concepts. He is wonderful and he is the counselor. The words are the that Of Christ confounded the Pharisees, who said, Never a man spake like this man. Oh, they heard the wonderful words of the wise counselor Who is a counselor? Well, a counselor is a wise one, isn't he? The counselor is the one who is, as to use the vernacular is in the know. He has the knowledge. This is the wonderful counselor. This is the all-wise. This is the one who knows all things. Isaiah ties these two words together in Isaiah 25 and verse 1. O Lord, thou art my God, I will extol thee, I will praise thy name, for thou hast done wonderful Things, thy counsels are of old, faithfulness and true. He is the wonderful counselor. The word of God Was made flesh. What is a word? Well, it's a counsel, isn't it? It's an instruction It is wisdom. All the wisdom of God is contained in the Word of God. It is God's counsel to men. The Word, the counsel of God. was made flesh and dwelt among us. And so Jesus Christ is God's counsel to man. Jesus Christ is himself God's message to man. God is revealed to man in Jesus Christ. Search the scriptures, Christ said, for they testify of me. He is qualified to be the Messiah because all the wisdom of God, all the counsel of God is bound in him. Come unto me, O ye that labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest, Christ declares. Neither is there salvation in any other, but there's another name under heaven given among men, whereby ye must be saved. Would you You find heaven. He is found in Christ. For he is the wonderful counselor. He is the one who is the way, the truth, and the life. And so he is well count qualified to be the Messiah because he is the counselor. Jesus Christ is qualified to be the Messiah because he is the mighty God. We've touched on this already, Emmanuel, God with us. But I would like to emphasize the adjective there. He is the mighty God I read in our call to worship this morning from 1 Chronicles 16, the gods of the heathen are as nothing before him. I'm not quoting it exactly. But the contrast Of gods of wood or stone. A man takes a piece of wood, then he carves for himself a god, and then he takes the shavings that are left over, and he cooks his meal, and he says, Ah, behold the fire, I am warmed and fed And it's the God of man. And we hear a lot about God in our world. But our world doesn't know God. You see, man makes for himself a God that he likes. Man makes for himself a god he can control. And man's god in today's modern world is rarely a statue of some sort Rather, the God that man makes is his own mind of God. He designs for himself a God that he can call on when he needs him, that he can ignore the rest of the time But he is no God. Rather, he is only the imagination of man's own thoughts. He is an unmighty God. He is a God that is powerless to aid. Oh, but Jesus Christ is qualified to be the Messiah because he is the mighty God. Let me read the verse I I referred to there. I've actually got it my notes here. First Chronicles 16, verse 25 and 26. For great is the Lord and greatly to be praised. He also is to be feared above all gods, small g, for all the gods, small g of the people are idols. But the Lord made the heavens. In the beginning was the word. All things were made by him. This baby born in Bethlehem. is the mighty God. In Genesis 17, verse 1, when Abraham was 90 years old, or nine uh 90 years and nine The Lord appeared unto Abraham and said unto him, I am the Lord Almighty. I am the Almighty God. And so he is the mighty God. He's the Alpha and the Omega, the mighty one. It's interesting too to mention to notice that um the might and power of God Is associated again and again and again in Scripture with miraculous birth. Remember the birth of Isaac His mother was barren. His parents were 99 years old. Genesis 18, 14, is there anything too hard for the Lord? Peace mighty God. Remember John the Baptist, his mother was barren, for with God all things shall be possible. Remember Hannah and Samuel? Impossible, but the mighty God. And so there is nothing impossible for God. He is the mighty God. Today, men scoff at the idea of Jesus being born of a virgin. No, he's the son of the Almighty God, and he is the mighty God. But then we find also in our text That Jesus Christ is qualified to be the Messiah because he is the everlasting Father. Well, explain that to me. How can he be the Father and the Son at the same time? And I could come up with some cute little illustration to try to explain it to you, and I could say, well, I'm a father and I'm a son, and we go through all kinds of machinations to try to explain it And the reason we can't explain it is because it is beyond explanation You see, all we know of a father-son relationship is that which we have learned by experience. Everyone in this room had a father. You may or may not have known your father, but an orphan had a father and a mother. And so we know things by our form of experience. But who hath known the mind of the Lord and who hath been his counselor? So I won't try to explain the Trinity, how he is the Father and the Son and the Holy Spirit all at once. But here is the great mystery and the great wonder which is repeated again and again in Scripture and which we know to be true because the Spirit teaches us it is true This baby in the manger of Bethlehem is the everlasting Father. He is eternal God. And though he was not acknowledged as being the father and the son or the father on earth, he was revealing himself as the son on earth. That divine aspect of his nature was not immediately proclaimed, yet in all eternity it is. And so the heralds cry, the everlasting Father. In the beginning was the Word. The Word was with God And Christ said in first, or John said in 1 John 5, verse 7, there are three that bear record in heaven, the Father, the Word, and the Holy Ghost. These three are one. And uh we won't get into it, but if that verse is not in your Bible, throw it out and get a get a good one. Because that that verse has been removed from many of the modern translations. uh in violation of the condemnations of revelation. We'll leave that one alone for this morning. But he, there are three to bear record the Father, the Word, and the Holy Ghost. John declared, or Christ declared in John 10, I and my Father are one. He is qualified to be the everlasting Father, or be the Messiah because he is the everlasting Father. Let's move on to the Prince of Peace. Jesus Christ is qualified to be the Messiah because he is the Prince of Peace. Uh it will say more about that in verse 7, but uh when he was born, it was declared, glory to high to God in the highest on earth, peace, good will toward men. He came to bring peace. Didn't bring much peace to the Pharisees. Didn't bring a lot of peace to the scribes. But he brought peace to Matthew. the tax collector. He brought peace to the woman taken in adultery. Where are thine accusers? I don't condemn you. Go and sin no more. He brought peace to the woman at the well who was living in adultery and who had had seven husbands. He brought peace to the demon of the Gatherenes. Oh, he is the Prince of Peace. He brought peace to my soul. Steeped in religion. raised in a Christian home, educated in Christian school and Christian college, and lost as I could be. But the Prince of Peace brought peace to my soul. He is qualified He is qualified to be the Messiah because he is the Prince of Peace. Why do the heathen rage? The wicked are like the troubled sea when it cannot rest, whose waters cast up mire and dirt. There is no peace to the wicked. Oh, this one is the Prince of Peace. He's the one that brought peace to my soul. Therefore, being justified by faith, we have peace with God. Peace I leave with you. My peace I give it unto you, not as the world giveth. Let not your heart be troubled, neither be afraid. And so he is qualified to be the Messiah because of his origin. He is qualified to be the Messiah because of the titles he bears. But then thirdly, he is qualified to be the messiah because of his dominion. Because of that which he The government shall be upon his shoulders, we read, of the increase of his government and his peace. There shall be no end upon the throne of David and upon his kingdom to order it And to establish it with judgment and with justice from henceforth, even forevermore, the zeal of the Lord of hosts will perform this. And to do this passage justice, we really need to take the judgment. And all those things that are mentioned there and expound on them in a whole message, but we're not doing that this morning. Let's go through this verse very quickly. First of all, it says the government shall be upon his shoulders. He wears the emblem of government. If you've ever seen the pictures of the Caesars and the the rulers of that day, there would always be some sort of emblem or ephalets on their shoulder. It is the seal of authority. We talked this morning in Sunday school about how Joseph's brothers did not recognize him because he was dressed as the Pharaoh. The government is upon his shoulders. He bears the emblems. He bears the tokens of authority. And so why was it when Christ, dressed in the garments of a Galilean, came in the presence of the demons, and they said, Don't trouble us. They recognized him because the government, the rule of this world was upon his shoulders. The government's upon him. He has the epaulets of government. He bears the bur the burdens of government. Remember the context here as we saw last week was of a nation defeated and of their grain being stolen. And it talks about a victory like the victory of Midian when when uh Gideon defeated the Midianites He's coming as the conqueror. He bears the government is upon his shoulders. Of the increase of his government. And peace, there shall be no end. In other words, this is a growing government. It's not a country in decline. It's a growing government. And the peace is spreading. The old hymn written by the words written by um Longfellow, uh, there is no peace on earth, I said. Ah, when Christ was born in Bethlehem and the angels declared peace on earth, there has not been peace on earth since the birth of Christ. But it's coming. It is coming. Of the increase of his government, his authority spreading and spreading, and his peace spreading and spreading, there shall be no end Ah, it doesn't matter who the President of the United States is, or the Prime Minister of Canada, or of Great Britain They will serve for a time. The kings of this earth will all perish. Their kingdoms will crumble into nothing. The prophecies of Scripture do not mention the United States of America. This nation will not always endure. But of the increase of this government and of this peace, there will be no end. He's qualified to be the Messiah because his government is eternal. That's right. He will rule forever. His dominion is eternal. And then it says, upon the throne of David and upon his kingdom to order it, to establish it with justice and judgment from henceforth. We read Psalm 72, and I alluded to it earlier, that Psalm 72 is David's prayer for his son Solomon, and yet it can't apply to Solomon Solomon never lived up to what Psalm 72 predicts. But Jesus Christ assumes it all. It lives up to every single detail and prophecy. And so when it says, on the throne of David and upon his kingdom, What's it talking about there? David's kingdom? David's throne? Can it simply be Israel that's being spoken of there? Or is there a greater kingdom? Was David really the king? Or was David simply a representation representative of the king? Was David the king or the regent? Was David the king or the steward? What is the history of the kingship of David? Samuel, they're asking for a king. They have not rejected you, but they've rejected me. David never had a throne. Oh, there was a s he was a ruler in Israel. But it was God's throne from the beginning. It is referred to as the throne of David And is referred to as the kingdom of David because he was the regent, he was the representative of the real king, but he was never the real king. He was only king of Israel. This is the kingdom of heaven. This is the kingdom of God's people. The kingdom of Israel will perish. The kingdom of God endures forever. And so this one is qualified to be the Messiah because of his origin. He was truly man and truly God. He's qualified because of his titles. He's wonderful counselor, the Prince of Peace. The everlasting Father of the Mighty God. And he is qualified to be the Messiah because his dominion is a universal and eternal dominion. You see When Abraham was blessing his sons just before his death, and talking of Judah He said in Genesis 49 and verse 10, The scepter shall not depart from Judah, nor a law giver from between his feet, until Shiloh come. And unto him shall the gallery of the people be. In other words, the prophecy of Judah and of his descendants, David being one of them, was that they would would continue until the real king showed up. until Shiloh came. That prophecy was made before they were bombing in Egypt. It was made before the deliverance from Egypt. It was made before the Ten Commandments. It was made uh before the forty years of wandering. It was made before the conquest of Canaan. It was made before David was even born. It was made before Solomon came along. the prophecy of an everlasting dominion. And so he will sit on his own throne, referred to here as the throne of David, to order it. to establish it with justice and with judgment and justice from henceforth and forevermore. And just as the seal of a king was put on a document to ensure its authority, to ensure its providence. Right back where we began. The seal is here. The zeal of the Lord of hosts will perform it. Do you know this Savior? Do you know this mighty God? Do you know this everlasting King? Let us stand for prayer.