Turn with me to Revelation chapter 20, the last book of your New Testament. We have been going through the Beatitudes of Revelation. And we come now to the actually the fifth message in that series. We have considered Revelation 1, verse 3. Blessed is he that readeth and heareth the words of this prophecy. We have considered chapter 14, verse 13, Blessed are the dead which die in the Lord. Chapter 16, Blessed is he that watcheth and keepeth his garments. Chapter 19, Blessed are they which are called to the Marriage Supper of the Lamb. And today we come to Revelation chapter 20 and verse 6. But I'm going to read verses 1 through 6 of the chapter. So we get the context and begin to have a feel for the passage. So if you have your place now in the 20th chapter of Revelation, I'll begin with verse 1 and read through verse 6 this morning. And I saw an angel come down from heaven, having the key of the bottomless pit and a great chain in his hand. And he laid hold on the dragon, that old serpent, which is the devil and Satan, and bound him a thousand years. and cast him into the bottomless pit, and shut him up, and set a seal upon him, that he should deceive the nations no more, till a thousand years should be fulfilled And after that he must be loosed a little season. And I saw thrones, and they that sat upon them. And judgment was given unto them, and I saw the souls of them that were beheaded for the witness of Jesus and for the Word of God. and which had not worshipped the beast, neither his image, neither had received his mark upon their foreheads or in their hands. And they lived And reigned with Christ a thousand years. But the rest of the dead lived not again until a thousand years were finished. This is the first resurrection. Blessed and holy is he that hath part in the first resurrection. On such the second death hath no power. But they shall be priests of God and of Christ, and shall reign with him a thousand years. Let us bow for prayer. Beseeching God to direct us and guide us in His Word this morning. Heavenly Father, we thank you for thy word. We thank you, Lord, that it was given by inspiration. We thank you, Lord, that you have preserved it down through the centuries, down through the ages. You have guarded the treasure of your word, for faith cometh by hearing, and hearing by the word of God. And Lord, it is preserved to us this day. Father, our English Bible has blood all over it. It has the blood of Christ flowing through it For we read of the redemption in Christ and His shed blood throughout the book, from Genesis to Revelation, we find the shedding of blood. And without the shedding of blood, there is no remission. But Lord, we read here of those who were beheaded for the testimony of Christ. Our English Bible came to us from men that died for its translation. And so, Father, we thank you for it. May we this day have insight into it. May Thy Spirit guide and direct our thoughts this day. And we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. As Brother Vince mentioned, whenever we approach the book of Revelation, we do so. He didn't use the term fear and trembling, but I know he would use those words because It is a very difficult book to understand. Revelation is difficult, first of all, because much of the language is symbolic. There are symbols and types and pictures, shadows all through it. Some of the prophetic elements within the book have already been fulfilled, while others are yet to be fulfilled, and that can cause some difficulty. Further, the narrative is not linear. I love literature, I love reading a good story. But If you ever read a story that kind of jumps around a little bit, you read the first chapter and then the second chapter, and by the time you get to the fifth chapter, you're reading something that took place before the first chapter It's not linear. It doesn't all happen in exact order. Well, it's the same with the book of Revelation. Things that happen in chapter 18, May. Take place before things that happen in chapter 15. It's not chapter by chapter linear. And further, the book of Revelation is difficult to understand. Sometimes because the description of what John saw is limited to his first century understanding Some of the critics of the Bible said, well, the Bible can't be true because John talks about blood up to the horses' bridles, and we don't use horses in war anymore And further, how much blood is there on the earth to fill up to the horse's bridles? And so it can't be true. Well, first of all, it is symbolic language And secondly, it is language limited by John's first century understanding. Try to explain a computer to the Apostle John. Well, he wouldn't understand that because it wasn't something he had seen. And so John is describing what he saw in terms that he understands when he says horses and so on. And then further, the expressions that John uses are limited to his first century language. Every year the Webster's dictionary um puts out all the new words that came into existence in 2023 and 2024. And every year there's Sometimes just a handful, and some years there's as many as a hundred words that come into existence each year. And so John's explanation is limited by those things. And those make it very difficult for us to interpret the book of Revelation. As I mentioned before, as we've been going through this series, we're just focusing on these blessings, the Beatitudes of the Book of Revelation. So we're not going to get deeply into when the thousand years takes place and what the thousand years mean, and is it actually thousand years, or is it just an expression of a long stretch of time But rather we're going to focus on the blessing we find here. And that is found in verse 6. Blessed. And holy is he that hath part in the first resurrection. On such the second death hath no power. But they shall be priests of God and of Christ and shall reign with him a thousand years. Hallelujah. What great truth. There are multiple resurrections spoken of in our Bible. The word resurrection is a New Testament word. We do not find the word resurrection in our Old Testament. Uh and yet we do find that the son of the widow widow of Zarephath was raised from the dead. And we find that the lady who made a room for the prophet Elijah and gave him a a table and a book and a a table and a lamp and a bed. Her son was raised from the dead. And we have the account of the man who had died and his bones were thrown into the sepulchre of Elijah. And Elisha, excuse me. And when his bones touched the bones of Elisha, he came back to life. And in the New Testament we find in Mark 5 that Jesus raised a young girl And in Luke seven, Jesus raised the widow's son. In John eleven, Jesus raised Lazarus. In chapter nine of Acts, we find that Tabitha, which was called Dorcas, was raised under the ministry of Peter And Eutychus fell out of a window and was raised from the dead after the preaching of Paul. But the distinction we find in the scriptures, we never find Elijah, or Elijah, excuse me, Elisha. Taking credit for a resurrection. We never find Peter taking credit for a resurrection. We never find Paul taking credit for a resurrection. Resurrections happened, but they were never attributed to a man except for the resurrections done by Christ. And you remember after Jesus raised Lazarus from the dead, even the Pharisees said, What are they going to do? Because a notable miracle has been done, and we can't speak against it And their solution was let's kill Lazarus. Let's let's kill him again. You see, when Jesus spoke to Martha Jesus said to Martha, your brother will live again, he'll rise again. And she said, Oh, I know that the last day in the resurrection, he'll rise again. And Jesus' response was I am the resurrection and the life. He that believeth in me, though he were dead, yet shall he live. There is a resurrection in one, and that is in Jesus Christ. And Jesus Christ alone is the resurrection and the life. And Jesus Christ is still raising people from the dead today. Not the body. He doesn't raise the body. My father is in the grave. His soul is with the Lord. And I would love to hug his body again, but I will not do that on earth Even though he was a faithful servant of God, he will not rise before the second coming of Christ. But Jesus is still raising people from the dead, because I was born dead in trespasses and sins. And I am alive in Christ. Because he raised me from the death of sin. As in Adam all died, even so in Christ shall all be made alive. And so this matter of resurrection. that we approach this morning is a deep topic, but it's not confusing. It's cut and dry. Jesus Christ will raise the dead when he returns, but not today But Jesus Christ does raise the soul from death today. Him that cometh to me I will no wise cast out. Come unto me all ye that labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. But we find two different resurrections in our scripture reading this morning. And it's not immediately jumping out resurrection number one to resurrection number two, but we find, look with me at verse four of our text in Revelation chapter 20. There we read, and I saw thrones, and they that sat upon them And judgment was given unto them, and I saw the souls of them that were beheaded for the witness of Jesus Christ of Jesus and for the Word of God. And which worship not the beast, neither his image, neither had received his mark upon their foreheads and in their hands. And they lived and reigned. Okay, there's the first resurrection. John sees the souls of them that were beheaded. My brothers and I used to raise chickens, and we would kill the chickens. Once you chop the head off, it's done. He may flop around for a little bit, but he's done. But here, John sees souls. He doesn't see them in bodies. He doesn't say I saw those that were beheaded. He says I saw the souls of them that were beheaded. And they lived. They were alive. They lived and reigned with Christ a thousand years, but the rest of the dead lived not again until a thousand years were finished. Blessed is holy he that's his part in the first resurrection. So we have two resurrections here. The first resurrection is the resurrection of the believers who have died in Christ. And it's mentions there, the martyrs that were beheaded, those that received not the mark of the beast, they did not ever worship Satan in any form. They did not follow him. The rest of the dead is talking about the unbelieving dead. And there's a lot of them. There's a lot of them. Every day, multitudes die without Christ. And they are in this group. The rest of the dead live not. And so we have these two resurrections. The first resurrection, which is of the believing dead. And then later a second resurrection, which is of the unbelieving dead. The believing dead are resurrected to new bodies and to eternal life in Christ. The unbelieving dead are resurrected for judgment. They are brought forth from death to pay for their crimes. And they will be cast into hell forever. Now, that brings us with that introduction to our text this morning. And first of all, we find blessed Blessed and holy is he that hath part in the first resurrection. They are blessed because they have part in the First, resurrection. We've said there's two resurrections. There's a resurrection of the believing dead, and then later a resurrection of the unbelieving dead. Blessed is holy. Is he that hath part in the first resurrection? Now, this word first we're going to spend a bit of time on because it's a glorious word When we hear about the first resurrection, our first thought is 1 Thessalonians. The dead in Christ shall rise first. And I went to that verse almost immediately. But that verse has a different first in it. And this is exciting. Follow with me. I'll try not to lose you. My wife's an English teacher, so I have to consult with her on these things to make sure I get them right. But in 1 Thessalonians 1:16, where we find that the dead in Christ shall rise first, that word in 1 Thessalonians 13 is an adverb. Now an adverb modifies or clarifies the verb. And so when it says the dead in Christ shall rise first, It's describing the verb to rise, and it simply means they'll rise before the others. It's a matter of time. But when we come to Revelation 20 and verse 6, the first there, blessed are they that have a part in the first resurrection, that is an adjective It describes the noun resurrection. And this is very important because when we find that the dead in Christ Blessed are they that have part in the first resurrection. It's not just saying it's a resurrection before another resurrection. But it's saying it is the best resurrection. It is the glorious resurrection. And the best way to illustrate this is to show you some other verses that use this same word first. Remember the prodigal son? When the prodigal son returned home, and the father said, Bring forth the best robe. Well that word best robe is the same word, first resurrection. The best resurrection. Those that have part in the first resurrection are blessed because it's a good one. You see, those in the second resurrection are resurrected to judgment. And to eternal death. But blessed and holy are these that have part in the first resurrection, because they are resurrected to life. And then further, when in 1 Timothy 1 and verse 15, the Apostle Paul said, This is a faithful saying and worthy of all acceptation. that Jesus Christ died for sinners of whom I am chief. And that word chief that Paul used is the same word first in Revelation in the Greek. Paul said, There's no sinners worse than me. I'm beyond all others. And so blessed are those that have part of the f in the first resurrection, because it's beyond anything you can think of. There's nothing else beyond it. But the most glorious is this one. In Revelation chapter 1, verse 11, and chapter 2, verse, chapter 22, verse 13. I am the Alpha and the Omega, the first and the last. And Christ there does not use that adverb that he's the first simply because he's before any others. But he uses the adjective, he's the first of the last because he's greater than any other He's the first and the last. And so that's the word that we find here. The first reason these are blessed is because they are a part of the good resurrection. Oh, folks, I've had many friends that were very dear to my heart that have died without faith in Christ. They will rise. Oh, but not to this resurrection. They have a part in the second resurrection, which Scripture calls in verse 14 of this chapter the second death. Because though they are brought from their graves, they are brought not brought from their graves to life, but they are brought from their graves to death. But then again, in John 15, John 1 verse 15, John bear witness of him. John the Baptist bear witness of Christ. And cried, saying, This is he of whom I spake. He that cometh after me is preferred before me, because he was before me. And when he says there he was before me, he means Christ was born before him. Yeah, or Christ existed before him. He he is eternal. But that second before me is the same word first. John says, he's before me because he was first, because he is greater than all. And so blessed are those that have a part in the first resurrection, because it is the good one. It is the best one. It is the resurrection to life. Hallelujah. My Father, I will see him again. Because he has a part in the first resurrection. My dear grandmother, who died, was in bed the last year of her life, and in that year she read her Bible from cover to cover six times. Lying in a bed, dying. Hallelujah. I'll see Granny again. Because she has a part in the best one. She has a part in the first resurrection. But not only are they blessed because they have a part in the first resurrection, but look closely at what the text says. Reading it again, it says, blessed and holy. is he that hath a part in the first resurrection. In the other blessings we've seen, the four we've looked at so far in this book of Revelation, they've been standalone. It was just blessed is he this, blessed is he that. But this one says, blessed and holy. Hallelujah, folks. This is rich. This is glorious. We talked in our in Providence of the Lord that our our uh confessional reading this morning dealt with still having sin in us. These have no sin. They are blessed, and they are holy. They don't cry with Paul, O wretched man that I am, who shall deliver me from the body of this death, because they've been delivered from it I am capable of sin because I live in a body of flesh, but these are incapable of sin because they live eternally in righteousness Oh indeed, how blessed it would be to be done with temptation. How blessed it would be not to have to avert my eyes every day from this and that. The world's full of filth Not to have to stop up my ears to what I hear in the grocery store. Not to have to pray, Lord, help me because This besetting sin which so easily besets me drags on my soul and the things that I would do I do not and the things I would not that I do, O wretched man. Oh to be free. These indeed are blessed. These indeed are blessed because they have been freed from that. Uh brother Vince talked in s in Sunday school a bit about Suffering and sonship, I use that phrase, and I scribbled it down on my sermon notes because I wanted to come back to it. These have no separation between blessedness, between happiness, and holiness. There's no separation between happiness and holiness. We as Christians today have perfect standing before Christ. Yes, I sin. And it is incumbent upon me to confess my sins and forsake them daily. But just because we have the righteousness of Christ in us doesn't mean we have perfect happiness. We have sorrows. We have aches and pains. We have griefs. We have sickness. But these have no separation between their holiness and their happiness. That's what it says. Blessed and holy are they that hath part in the first resurrection We feel the words of King David when David said in Psalm 17, verse 15, As for me, I will behold thy face in righteousness. I shall be satisfied when I awake with thy likeness. Isn't that a glorious verse? As for me, I'm going to behold his face in righteousness. I'll be satisfied when I wake up from death in the second or the first resurrection to eternal life in Christ. And again we say with Paul that the whole creation waiteth and travail Until now. We which had the first fruits fruits, I'll get it right. It's actually at Romans 8. 23. Not only they also, but ourselves also, which had the first fruits of the Spirit, even we ourselves groan within ourselves waiting for the adoption to the wit, the redemption of the body. These are blessed and holy. Blessed are the pure in heart, for they shall see God. We uh beloved, now are we the sons of God, and it doth not yet appear what we shall be, but when he shall appear, we shall be like him, for we shall see him as they are. And so they're blessed because they have part in the first resurrection. And they are blessed because there is no separation between their blessedness and their happiness. They're blessed because they are holy and blessed. But thirdly, We find that these in our text this morning are blessed because on them the second death hath no power. The second death hath no power on them, on such. The second death hath no power. There is no danger to their soul. Satan's a roaring lion. He walks about seeking who he may devour. But these have escaped the second death. And if you look down to verse 14 and 15 of the chapter, and death and hell were cast into the lake of fire, this is the second death. And whosoever was not found written in the book of life was cast into the lake of fire. It is appointed unto man once to die. But these shall never die. The wages of sin is death, but these have found eternal life. Death has a sting But death's sting is removed from them. O death, where is thy sting? O grave, where is thy victory? And we find these raised to life in Christ. Number four. They are blessed, because they shall be priests of God and of Christ. This is a true and holy priesthood. This is a priesthood that goes far beyond the what we call the Aaronic priesthood or the priesthood of Aaron. Turn with me to Leviticus chapter 9. The ninth chapter of Leviticus, and I want you to place your eyes on verses 7 and 8 of Leviticus 9. This is the instruction for the priesthood of Aaron, the Old Testament priesthood, which was ordained by God. Leviticus 9 and verse 7. And Moses said unto Aaron, Go unto the altar and offer thy sin offering and thy burnt offering. And make an atonement for thyself and for the people and offer an offering of the people, and make an atonement for them, as the Lord commanded. Aaron therefore went unto the altar and slew a calf of the sin offering which he offered for himself. You notice what we find there about Aaron? The first thing he had to do was make an offering for his own sin. Before he could offer an offering for the sins of the people, first atonement had to be made for his own sin. But this priesthood, that these resurrected saints, these who have died before the return of Christ, these that have part in the first resurrection, they are a true holy priesthood. They need not to first make atonement for their own sins before they can serve the Lord Christ. For the atonement has been made. Oh, how blessed they are. These are indeed priests unto God. It is a holy priesthood. not a priesthood conducted by sinful men. In Hebrews 7, verse 19, we find, For the law made nothing perfect, but the bringing in of a better hope did, by which we draw nigh to God. Ah, the Old Testament law, the Old Testament sacrifices, all the ceremonial law, all the righteous law, even the Ten Commandments made nothing perfect. But the bringing in of a better hope did make things perfect. And that hope is in Christ. My hope is in the Lord. And these, it says, not simply are priests to God, but look closely at the text. Blessed are holy is he that hath part in the first resurrection, on such the second death hath no power. But they shall be priests of God and of Christ. You see the difference there? This is a totally different priesthood of the Old Testament. The Old Testament priests were priests of Jehovah, but they were not priests of Christ. Everything they did looked forward to Christ. If you look at the furnishings of the tabernacle, you find pictures of Christ all over, you find him in the table of showbread, you find him in in the uh the candlesticks. You find him at the altar, you find him in the altar of incense. Christ is throughout. But they were not priests of Christ. They were priests of Jehovah. And they were continually making sacrifices to Jehovah, which were failing sacrifices. Because the blood of bulls and of goats could not attain for sin. But here, these resurrected saints, blessed and holy are they, because they are priests not only the Jehovah But they are priests of Christ. They are priests of the crucified one. The sacrifice has been made. They make no more offering for sin. Because the offering has been sacrificed. So they're blessed because their priesthood is the priesthood of Christ. It's a holy priesthood, but also it's an eternal priesthood. Hebrews 7. 23, they truly were many priests, but they were not suffered to continue by reason of death. But these shall never die again. They are a priesthood of the Messiah. So how blessed they are. But then we find finally that these are blessed, because they shall reign with him a thousand years. And folks, that thousand years is doesn't mean that at the end of 999 and day one they're done It's an eternal priesthood. They are priests and kings of God for all eternity. Look down the verse, in Revelation chapter eleven, not our chapter we're in, but verse fifteen. And the seventh angel sounded, and there was a great noise in heaven, saying, The kingdoms of this world are become the kingdoms of our Lord. and of his Christ, and he shall reign forever and ever. The kingdoms of this world today are of this world. And when Christ was tried before Pilate, he said, My kingdom is not of this world. It was a different type of kingdom. But here we find After the trump has sounded, after this first resurrection, we find that the kingdoms of this world are become the kingdoms of God. Oh rebellion, which started in the Garden of Eden, is put down. It is done. And all the kingdoms of the world, all the peoples of the world will be under his rule again. And so we find every knee shall bow And every tongue shall confess that Jesus Christ is Lord to the glory of God the Father. It all fits together. It all makes sense when we take the word together And so turn with me in conclusion to that glorious passage in 1 Thessalonians chapter 4. And I've alluded to it several times this morning. But 1 Thessalonians chapter 4. And may these words encourage our hearts. 1 Thessalonians chapter 4, and I'll start reading in verse 13. Here the Apostle Paul, under the inspiration of the Holy Spirit, receiving directly from God the words to pen for us. But I would not have you to be ignorant, brethren, concerning them which are asleep. Ah, there they are, those that have part in the first resurrection Today I live, and if Christ comes back today, I will go directly to be with him. But I have no promise that I'll finish this message. For what is their life? It is even a vapor that appeareth for a little while and passeth away. I have no promise of anything beyond this breath that I take right now. My father and my grandfather who have mentioned, they're in this asleep. But we're not to be ignorant concerning them That we sorrow not, even as others which have no hope. There's that second resurrection to death. Oh, I don't sorrow that way for my father But his father's in hell right now, my grandfather. He was a vile man who hated the cause of Christ and would curse anybody that tried to tell him about Jesus Christ. A vile man. He won't be in the first resurrection. He'll be in the second. For if we believe that Jesus died and rose again, Even so, them also which sleep will Jesus in Jesus will God bring with him. There it is again. For this we say unto you, by the word of the Lord. Notice the authority on which Paul is giving us these words, by the word of the Lord. That we which are alive and remain at the coming of the Lord shall not prevent them which are asleep. That word prevent is misused in our English today. We think of preventing something as as in stopping it from happening But that word is actually the old English word pre-advent. It means we won't go before them. They will be raised before us. We will not pre-event them, is what that word actually means For the Lord Himself shall descend from heaven with a shout, with the voice of the archangel, with the trump of God, and the dead in Christ shall rise first. And that's the adverb, though rise before we do. Then we which are alive and remain shall be caught up together with them in the clouds. to meet the Lord in the air, and so shall we ever be with the Lord. Wherefore comfort ye one another comfort one another with these words. Folks, I don't know which one I'll be in. But I know I'll be in one. I don't know if I will be in the dead that rise first. I don't mean the two resurrections, I mean the two ways to go. I won't be in the second resurrection to death. I know that. Yeah. I I saw some some looks at me like Pastor, what are you saying? I will either be in the first resurrection or caught up together in the clouds. One of the two two. And it doesn't matter which one because they're both glorious. And folks, we don't know. We have no promise of tomorrow, but we have the promise of what tomorrow will be. For me to live is Christ. And to die is gain. And so, folks, these glorious blessings, someday I will be blessed and holy. Oh, I'm blessed right now I'm not always happy. I don't always have an easy road. And I don't always walk in holiness. But the day is coming when my sin will be gone forever. Ah, it's washed away. It's removed as far as the east is from the west But someday I'm going to quit committing it. Oh, hallelujah, how blessed that'll be. And so shall we ever be with the Lord. So this is the fifth blessing we find. Blessed and holy are they that have a part in the first resurrection. Let us pray. Stand with me, please. Lord, we thank you for the treasures of thy word. We thank you, Lord, for these verses that we have read over many, many times. Never really stop to meditate on. And Father, when we do, there is there's so much blessing, there's so much truth, there's so much assurance to our heart, so much encouragement, so much comfort. We thank you, Lord, that indeed the entrance of thy word giveth light Lord, when all is dark around us, we find encouragement and strength in thy truth and thy word. Bless thy word to our hearts this morning. Father, we pray for our unsaved loved ones. Who, if they died today, they would not be in the first resurrection, but O Lord, they would certainly be in the second. And so, Father, we pray that you indeed would seek your lost sheep. And we thank you for the promise that all the Father giveth to me shall come to me. Bless thy word and thy truth to our hearts this day. Use us in this week to come for the glory of Christ. May we be lights in the dark world. And we pray this in Jesus' name.