Nine eleven. Wow. Can you see a raise of hands who do not remember nine eleven because you probably weren't born. How many Okay. Allison. Anybody else? Good. Hannah? Yeah. That is that's like asking your grandparents if they remember Pearl Harbor. You know probably none of us were there when that happened, but um yeah. So it's it's a major event. American soil was attacked and we lost more people than even at night than even at uh Pearl Harbor. So I'm glad we commemorated that. I see some great patriotic ties out this morning. I didn't wear one. Uh should have. But I I see a a couple. And uh Carl and uh Charles and Bob. Well the army guys you remember, huh? Okay. Hey, when you're right, you're right. Audie Murphy you got that one right too, so Marine Corps didn't want 'em. Oh big mistake. Okay, let's look at the message this morning. Nothing to do with nine eleven, but I just couldn't uh go forward without saying something. something about that. Second Samuel chapter 16. The title of message is The Console of Ahithophel. And starting at verse 15, this is when Absalom has taken over Jerusalem. He's driven his father, King David, out of Jerusalem. And there's a new king in town. And Absalom, verse 15, and all the people, the men of Israel, came to Jerusalem and Ahithophel with him. The Hithophel had been with David up until this time. So Ahithophel is a traitor. And it came to pass when Hushai the Architect, David's friend, was come unto Absalom. That Hushai said unto Absalom, now we know that Hushai is a good friend of David's, and he's not a traitor, but listen to how he speaks to Absalon. He says to Absalon God save the king! God save the king! And he could have been killed for that, but Absalom thought he meant him. And Hushai intended him to think that he meant him And Absalom said to Hushai, Is this thy kindness to thy friend? Why wentest thou not with thy friend? He said, Why did you stay with King David? And who shall I said unto Absalom, Nay, but whom the Lord and this people and all the men of Israel choose, his will I be, and with him will I abide. There's some subtlety And again, whom should I serve? Should I not serve in the presence of his son? As I served in thy Protestant presence, so will I be in thy presence And then said Absalom to Ahithophel, Give counsel among you what we shall do. And this wise man Ahithophel did not discern that who shall I was talking about King David all the time he spoke. And the Hithophel said in verse 21, Absalom, go in unto thy father's concubines, which he hath left to keep the house And all Israel shall hear that thou art abhorred, or loathed, or hated of thy father. And then shall the hands of all they that are with thee be strong. So they spread Absalom a tent upon the top of the house, and Absalom went in unto his father's concubines in the sight of all Israel. And the counsel of Ahithophel, which he counseled in those days, was as if a man had inquired at the oracle of God, or inquired The word of God. So was all the council of Ithaphil, both with David and with Absalom. Everyone just thought of Hithophel. His word was as good as the Word of God And so we look at that, these few verses this morning. We first find in verses 15 and 16 that it came to pass that when Hushai, David's friend, came unto Absalom, he said, God save the king! God saved the king. Mohushai was referring to David, but he was intending it to be perceived by Absalom. He was calling God save Absalom the king. And all he was doing a declaration. He still loved David, but he knew it would be perceived that way. And he was being very deceptive. He intended Absalom to think he was referring to Absalom He was lying. Deception, lying. People say, well, I was a little deceptive. No, you were lying Uh I was lying. Some of the pastors will say he wasn't lying. Some of the commentators will say he wasn't lying. Uh you won't find probably any Get get get together ten pastors in a group and say, Well, time of war, it's okay to lie to the enemy. It's not really lying. It's this deception. It's like wearing camouflage clothes And they go that route. And you'll find the same thing in the commentaries. Was Hushai lying or not? Was it okay for Husai to lie or not? We hear all the s all the time. In fact, uh if they say that Hushai wasn't lying, he was just speaking to the enemies of King David and was a camouflage, a little deceptive if it wasn't a lie, they generally will also teach a red the heart that didn't lie either That uh and I've heard this from pulpits and commentaries all the time, that Rahab did not lie when she deceived the king of Jericho. When the king of Jericho sent men to her house and said, Look, we hear you have the spies from Israel in your house. Well she had 'em upstairs as a matter of fact, and she had 'em hiding under the flash on her rooftop. But she said to them, Oh no, they left some time ago and they fled out in such and such a direction. She sent them the exact opposite direction that they were going to flee when they left Rahad the Harlot's house. And again we hear the same types of pastors say that's not lying, that's Uh maybe it's a little deceptive, it's it's uh maybe it's a little ingenuous, but you know, in the time of war it's okay to lie. Well, is it okay to lie? I submit to you this morning that Hushai and Rahab, and we can think of several others here, this is the description of events I submit that these are description of events performed by Christians, by the way. Christians sometimes lie. And that this is not a prescription of how the followers of Christ ought to live. Just because Hushai does it and Rahab does it, and God eventually blesses them and you know Rahab A Husai's lie seems to have a good effect. Uh it it does uh undermine Absalom's kingdom. And so people think it was okay that God bless their lying. God does not bless lying. God can override lying, but it is lying. So if if this is a description of the events of Hushai or of Rahab the Harite, not the prescription, then what is the biblical prescription? Well we find that in Exodus 20 And verse 16. Thou shalt not bear false witness. That's the prescription of the Bible. That is how we are to act. We are not supposed to lie. And we all do it. Now you say, well, I don't lie. Well, you know, sometimes we do. To give you some examples, you go to the dentist, the dentist says, You eat too much sugar. I'm not eating too much sugar. Really? Or if you're a diabetic, same thing. Or a policeman stops you says, Do you know how fast you were going? And you say, No, how fast was I going? And you probably know how fast you were going. And you fill out your forms of the IRS. And people have been known to put down, I have four children. Kelvin, Jimmy, Janie, and Bobby. And Kelvin's their cat. You know, I mean people do that. They lie. I hope Christians don't do that, and I know there's a great temptation to lie to the IRS, but we're not to lie. Thou shalt not bear a false witness Biblical description, that's where it is. Of communism and secularism, they teach you situation ethics There are situations where it's okay to lie. There are situations where it's okay to kill. There are situations where they go on not all through the Bible, but all through the Ten Commandments. and communism and secular humanism, they teach situation ethics. They say, look, the ends justifies the means. We may have to lie, but if something good comes out of it, the ends is justified By the means or by the lie. So it's okay. But it turns out good lying is okay. That's communism. That's secular humanism. And by the way, Islamism teaches the same thing. They have a doctrine in their Quran I like to pronounce the way our president pronounces it. He he has a way with that language, doesn't he? You know, he tells you he's not a Muslim, but boy he's he just has a way to say the Quran. But in their Quran, it in uh chapter two and verse two twenty-five and chapter three verse twenty-eight, chapter three, verse fifty-four, chapter nine, verse sixty chapter 16 verse 107 and on and on and go over the Quran they teach the holy deception or how to lie and when they can lie and lying is okay and then in the Quran it's called the the Q Tatiya, Tatiah, Tatiya. It's okay to lie against your enemy. So you can sign a like Iran who's just signed a treaty with our president No, then he won't build atomic warheads, but guess what? Takia. It's okay to lie. It's a holy deception. Do you like being lied to? Because if it's okay to lie to our enemies, do you like our enemies to lie to us? Of course not Because lying is never right. Whether you're a Christian or not, lying is never right. So, what should Christians do when they're facing a dangerous situation? What should we do? Well, Daniel stood before the lions, didn't he? He could have denied his faith and not prayed, but he stood before the lions. On the other hand, Peter, he denied the Lord Jesus Christ three times. Uh Shadrach, Meshach, and Davenegal, what did they do? They told the truth. They stood for the Lord and they got tossed into a fiery furnace, but it turned out all right They didn't have to lie. It could turn out things can turn out all right without lying, as it did for Daniel and the Lions and Shadrach and Meshach. But Abraham, what did he do? He lied, and Sarah wasn't his wife, Sarah was his sister That was deceptive. She was his half-sister, but he knew what he was saying. He knew what he was doing. He was fearful that they would kill him and take his wife. Jacob lied to his father, covered his arms, and said he was Esau. People lie about a diet. I've been on a diet. I haven't broke my diet all week. And they have broke their diet. Doctor, I'm on the diet. I don't know why I keep gaining weight. Sure you do. You're not on the diet You owe somebody money. I'll pay you on Friday. I mean, we hear these lies all the time. Christians should not lie. And if you have this morning told a lie, Like Peter told a lie, denying Christ three times. Well, then we ought to at least like Peter repent and confess, like Peter confessed before God, the Lord Jesus Christ, and before man that he had lied. That there was a moment there where he he just couldn't trust God that something bad might happen to him if he told the truth. And so he, like Rahab, lied Peter was so afraid of what they might do to him. Rahab was afraid of what they might do to her. Abraham was afraid they might do it. And they lied, but they at least confessed they lied. So instead of saying to me, well Rahab didn't lie, and there's sometimes. Yeah, Rahab did lie. And most of us we hate being lied to, don't we? Our kids come home and you say, Where have you been? Uh you know, the kids are way ahead of us on this stuff, but parents if you don't know it, the kids know it. They tell you, Well uh we went to the movies and the parent, if they got the right app, and say, No you didn't, you parked with Susie on Fifth Avenue and Elm for over forty-five minutes. There are apps for that. We can tell where our kids are. If you oh my dad and mom they bought me an iPhone, isn't it great? I can take this with me everywhere I go, and the parents say, Yeah, that's great. Take it with you everywhere you go. We're gonna find out where you were. And the parents are finding out their kids are lying to them. We don't like being lied to. God doesn't like being lied to. And God doesn't like us, if we profess to be Christians, to be also known as liars. And so here, not trusting God, Hushai becomes very deceptive. And he continues his deception all through the conversation. Look at verse 17. Absalom says, But Hushai, because he just said, God save the king, God save the king. And Hushai really means that. God save the king. David. You know, that's what he's saying. And so Hushai says in verse 17, or rather Absalom says to Hushai, Is this the kindness to thy friend? I thought David was your friend, and now you're saying God saved King Absalom. He didn't say Absalom. But Absalom thinks he's that's what he's inferring. Why went us thou not with thy friend? Why does he go with David? By the way, just a little side thought here. I was looking through all this. Absalom says, why didn't you go with your friend? He doesn't say, Why didn't you go with my father? Absalom never calls David Father. Oh. Man, there's a relationship problem here, even before he tried to overthrow the kingdom and and kill his father David and every I mean You go with the scripture. Absalom never calls him his father. Now you'll find verse that will say, and Absalom's father, King David, said this and said that. But you won't find Absalom calling David his father. Why don't you go with your friend, Hushai? There's a real problem here, this relationship. They're not very close. How close are you to your parents, pilgrims? How close are you to your parents? Adam wasn't very close to Cain, was he? In fact, Cain became a vague bod and took off and probably never saw him again. Timothy wasn't very close to his father. He was a Gentile, he was a Greek, and they had to go out and circumcise Timothy, and his father is just nowhere to be seen. There's no relationship there that we can can find with Timothy in the New Testament. Jacob had a great relationship with Joseph, but not with the other kids. That wasn't good. Abraham had a wonderful relationship with Isaac, even set out and found a wife for him that he agreed upon. And Noah had a great relationship with the sons. They hung around for a hundred years, helping to build the ark I mean there are some great relationships in the in the scriptures of godly men and women, and then there's some poor ones. So what kind of relationship do you have with your father, your mother Obviously, Absalom's relationship wasn't very good. There was trouble of brewing for a long time. And in verse 18, Hushai responds to Absalom, he says, Nay, but whom the Lord chooses, his will I be. And of course, again, what is what is uh Hushai saying, Whom the Lord chooses, his will I be And I know that God has chosen David as king, and that's why he's going to be my man, you know. And and he says, His will I be, and with him will I abide. And and he's saying, I'm going to stick I'm going to abide with one that God has chosen. And Adam's wow. Appreciate that. But who's that in his head? He's saying, I'm a sickle that God has chosen. And he knows that God has always chosen David and anointed him by the prophet Samuel. He's being so deceptive here He has really balanced his words and weighed them out before he ever went back into Jerusalem to spy out what was going on. Reminds me of the story. I wish I'd read it, but I I'm gonna take I I forget who told me it. Might have been with the Kluth girls. If they'd read the book of Cory Ten Boom. Everybody's probably seen the movie of Cory Ten Boom. How many have sat down and read the book? And in the book, I'm told that uh Cory Tanboom had a sister who was also a Christian and she just couldn't lie. And uh they were hiding these Jews in their house and and they were suspected of hiding the Jews. In fact they they had this hole in the floor right under the dining room table as I understand it. And they would hide the Jews down there. They put the floorboards back in, put the table, the dining table back on, you know, gough down the tablecloth all around the table And they'd hide 'em there. And they got wind that the the Germans soldiers were coming and so they got the Jews in the floor, put the floorboards over, pulled the table back over, dropped the tablecloth down, got the t you know, knives and forks and splendids out and started to serve the food, and the Germans come flushing to the door Now Corey Temboom, she said, my sister could never lie. She just couldn't lie. And they said, all right, where have you got the Jews hidden? And their sister says, they're under the table. And they pulled back the cart with their guns. And everybody laughs. And they walked out. She couldn't lie. God has ways, if we just tell the truth, of getting great glory And so we find here he continues And verse nineteen. Whom should I serve? Who shall I says to Amsalot? Should I not serve in the presence of his son? As I have served in my Father's presence, so will I be in thy presence. In other words, I was loyal to your father in his presence, and I'll be loyal to your father in your presence. That's all he's doing here. It is so deceptive, but it works. And some commentators realize what he's doing here and they say it and other commentators defend him for lying. But he was in some aspects telling the truth and knowing it's going to be perceived differently. And that's still if if you're trying to give a different perception of what you're saying, you're you're line. And so Absalom believes him. In fact, Absalon, actually, Absalom believes what he wants to believe. Absalom believes what he wants to be true. There are people like that. They believe what they want to believe is true, and you can't change their mind. They just they have a belief. And the world's full of them. You think of the evolutionist, agnostic, and atheist. They believe what they want to be true. Okay? Absalom wants it to be true. Ahithophel's cometh me, and now Hushai is coming with me, and David's people come with me, and I'm so beloved. This is just wonderful. He wants to believe These things are true. And they're atheists, agnostics, they want to believe things, and they want to believe these things are true. And they want to believe when you talk to them sometimes there is no God They want to believe that's true. That's what an atheist is like. There is no God. We evolved. They want to believe that that is true. There are no absolutes. They want to believe that that is true. There's no resurrected Christ, there's no judgment, there's no hell, there's no reunion in heaven with loved ones Whoa, back up a bit, some of them will say. Wait, you mean if I don't believe there's a God, if I don't believe there's a hell, if I don't believe there's a judgment, I'm not gonna have a reunion with my loved ones? Whoa No reunion. Dykes. See, they get caught in a quandary too. You you I've often said it before. You go to a funeral, you will find no atheists in a funeral. None. They won't say they're not an atheist, but they'll walk up and they'll say, Oh, Brother Joe, he's in a better place now. See? Are they lying to us then or were they lying to us before? They tell us what they want to be true, but they lie to us too. So here we have it. The deception of Hushai, he gets good results, by the way. He finds out the plans of Absalom. He's able to undermine some of those plans. He's able to get word back to King David what their plans are. I mean he is in like flint. He's in tight with Absalom. His lying, his deception, it works. And so of course, when you get good results, that that must mean that God approves of what you're doing, right? And that's what the whole church growth movement's about. You know, we bring in the best band in town and and uh you know we we have uh Starbucks, you know, in the church. Some of the church actually have Starbucks in the church and uh they have uh all kinds of stuff uh you're going we we visited a church a couple of years ago where they had a a a bowling club in this wing of the church and a golf club over wing in this church church and and they had uh a drama club over in this section of the church. It was a four-story high church. And they were offering people everything on Sunday. They had a food court. I mean they got everything And it works. The church grows. And God is blessing. That's what they say. Do good results always mean that Christ approves? Of what we're doing. Husha got good results, he was lying. Does Christ approval lying? I mean, you get good results. The Apostle Paul makes it very clear. What God approves of and what he does not. In Romans 3, verse 8, Paul was accused of saying some slanderous things. And Paul says, if that slanders reported that I preach or I teach, let us do evil, that good may come of it. Paul said, look, if we can get a good outcome, you know the ends justifies the means, right? If if if the means we use is bad or evil, but the outcome is good, let's do it And Paul says, I'm being slanderously reported as teaching that do evil, that good may come of it. And Paul says, No. We never do evil. We never lie. We never cheat, we never steal, we never do anything. If we see that good will come of it. God is not divided in himself. He gave us the Ten Commandments and we're to abide by them. And it may cost us sometimes, and we may be put to death for telling the truth. That that day may be coming uh closer than we think. We know it's happening. Well we it happened in Columbine High School, didn't it? Girl named Rachel, I'll never forget her first name. Remember that? Those two guys came in, they started shooting everybody, and they looked in the classroom and and there was the born-again Christian Rachel. Scared as any of them, I'm sure, and they walked over to Rachel, Hey Rachel And she's down on her in the corner, you know, on her on her knees like everybody else because you're trying to hide in the corner, hope nobody sees you. And they walk over to Rachel, hey Rachel, you still believe in Jesus Christ as your Savior And they already shot several in that room. And she said, yes. And they shot her right in the head. She told the truth. And she has a crown of glory that we will probably, many of us will never earn in that manner. So do we do evil that good comes of it? Do we deny that we believe in Christ so that we won't be shot in the head or tossed in the lion's dead? Or into the fiery furnace, it is never right to do evil and good may come. But Paul says that in Romans 3 and verse 8. He was a truthful, honest disciple of Christ who had been beaten by rods, who had been stoned Uh he'd been imprisoned, tortured. He knew what it meant to tell the truth, did he? He paid for it dearly And so confident that Hushai is a part of the crowd, Absalom turns to Hithophel and the others that are there. He says, Give counsel among you what we shall do. And I know who she can say. He's one of us. And Hephafil said unto Absalom, go in onto thy father's concubines. Well, you know, it's sad that David had concubines. If he didn't have concubines, he wouldn't have left them behind. And if he hadn't left them behind, you know, Absalom couldn't have gone in onto his concubines When you look through all of this, you realize that sometimes the concubines, that term is kind of generic, it also includes the wives. So here he had his concubines and his wives. I don't know how many wives David had. That's a whole other story we've talked about before. But eight of them are named. Nine of them are mentioned. And it's probably a lot more than nine And it always says, and the concubines. So you know what we've got here, I don't believe it's it's all concubines. I don't believe that all of his wives are there, because later on the wives that are desecrated are placed in a room, they are fed, they are taken care of, but they never really see the light of day after that. They've been so dishonored. But Bathsheba is still with David ruling. So she wasn't in this group. He obviously took her and maybe some of his other favorite wives with him and left the some of the concubines and uh If you keep reading through the scriptures, you'll see that. Um, and we'll see a little bit of that today. But so anyway, here we've got it. Uh he says, uh Hithafel, what should we do? He says, go in under the father's concubines. which he hath left to keep the house. We read about that in the last uh reading. And Israel shall hear that thou hast abhorred uh of you abhorred or hated of your father, loathed of your father. What a what a desecration. What a horrible thing to do. It's i it's adultery. It it's it's a horrific, horrific sin uh to lie with your father's wives or conscience Or a sister or a brother. It's just it's it's just a horrendous, horrendous thing. Um and so this is what he he tells him to do. Ahithophil, sinful consul. Can you imagine this? And he does this probably in part to avenge the injury done to Bathsheba Because Bathsheba is Ahithophel's granddaughter, and the family's been shamed. And here's an opportunity to shame David in the same manner that he has shamed my family. So you can understand Ahithophel counseling to do this But he's incorporating other you know, if Hithophel wants to do something to David, let him do it to himself. But he's dragging other people in in such a sinful, uh shameful way. And uh it it's gonna make an amendous breach between King David and his son Absalom. The son who already never calls him father. This is not going to improve upon the father-son relationship. In fact, this would destroy the father-son relationship of any of us if we went and laid with our father's wife or his mistress or concubine or shack up or whatever you want to call it call whatever. Yeah, I people say me sometimes. Uh are you married? No I'm not married yet, but I have a significant other. Already? Yeah he said we're living uh together this house we bought. Oh so Now you can say, oh you're shacking up and they'll go, yeah, yeah, well whatever. You know. I I I've said that to people when I used to work in struct. Oh so you're shacking up. Yeah, but we're gonna get married, you know, one of these days. Oh okay. And they they can live with that Oh, she's your uh she's your mistress, huh? Yeah, well they gotta brag about that too. You know the one thing I found they don't like? I said, so she's your concubine What? What's that word mean? Where'd you get that? It's in the Bible. I don't like that. I'm concubine. That's what she is. If you're living with a girl, shack it up with a girl, she's your concubine. Wow. You know? It's like gay people. They don't mind me called gay. Don't mind me called lesbian. They don't mind me But call them a sodomite? Boom! What did you do that for? What get that you know the biblical terminology, which is far more accurate. I mean they're not really gay people. My brother was uh uh sodomite. Most unhappy person that you'd ever want to meet. He was under psychiatric counseling for twenty-five, thirty years. The shrink never got him straightened out And no wonder some of his shrinks were gay, so they w didn't want to straighten him out. So he make he tells them, make this tremendous breach so that your your father David hates you, loath you, despises you. He consoles this guy's he Ahithevel is a counselor of kingdoms, of kings And he consoles him to sin. Is that a wise person that would console you to sin? Has anyone ever consulted you to sin? Have you ever had someone console you to sin? And you say, well let me think about that. Well hey you ever had one of your buddies? You're out at the mall? And you say, hey, man, this is really going great. You know, we've been talking to these girls a while and I know the mall closes in three minutes. We're supposed to come over after the mall closes, but Tell your parents a car wouldn't start. You know, we've got a flat tire. You know. The police set up a roadblock. We had to go around a roadblock. All right, tell them something, you know. Your friend counsels you to lie to your parents Or you say, hey, I want to go to the movies or uh let's let I want to take Susie out and I want you to get your girlfriend too and we'll get together and we'll go out and I don't have any money. Oh man. Your mom's will sleep. Just get into a purse and grab a few bucks. She'll never even miss it. Or steal money out of your sister's piggy bank Have have you got a friend like that? Listen closely. He's not your friend He is not your friend. He is the enemy of your soul. He is the enemy of your eternal soul. If he consists you to lie or steal or commit adultery and on and on, we go through a whole list of things He's not your friend. He's the enemy of your soul. And Ahithophel was the enemy of the soul of Absalom. He's constantly deliberately father's concubines. If you've got someone like that in your life that's ca that's causing you to lie to your parents or to steal from your sister's piggy bank, you got somebody like that. And those are little things, they get bigger and bigger if you keep a friend like that around very long. If you got a friend like that, you dump that Ahithophel. In fact you call him an Ahithophel. Like calling someone a concubine. It will irritate them to know you call somebody you tell someone, I don't think you're a Christian I don't care. But call him a reprobate, they don't like that, you know. You call your friend an ahithophel for counseling you to sin or encouraging you to sin, to revolt in a in an immoral, on Christ-like way or activity. That's a horrendous thing. That is not a friend And your sister with her little piggy bank will appreciate that, that she got rid of you're a Hithophel in your life. So this is the consul, a hippophil. Probably had a white long beard. He probably knew what he was going to say right away because he hated what David had done to Bathsheba, but he has to do this little rub the chin look, you know Well no. And he knew everybody thought that his focus always was the oracle of God. He says, I think what you should do Lie with your father's concubines. That is really sick. He's not asking to commit adultery once or twice or three times or four times. He's asking to commit adultery ten times with ten different concubines. What an immor if that's a horrifying thought. You know what's even more horrifying? If they did this in Hollywood and had the scene, you know, with all the councils around Ahithophel and all the other counsels are with Ahithophel. And Ahithophel says, lie with your father's concubines. The most horrifying thing was if they could have filmed this thing right in Hollywood, not one hand goes up in objection. Not one person is so horrified by the thought of committing adultery ten times with your father's wives and concubine. Not one hand goes up in objection. That really smells bad. Wow. Absalom's followers should have been horrified. Someone should have objected Why hadn't Absalom consulted get a second opinion? You know, Abby Athar The priest who fled from the city of Naab with the Ephod. He's there in Jerusalem. Let's go and ask him. Zadok, the seer, the priest, the Levitical priest. He's there. I mean Zadek and Abia, they carry the Ark of the Covenant on their shoulders. They're in care. They're the custodians of the Ark of the Covenant. Let's get a second opinion I know I know what you think of a Hippophil, but you know if there's any any doubt at all about that's an unusual bit of counseling I mean can you imagine you you go to a psychiatrist and you say psychiatrist I'm I'm having problems uh with uh someone in my family and I just I just you know, they've done me wrong and at least I feel like they've done me wrong and I don't know what to do and I would I would just like this whole thing need to get straightened out or end it once and for all and your psychiatrist has got an idea. Go to bed with his wife. What You say what? You're a psychiatrist? You got a certificate on the wall? What university is that from? I mean, how about getting a second opinion? But he doesn't get the second opinion. You know why Absolve doesn't get a second opinion Because he doesn't give one whit about what God's will for his life was. He doesn't want a second of hand. He doesn't want to talk to Levite priest or to the sear or the or go and check out the ephod, which David often did with Abbey thir. He would go and say, Check, I w I've come to you with the ephod. I want to know what I should do in this situation or that situation. And and Absalom as a son of David had seen his father do that many times. For an opinion, he would go to Adi I ther with the ephod and question what God would have him to do. He doesn't want to do that. He doesn't care one whit about God's will. And listen to this carefully And Absan doesn't care what his three sons and daughter think either. 2 Samuel 14 and 27. Absolut has daughters and a son or more. His own children. He doesn't care what his children think about what he's done. Wow. Now dear friend, most of us if you're watching something on TV and you hear the kids running down from upstairs, you switch channels if it's something you shouldn't be watching. He doesn't care if his kids were to see what he's doing. He's not a good father. Absalom's a horrible father to his three sons and his daughter. He doesn't care what they think. The Bible says, Ephesians six, four, provoke not your children to wrath. Wow. Parents, do you ever consider the effect that your decisions have on your children? The decision Absalom's about to make will have massive effect Massive, massive impressions, bad, horrible, long-lasting, eternal impressions on his own children Parents, the decisions you make are so long-lasting the effects on your children. I mean, think about it. Do you let them choose the school they want to go to? Some parents do Well, if they don't want to go to that Christian school and they want to go to public school down the street with all the with all the the rapings and the muggings and the shootings, I mean there are there are public schools in Baltimore where they got policemen patrolling the halls. Would you let your kid go there because his favorite buddy goes there? No. There are public schools you don't want your kids to step within a hundred yards of. You don't let your kids pick your own school. But some parents do Let the kids pick the school. Let the kids pick the church. Well, we'd like to stay here, but our children would rather go to the church down the street. If you had a Starbucks here, we'd be here I've heard that one. If you're doing the book of Revelation, we'd be here. Well my kids, they want to hear about the book of Revelation. They want a Starbucks coffee and Do you let your parents, your kids choose the school? Do let your kids make their own decisions. Well, when they're 18, if they want to go to church, that'll be all right then. But I'm not going to force church down their throat I don't like them drinking and driving. What can I do? Take the car away from them is what you can do. It's poor decisions that we make. The movies that they watch. The magazines that we read in front of them, my dad had a stack of Playboy magazines this high in the house. We were told not to read them. I want to tell you something. I never read them. And most people I know never read Playboy. They just look at the pictures. If somebody says, Oh yeah I read Playboy, it's it's got some really uh intellectual articles in it. Yeah? Ask them what was a Playboy the most recent intellectual article they I don't even know if the magazine's around anymore. But I mean there's nothing intellectual about it and nobody I mean did it affect me? My brothers Well, I know it affected my one brother, he became a sodomite. In Playboy? Why did he become a sodomite? Oh, well if you're not familiar with Playboy. They did a lot of Stydomite stuff in there as well. Not that I read it. Nobody reads Those magazines. I mean if the article's so good, why don't they cut the article out and pin it up on the wall at work? They just cut the pictures out and pin them up at work. I thought the articles were so good. That's lying. No, we said enough about lying, I guess, but our foolish decisions can have a tremendous effect on our children If you made a foolish decision, reverse it and confess it before God and confess it before your children. Jephthah in Judges 11-12, he made a foolish decision that the first thing that came out to greet him if he came back from war he would sacrifice I guess he must have thought that the the family dog or or or or maybe one of the the lambs or sheep, it was his daughter that came out. What should Jeff have done? He should have confessed to God that he made a foolish vow, repented of it. And maybe he did. No one's quite sure. Some make the decision to not spoil a child, but use the rod. My grandmother, her father believed in not spoiling the child, but used the rod. The only problem was he used the horse whip. He beat my grandmother so badly With a horse whip, that when she had children, she said, I will never spank. My mother was raised in an environment she had never, never had a spank. Never. Never felt the pain, how much it hurt. So when she began to divvy out the space, she had no idea. You know, he can go from one extreme to the other. We can make bad decisions and our kids will suffer for them. Japheth made a bad decision. He should have repented of it, should have asked God for forgiveness. But Absalon, no, he has a different heart. He not only likes the idea of Hithophel's consul, Hethophel says, go and lie. He says, go and lie with the ten concubines of your father. And Israel will hear of it. And your father will hear of it. And in verse 22, you know what Absalom did? He thought, good advice, but I can improve a little bit. Verse twenty two they spread Abson a tent upon the top of the house, and Abson went in unto his father's concubines in the sight of all Israel. He was a hippophil says, Go and do this horrendous thing, and they'll all hear about it. And Absalom says, Hear about it, I want him to see it. I want my kids to see it. I want all of Israel to see it. And he plants his tent on the rooftop. For all of Israel see as he walks into the tent. A tent placed on the rooftop, by the way, of David's house, where David had walked on that rooftop. Looking at Bathsheba. Where he first committed adultery with her with the eyes. Now Absan will commit adultery with all of David's concubines and wives, at least ten of them, on the exact same spot. They would not just hear of this wicked council, they would see it Nathan the prophet declared that by defiling Bathsheba, Uriah's wife, David's own wife should be devi defiled. We read second Samuel twelve. Verse 12, out of thine own house, in the sight of the sun, out in broad daylight, your wives will be defiled. And they were Absalon. Remember Absalom how how how repulsed he was by the fact that his that his daughter, I mean rather his sister Tamar had been had been raped. By Amon, his brother? How how incensed he was they had Ammon assassinated and killed. I mean he's really incensed. How dare you rape my sister That's the same guy that said, I dare to rape my father's wives and concubines. Whoa, has he changed? It's amazing, isn't it? How what someone does to you is terrible, but what you do to somebody else ten times as bad isn't so bad, really We don't like being cussed at, but if we cuss somebody else, or we don't like being lied to, but if we lied to somebody else, it doesn't seem as bad, does it? The traitor's council of Ahithophel was nothing more than the fulfilling of God's word. It was prophesied what would happen. It was It was prophesied that that David's wives would be would be raped as he had used the power of the kingship to basically take uh on freely Uriah's wife, it was all prophesied. I guess that's the excuse then, isn't it? Hey, you know, if everything's predestined, if everything's prophesied, you know, You can't blame me. I was like Judas asceri could say, can't blame me. I was prophesied. It was predestined. I just did it, and they can't blame me. Really Well it doesn't excuse Ahithophel and Absalom for what they did, even though it was prophesied. Joseph's brothers, look what they did to Joseph Joseph said, You thought evil against me, but God meant it unto good. Genesis fifteen twenty. But they were still guilty of doing horrible things just because it was prophesied, or that God meant it To bring some good out of it. Judas and Caiaphas, the way they treated Christ. Hmm. Didn't they fulfill prophecy? Judas And Typhus, this Jesus of Nazareth being delivered by the determined counsel and foreknowledge of God, all prophesied, all predicted, all predestinated. Ye have taken it by wicked hands and crucified and slain Acts two And 22. They're not going to get off just because it was prophesied or predestined. You're not going to get off by saying, well, God must have meant me to do this because I did it. It's all predestined. I'm not to blame. It's not my fault. That doesn't work You think you have a good excuse for your sins? We find out here that even if it's predestined, even if it's prophesied, it's not a good excuse for our sins. People have all kinds of good excuses for sins. They say, well, okay, so I cheated on my wife, or I got a concubine, or a mistress. So did David, so did Abraham, so did Jacob. That's an excuse people give. Those people in the Bible paid dearly for those sinful acts In their own lifetime they pay dearly. David pays dearly for Bathsheba. Don't use David as an excuse or Abraham as an excuse or anybody else's excuse, but they have lots of excuses. I remember one person said, yeah I cheated on my wife. He was bragging. He wasn't bragging about forlorn about it at work. And he said, but I got an excuse. So what's your excuse? He said, I was drunk. Whoa, that's another sin we got to talk about. What do you mean? I mean, they think being drunk is an excuse for doing another sin? Being drunk is a sin. Or they say, well, I know you don't like what I did this weekend. I was talking about my weekend, but it's legal. It's not against the law In fact, my pastor agrees with me. Oh, you can always find a pastor out there that will agree with you. The abortion's okay. There are pastors that say abortion's okay. I mean you can always find a pastor that agrees with you, or you can always find somebody who says, well, it's is legal, abortion's legal. Or how about this one? The young guy and the young girl, and uh it gets out that Maybe they got a motel room or something for the night, you know. And and here's what they say. Well, we're almost engaged. It's still sin. Confess it. Ask God to forgive you. And move on, but don't just try to excuse it. There's no acceptable excuse for sin. No acceptable excuse for sin. But there is an antidote for sin. We can repent. We can repent. And we're washed white as snow, white as wool. You know sometimes I'll be a young girl and Oh she's maybe had as many boyfriends and I mean had them in in the worst possible contraction of the word you want and she gets saved. She meets a young Christian fellow and she wants to marry him. You know what I say when she comes in that church? You're saved now? Under the blood? Put the white dress on. Come on down the aisle. That's what repentance does. It cleanses us, makes us white as snow. White as wool. All forgiven. Far as the east is from the west. God forgets it. If you repent, if you repent But there's some that don't, and some that don't believe that way. And in verse 23, the Council of Ahithophel. In those days, the Council of Ahithophel was as if it wasn't. But it was as if, all right. It was as if a man had inquired at the Oracle of God. Hipphophil's word was equ Equal, equal to the Word of God. Can you imagine that? Instead of being uh the Oracle of God out of the bread here, it was as though his his information, his counsel was of the oracle of the devil I mean how else do you commit adultery? Tell some to commit adultery ten times. That's not an oracle of God. That's the oracle of the devil. Believing that Hithophel's word was equal to God's word It's just plain crazy, but that's what verse twenty-three says. He believed that I think God's word and Hithophel's word is just plain crazy And there might be some people here who are crazy, because I'll just run these by you, pilgrim. Do you believe the National Geographic Magazine is equal to Moses' words? That's plain crazy Do you believe the news media is equal to the New Testament? That's plain crazy. Do you believe Wikipedia is equal to God's Word? That's plain crazy. Do you think the Smithsonian Institute is equal to our Savior's words, that is just sheer crazy. Hopefully there's nobody here today that's crazy Let's pray. Oh Lord, we look to you today. And we see the words inspired in Errant Preserved through all the ages, reading things that were written down thousands of years ago, not a jotter of tidblood's chain. Oh Lord, though the government may try to change the laws and make things legal, make things acceptable, we are so grateful to know that there is a standard that never changes. That lying is always wrong, that sinning is always wrong, no excuses, but that there is an antidote, the blood of Jesus Christ. Christ that makes us as clear as a newborn babe, as clean as a newborn babe. And we even babies are still sinners. Lord, we just were so grateful that the blood of Christ can restore us and make us one of your saints, one of your sheep. It's in Christ's name we pray for this. message a day that that someone here will will uh consider how bad lying is and where it can lead to. Adultery ten times over. Bless the congregation today in some manner, in the fellowship, in the word, in the psalm that was sung. Bless us, Lord, we ask in Christ's name. Amen.