I hold in my hand this morning a great treasure, a treasure that is more precious than gold or silver. A treasure that godly men and women of ages past have shed their own blood, have died, to give to us today. A treasure that is so important that it is forever settled in heaven. A treasure that is so important that God has protected it. and preserved it as generations of men have tried to fight against it. And so I would invite you this morning to open in your Bibles with me to the book of Exodus. And chapter 15, the 15th chapter of Exodus. We're going to focus our attention on that 11th verse. Who is like unto thee, O Lord, among the gods? Who is like unto thee? Glorious in holiness? fearful in praises, doing wonders. But to understand this great declaration of praise, we need to first back up a little bit And in the last two verses of chapter 14, we find God bring Israel out of Egypt. And the children of Israel came to the Red Sea, and there they were sure their doom had come. They were sure they would perish, for there were mountains on either side, and the sea in front of them, they were trapped. They were captured. All of God's promises have failed. Not at all. Not at all. It was nothing for God but to blow upon the sea and the waters parted. And the children of Israel walked through not in sloppy, muddy feet, but upon dry ground. Their adversary, Pharaoh, our adversary, the devil, pursued after them. And he declared, I will defeat, my arm will be strong, I will do this, and I will do that, and I will do the other. And so Pharaoh and his army rushed into the sea. And God took the wheels off their chariots. God brought the seas back upon them, and they drowned in the sea. And so we come to our scripture reading in the first verse of Exodus chapter 15. Then sang Moses and the children of Israel this song unto the Lord. And he spake, saying I will sing unto Jehovah. I will sing unto the Lord. For he hath triumphed gloriously, the horse and his rider. Has he thrown into the sea? The Lord is my strength and my song, and he has become my salvation. He is my God, and I will prepare him a habitation My father got father's God, and I will exalt him. The Lord is a man of war. The Lord is his name. Pharaoh's chariots. And his host hath he cast into the sea, his chosen captains also are drowned in the Red Sea. The depths have covered them. They sank into the bottom as a stone. The right hand of the Lord is become glorious in power. Thy right hand, O Lord, hath dashed in pieces the enemy. And in the greatness of thine excellency thou hast overthrown them that rose up against thee. And I would pause there. They rose up against Jehovah, not against Jehovah's people, but against Jehovah. Thou sendest forth thy wrath, which consume them as stubble, and with the blast of thy nostrils The waters were gathered together, the flood stood upright as a heap, and the depths were congealed in the heart of the sea The enemy said, I will pursue, I will overtake, I will divide the soil, my lust shall be satisfied upon them, I will draw my sword My hand shall destroy them. Thou didst blow the wind. The sea covered them. They sank as lead in mighty waters. Earlier we read they sank as a stone. Here they sank as lead in mighty waters. Who is like unto thee, O Lord, among the gods? Who is like thee? Glorious in holiness, fearful in praises, doing wonders. Thou stretchest out thy right hand, and the earth swallowed them. And ah, dear friends, it would be well and fitting for me just to sit down and say nothing about this text For the text itself preaches a marvelous sermon on the glory and the power and the might of our God. And yet, God has given us not just this one chapter. Think about it. If all of the Word of God we had was this one chapter, what a glorious word it would be! But God has given us the entirety of His Word. And God has given us the great privilege of comparing Scripture with Scripture and of considering the whole counsel of God. And so taking this verse 11 as our text, who is like unto thee, O Lord? And you notice the Lord there is Jehovah. Who is like unto Jehovah? Among the gods, the small g's. Who is like Jehovah? Among the gods. What other god could do this? What other god could do anything? There is no other God. The sun rose this morning. Why? Because my God ordained the solar system And it rose not because the sun and the moon and the earth are in their courses. That's not why the sun rose. Rather, it rose because he upholds all things by the word of his power. And he could stop it tomorrow. Oh, how concerned the world is about a little virus. Oh, how mighty is our God. What means a little virus to our God? What means the Red Sea before the people of God when God has ordained to deliver them? God has purchased them, we're going to see in this chapter. He has redeemed them. Is he going to lose them to the adversary at the sea? Oh, how fearful they were. Oh, how the children of Israel trembled in fright. But God was not concerned. God was not fearful. And ah, how well it is that Moses Begins this great hymn of praise with such a glorious statement: the horse and his rider Hath he cast into the sea? The very thing that we feared, the thing which was such a dread to the children of Israel, the horse and the rider. Be gone. Done with you. Enough. Who is like unto thee, O Jehovah, among the gods? Who is like thee? And notice the second time it doesn't say like unto thee. It just says who is like thee? There is none beside. And oh, we find in the early chapters of this book of Exodus that these plagues Were designed for the very purpose of demonstrating to the children of Israel and to Pharaoh himself, there is none like Jehovah. In chapter 7, at the beginning of the plague of of the water turned to blood. In seven and seventeen, and this thou shalt know that I am the Lord, the plague of frogs. 8. 10, that thou mayest know that there is none like unto our God. The plague of flies, 8. 22, to the end that thou mayest know that I am the Lord in the midst of the earth. God says, I'm going to do these things, and the reason I'm going to do them is so that you might know that I am Jehovah. That I am God, that there is none beside me. Why did God arrest Saul on the road to Damascus? That he might know that there's none beside. Why did God spare Noah and his family from the flood, that they might know that there is none beside? What has God done for my soul? He has delivered me from all the gods of nonsense, small g gods, and has taught my heart that He is God alone, and that is salvation alone. He is God. And so we have these ten plagues upon Egypt, and every one of those ten plagues was an assault. On the gods of Egypt. The first was the water of the Nile turning to blood, and the water in the vessels turning to blood. We say that Nile, the Nile, is the lifeblood of Egypt. The Nile River was essential to the nation. They sacrificed to the Nile. In fact, the throwing of the Hebrew boys into the river was a form of sacrifice under their pagan gods. This river was the lifeblood of Egypt without the Nile. They would have no crops. They would have no prosperity. The rich soil around the river had been carried there by the Nile River. Look to your God Pharaoh, look to your river you treasure so well. I will turn it to blood, and the fish in it will die, and it will stink. And your people will loathe to drink from the river where you worship. And then God multiplied frogs upon the land of Egypt. The frog was one of Egypt's gods. And the frog God was a representative of fertility. And what did Jehovah do? He multiplied the frog so much, their fertility god. That they beg, please get rid of all these frogs. Doesn't God have a sense of humor? And we read in the text about the plague of frogs. Where are the frogs? They were in the bedchambers and in their beds. And they were in their kneading trawls. It was the God of reproduction. It was the God of fertility. Their beds and their kneading trawls, the place where their bread was made, where they enjoyed their prosperity. God. God struck their God. And the frogs died. And what happened when the frogs died? They stank. They stank. God turned the dust into lice. It says in Exodus eight nineteen that Pharaoh's magicians Pharaoh's magicians said the finger of God has done this. Egypt had a god of the soil. Where does the dust come from? Well, it comes from the soil God turned their soil in the dust. They had a God of flies, or the God of the swarm, and God sent the flies. But when God sent the flies, they were on the Egyptians only, and not on his people. God rebuked them. The disease comes on the bulls and the calves, and you guessed it, they worship the bull and the calf. In fact, when Israel, in rebellion against the law of God, made a golden calf, they were looking back to one of the pagan gods of Egypt, the Boyles. The uh Moses and Aaron take the ashes from the furnace, the ashes from the kiln. And they scatter those upon the earth, and it becomes boils upon the children the Egyptians. Well, they had a God that prevented disease, and that God was overcome. But where did the ashes come from? They came from the kilns. What's significant about that? The Egyptians, through forced labor and slavery, caused the Egyptian Israelites to use those kilns to make bricks. And God rebuked their God. We could go on through all of them. The hail, they had a God of the atmosphere. The plague of locusts, they had a God that protected their crops. The last of the plagues is the death of the firstborn. The death of the firstborn. In that plague, God condemned every God of the land. From the firstborn in the prison to the firstborn in the palace, the firstborn of Is Egypt died. Think about that. The line of succession. The whole stability of the government was destroyed Who is a God like unto thee? Who is like unto thee? In 1 Chronicles 17 and verse 20, Lord there is none like unto thee, neither is there any God beside thee, according to all that we have heard with our ears Jeremiah ten, verses six and seven. For as much as there is none like unto thee, O Lord, thou art great, and thy name is great in might. Who would not fear thee, O King of nations? For to thee doth it appertain, forasmuch as among all men the wise men of the nations and all their kingdoms, there is none like unto thee. And so Moses begins this great hymn of praise with this glorious statement: Who is like unto thee among the gods? Who can be compared to thee? Wasn't it a marvelous lesson for the children of Israel to learn, having seen these great plagues and seen the might and power of God? Should not they remember this lesson Generation after generation after generation. But it would only be a few weeks later. That these Israelites who were singing beside the Red Sea and dancing on the grave, so to speak, of Pharaoh and his army as they danced beside the Red Sea. It would be shortly later that these same people would fear to enter the Promised Land because the people are great and strong. Failing to remember that their God was greater. And then forty years later, when that generation of adults has died, They are preparing to go into the promised land, and what is it that Joshua has to say to them in Joshua 24, verses 14 and 15? You know the verses. Now therefore fear the Lord and serve him in sincerity and in truth, and put away the gods which your fathers served on the other side of the flood and in Egypt, and serve the Lord Here it is all the way through the wilderness. Still, they're hanging on to these impotent gods, these worthless gods that Jehovah had overcome in Egypt. And there Joshua says, If it seem evil to you to serve the Lord, choose ye this day whom you will serve, whether the gods your fathers served on the other side of the flood, or the gods of the Amorites in whose land ye dwell. But as for me and my house, we will serve the Lord. And I don't want to get too far off topic here, but I can't read that verse without pointing out that it's one of the most misapplied and rested verses of all scripture. It is not saying choose those gods or choose Jehovah. It is not a choice between the true God and the false God. But rather what Joshua was saying to the people is this If it seems evil to serve Jehovah, if you're not going to serve Jehovah, pick whether you're going to serve the frog god or the river god or the fly god or the lice god. Pick which one you're going to serve. Because if you won't serve Jehovah, that's what's left to you. Choose which pagan God, choose which impotent God will be your God. But as for me and my house, Jehovah is the Lord, who is like unto thee among the gods But then, if that were not enough, if that were not glorious enough in its proclamation of truth, Moses continues. Who is like unto thee? Glorious in holiness. Who is like unto thee? Glorious in holiness. Jehovah is glorious in his righteousness and his truth. Jehovah is glorious in his covenant keeping. Jehovah is glorious in his word that he has spoken and his word is faithful. Jehovah is just in all of his ways. He is glorious in holiness and he will perform what he has promised. Jehovah is glorious in his redemption of his people. Look at me at verse 6 of chapter 15. Thy right hand, O Lord, is become glorious in power. The word glorious there in verse 6 is the same glorious in verse 11. And these are two of the only three times. That this particular word glorious is found in our scriptures. Thy right hand, O Lord, is become glorious. In power, thy right hand, O Lord, hath dashed in pieces the enemy What do we find when we read of the right hand and the right arm of the Lord? The right hand of Jehovah is the Redeemer. The right hand of Jehovah is Christ. And we've seen before a few weeks ago when we considered the children of Israel and their departure through through the wilderness that the pillar of fire was a presence of Christ. And the pillar of clouds was a presence of Christ. And the death angel that passed through was a presence of Christ. And the man by the wall of Jericho was the presence of Christ. Behold, I am with you always. I will never leave you nor forsake you, is the current promise that we live under. And yet that promise was true in the past, in the present, and in the future. It was the right hand of Jehovah That defeated Pharaoh, that defeated the adversary. Who is likened to thee? Glorious in holiness. God showed himself glorious in his keeping of his covenant to his people. Look at me in verses 13 through 14 of our chapter. We didn't read these earlier. I'm sorry, I'm in the wrong book. Genesis, Genesis 15. Getting ahead of my notes. Genesis 15 and verse 13. I'll just read the verses to you there. And he said unto Abraham, Know of a surety that thy seed shall be a stranger in a land that is not theirs, and they shall serve them, and they shall afflict them four hundred years. And also that nation whom they shall serve will I judge, and afterward they shall come out with great substance God told Abraham, Your descendants are going to serve in another nation for 400 years, and I will bring them out with great deliverance and with great substance. And here we find God is glorious in holiness, for he is the God who keeps his covenant. Now look at Exodus 15 and verse 13. Exodus fifteen and verse thirteen. Thou in thy mercy hast led forth the people which thou hast redeemed. Thou hast guided them with thy strength unto thy holy habitation. Look how the children of Israel are spoken of here. The people which thou hast redeemed. Who is the redeemer? It is the right hand of God. It is Christ. And look what Moses says about them. Thou hast guided them with thy strength into thy holy habitation. Where were they? They were just on the other side of the Red Sea. They weren't in the Promised Land. They weren't in Mount Zion. And they weren't yet in heaven. You see what is happening here. You see the glorious typology and the glorious picture here of redemption This glorious God has redeemed his people. I am on earth today. I dwell in a body of flesh today. But my soul is as surely in heaven today as it will be someday. Why? Because the same Redeemer that delivered Israel from Egypt has redeemed my soul. Has brought me forth out of the bondage of Pharaoh, out of the bondage of Satan, into glorious light. And so God is glorious in the keeping of his covenant. God is glorious in the salvation he has wrought. Look at verse 2 of our chapter. The Lord is my strength and my song. And he has become my salvation. He is my God. Not these gods that couldn't prevent the ten plagues. Not these gods that God mocked with the ten plagues. But this one, he is my God. God has shown himself glorious in the faithfulness to his promise. How many times did Pharaoh say, okay, I'll let God's people go? And then he changed his mind. Then he went back on his word. Satan is a liar and the father of it. Pharaoh was a liar. Satan was his god, and Pharaoh represents Satan in the context. But God has shown himself glorious in holiness, in that he's always kept his word. When has he ever lied? When has God ever spoken an untruth? We talk about white lies and whatever lies. Well they're all they're all lies. There's not degrees of lies. But our God has never lied in the least. God is glorious in the justice which He dispenses. Remember we read there when God's promise back in Genesis 15 Chapter 15, Genesis chapter 15, Exodus got me confused a few moments ago. But in Genesis chapter 15, where it said that they would come forth with great substance. God has shown himself glorious in the justice which he dispenses. The Pharaoh before this Pharaoh was the Pharaoh that had killed the baby boys. And this Pharaoh has continued the captivity, but now God has taken his baby boy. God is a just God. The Egyptians had stolen 400 years of labor from the Israelites. But by the time they go out, the people are throwing jewels and gold at them. They're so eager for the people to go out, they came out with great substance. They would take some of that gold And they would make a golden calf. And that golden calf would be ground into powder and thrown on their water that they might drink it. That gold was polluted. That gold was gone. It could never be recovered. But later they would build for the glory of God a glorious tabernacle. And there would be on the breastplate of the high priest twelve jewels. Where did they come from? Where did a bunch of bond slaves get such wealth? God spoiled the Egyptians. He is glorious in holiness, and he demonstrates his holiness in his justice The military might of Egypt is destroyed. Their chariots are rusting at the bottom of the Red Sea, and their choice captains are drowned The government is totally decapitated. And when David speaks of it in Psalm 78 in verse 51, he says, And smote all the firstborn of Egypt, the chief of their strength. In the tabernacles of Ham. Who was the next Pharaoh? That dead boy back in Egypt. That dead Pharaoh's son was the hope of the nation. decapitated by the power of God. Not that his head was literally cut off, but yet the government's head was cut off by the power of God. He is the rock. His work is perfect. All his ways are judgment. A God of truth and without iniquity, just and right as he, Deuteronomy 32, verse 4. For the Lord is our defense, and the Holy One of Israel is our King. Psalm 145, 17. The Lord is righteous in all of his ways. And holy in all of his works. He is glorious, glorious in holiness Who is a God like unto thee? But then we find that this God, who is like unto thee? Fearful in praises. That's an unusual statement, isn't it? Fearful in praises. I like the way that John Gill uh expresses the meaning of this verse. John Gill, the great commentator of years past, the great Bible scholar, said that he is fearful in the things in which he is to be praised. The things in which Jehovah is to be praised are fearful. You look upon the works of God, and oh, you must pause. Holy is the Lord. Just are all his works. He is a mighty God. I must walk before him carefully. I must walk circumspect Redeeming the times for the days are evil. For he is fearful in all the things for which he is to be praised. And all how we've witnessed His judgment on Egypt, how we've seen how fearful were all of his ways And yet, again, it would not be long after they have seen these mighty works of God and after they have sung this great hymn of praise, that God would give them the law on Mount Sinai. And as Moses is coming down with the law, he hears the sound of music And he thinks, is there a war in the camp? No, it's the sound of them that dance, and he comes down and hears a golden calf, and they are worshiping a golden calf And Moses takes those tablets and he throws them to the ground and they are shattered. They are broken. Turn with me forward a few chapters to Exodus 34. Exodus 34, and I'll start reading in verse 8. This is after Moses has broken the first tablet, tablets, the first tables of the law. And in Exodus 34 and verse 8, and Moses made haste and bowed his head toward the earth and worshiped. And he said, that is God said in verse 9, and he said If I'm sorry, this is I'm sorry. Is he in verse 10 is God, verse 9 is Moses. And Moses said, he said, If thou I found grace in thy sight, O Lord, Let my Lord, I pray thee, go among us, for it is a stiff-necked people, and pardon our iniquity and our sin And take us for thine inheritance. What had God done? He redeemed them for his inheritance. Verse 10 now is God speaking. And he that is God said, Behold, I have made a covenant before all the people I will do marvels such have not been seen in the earth, nor in any nation. What has happened? We've seen all those marvels that God did in Egypt Now when God gives the law the second time, God says, I'm going to do marvels like you haven't seen before. Wow. Greater than what you did in Egypt? God, is there yet more greater you can do? God says, I'll do marvels that have not been done in all the earth, nor in any nation And all people among which thou art shall see the work of the Lord, for it is a terrible thing that I will do with thee. Oh, indeed, God is fearful in all the things for which he is to be praised. He is a terrible God. And that word terrible, we talk about a terrible child, it means they misbehave. When we talk about God being terrible, it means that there is terror in the ways of the Lord. We are to fear him. We are to bow before him, because his ways bring terror upon his enemies, and their iniquity deserves the terror of God. Here God says just a few weeks later, you saw what I did in Egypt. You saw the Red Sea. I'm going to do things greater yet. How dare you worship a golden calf! And what is the context of God saying we're going to do things yet more terrible? It's the giving of the law It's the giving of God's righteous commandment to his people. You are to have no other gods before me. Don't take my holy name in vain, God says. Don't make golden calves, God says. Who shall not fear thee, O Lord? Who is like unto thee among the gods? Who is like thee? Glorious. In the holiness you exude everything you do is righteous. Fearful in all the things for which you are to be praised. Oh my friend, there is none. There is none like Jehovah. We must stand back in awe and reverence. In Deuteronomy 7 and verse 18, I'll read the passage for you briefly, just as they're getting ready to enter into the promised land. Deuteronomy 7 and verse 18 and following thou shalt not be afraid of them, that's the people in the land they're going into, but shall well remember what the Lord thy God did unto Pharaoh and Egypt and Egypt. Don't be afraid of these Canaanites. What were the Israelites doing? They were terrified of them. Don't be afraid of them. Remember what I did to Pharaoh. Remember what I did in Egypt. The great temptations, that's the great terrors, the great fears, the great trials, which thine eyes saw, and the signs And the wonders, and the mighty hand, and outstretched arm. And again, what is the hand of the Lord? It is Christ It is is Christ's working. Whereby the Lord thy God brought thee out, so shall the Lord thy God do unto all the people of whom thou art afraid. Moreover, the Lord thy God will send a hornet among them. Until they that are left and hide themselves from thee be destroyed. Thou shalt not be affrighted at them, for the Lord thy God is among you, a mighty. And a terrible God. Where are we today, folks? Well, we dwell in a land of trouble. We dwell among a people that are fearful of a current pestilence. We are not Israel. And this is not Israel. But we are the people of God. And the same God who mocked, the same God who mocked the gods of Egypt is our God. The same God who redeemed Egypt out of Israel, Israel out of Egypt has redeemed us. The same God who defeated Pharaoh has defeated Satan. Oh, this same God is our God. And who is like him among the gods? Who else is glorious in holiness? Who else is fearful in the things? Whereunto he is to be praised. Jeremiah said, Who would not fear thee, O king of nations? For to thee doth it appertain, forasmuch as among all the wise men of the nations and all their kindreds, there is none like unto thee. But Moses' song isn't done yet. It's not done yet. Who is likened to the doing wonders? What other God has ever done a wonder? None. For there are no other gods. There is Satan who has power, and Pharaoh's magicians were able, by the power of the wicked one, to perform some acts. But every act that Pharaoh's magicians performed somehow was dependent on something created by God. Did you ever think about that? When their rods were turned to the serpents, where'd the rod come from? Well, God drew the rod. You see, it's all about God and not about these wicked gods. He does wonders. Verse 1. He's trying gloriously and throwing the horse and the rider into the sea. Verse 2, God is my strength and has become my salvation. Verse 3 and 4, he's a God of war. Pharaoh's chariots and his hosts are drowned. Verse 5, the depths covered them. Verse 6, the hand of God is glorious in power. Verse 7 Thou hast overthrown those that rose up against thee. And I mentioned in our scripture reading that they weren't rising up against Israel. Pharaoh was shaking his fist in the face of Jehovah. And God wasn't going to have it. God wasn't going to allow it to give by. Verse eight, the blast of thy nostrils. Verse nine, he says, I will do this and I will do that. I will overtake. I will divide. My lust shall be satisfied. Verse ten, God did blow. Verse eleven, who is like unto thee? Verse twelve, stretch out thy hand, and the earth shall swallow them. And so we see the might of the God. Verse thirteen might of God. Verse thirteen Thou in thy mercy hast led forth the people which thou hast redeemed. Thou hast guided them with thy strength unto thy holy habitation. We've seen all these great and mighty works that God's done. We've seen all his great and mighty power We see that there in the wilderness, God said, I'm going to do wonders. I'm going to do wonders greater than all the wonders you've already seen. And when we look at these wonders, they're all somehow tied to God's deliverance of his people. Of God's taking his people into the promised land. He did all these wonders to get them out of Egypt. He gave them manna in the wilderness, and then they're getting ready to go into the promised land. He said, I'm going to do all wonders yet to get you to where I want you to be. What is the single greatest wonder that God has done For God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son. That whosoever believeth in him should not perish and have everlasting life. What wonder has been done among the nations? is greater than that. What terrible thing, thing of great fear, is greater than that Satan knew his defeat on the cross. Satan tried again and again to kill Jesus before the cross. But God did the greatest wonder for his people. Turn over to Revelation with me. Revelation chapter 15. Keep your finger there in Exodus 15 because we'll look back to it again. But in Revelation chapter 15, we find the saints of God, they are there with the angels of God. And we find God's great triumph. And in Revelation 15 and verse 1, and I saw another sign in heaven, great and marvelous. Seven angels having the seven last plagues, the last plagues, and in them is filled up the wrath of God. And I saw, as it were, a sea of glass with fire. And them that had gotten the victory over the beast, and over his image, and over his mark, and over the number of his name Stand on the sea of glass, having the harps of God. You see the similarities here. A sea But this sea is a sea of glass and of fire. Remember the promise to Noah, I won't destroy the earth again with water, but I will with fire. You see how the scripture all links together? Verse 3. And they sing the song of Moses. The servant of God. They stand beside the sea and they sing the same song of triumph. That was sung at the defeat of Pharaoh by the Red Sea. And they sing the song of Moses, the servant of God, and the psalm of the Lamb, saying, Great and marvelous thy works! Lord God Almighty, just and true are all thy ways, thou King of saints, who shall not fear thee, O Lord, and glorify thy name? For thou art holy, thou only art holy, for all nations shall come and worship before thee, for thy judgments are made manifest. God made a way through the Red Sea for His people. God has made a way through the trials of this life into heaven for his people. God defeated Pharaoh in the Red Sea. God defeated Christ on the cross. The children of Israel were surely brought through all the trials and temptations into the promised land, and God will surely bring his people into the promised land. And here in heaven we have this glorious picture. Of those that have overcome the beast, and overcome his image, and overcome his number of his name, and they stand upon the sea of glass. That is also a sea of fire, a lake of fire, into which Satan and all his minions will be cast. And they sing the song of Moses And they sing the psalm of the lamb, the right arm, the right hand of God. Oh, hallelujah, it's glorious. Our Pharaoh is drowned in the sea, is cast into the lake of fire at this time in Revelation. And so God won the victory. As we conclude, go back with me again to Exodus 15. And in verse 6, I've emphasized it again, but we must come back to verse 6 to 15 again. Thy right hand, O Lord. Thy Christ, O Lord, is become glorious in power. Thy right hand, O Lord, hath dashed in pieces the enemy That's what they're singing in Revelation 15, folks. Christ has dashed in pieces the enemy. Christ has become glorious in his victory. Verse 15 of Exodus 15 The dukes of Edom shall be amazed. That represents all the powers of this world. The mighty of Moab, trembling, shall take hold upon them. Ah, he's terrible. He brings fear. All the inhabitants of Canaan shall melt away. Fear and dread shall fall upon them by the greatness of thine arm. By the greatness of Christ. They shall be as still as a stone. Remember what happened to stones in this passage? They sank down to the bottom of the sea. Remember, we saw that. Lead and stones. They sank at the bottom of the sea. Till thy people pass over, O Lord. Till the people thy people pass over, which thou hast purchased. Isn't that speaking of redemption And we someday will pass over Jordan into the promised land. Thou shalt bring them in and plant them in the mountain of thy inheritance. In the place, O Lord, this is verse 17, in the place, O Lord, which thou hast made for thee to dwell in. Where has God made a place for Himself to dwell in? Not here on earth. The eternal heavens. As Solomon said, where is the house that man shall make for thee to dwell in? It's not here, folks, it's there. In the sanctuary, O Lord, which thy hands have established, the Lord shall reign forever. And forever. My friends, what a glorious God. Choose you to stay, whom you'll serve Here are the gods of the wicked. Pick among them. Which one will be your Savior? They couldn't help the Egyptians. They couldn't help the Canaanites. They couldn't save a soul. Ah, but there is one God. And one alone, who sent his son to seek and to save that which was lost. Do you know Jesus Christ? Do you know the arm of God, the Savior? Come unto me. All ye that labored are heavy laden, and I will give you Give you rest. Let us pray