And from it, we are in the eighth chapter. We're well over halfway through the book, if you can imagine it. I'm going to read the first five verses of Hebrews chapter eight, which will be what we'll cover today. And then we'll get to our discussion question. You can follow along in your Bible if you'd like, or just listen to me. Hebrews 8 and the first five verses. Hebrews 8, first five verses. Hear now the word of the Lord. Now of the things which we have spoken, this is the sum we have, such a high priest, who is set on the right hand of the throne of the majesty in the heavens. a minister of the sanctuary and of the true tabernacle which the Lord pitched and not man. For every high priest is ordained to offer gifts and sacrifices. Wherefore it is of necessity that this man have somewhat also to offer. For if he were on earth, he should not be a priest, seeing that there are priests that offer gifts according to the law who serve unto the example and shadow of heavenly things. As Moses was admonished of God when he was about to make the tabernacle, for, and he's quoting here, see, saith he That thou make all things according to the pattern showed thee in the mount. So that's what we're going to try to cover today, Lord willing. So reflect now. On the first seven chapters of Hebrews, this was in your email I sent out. And if you needed to, you can frankly just do one of my favorite tricks for speed reading. Just read the first sentence of every paragraph. And just move on, because if they can't get the main point in one paragraph, then the paragraph's not worth reading anyway. And you can speed read. You can come up to speed pretty quickly. Having done that What are the top two to three benefits that you have discovered so far in this book? Top two to three. We did have one person reply as the rest of you are reflecting on that. We had a response. Uh if I can pull it up here. Jesus is our Redeemer. God speaks to us through Jesus the Word. The power of creation and sustainability is all of Jesus. Jesus, the express image of God. He purges our sins. He upholds us by the power of his word. He's at God's right hand. He alone is our high priest and intercessor, and Jesus will be back. I like that I kind of highlighted the chapters. Chapter 1, God has spoken. Chapter 2, God has spoken to us. Chapters 3 and 4, we have a high priest. Chapter 5, our high priest is compassionate. 6, we're freed from works. And seven are high priests. great. Yeah. Yeah. Great great points. Anybody else uh take the time to read the email, digest it, and carry out the homework assignment I send it to your Yahoo account. And your iCloud account. And your iCloud account files because you have too many emails in it. That's right, she does. She doesn't love me anymore. She blocks all my emails. No, that's okay. We went through it. I'm waiting for Li Ying to tell everything that we learned. Okay. Yes. It she put you set you up, Miss Lee Yay. We just try to especially for me just to understand the real meaning. Okay. or doctrine, something like that we should follow was uh uh the faith to uh in God whenever we decide to do something about what he uh has been written or spoken is already uh past. Yeah Yes. Yeah, that's very good. Um yeah, that is good. Considering that your culture uh from China, and of course mine from Texas, that's another culture. Um you know, we're we're a long throw from the Hebrews. And mighty long time away from the height and the start of David's kingdom in about ten tho uh a thousand BC. That's some three thousand years ago. We're talking about things that were established and put into practice and motion, certainly at least by David's time. But the wilderness tabernacle even further back. Well let's look at verse 1 for a moment. I've got several sections here to go through. I found it interesting. This one I'm not going to be able to teach much because it kind of is what it is on the surface. It says, of the things which we have spoken, meaning the first seven chapters, everything we've talked about, this is the sum. You know what you call that? An executive summary. We used to call it in my line of work the elevator speech. If you're on the bottom floor and the executive you're going to be briefing or the government customer to which you'll be presenting or pitching your wares. happens to ride with you on the elevator, what's your elevator speech that you can give him before he gets off in three or four floors? Boil it down. What do you got? And so we would practice an elevator speech. That's what we would call it. What's the elevator speech? This is the executive summary right here. This is the sum. The things which you spoke and this is the sum. This is the summary. This is the total of it. And listen to the language. And I'm just going to cover the first verse for now, and then we're going to drop into the second It says, we have such an high priest. I'm going to just actually break it down because Jesus, the book of Hebrews, has been speaking often about the high priest. A lot. Of all the books in the New Testament, this is the only one that speaks extensively about a group of people that To our Gentile eyes are the epitome of bad and evil. It was the high priest that crucified Jesus. It was the priest that stirred up the people against Christ. Yet Hebrews treats them as a very honorable individual, holds them up Comparing them to Jesus Christ. It's a very interesting comparison. The Hebrews did have respect to the high priest. Chapter 2, 17, merciful and faithful high priest. Chapter 3, the apostle and high priest of our profession. Chapter 4, we have a high priest passed into the heavens, touched with the feeling of infirmities. Chapter 5, he's a priest forever. Chapter 6, the Forerunner is for us entered, implying within the veil that he's holy, harmless, undefiled, made higher, as stated in the seventh chapter. I'm going to break down every phrase in here. We've been talking out, here's the executive summary. It says, we have. We have. We, the disciples of Jesus Christ, we collectively. We have, we have right now actually possess, we have, we actually possess this, such an high priest as described, I would say, the first entire seven chapters We have such an high priest, an eternal intercessor, an eternal advocate. Jeffrey's got some legal issues. He's hired an attorney, hopefully, as his advocate, hopefully. That meaning hopefully he's the advocate for your cause before the court of law. Because he can't appear and make judges don't like it when you show up without an attorney Hint, you ever go to court, you better get an attorney. They don't like it when we have an advocate. We have an advocate before the highest court He's our reconciler. He's our ombudsman. He's the high priest. He's the payer of our debts. It's the high priest that received the offerings and presented them. You're accepted. We have a holder of my record. He's impeccable. He has impeccable character. He will always be respected by God. We have such an high priest who is set, and that was my golden nugget for the week, that word set. I'm going to expand on that in a bit. Who is set As an as settled in office, seated, he has this appointed role. We talk about the chair of the department of fill-in-the-blank. You pick any university. There's always a chair of the department They're not talking about a physical piece of furniture, though they probably have something to sit in. It's not the furniture. It's the office. It's the role Who is set on the right hand? What do we say among ourselves? Mrs. Ross says, Gabriel is her right-hand man. And she's probably right. He's the one who's doing a lot of things. The right hand man is somebody you trust. Powerful position. They have immediate access to that individual. Jesus is at the right hand of God. He is in a position of immediate access. I don't see Mary in there anywhere. Do you read about Mary anywhere in the book of Hebrews? If she were so powerful, if she were such a redemptress, co-redemptor, whatever they call her, this Mariolator, the Mary they worship, by the way, is not the Mary of the Bible. You have to understand it's a different God. They just take on that name But you don't read about her anywhere in the book of Hebrews if she were so important. On the right hand of the throne of majesty, of the throne of majesty, a throne, what happens at thrones? Judgment is made at a throne. Cases are settled. Legal sentences are declared. A binding legal judgment is issued there. And oh by the way, this throne has no higher court of appeal. There is no Supreme Court to overturn this. It's settled permanently, forever, here. Matters of controversy are adjudicated at a throne. War is determined and waged from the throne. He is at the right hand of Majesty. He is in that power seat, another corporate phrase we use, the head shed, the C-suite, all the CEOs, CFOs, yeah, the head shed. What are they thinking? All the power figures. There's a lot of power brokers in DC running around panicky, having a little secret meetings. Right? We have an inside access, the ear of one who is at the throne of majesty and he's in the heavens. He's higher than all. It's a final word. It doesn't get any higher than this. That's what we currently possess. Is he not rightly called the anchor of the soul? What an advocate. And then you read in verse 2 about two tabernacles, and this was the mind-blowing part for me this week. He says he's a minister. That's an interesting word. It means a public servant. A minister, a servant of the sanctuary and of the true tabernacle. Which the Lord pitched and not man. Pitched is a word, unique word to the book of Hebrews. It kind of refers to pitching a tent. It has to do with putting tent pegs down. You know, you go put up a tent. You pop this thing out, you're looking for the instructions, oh, they're left in the box at home. You're trying to figure out how to construct this folded mess so that you hopefully you're free from the mosquitoes and rain at night. It's temporary. It said, but this is a true tabernacle which the Lord pitched. It's kind of a reference to that, to that wilderness tabernacle, which the Lord pitched not me. Jesus is a public servant, folks, he is still at work. He is a minister. He ministers to that sanctuary. He serves that sanctuary. The high priests and the priests of the Levitical Order, what were some of their tasks? Well, these were busy guys They had to keep the fire going. They had to receive, aren't you glad you didn't have to come to church with a lamb or a goat or a bull today? When's the last time, Jim, you ever hauled in a vehicle a lamb, a bull, or a goat? Never. How about a turtle dove? Have you ever had to haul one of those in a church? You know birds are kind of messy creatures. You had to do that. The priests had to receive that, not just from you, but from you and you and you and you and you These guys are dealing with filthy animals. Oh yeah, they might have been high grade quality. They were busy. Busy guys Jesus says they profane the temple on the Sabbath day. They do common work on that day. But they're blameless because that's their duty. Jesus serves his tabernacle. He is still serving it. He's still working in it, a different work, not with the blood of bulls and goats, but he is still serving it And we keep going. Well, let's ask a question for a moment here. What work is he doing? He's making intercession? That would probably be a full-time job for me. He's making what else is he doing? He's busy. What's he doing? How is he serving that True tabernacle in the heavens. Yep, listening to our prayers and answering them. What else is he doing? We think about that, we talked to him, but what else is he doing? Talking to the Father. He's talking to the Father. What else is he doing? He's doing some really big stuff up there, folks. Preparing a place for us. Preparing a place for us. Alright? What does that place look like? What is it? Mansions? We're gonna hang Lloyd Real Estate Group sign up on the buildings in heaven? You know? Christians need only apply. We discriminate. This is a closed gate community. He's building it. What's he building? Is there lumber in heaven? Brick and mortar? What's he building? What? It's heavenly. It's heavenly, all right. What's he building? Oh he spoke the earth into being in six days. And he's been working on this a lot longer. He's been working on this a really long time. Well we'll keep going. Hopefully we'll flush this out He says he's a minister of the sanctuary, and now we have a fresh insight because we've been slowly but surely climbing in the book of Hebrews one doctrinal point at a time. It's been a steep climb at some points. You remember his complaint in the fifth chapter, there's many things to be spoken of, but you're dull of hearing. I can't even get into it to paraphrase. He said, you're dull of hearing. You need to have somebody teach you the first principles of the oracles of God, the original audience to whom he wrote, and probably many of us as well, especially since we're Gentiles, not Jews. Now he has a fresh insight. He says this is the sum. This is the executive summary. He hasn't even really touched on this point just yet. And what is this new point? There's a true tabernacle. That is in the heavens. He hadn't touched on that before. What does that imply? Well It says that Jerusalem is not the true tabernacle. I'm talking about a piece of turf that a city occupies over in what the Romans called Palestine when they were in control of it. He says that's not the true Jerusalem. That's a big news flash right there out of the scriptures. There's a true tabernacle and it ain't in the Middle East. He's serving, Jesus is serving the heavenly sanctuary, the holiest of all, one made by God and not made by man. Here's the other ramification. Jesus does not serve the old. And he never will in the future. He will never serve the old Jerusalem. He will never serve that old tabernacle. He won't do it. Not going to happen. Absolutely impossible based on what we read in Hebrews 8 and these first five verses. Because this is a direct result of something he referred to as a New Testament. You have your Bible open. Look back at chapter 7. He said in verse 18 of chapter 7, there is verily a disannuling of the commandment going before for the weakness and unprofitableness thereof. The law was righteous, just and holy, but the verse 19, law made nothing perfect. It never perfected you, it never gave you eternal life. But the bringing in of a better hope, hint, new covenant, new testament The bringing in of a better hope did by the which hope we draw nigh unto God. And then later, he says in verse 22, by so much was Jesus made a surety of a better testament. A better testament, a new testament, not the old, the new. So he's with a very fine, sharp, bladed knife, with a razor-sharp edge Has carved out the fact that Jesus is a high priest, he has an unchangeable priesthood after the order of Melchizedek, we heard that a million times seated in the heavens and he's serving because high priests do something, they work. High priests are not like, you know, the King or Queen of England where the Prime Minister does all the work and they sit around and do nothing but eat bonbons all day long. Whatever kings do. I don't know. oppress oppress uh Protestants. But um here it says that he's a minister. And the by and he's a minister of a true tabernacle. Well if you have a true tabernacle, that means you have a city around that tabernacle. You have all the stuff with it. You know, the Bible actually talks quite a lot about Jerusalem, and the Bible's very clear that there are two Jerusalems. The Apostle Paul is very clear about that. There should be no mistake in the Christian community. In fact, for the first 1,500 years of the New Testament Church's existence, there was no question about the two Jerusalems. It was only in the eighteen hundreds when all of a sudden, after uh uh some uh uh pro-Zionist, pro-Jewish movements and efforts came afoot that says we really think there needs to be a big focus on on the Jews and the land of Palestine and Judea and and and he's going to come back and re-establish all of the Jewish order and system. That was when it came. It's a really a later movement and effort. The Bible's very clear there's two Jerusalems. Look at your handout. I'll show you the clearest one From the Apostle Paul in Galatians 4. It's in Galatians 4 and verse 21. You can read in your handout, turn to your Bible if you think I've changed a few words. I haven't. Galatians 4. 21 says this. Here the apostle writes this. Tell me, ye that desire to be under the law, great reference to the entire old covenant, Do you not hear the law? For it is written that Abraham had two sons. Actually, that phrase law is referring to the Old Testament to include Abram back in Genesis. The Abram had two sons, the one by a bond maid, the other by a free woman. But he who was of the bond woman, so notice the comparison between free woman, that would be the wife And the bondwoman, or the bond slave, that would be the servant in the house, Hagar. He who was of the bond woman was born after the flesh. So Hagar gave birth to Ishmael And Sarai gave birth to Isaac. But he of the free woman, this is Isaac, was by promise. God promised her. He came to their tent and said, Yea, verily, in this set time next year you'll have a son. You, Sarai, will have a son. Which things are an, oh my stars, an allegory. Oh, quit having allegorical interpretations of the Bible. Paul did. He said it right here. It's an allegory. You can't argue with it. For these are the two covenants. He sees in Abram and these two women two separate covenants. One is from Mount Sinai. Well, what happened at Mount Sinai? Well, the only thing that happened at Mount Sinai was the giving of the law. The birth, if you will, of the old covenant. Mount Sinai birthed spiritual Ishmael, known as the Old Covenant, the law. The one from Mount Sinai, and it genders, it brings forth bondage. We're going to talk about what bondage is in a second here, but it brings forth bondage, which is agar. This agar is Mount Sinai in Arabia. He keeps making it very clear what I'm talking about. In case you were confused. I'm not talking about Mount Sinai Lane where the nine houses are. I'm talking about Mount Sinai, the mountain that burned and smoked, where the covenant was given. And answers to Jerusalem, which now is, so by the time Paul was writing the book of Galatians, there was still a place called Jerusalem. The Romans hadn't sacked it. And is in bondage with her children. Notice all the bondage being associated with Jerusalem. But there's another one he talks about, but Jerusalem which is above. There's a Jerusalem which is above. Well, does that mean it's on a higher mountain? I guess. It means it's up in heaven. It's above, which is free and is the mother of us all. So notice the contrast of the two Jerusalems. The contrast couldn't be starker. One is bondage. One is freedom. One is earthly. One is heavenly. One is below. One is above. One is of the law, the other is of promise. He makes a very sharp distinction here. Don't get confused. Hint, which one do you think Jesus is associated with? The New Jerusalem, the heavenly one above. What is this bondage thing? John 8, 34 and 36, the Lord Jesus answers that as well Jesus answered them, Verily, verily I say unto you, Whosoever committeth sin is a servant of sin. You could render that word slave. Well, slavery has inherent to it the concept of bondage. And the servant abides not in the house forever, but the son abides ever. If the son therefore shall make you free You shall be free indeed. And so you're either in bondage to or you're in freedom from sin. Oh boy, what a grand entrance here. Daarom That's great. Good to see them here. Romans three twenty. By the law is the knowledge of sin. By the law. It's always talking about you're either a slave of sin or you're set free from sin. To the law, to the old covenant. You're a slave of sin. You can't escape it. It's designed to catch sinners, and it does a very good job of it But in Christ you're free from sin, and all who are in him are free from sin. There's freedom. Lo and behold, in Revelation 21, you get to the very end of the book. You know when you want to read a mystery novel and you don't have time, your air airplane's only got a 20-minute flight. So you jump to the very last chapter and you read that. I read the end of the book. Well, you get to the last chapter of Revelation. What do you read? I, John, saw the holy city, New Jerusalem, coming down from God, out of heaven. Can it be any clearer? Prepared as a what? As a bride. Do you see any concrete in that picture? Do you see any lumber? Plastic? Glass? Rubber? Mylar? Teflon? Pipes, broken pipes, I don't see any of that from this. I see people. What's God busy doing build and have he's busy building his church He's building a tabernacle. He's building us. He's knitting us together. We are the habitation of God, the wilderness tabernacle as much as Solomon's. was the place where God said his name was. God says he'll write his name on your forehead. Not on a building or a city, but on you. He's building people. We're still confused. We still think a church is brick and mortar and concrete and asphalt and roofing tar. It's people. That's what God's building. He's building and fitting people. And the amazing thing about New Jerusalem, it comes down from above, it was four square. 12,000 cubits by or 12,000 stadia by twelve thousand by twelve thousand, the the Greek word is stadia from where we get our word stadium like football stadium. And if you were to physically Calculate the length of the sides of that perfect cube. And oh, by the way, the Holy of Holies was a perfect cube in the Old Testament. It was a perfect cube. So God's going big. This is such a huge cube, it's 12,000, 12,000, 12,000, that if you were to put a physical number to it, it would obstruct low Earth orbiting satellites. It would change the orbit of the earth. Folks, it's spiritual. Don't think anything physical. It's way too big to be even considered remotely something that God would set up on the earth. The people from 5,000 Stadia and above wouldn't even have oxygen. It's that high if you were to physically lay out a dimension. I take the Bible literally. Yeah I read every word but I don't take it physically. Not every time. There are times when you should, and many a time there's a surface-level meaning that's there. These things are parables. Especially in Revelation. Very symbolic. So question is to make sure I'm understanding. So the true tabernacle, the New Jerusalem, the church, the Bride of Christ. That's all Samanas. That's all different terms for the same Yeah, same spiritual energy, different aspects of it. Right? That tabernacle was the holiest of holy where God Himself dwelt. New covenant. God says, I will dwell with my people. I will put my name on the He will put his name on us. All of that is just symbolic of what God is doing. And frankly. I don't believe that human language exists to fully describe exactly what we're talking about. One message I'd really like to do is the topic of the sons of light. That's a spectacular concept as well. Jesus' very role as the high priest seated in heaven not only reveals a new covenant, but I believe it also argues strongly against any end-time position which enthrones Jesus down here on earth. A premillennial view. Let's keep going. Before we keep going, I have a question. Is there anything Jesus cannot do? Now before you answer that quickly, think it through. Is there anything Jesus cannot do? He cannot sin, correct? He cannot lie, Scripture says. You know you have another one right here in Hebrew? It's quite interesting. And this was a big insight to me. God has got swim lanes, and that's one of your first fill-in-the-blanks. The other was the two Jerusalems. This was swim lanes. By swim lane I mean area responsibility. You know, uh Marines sitting in a Humvee. Two um the one on the right says, Anything from this point over here, you shoot. Anything from this point over here, I shoot. So the barrels will aim it out. They're not crossing over each other. Swim lanes. You know, you got your area of responsibility. God has pierced a very touchy subject, a better high priest. Better tabernacle, a new covenant. That's a very touchy subject with the Hebrews to this first audience, right? That's a touchy subject because you're talking to Hebrews who Their very culture and nationality is defined by this theocracy known as Israel with the law of Moses, right? The Pharisees says we know Moses. God spake to Moses, but as for this fellow, we we don't know So more logical proofs are offered to support this better high priest, this true tabernacle, this heavenly reality. More proofs. There's three. Number one The high priest's role is to offer gifts and sacrifices. I don't think any Jew would argue with that. We wouldn't argue with that. And so likewise, Jesus, our high priest, must have an offering He's got to have an offering. He's going to be a high priest. Okay, so he's making some steps here. He's building things up. He says in chapter 8, verse 3, every high priest is ordained to offer gifts and sacrifices. That's their role. Whereof it is a necessity that this man, speaking of Jesus, have somewhat also to offer. He's got to also offer something. If he's going to be a priest, that's what you do. But he's already covered that point in the fifth chapter of the seventh chapter, that every high priest taken from among men is ordained to do this. He also ought to do the same. Chapter 7. 24. But this man with an unchangeable priesthood, separate from sinners, verse 27 of Hebrews 7, who needeth not daily As those high priests offer up sacrifice first for his own sins and then for the people, for this he did once when he offered up himself. So He has to offer sacrifice and offering? Well, Christ has already done that. High priests have to do that. Christ has already done that. Not going to do it again. Levitical priests have to do that. And now he gets to the second point. And this is another thing that Jesus cannot do. Is Jesus cannot be a high priest here on earth. He cannot. Not possible. Not allowed. Not permitted. Why? God respects his divinely instituted roles and organizations. That duty, that responsibility was given to the Levites Jesus isn't a Levite, he's from the tribe of Judah. Right. He can't do that. He's not allowed to do that By his own admission. He has limited himself from doing that. I cannot do that. This is not he doesn't serve the example. He is the reality He's not gonna mimic anything. He's not gonna come down here. It says verse four of chapter eight. For if he were on earth, he should not be a priest. Now that was a dynamite point for me. If he were here, he should not be a priest. But God has set him on the right hand, where he is a high priest, with an unchangeable priesthood that endures forever. So this is kind of building up to some pretty big tensions. This is building up to a big point. We're now gaining an interesting insight into God's form of government. How God governs things. He respects his divinely appointed roles. Remember Jesus at the Sermon on the Mount? He said, think not that I am come to destroy the law of the prophets. Why? Well he gave the law through Moses. It was the Spirit of God, God the Father, the Son, the Holy Spirit. The entire triune Godhead is there at Mount Sinai giving the law. He told them before Abraham was, I am. Abraham rejoiced to see my day. So if Abraham rejoiced to see Christ, so did Moses. And in fact, Moses was with him on the mount Intimate communion. Moses wasn't in shock about, oh, this is Jesus, how cool is this? No, he knew. He knew who he got the Ten Commandments from. And so he's giving it to them. He says, think not that I'm coming to destroy the law or the prophets, the Spirit of Christ speaking to the prophets. They knew who spoke to them. I'm not coming to destroy that. He laid that down. I am not come to destroy, but to fulfill. That's what he did do. He fulfilled it. Verily I say unto you, till heaven and earth pass, one jot or one tittle shall in no wise pass from the law, till Till, meaning until, here's the term, here's the condition by which these things will pass till all be fulfilled. Well, wait a minute, Jesus came to fulfill. So if he has fulfilled the law, he's fulfilled that old covenant, and he says, it can't pass until it's fulfilled. If he came and he fulfilled it. It's going to pass. And we're going to continue to read about that in the book of Hebrews because he's going to continue to make that point. The old covenant is passing. And of course, we would say it has passed completely. So Jesus is making a critical nuance on how the law, the old covenant, will pass. In Matthew 23, Jesus respects the office, but not necessarily the person occupying the office. He respects his divinely appointed roles. The Levites do their thing, and Jesus has got his role. He says in Matthew 23, he spake to the multitude and his disciples, saying, The scribes and Pharisees sit in Moses' seat. If Jesus flamed anybody, it was the scribes and Pharisees. In fact, he's going to continue in this 23rd chapter to beat on them All, therefore, he continues, whatsoever they bid you observe and do, that observe and do. But do not ye after their works. Their works were examples that led men astray. But what they taught, Jesus says, you need to listen to them. They're declaring what Moses said. He has respect to the office. Why? It's a God-ordained office. And even so, Jesus having an unchangeable priesthood respects his office. So let me ask a question now. What might it mean, given everything I've just explained to you What would it mean, or what would it say, if Jesus left his heavenly throne and began to physically rule in some temple in Jerusalem? If he did that, what would that mean? He's out of order. Alright, he's out of order. Something's out of order. What else? Jealousy. Interesting, jealousy, yeah. Yeah, other other country will be jealous. How come that he is reigned there, not here? Okay, well, uh yeah, I mean other countries might be jealous, right? Uh The requirements of the law have not yet been fulfilled. The requirements of the law hadn't been fulfilled? Okay, I could see some of that, yeah. I'm thinking the only way that could ha happen is that he would have come back to end He would have come back. Would have already come back. Would have already come back, yes. Yeah, all right. If he's coming down here, because he's not coming back here until he comes back. Right. Right, right. So then yeah. It's This isn't trumpeted much, so let me try to connect some dots for you. Hebrews 7 has been talking a lot about the high priest. What's the nature of his priesthood? How long does it last? Forever. Forever. If he leaves that job and takes up a different job, did he have an unchangeable priesthood? The answer would be no. It changed. He left that job and took a demotion. Alright, number one. Number two, it would mean he doesn't respect The Levitical priesthood. He's from Judah, not from Levi. So he would be violating the law. He would be seated at the throne. Number three, he's really not your servant. He would God would be lying if Jesus left, because it says he cannot be a priest here on earth. But if he comes here and he is a priest on earth, then God is lying in Hebrews 8. All of those would be true based on what this says. So it's forget jealousy, forget and I'm trying not to blame anybody. I'm I I this is not commonly taught. I understand this. But do you see how God cannot lie? There are things that God cannot do. He respects his offices. The scriptures has declared him that he is at an unchangeable priesthood. He gained that by blood right. He's prophesied of it in Psalm 110. There is no way he's going to leave that job. Because we got the best man on the job. You remember that that lesson? We got the best man on the job. Well he wasn't the best man if he left the job. If he abandoned ship, he wasn't really the best man There's a lot of problems, a lot of theological problems we have. If Jesus comes down here and rules from some throne in Jerusalem, we have some major problems It says, I'm in charge of the Jerusalem which is in bondage. I'm really not the son that sets you free. You would be serving You see the confusion you said out of order Jim that that really sums it all up. It's totally out of order. It's wacko. It limits who he is and what he does. Because he's our eternal priesthood. He's eternal in the heaven. He makes the sacrifice for us. He lives eternally to intercede for us. And if he just rules in this tiny little earthly priesthood, it limits everything he does Absolutely. He would be completely ineffective. The Jews could not minister to the Gentiles, for instance. There was the court of the Gentiles, they could come no further. There was the court of the women, they could come no further. It was only men who didn't have blemishes that could come further. So it would greatly limit all of a sudden to whom Jesus is available to. Very good point. Now talking about a kingly rule, who is he now? He is the king of what? King of Kings. You know, Nebuchadnezzar was called a king of kings, so I'm starting to refer to Christ as King of King of Kings. He's over all. Why would he drop that and just become a mere earthly king? You talk about a a big time demotion There's a lot of generals at the Pentagon. I don't know any of them who are willing to become, you know, staff sergeant Banaki or something. I mean they're not going to drop down from general to that level. Why would Jesus want to do that? That makes no sense. And so we would have big, big issues if Jesus were to be a high priest here on earth. It just can't be. It would be confusion. Furthermore, it says he is set in the heavens, and that word set is appointed, settled. It would also mean that God has not set him. in the heavens. That he's got a movable seat. God didn't set him. That would imply that I mean if Jesus can be moved from his role, what comfort do you have? If if if if he could be moved from that What comfort uh it it's it's a big problem, did you know? God has already highly exalted him. He uh he can't be exalted any higher, so Right. That's another good point. Because he humiliated himself once. Yes. It was a one-time humiliation, and he got humiliated big time. And then verse 5 tells us that what we're looking at here on earth is only patterns. That's all you got down here on earth. Only patterns. And boy, this is a broad topic. Only patterns. He cites Exodus 25. 40, Exodus 26, you read about it, see that thou make all things according to the pattern showed thee in the mount. There's a couple of other places that I found in the Old Testament that are interesting references to that word pattern. I've got them in your handout, 1 Chronicles 28. David, under inspiration, being a prophet and a king, says this, then David gave Solomon his son the pattern. of the porch, and so forth and so forth, and of the place of the mercy seat. Remember, David didn't build this stuff. He collected the material, and it was Solomon who built it. And the pattern of all that he had by the Spirit. of the courts of the house of the Lord. See, God the Holy Spirit gave him a lot of detail. And David passes this on, and his credit is that he received this by the Spirit of God. And Colossians, lo and behold, in 2. 16 tells us furthermore about these patterns. And again, I have to draw it to a close here. Let no man therefore judge you in meat or drink in respect of a holy day or of a new moon or the Sabbath days. What are those? Jewish Restrictions, ceremonial law, dietary rules, Sabbath days, notice days plural There were your regular routine every s uh Sabbath day, which we would call Saturday, Sabbath days, and then there were high and holy Sabbath days. There were some Sabbath days, I believe, that fell on the ninth day if you calculated things. There were high, special, holy Sabbath days. Don't let any man judge you concerning these things. He says you're not to be judged about that I saw Brother Anton Bowen's law on Saturday. Not keeping the Ten Commandments. He's a big violator. What you wouldn't bet. He's doing something else too. Let no man judge you about these things, it says. Why? He says, which are a shadow. That's the very same word in Hebrews 8. 5. These priests serve unto the example, the pattern, the type, the exhibit, and the shadow of heavenly things. That word shadow is sketch or outline. It's a great word. It's a sketch. It's just a an architect when he's designing a building, he he he kind of sketches things. He may make it he may even make a little m 3D model. He may throw it in a wind tunnel to see if the building's gonna blow over anything. How to make it more efficient for the It's people are not going to dwell in a m model that's two feet high. That's He fills heaven and earth. He says, What house will you build me? Earth is my footstool, heaven is my throne. You're going to build me a building? Don't you know how big I am? These things are a shadow of things to come, but the body is of Christ. And so the final point here is that Jerusalem's earthly tabernacle, subject to decay, It could get run over. It could get conquered and was several times. It's subject to being served by men that die. You had priests that came and went. It was just a shadow. It was only temporary. It was a sketch. It was an outline. And God insisted that great attention and detail was paid to how that. pattern that temple that that template was made so that when the Messiah came, when the heir came, when the prophecies concerning Jesus The Son of God would arrive. They would say, this is the Messiah. This is the promised one. And some people hugged the wedding invitation more than they hugged the bridegroom. And may we not do the same thing. Oh, you can't leave, you'll never leave his church building. He built his building. He'll never leave the building. I've heard some people think that. Isn't it curious God devotes so much detail down to the pins and the sockets on the building of the tabernacle, but he does not offer any such guidance for building a physical New Testament building God doesn't give a physical building code, Pastor, for how someday, Lord willing, we should build a physical building. He doesn't give that detail, but he does give a lot of detail. on the qualifications for bishops and elders and deacons because they're going to be busy doing something because they're building something. They're building the true church, the true tabernacle. where our high priest seated in the heavens always serves. Powerful insights here. Powerful insights from God in this passage. Well let's uh close in prayer. Uh Joey, could I ask you to close in prayer? Would that be all right? If I'm hitting you cold here, that's really not fair. Your mind's probably on something else. Lord, thank you for this day, that we can gather together to worship you