Bibles this morning to 1 Samuel Chapter 3. Title of the Message this morning is The Word Was Precious Some of your Bibles, if not here, or at home, they're gold-gilted on the sides. And we have see the Bibles sometimes are gold-gilted And sometimes even the Holy Bible that's engraved in gold. There was a time when the people of this nation understood that God's word was precious And they would just encompass it with gold lettering and and gold gilding on the edges of the pages. So the title this morning is The Word Was Precious And what we're really looking at here, if you really think about it, is these ten verses we're going to read this morning, we're observing a young child getting saved. Name is Samuel. Alright? So 1 Samuel chapter 3, and if you just follow with me as we read the first ten verses. And the child ministered on the Lord before Eli. Remember, Eli is the high priest of Israel And uh Eli has got the young lad, Samuel, and his son, living with him now, uh, up there in Shiloh, and he ministers in the tabernacle. They didn't have a temple building yet The Ark of the Covenant was still kept in a tent. And the child Samuel ministered on the Lord before Eli. And the word of the Lord was precious in those days. There was no open vision. And it came to pass at that time when Eli was laid down in his place, and his eyes began to wax dim that he could not see. And ere the lamp of God went out in the temple of the Lord, where the ark of God was, and Samuel was laid down to sleep as well, that the Lord called Samuel And he answered, Here am I. And he ran unto Eli and said, Here am I, for thou callest me. And he said, I called not. Lie down again. And he that is Samuel went, and he lay back down. And in verse 6, and the Lord called yet again, Samuel And Samuel arose and went to Eli and said, Here am I, for thou didst call me. And he answered, I called not my son. Lie down again. Now Samuel did not yet know the Lord, neither was the word of the Lord yet revealed unto him. And the Lord called Samuel again the third time. And he arose and went to Eli and he said, Here I am, for thou didst call me. And Eli perceived that the Lord had called the child. And therefore Eli said unto Samuel, Go lie down, and it shall be, if he call thee, that thou shalt say, Speak, Lord, for thy servant heareth. And so Samuel went and lay down in his place. And the Lord came and stood and called as at other times, Samuel, Samuel! And then Samuel answered, Speak, for thy servant heareth. Verse one we find The child Samuel ministered on the Lord before Eli. And if you gotta remember the environment he was living in, Eli's two sons Phineas and Hotney were thieves. They were robbers stealing from God, stealing from the people who came to the tabernacle. They were seducing the women and lying with the women in the congregation. It was a very uh the the environment was full of impiety and impurity. And so Samuel's peers, even though it was in the house of God, uh there was it was a pretty pathetic uh peer group that he was involved with. But Samuel doesn't use that as an excuse for sinning. Perhaps You think that God will understand when you say to him someday, Lord, it's not my fault. I just got mixed up with a bad crowd. you know, before the judge said, Oh Judge, Your Honor, I'm really sorry. It's not my fault. I just got I just fell in with a with a with a with a bad group, you know, it's not my fault. Well, Samuel couldn't use that as an excuse because his peer group, older than him, whom he would probably look up to and and was there at the temple. Finney and Hopness were not what you'd want around your children. But he didn't use it as an excuse. He He dared to be a Daniel. He dared to stand alone. He wasn't going to stand with Phineas and Hopney and the others that were ungodly that he ran into. He was going to be like a Joseph. Joseph's in prison. He's been tossed into prison. Pontiver's wife's accused him of of trying to uh uh you know rape her and so forth and molest her and he's in prison and he's surrounded by all these wicked people And does Joseph say, I don't belong here, this is not there, God's not tripping, right? I must just start living like everybody else. But did Joseph do that? No. He didn't let the peer pressure become his excuse for sinning Or is Noah in the days of Noah? You couldn't think of a worse time to be growing up in the days of Noah, was that man waxed worse and worse in every thought and imagining to the heart Genesis 6 and 5 was evil continually. But Noah didn't allow the peer pressure to be his excuse for sinning. So I wonder how many here have done that already or can look back over the ages and the decades remember at a time when you used this excuse but Well I got in trouble and I got arrested and I got you know whatever. Uh because I just wanted the bad group. There was this bad group in my neighborhood and that was my only friends and my peer pressure. It it doesn't work that way, friend. And uh if you think that the Lord Jesus Christ is gonna buy that When he stands before the judgment throne, he's not. Because Daniel didn't let the peer pressure get to him, neither did Joseph, neither did Noah. And even Samuel here, he's not even a saved young man at this verse for one, but he still has a conscience about him And then we read here that as he was ministering before the Lord and before Eli, that the word of the Lord was precious in those days. Now you don't know until you read a couple more verses on, but you realize when it says the Word of God was precious, it doesn't mean that the people thought, Oh, I value the Word of God so much. Oh, it's just praise the Lord, I got a Bible and I got God's Word, and and it's so precious. That's not what that word precious there means. It actually means that the Word of God was very rare in that day. Which is another some things that are rare are precious, aren't they? But the Word of God was rare there because the preacher wasn't preaching it, the people weren't reading it, and the people didn't really really put much countenance uh put much uh weight in the word of God at all. So it was precious all right, but that's because it was rarely preached, rarely discussed. It was not held in reverence among the inhabitants of Israel There was an immoral priesthood at that time, Denny and Hopnius. There was a disenchanted people who were careless about their worship service, and God's apparent disinterest in Israel was there as well For there was no open vision, it says in verse one. God was no longer appearing as he had appeared to Adam in the Garden of Eden. God was no longer appearing as as he had appeared at times to Moses and spoke with him and Aaron. The open visions of God were were gone. It was rare to hear from God. It was rare to hear a preacher in the pulpit talking as though the Word of God really was precious. And so we find here that the word of the Lord was precious, or it was rare, almost non-existent, even in Shiloh, where the high priest was and where Samuel was growing up. Again, maybe a good excuse for not being a good kid. A good excuse for getting in trouble is that I wasn't around the Word of God. It wasn't something that was special. It wasn't available to me. But those are excuses that Daniel didn't use, Noah didn't use, Samuel didn't use And yet, with all of this, the word is rare, the environment is poor, Phineas and Hotmia, these adulterous individuals, and with all of that, we find that Samuel In these verses, it begins to grow spiritually. He's like a flower out in a desert somewhere, a flower on a dung heap. It's an unexpected thing in this kind of environment, this kind of peer pressure that he would begin to grow in grace and knowledge of the Lord. But but we're not even through yet with this environment because we note here that uh if we go to verse two that things weren't weren't getting better right away. In verse 2 it says, Eli, he's a high priest, his eyes begin to wax dim that he could not see. And we have to remember from the last couple of weeks and the chapters before that perhaps the reason that he could not see, perhaps the reason he was losing his eyesight, is that Eli had been winking at his son's behavior. You know, that's okay, son. Got you covered, got your back, you know. He he was winking at his son's sin, and perhaps like like Samson was winking at the Philistine women who lost his eyesight. Eli was now losing his e sa his eyesight for some of the same sin nature. So we've not just got the bad sons, but we've got Eli who who winked at sin and What a what an environment. I I I suspect that Hannah had no idea when she left Samuel there at the condition of those serving the Lord's house at that time. We might say the same thing. We take our children and we say, oh, I'm so I'm gonna take them and throw them in a Christian school. Oh, it's so good. You know, Christian schools aren't perfect. There's probably an Eli and a Phineas stacked up somewhere even in the Christian schools. Moms and dads, the responsibility begins with you in training up your child in the way it should go. Don't you think you can throw them up there at the temple with Eli and finish the hobby and everything will be good. Because he basically was in a Christian school environment and his environment wasn't so good after all So here's Phineas, he's lying down, he's losing his eyesight. Again, it might be from winking at sin, and so God's taking his eyesight away So we got Phineas and Hopney, we got Eli who's going blind, who who we believe is a saved man, but he just kind of let things go sometimes, they shouldn't have And what we find is the whole nation of Israel is sitting in darkness. They're not being preached to. They're not being they're not being uh exhorted, admonished, and and rebuked for their sins. And so the whole nation of Israel is in darkness. It's much like the days of Christ, when Christ came, Israel sat in darkness. And they comprehended not that the light of the world had come unto them. And this darkness had encompassed the teachers of the temple. This darkness had encompassed the people of the congregation. And I would ask you this morning, do you think that perhaps we're living in some pretty dark and jury days as well? Hmm Well, let me say this to you this morning. The situation today in America is not hopeless as long as the God of Samuel still lives, and he does. Don't ever you forget that. No matter how dark it seems in the churches, in the temples, in the tabernacles, in the pulpits, in the homes, in the Christian environment or Christian school, no matter how dark it seems In any nation, the God of Samuel still lives. And it says here, and some of the rabbis who write about these verses here, and you know, we talk about Christian commentary, but the rabbis write about the Old Testament especially, and they take this too, and and that where the verses three and four uh it it says here that Ere the lamp of God went out in the temple, the Lord called Samuel. Think about that. Before the now there was a lamp that was burning in the temple that night before the Ark of the Covenant, they put oil in it And you try it was supposed to last all night, and it must have been getting close to the morning. And ere the lamp went out, it was almost ready to go out, it was almost morning in in the dark sanctuary, and just before the lamp went out The word of God came to Samuel. God said, Samuel, they call Samuel. And the the rabbis of Israel, they take and they read these verses, and you go back a hundred years, a thousand years, and the rabbis say Ere the before the light went out in Israel, God came again. That's the way they see that. Ere the light went out in the temple, the Lord called Shannuel. And before the light goes out in America, I have to hope and pray to become the same God, the God of Samuel, that he may yet, before the light goes out in America, call again our children. Call another child. Call someone. Call another John Knox. Call another Jonathan Edwards. Call call another Charles Spurgeon. Call another Wesley. Call someone. Call Call many someone. Our church, our nation. We need more Samuels. And ere the light goes out in this nation, I believe God will call some Samuels again. Samuel in verses 5 and 6 it says he he got up and he ran into Eli and he said, Hear my, thou callest me. And Eli said, I I called you not, lie down. And he goes down, he lays down, and the second time the Lord comes in, Samuel! And Eli and Samuel jumps up and he runs and said, Eli, I I I know you called me. He said, No, I didn't. You go, you go and and and you lie down. I didn't call you, my son. Samuel is still not saved at this point, but he's obedient. The old man, he's 98 years old. That's what the scripture tells us that he is not in 1 Samuel 4 and 15, just one chapter, we find it. He's 98 years old. Eli the high priest, 98 years old. And so little Samuel sleeps nearby and must cater to the needs he may have. He's he's probably very slow in his walking and maybe he's afraid to fall now and so forth. And and so w when he calls him Samuel jumps Samuel leaves his warm bed. Samuel's ready to goze off. His sleep is interrupted. You might say, oh if I let the old man go. He's gonna fall back to sleep. He doesn't need me. But Samuel jumps up and runs. It says he runs. He runs. He says, Hey, what what is it? What do you need? He said, I didn't call you. Oh. Okay. Maybe I was dreaming. He goes back. And God calls again. He jumps up, he runs again. He says, I know I heard you call me this time. I want you to see you to be is you children sometimes they say you use an excuse. Well mom and dad are expecting too much of me. And maybe mom and ask, Why are you t why are you so disobedient? Why do you have this attitude towards mom and dad? What is with you? And sometimes the kids will say, Well, maybe I'm not saved. That's why I'm like this. I've heard that Well you want to know something? Samuel's not saved here, but he's still obedient. Young people, you are to honor your mother and your father, whether you're saved or not. You know what? Thou shalt not steal, whether you're saved or not. You go before a judge and tell a judge, Your Honor, I know I stole the guy's car. Your Honor, I know I lifted the wallet, I know I stole the credit card, I stole his whole identity. But Your Honor! I'm not saved. What do you expect of a guy that's not saved? What's the judge going to do? Throw you in the slammer. Samuel's not saved, but we see here a tender heart. You can have a tender heart and not be saved. You can be an obedient child And not be saved. You know there are people driving up and down this road out here on Blair Road and they're not speeding? There are some like that who are not speeding on Blair Road and they're stopping at the red light in the stop side. They're obedient and they're not saved. But Samuel here is not saved, and yet he is he is not only obedient, he is swift to respond. You know, your parents say, I want you to uh back in the rugs, or your parents say I want you to wash the dishes, or I want you to uh wash the car or cut the grass. Yeah, yeah, okay, I'll I'll get to it uh if not today, tomorrow. That would not have been Samuel. He is swift. He is obedient, he is swift to obey. Young people. In fact, let me talk about the older people. You're at work and the boss asks you to get something done. You'll stack some crates in a corner somewhere or move a piece of machinery and you say, Yeah, yeah, I'll get to it. How about being obedient and swift to obey our employers? Samuel is swift to respond. He's an obedient individual. He leaves his warm bed and he runs, not once, not twice. But three times his sleep is disturbed. He crawls out of his warm bed to go to the high priest Eli. So, do you put off obeying your parents? Or do you obey them and you delay obeying them? Or you obey them, but it's not done cheerfully? Samuel is cheerfully obedient and responding, and he quickly does all of this Obedience. You know, I think of Isaac I know you think sometimes your parents or your employer is is asking too much of you, you know. Oh you wouldn't believe what my my boss asked me to do. Work through lunch hour, I'm telling you, huh? Wanted me to stay, the truck arrived late and he wants to unload a truck and it's it's it's ten minutes before. We're done and I mean I can't believe you want to say, oh yeah, give me time and a half maybe, but I got things to do. I can't believe what he asked you can't believe my parents asked me to do. They want me to wash the cat. Feed the dog? Scrub the floor? You can't imagine. You look through the Bible. What what what parents asked. You know what Abraham asked Isaac to do? Crawl up in a pile of wood, I'm going to sacrifice you. And Isaac was obedient unto his father. Is anybody here? Is anybody your father said, come in here, I want to kill you. Has that happened to any of you? Isaac was obedient, obedient to that. How about Esther? She doesn't really have parents, so Mordecai has raised her. And Mordecai says, Esther, I want you to go in the king and tell him what's happening. And Esther says, if I go in the king uninvited, If he doesn't extend the scepter, they'll kill me. And Mordecai says, but they're going to kill us. And she says, and Mordecai, he's like a father to her. He raised her and he says to her, Esther. You're going to talk to the king. That's a death sentence of walking before the king, even though it's her husband. And she says, If I perish, I perish. Now have your parents children of your parents asked you to do something that's it's almost certain death Even the Lord Jesus Christ in Luke 2 and verse 51 it says, Christ, he's the creator of the heavens and the earth, of all the universe. I mean he's the Alpha and the Omega. And Christ says it says in Luke 2 and 51, he was submissive in subjection to Joseph and Mary. Wow. So what excuse do we have? Huh? My dad wants me to get a haircut. Huh, I'm not getting a haircut. Really? He's not asking you to lay yourself up and not also somewhere and be executed, right? Huh. Doesn't want me to have pure steers. Doesn't want me watching that th those movies doesn't want me drinking doesn't doesn't want me uh he he's got all he wasn't to go to church He didn't ask you, he said, go to church. Your parents didn't say, I want you walking before the king. If he doesn't extend the scepter, he's gonna have you slaughtered and killed. There's two guys on each side of the king with the swords. And then look at if the scepter is not extended, they cut your head off. I mean All they're asking to do is to not wear some of the clothes that are supposed to be so fashionable today or or to get a decent haircut or or no you don't want to go to that movie. I don't want you seeing that particular movie or attending church. I I mean do you really think you have an excuse for being disobedient to your parents? My dad said, this is the haircut I got, and this is the haircut you're going to have. Remember, I'm paying for the haircut my dad said. If I'm paying for it, it's going to be the haircut I want you to have. And if you don't like the haircut that I'm paying for, then we'll have your then you'll get your uncle's haircut. He was bald Uncle Jim, we don't want Uncle Jim's haircut. Your parents will feed you, clothing you. Provide for some of the your entertainment in life. They probably bought you the football you got and the catcher's mask and anything else. And you don't and and you're gonna fight your parents over a haircut. Or the dress that you want to buy. Samuel was a good companion for old Eli. I know we hear so much today about the generation gap, right? There's not a generation gap. There's a spiritual gap. There's a tenderness gap. There's an obedience gap. But there's not a generation gap. What do they do for the old people, the old homes? Old people love to see young people come and visit the grandchildren, the great grandchildren They even take puppies and so forth in the the old people. It's a great it's a great relationship that you can create between an old person and a young lad or a young young lady We ought to encourage it in our children because if you are close to old people, if you value old people for their knowledge and their experiences, And what they can share with you and and the things they can impart to you that will keep you from getting in trouble later. I mean, there's a vast amount of knowledge in that white-haired old head. And if you learn that and you absorb it and you sit down with these old people, you'll be the last person. That someone will say, oh by the way, could you pull the plug on grandma? We've had the discussion in my family with my mom and my dad when they were getting older And we talked about, you know, who's gonna pull the plug on mom or dad if she's in this situation, that situation. And my brothers both turned to me and they said, Well, I know Keith won't do it. I said, You got that right. I'm not gonna do it. We need to develop that relationship with the elderly people in our community, in our church, and our families There's so much there that we miss out on and we do not. And Samuel had that with Eli, and he came running to him three separate times What do you want? You know, I'd you know, whatever you need. I've left my my nice warm bed. It's late at night. You've disrupted my sleep, but what is it that I can do for you? Where were the two sons of Eli that night? Phineas and Hoppy. They got a 98-year-old father. He needs some tending to. He needs some attention. You're going to leave it to a little child? What's a little child know about CPR, or mouth-to-mouth resuscitation, or or first aid, or you know, can he can he lift the body of Eli if he's fallen down the steps? I mean, where are the two sons? They're out fulfilling the lustings of the flesh. What a sad note. It must have dawned on Eli before this night, but at some time it must have dawned on Eli that his sons were not going to be his successor. temple. It must have dawned on Eli that these sons who had broken his heart, but there was a Samuel who had encouraged his heart. And I think that he had taken the place of Hotney and Phineas. I don't know how soon it had happened, but there came a point where Eli recognized that Samuel will be the successor. Samuel's My real son. Am I making that up? No. Verse 6. Look at it again. I called not my son. Lie down. Tenderness between Eli and Samuel was evident. And so we have this obedient, quickly obedient, loving, tender child who is ministering unto the Lord. He's before Eli. And then we read a surprising verse in seven. Samuel did not yet know the Lord. Wow. I'd have just, from what I've read this first six verse, I said, right, that's a little kid that's saved. I mean he's been sitting there with the high priest of Eli, he's been catechized, he's learned doctrine, he's learned scripture, he's learned the history of Israel, he's got verses memorized, he's got a tender heart, he's got an aggressive heart He's he's got a heart for the elderly. I mean this is a this is a saved kid. And maybe that fits some of you. You have a tender heart and uh people just They'd enjoy having you around and you go to church, you got Bible verses memorized, and and and you have that you've you've got this uh this testimony that you're a caring person and you're a warm person and obedient But maybe you're sitting here this morning and you're not saved. Samuel did not yet know the Lord. Wow. Are you wondering if that's you that you're sitting this morning and you think you're a pretty good person? Maybe you're an adult sitting here. You've been a pretty good person. Maybe you got the Sunday school perfect attendance pin several years in a row. I don't know. But y you you said you think you're a pretty good person? But Samus didn't know the Lord, and he was a pretty good person I mean if works could get you into heaven or being good could get you to heaven. I think Samuel's well on his way But the truth is, God looks at our good works, pshh, and there's there are not many compared to all our sin, you know If good works to get you in heaven, the scripture tells us there's no one good, no, not one. There's no with enough good works, there's no there isn't And so you might think that like Samuel you're pretty good, but Samuel did not yet know the Lord. And the way we can check ourselves to see if we're like Samuel before he was saved is you read the rest of the verse. Samuel did not yet know the Lord Neither was the word of the Lord yet revealed unto him. No, wait a minute. You just said he's got verses probably memorized. He knows his catechism. He's been catechized, he knows the doctrine. But there's a difference in knowing the word. And knowing and loving the word. Big difference. So if you sit this morning, you're a pretty good person. And you know a lot of Bible verses? Do you love? Is the Word of God, here it comes, is the Word of God precious in your sight? Samuel was obedient and tender. Instructed and not saved. The word had not been revealed unto him yet. Kind of reminds you the story of the two men on the road to Emmaus. The one rode to Emmaus that the day it's the first day of the week. There's there's talk of the tomb is empty, the stone is rolled away. uh the the the Christ has been resurrected they don't know they're very puzzled by the fact that they just bodies been stolen and they're very they're commiserating and they're just they're just not happy. This couple's walking along the road omaius and long comes the Lord Jesus Christ They don't recognize him, the their eyes are beholden, and Christ begins to talk to them and they're just down and they're depressed and what is going on. We thought he was the Messiah, but he's not here, he's gone, and and now we're just leave Israel, where does it leave the church and where's it leave us? Who's the leader disciples? They were just miserable. And the Lord began to talk to them, starting beginning with the words of Moses, and he took them to the scriptures, and it says when you read that in the Luke twenty-four and verse 45, it says, and he opened their understanding that they might understand the Scriptures And it says later as you read that, and did our hearts not burn within us as he shared these things? And that's the difference in knowing the scriptures. And having them in your head or it your your understanding is opened and your heart burns within you at something it's there's a fire of excitement in you. You you hear some people say, Boy that guy's really on fire. He loves baseball, he's just on fire. Oh, he loves football. I talk about a guy who loves sports. This guy's on fire. Fire for sports, right? Well, when you're on fire for the things of God and the Word of God, then you know your understanding's been open. Then you know you don't just know it, but you know it in here and you love it. And Samuel was in there, he was in that environment with Eli teaching and instructing him, and he's tender-hearted and he's warm-hearted and he's he's obedient and everything else, but he doesn't know the Lord And the word of the Lord was not revealed on him as Christ revealed it unto the two people on the road to Emmaus, and their hearts begin to burn within him. And I say that to you this morning. We're getting ready for communion Do you find the Word of God something precious Do you finally come home from work? You can hardly wait to get home from work and have a little bit of time to read the Bible. Or you put the kids asleep at night and they're all talking nice and quiet. And you get a little time to read the Bible. Or you get up early in the morning, or maybe you get up very early in the morning. You can't sleep. And you say, Well, I'm up. I'll grab the scripture. Did you find times like that? You are looking for time to read the word because it is precious to you. Maybe you think that that's the way the pastor's forced to feel. Nobody else If you don't feel that way about the Word of God, please question Your salvation. And while you're sitting right there, before we even have community and say, Oh Lord, I don't know if the word's ever been that precious to me. Like it's captivated his heart. It has. And if that's what I need to go to heaven, Lord, I'm sitting in this chair and nobody knows. I'm just looking around and looking at the preaching. But Lord, I want my heart captivated. I want it to be set on fire. I want to go to heaven. Open my understanding of the scriptures Verse eight, the Lord called Samuel a third time I don't know how many times God called me. I was 27 before I got saved. Please don't wait that long if you're younger than 27. I'm just glad that God is persistent. You know, we talk about the word tulip and the pea, perseverance of the Holy Spirit. I'm glad that God's persistent. He knows his sheep. He calls them by name. Samuel Samuel, he calls them by name. I'm so glad that God called me and called me and called me And like my mother used to call me outside for supper time, she'd yell at my name, and I would finally hear it. I'm glad my mother was persistent, or I might have missed supper, or got a cold supper. And God is persistent Not only is he persistent, you might say, why was he persistent for Samuel? Well, God has his elect. And he will be persistent for his elect. Why Samuel? And why now? I mean he's gone through seven verses, not saved, and why now? If there's nothing else you walk away with today, walk away with this, especially if they have unsaved loved ones. Why is God persistent? Never underestimate the value of the prayers of a godly mother. For me, it was a godly grandmother, praying for my soul. Never underestimate the influence of the prayers of a godly mother. And Hannah's back there praying. In fact she says in First Samuel 111, I will give him unto the Lord all the days of his life, she says I will be praying for him and praying for he's not in my home anymore. He's up there in Shiloh with Eli. Maybe she found out about Phine and Hoppius. I don't know, but she says, I will pray for him all the days of his life. The influence of the prayers of ungodly mother Don't ever underestimate it. Moses is given away by his mother, isn't he? Jochebed, Moses' mother, gives him away to them, but Pharaoh's daughter, you don't think she was praying and praying and praying? That he wouldn't live through the influence of the Egyptian pharaohs and become as carnal as they Jacob's prayers were answered. Hannah, here the same, she's praying, and her prayers are answered. How about Elizabeth? She's barren like Hannah, she can't have children, but she prays and she prays and she prays. Don't you underestimate the prayers of a godly mother because Elizabeth gets a son, and not just any son, it's John the Baptist The world. We underestimate. Christians underestimate the power of prayer. If we didn't underestimate it, we'd do more of it. But we underestimate the power of prayer. Let me tell you, does not underestimate the power of prayer. Satan does not underestimate the power of prayer. Our United States government does not underestimate the power of prayer. They don't want it in the schools, they don't want it in Congress, they don't want it in the Senate, they don't want our state legislature. They don't want us praying to the Lord Jesus Christ because they fear and they do not underestimate the power of prayer. They fear a God-fearing man more than they fear someone who can donate a million dollars to someone's coffers or their next election. They fear prayer. They don't underestimate prayer. Only the Christian seems to underestimate. The power and influence of prayer. Has God put it in your heart to pray for some lost soul? If you have a burden in your heart for some lost soul, it didn't get there on its own. There are people out there that you don't have a burden to pray for, and there's people out there you do have a pray a burden to pray for. And the reason you have a burden for some is because God has put it there, and God isn't toying with your feelings He intends to save that individual through your prayers and the prayers of others. God called him a third time, and he arose and he went to Eli and he said, Here am I, thou didst call me. And Eli said, Well, it says he perceived that the Lord had called the child. Verse 8. How did Eli perceive that God had called him? Well, first he knew that that he hadn't called him. He knew that. And he it is obvious that Sam had heard a voice, I mean it's three times now. And the second thing is either I knew that they were alone in there. If if I didn't call them and I know that he's not hearing voices He heard something, he heard something. It's got to be God. And third, he knows that through the history of the scriptures, that God often called people in the sanctuary and talked to them. Moses and Aaron, for example, and probably Eli, the high priest of Israel. Remember the time when God would speak to him in that same sanctuary. And he hadn't for a long time because he had been winking at the sins of his sons. But now he perceives that God is talking again. Did he feel humiliated that God came into the sanctuary, passed by Eli, and spoke to a child? That must have hurt. I'm the high priest of Israel. You've spoken to me in times past, and now I hear you're back in my tabernacle. And you're talking to Samuel and not me. May we be grateful when grace is found in the heart of anyone Here we have Eli perhaps humiliated that God has overlooked him as speaking to a child But for Eli, finally one of his own, God is talking to him, calling him. Finally, he's got one of his children willing to follow the Lord. We need to be grateful, and this might not be an easy thing to say, but or to hear. We need to be grateful When we find Christ in the heart of one of our children, even we don't find him in the hearts of all of our children. God doesn't have to come in the heart of any of our children. He's got Finney and Hopnus on their way to hell, but he needs to be grateful, and Eli is, that Christ has found in the heart of little Samuel. He will not be found in the heart of everybody's children or of all of our children, but we need to be grateful when he's found in the heart of Isaac, though not Ishmael. He's found the heart of Abel, but not Cain. He's found the heart of Jacob, but not Esau. And for you sitting here, may he be found in your hearts. You're here to hear the call of God. Maybe you've got children that aren't in the service. Maybe you've got children that don't want to come to church anymore. But if you're here this morning, may you hear God call. Call you and speak to you. Because he's not going to probably save everyone in every family. It's hard to speak every Sunday up here. And look out. And do you know what I see sometimes? Or I see this. Or I see this. To labor over a message and to know that some of you walk out of here and you're not saved. To labor over a message and see somebody walk out and the word of God is not Precious. It has never captivated your heart. That's hard. But I know it's true that some of you leave here that way. Therefore Eli says in verse nine, Samuel, go and lie down. I think he was excited that God was calling one of his children who was speaking one of his children. He said, Go and lie down and be called and say, Speak, Lord, for thy servant heareth. God has passed over Eli, but to Eli's credit, I believe he's a saved man To Eli's credit, he instructs Samuel on what to say and what to do. And Samuel went And he lay down. And in verse 10, the Lord came and said, Samuel, Samuel, just as Christ said, Soul, soul! Why persecute us thou? Isn't it amazing we believe that Christ is the Lord the Lord Jesus Christ is God and we find He uses the same pattern. Samuel, Samuel in the New Testament Christ, Saul, Saul, why persecutest thou me? Martha, Martha, thou art careful and troubled about so many things, Luke 10 and 41. Simon, Simon, Satan desired your heart. Luke 22 and 31. Christ uses the same formula as the Heavenly Father because Christ is God the Son. They're not at odds with each other. They're totally in agreement how to call people to salvation. And Samuel answered, and he said, he's a good student. He says that what Eli told him to say, speak, for thy servant heareth. That's an answer from the heart. Somewhere between verse 7 and 10, he is saying, Speak, Lord, for Nation. How do you know he's saved? Because Samuel says, thy servant. I'm your servant, Lord. What do you want of me? I'll do it. Speak, Lord. The word of the Lord was precious to Samuel at this moment. Are you interested in what God's word says? That gives you a little indication of whether you were saved. Do you delight to hear his word and to do his words? That gives you a real good indication of whether you are saved or not Is the Word of God precious to you? That's heartfelt faith. That's saving faith when the Word of God is precious to you And Samuel's answer, he says, Oh speak, Lord. He says, just to speak, Lord. He wants to know what God had to say. He said, Thy servant, thy servant heareth, and wherever I hear, I'll do it Thy servant heareth, I will do it. He doesn't say, well, Lord, I don't know what you have to talk to me about, but before you say anything, uh after you tell me, let me consider it, and I'll decide whether I want to do it or not. He doesn't say that. He says, Speak, Lord, thy servant hears. I'll do whatever you want me to do. And next week we're going to find out what God wanted him to do. And he says, Oh my goodness, you got it, are you kidding? My first assignment, my first mission is and I know and but he says, speak word and I'll do it. And that's where we should that's where we should be. We should go into God's word and say, I don't care what it says, I don't care what the word of God confronts me with, when I see it I'm going to just obey it. I'm going to believe it. I'm going to do it. When I look at God's word, I'm not going to backtrack. I'm not going to look for loopholes. I'm not going to look for escape clauses or alternate opinions. The word of the Lord is precious to me And I'm your servant, and I will do it before I even know what you want me to do. That was Samuel's attitude. The uncircumcised, the word, they have no delight in it, Jeremiah says. And the psalmist says, they that delight to do thy will are his. Where does that find you this morning? Do you find God's word precious to you? Are you willing to do what the Word of God says? Maybe you haven't read it all yet, but you're going through it chapter by chapter, verse, whoa, I never saw that before. But I'll do it. If that's your attitude this morning, we invite you to partake in the Lord's table this morning with us. Maybe that wasn't your attitude when you walked in these doors this morning, but that's your attitude now. We invite you to partake with us. Ask the elders to come forward and the deacons as we prepare to distribute the elements.