Didn't pray this morning, somewhat open briefly in prayer. Father in heaven, we thank you again for this time. Please uh sanctify it to us and open up this portion of your word in Jesus' name. Amen. I hope you find these theories concerning the pictures of Christ quite interesting, from Adam being an early picture, and then speaking of Eve, the seed of the woman, going down to uh uh uh the laws uh the the the various ones we've looked at uh uh particularly throughout uh Abraham's lineage and uh and The high priests, all of these interesting things that God had set up as types and shadows, but none are so interesting, I think, as the cities of refuge So if you want, turn in your Bible to Deuteronomy 19, or you can follow along in your handout where I've got all the verses I'm going to cover today handy so you don't have to jump too much. But we're going to read about these very curious things called the cities of refuge. Deuteronomy nineteen introduces the concept to us, and then we find it also in Numbers and again in Joshua And I'm going to ask a question at the end about what interesting observations you might find from these. First we read in Deuteronomy 19, the first three verses, where it reads as follows. whose land the Lord thy God giveth thee, and thou succeedest them and dwellest in their cities and in their houses. Thou shalt separate three cities for thee in the midst of thy land. So God is telling them, You're going to go in, you're going to displace the people You're already going to have cities, what a wonderful picture of heaven. You walk in and it's already built, everything's prepared, no mortgage payment, just pick your house, move into it But he says, You're going to set out three cities in the midst of thy land which the Lord thy God giveth thee to possess yet. Thou shalt prepare thee away and divide the coasts of thy land which the Lord thy God giveth thee to inherit it into three parts that every slayer may flee thither. So in the early Deuteronomy account, God is instructing Moses that when you go in, you're going to set apart three cities uh threes and threes in the midst of your land to prepare away and the purpose is that a slayer may enter into it. Okay Then in Numbers 35, there's some more information given, Deuteronomy, just before they entered into the cross the river, into the Promised Land. Numbers, they've been wandering in the wilderness, so this is some additional information here. But if the slayer shall at any time come without the border of the city of his refuge, whither he was fled, and the revenger of blood find him Without or outside the borders of the city of his refuge, and the revenger of blood kill the slayer, he shall not be guilty of blood Because he, that is the guilty one, should have remained in the city of his refuge until the death of the high priest. But after the death of the high priest, the slayer shall return into the land of his possession. All right, that's interesting because there was an escape clause, how he could get out of this city, and it had to be tied to the death of the high priest. And then finally in the book of Joshua, in the 20th chapter, near the end, so they've gone in, and we're actually getting an assignment here as to what is going to be executed We read in Joshua 20, verse 1, the Lord also spake unto Joshua, saying, Speak unto the children of Israel. Saying, Appoint out of you Excuse me, appoint out for you cities of refuge whereof I spake unto you by the hand of Moses. So he's hearkening back to that which he told him. That the slayer that killeth any person unawares and unwittingly may flee thither, and they shall be your refuge from the avenger of blood. And when he that doth flee into one of those cities shall stand at the entering of the gate of the city, and shall declare his cause in the ears of the elders of that city, they shall take him into the city unto them. And give him a place that he may dwell among them. And if the avenger of blood pursue after him, then they shall not deliver the slayer up into his hand. Because he smote his neighbor unwittingly and hated him not before time. And he shall dwell in that city until he shall stand before the congregation for judgment. And until the death of the high priest that shall be in those days. Then shall the slayer return and come unto his own city, and unto his own house, and unto the city from whence he fled. Fascinating artifact of ancient Jewish history, how God set up the nation. You had these literal cities of refuge. What I I've got many observations, but of course I'd tip my hand in terms of where I'd like to go with some of this and point out, but what do you find interesting about it Talk to me about how this all worked mechanically. Let's make sure we understand how it mechanically all works. How would a person avail themselves of it? They would have to kill someone first. Okay, so somebody's basically a what do you call somebody who kills somebody? Murderer. Right. Now in our land we have two types of murder charges. There's those based on an intentional murder and those that are unintentional. If it's intentional, you're charged with Or urger. If it's unintentional, you're driving down the road and and somebody jumps out in front of you and you had no idea, couldn't, didn't have time to stop. That would be unintentional. We call it Manslaughter. Manslaughter. Right, so it's actually not culprit. So even in our law today we distinguish between a willful and unwillful. So the city of refuge is for who, in our terms? Or somebody guilty of manslaughter. They inadvertently or accidentally kill somebody. But it's a grievous crime, right? What was the issue with murder or manslaughter in the Bible? What's the penalty there? Yeah, he whoso sheds man's blood, by man shall his blood be shed. So there's a real death sentence hanging over your head. So for the unwitting, the unknowing, the unintentional murder, so what's the deal? How what's his recourse? They have to flee. They have to run to the city. They have to flee? Okay. They have to run to this city. Okay. What else did you notice about it? Was there one city? So why do you think there were six cities? The actual six cities are listed in Joshua 20. He says there's Cadish and Galilee and Mountain of Tali, I mean Joshua 20, verse 30, and Shechem And Kerjath Arbah, which is Hebron in the mountain of Judah, Bizah in the wilderness, Ramoth and Gilead, Golden and Bashin. So there were three in the mountain areas, three in the plain valleys Moses lists three, but then Lee goes on to say three and three. There's six cities. Um why why six? Why not one? What practical reason? Yes, yeah, very accessible, right? So you would imagine that they were distributed throughout the land of Egypt, I see Egypt, land of Israel. So they're It used to be an Egyptian Canaanite land, not Egyptian literally. So it was spread out um for ease of access. I want to talk about that some more. What other things were to be done to help ease that access in the narrative that we read. Hint, it's in Deuteronomy 19 The phrase there, prepare thee away, has to do with preparing it. You had to make roads to the city. You couldn't put uh pits and uh uh fences and uh tear down the bridges. You you didn't want to make it difficult for the man to get to it. You had to prepare it. You had to make roads. You had to clear roads out. You had to make it available and accessible Right? So it was accessible. That was the purpose of prepare thee away. You're going to prepare a way, divide the coast of your land. In other words, again, this part of division to make it for ease of access. You're not trying to uh make it so that they had to go to the very top of the mountain and it's full of crags and rocks and where you could easily be overtaken. So uh that was one of the the the things that was also done. Talk to me some more about life in that city, what it might be like for an individual in there. You're cutting down some wood, the axe head fell off, you accidentally killed somebody because the axe head came off and hit somebody and injured them, and you fled to this city. What's going through your head? Put yourself in those shoes. You gotta get to the city, okay, but then now you're in the city. They've accepted you. You went to the elders, you told them, hey look, I was cutting wood, the axe head came off. There will be a coming judgment They were to um uh shall dwell in the state until he stand before the congregation for judgment. Okay. But that judgment was that to condemn him or to Um my understanding is it w was it determined if it was preventable. In other words, did was it knowing or unknowing? Right. Right. Just just like if if your bull is known to push somebody Yep. You're guilty, but if you're you know, never know. So he's past that point. The the congregation has made some judgment. They've assessed, yep, the elders of the city, the congregation have assessed he's he's not he he di he it really was unwitting He'd been he's been accepted in the city, so he's gotten past that phase. Now he's living in the city. What's life what what's it like for him there? Could he bring in family? Um possibly. Text doesn't say. Now why would he want to do that? Well, why would he want to live alone the rest of his life until the high priest dies, maybe in his lifetime Yeah. He's stuck there. He can't stuck there. He is believed somebody can kill him and they would be justified. Oh, okay now avenge your blood, whoever that is wondered about. Yeah, yeah, now you're digging now you're on the gold mine that I'm trying to get us to. He's stuck there, right? Uh Edward, you were gonna say something? Oh I was gonna say Remorseful regret. Okay. Yep. He's away from family. It's not his home, correct? I mean he's in a different city. He was just doing work in his backyard cutting wood and this thing happened and now he's over here. He's um What other concerns does he have? Let's say he's really tempted at holiday time to want to go back to his homeland. What thoughts might go through your head to do that? Victoria. Well, if he's found out he he might be killed. Yeah. There's a threat of death. There's an individual out there who's upset with him. And uh his uh Uh this other uh individual, presumably a family member related to the one who died, says if I could ever get my hands on this guy, he's a goner. And in fact, um did the law allow that to happen if he went outside the city? Yeah, if he went outside the city and somebody got a hold of him and killed him, yes he could die. He absolutely could die. So this revenger of blood is not a government legal official who's appointed. This is just somebody who has cause. Interested party To S cause. Yep. Okay. Well it's typically a a family member. You killed my brother, therefore I said forfeit. Yep. The law the law appears to give recourse. Right, you're you've got a bullet rut. Yeah, it is weird, isn't it? I d I can't remember if I'm wrapping my mind Yeah, you got a big target on your head that the Avenger blood could slay you and they could say, Yep, this is the one that did it. He left the city of refuge, we got him. And insofar as Moses' law would say You're fine. Move on. So nothing to see here. So you accidentally killed Joe. And as long as you do not go to that city, I would be okay To come and kill you, there will be no blood on my head. Correct. As as long as I but but if I'm in the the let's say let's say uh Edward's house is in Hebron, one of the cities of refuge, as long as I'm in the city of Hebron, and it would be a walled city. That's how they did they had cities in the old times, so that's why uh the elders at the gate would control who comes in or out As long as I'm in this house in Hebron, it's not my home, but as long as I'm here, I'm safe. So fundamentally, as long as I'm here, I'm concerned, right? And I'm looking for something, aren't I? What am I looking for? I'm looking for the death of the high priest because as soon as the high priest dies I can go back and I'm free and I cannot be executed at that point. Very strange. Very strange. And when you come across things like that, that ought to be a big red flag for you, that this is there's something gospel-oriented that is pointing to this. It would also depend on the On a God-centered society. Because if I was angry enough with this guy who killed my brother, uh that I was I was willing to respect this. In other words, you know, he's there okay, I'm not gonna try to sneak in the middle of the night and kill him anyway. Uh you know, there there has to be some acknowledgement of God and on the other side of that that um my my brother's in there, he's stuck there. I'm just gonna knock off the high priests. And now all these people, you know There's always the possibility for men under the law to buck against the law and to rebel against the law. But I guess what I'm saying is it seemed to work because they were still under the theocracy It was before there was a king. So I would distinguish between the execution of it versus what God's holy law said. Right. And I'm looking at just what the law of God dictated. Men will always kick against that But insofar as God set it up, this is the way it was to be. And it was set up for a reason, and we would have to assume that for the most part it worked. I'm sure there are cases where uh things you know fell apart But there are six ways uh first of all I want you to p uh uh I want to establish that um that we too they're called cities of refuge. That literally was their name. I love the way God names things in the Bible. He names them exactly the way they are He puts the title on it so it's very clear. There's a handout here if you don't have one. Oh, everybody's got one? Good. The eternal God, Jesus Christ, is in fact our refuge. He's our refuge. We're reading Deuteronomy 33. 27, the eternal God is thy refuge, and underneath are the everlasting arms Psalm 46, common psalm used in many Psalms. God is our refuge and strength, the very present help in trouble. Adds a little more spin and sense to that refuge. It's someone who is looking for refuge from a present disaster, a present danger Psalm 62, 7 and 8, and God is my salvation and my glory, the rock of my strength, and my refuge is in God Later in the verse 8, God is a refuge for us. Notice that business of God being in Him, a refuge in Him. And of course, Hebrews gives us another insight to this picture that we have in these cities of refuge when it says in Hebrews 6. 18 that by two immutable things in which it was impossible for God to lie, we might have a strong consolation, who have fled for refuge To lay hold upon the hope set before us. Notice fleeing for refuge. It refers to Jesus as one to whom we have fled for refuge. So, in a sense, if you're in Christ, you're a refugee. You're a refugee from some clear and present danger. I find six ways that these cities typified Jesus Christ. First of all, how did the cities even get established to begin with? How did these things even occur? Yeah. They were commanded by God. The cities were appointed by God. He's the one that appointed these things. He's the one that came about and said, You shall do this. And he said it before they even took possession of the land This was a early foundational law that God put. Even so, Jesus Christ is appointed our surety. He is our high priest. He is our righteousness. He is our Savior. Jesus Christ has been appointed to be our refuge. Hebrews 7. 22, by so much was Jesus made a surety of a better testament. And I really like that word surety. We still have remnants of it in the English language. Surety ship or is ref is in probably some older legal documents, but it refers to an earnest, a down payment, excuse me, not a down payment. Surety ship is Your friend wants to rent an apartment, they don't have enough money, they got bad credit, and they need a cosigner on the loan. You're the backstop, you're the surety for your friend. And before human beings were upon the face of the planet, God made Jesus Christ our surety. Jesus Christ was our backstop. He was appointed a refuge. Long before we entered into this business. I find that quite interesting. Christ is also known as our high priest. He glorified not himself to be made a high priest, but he that said unto him, Thou art my son. He didn't elevate himself into that role, he was appointed to that role. God often appoints things way in advance before there's a need. And so you see that there is this concept of an appointment that is made The second point I find in this business of the cities of refuge is we talked about this earlier, how they were set about. The cities were located so that someone could flee to that refuge without difficulty. They could flee to that refuge without difficulty. There wasn't an encumbrance. They didn't have to climb if they were in the mountainous regions there would be a city in a mountainous region. If they were in the plains, there was one they could get they could get to in the plains. And it was the responsibility, there was a books, there was a law on the books that said you have to prepare away, meaning clear that road, get rid of the stuff, make it open so that this person can get there quickly And so it was made available. Even so, Christ is not far from us. He's not far from any one of us. Acts 17 says this. Acts 17. 26, God hath made of one blood all nations of men to dwell on the face of the earth, and hath determined the times before appointed, and the times and the bounds of their habitation, that they should seek the Lord. If happily, if perchance they might feel after him and find him, though he be not far from every one of us. Isn't that astounding? The Lord our God is not far off Now that's one of the big points in Romans chapter 10, that this word uh of God, Romans 10:8 The word is nigh thee, even in thy mouth and thy heart, that is, the word of faith which we preached. If you confess with thy mouth the Lord Jesus, thou shalt believe in thine heart that God hath raised him from the dead, thou shalt be saved. You know, the name of Jesus, the promise of Jesus, is in fact a broadcasted name. He's not far from us. There is plenty of evidence out there to point men to Christ. God insists that to be the case. And the thing that's the clear sign is the Word of God. God's Word is that clear sign that points us to Christ. It's a clear sign. Faith comes by hearing and hearing by the Word of God. You know that from Romans 10. So here these roads would be set up. You ever come? I hate driving in New Jersey Does anybody know why I hate driving in New Jersey? Because there's no road signs in New Jersey. You drive down the road, and prior to the days of GPS, I've never had such a miserable driving experience in my life. I grew up in Texas, the roads are well marked, they're well, all the intersections are the same, the interchanges in the highway are the same. You've got Side uh major side access roads alongside the freeway, nothing like what you find out here. It's a marvelous driving experience People uh there's even a uh a Texas Roads magazine that goes out that just uh talks about all the beauties and the wonders of the highways across Texas. It's a marvelous thing. New Jersey? What a disaster You've got a major freeway intersection coming up. One goes to the right, one goes to the left. No sign, nothing, nothing over the road sign. You go past it, maybe a little thing on the side confirming that, oh, you made the right choice or the wrong choice. I've never had such a disastrous experience in my life. I was trying to follow 95 through New Jersey and oh great day. That was horribly marked. For the cities of refuge, they were well marked. Per chunk, here's a sign, Hebron, this way, you know, two miles or whatever the marker would be, whatever unit of measure they would have. It would be well marked. And there was a state function to do something, and that was to keep that way clear. You shall make the away. They had a regular road clearing crew that would go through and make sure it was plain and open. Likewise Likewise, preachers are to keep the way clear of stumbling blocks. We want to remove stumbling blocks from men coming to Christ. And I draw your attention to a couple of the passages here that speaks to it, and I want to hit up on one of those biggest stumbling blocks. We're going to look first at Luke 11. 52. Christ is flaming the lawyers. Woe unto you, lawyers, for ye have taken away the key of knowledge, and you entered not in yourselves, and them that were entering in ye hindered. Now how do you think a lawyer would hinder somebody coming to Christ? What are lawyers known for? What's their profession? Representing the court of law. Yep, they represent the court of law. You would think they would know something about the the law. Yeah, I'm trying not to make this too hard, folks. And When they start speaking, they kind of have a certain jargon or vernacular to their speech, don't they? Is it can it be helpful or can it be confusing? It can be very confusing. They're very knowledgeable, they're very studied. How do you know you've got a good lawyer versus a bad lawyer? What are some of your marks that you would look for? Okay. He may not be willing to share the well okay. He can explain things to you in a manner that actually makes sense. He speaks very clearly, but if he starts rattling off a bunch of legal mumbo jumbo You might be baffled by it. And if he's the only one you got, you're kind of befuddled and confused. And even so it is with preachers And 1 Corinthians 1, Christ sent me not to baptize, but to preach the gospel, not with wisdom of words, lest the cross of Christ should be made of none effect. In 2 Corinthians, the apostle says, I fear lest, by any means, as the serpent beguiled e through his subtlety, so your mind should be corrupted from the simplicity that is in Christ. Brothers and sisters, one of the biggest stumbling blocks that I find that are presented to men seeking Christ is too much of an heady, educated worldly wisdom approach to coming to Christ. Too many specific rules, too many specific how-tos, too many, you gotta read this book, you have to understand this. In fact, if you haven't gone to Bible college and seminary, not sure you're gonna make it In the Roman Catholic Church, you can never figure out if you're actually saved. Have you actually done all these different steps? Have you checked all these boxes? I'm sure the Orthodox Church isn't much different. It's always a mystery. How do I know I'm actually there? How do I know I've gotten into my eternal city of refuge, Jesus Christ? You see, the way to the city of refuge was to be very plain. It was a very simple thing, and they were in There was a simplicity to it. And that's why Christ is flaming the lawyers. You've taken away the key of knowledge. You're hindering them that entered in. There wasn't to be any hindrances for a man or woman. I had a slayer of blood to come to Christ The other point here I want to make is let's go back to our historical example of these people who were guy cutting his wood out, the axe head falls off and it hurts somebody Um, how long does he have before he can get to that city of refuge? Yeah, as soon as possible, I think the concept we would say is immediately. There's no dilly-dallying around. You've killed this man. You know you didn't do it on purpose. And Man, as soon as his family finds out, you're at risk. I mean, this isn't something you would take a day or two or three. I mean, it's it's a right now thing It's a right now thing. You've got a, oh my, I've just killed somebody. You need to seriously get your head around the ramifications of this, and you better be figuring out fast where's my nearest city of refuge, and I've got to get there It deserves an immediate response. The guilty one was to flee to the city immediately. Even so The Bible presents to guilty sinners that now is the day of salvation. You can't go party in all the days of your life and enjoy the things of this world and you know when I'm on my deathbed then I'll accept Christ. No, it won't work. You don't know. It's an immediate thing Hebrews 4. 7, he limiteth a certain day, saying in David, Today, after so long a time, as it is said, today, if you will hear His voice, harden not your hearts. It's a today thing. It's not I can put it off, I can do it later. You've got to make your closure with Christ now. You've got to get there now. There can't be a delay. It's an immediate, there's a sense of urgency there. Because you've got a real death sentence, imminent death threat hanging above you above your head. I love Pilgrim's Progress and his illustrations where he starts off with Pilgrim, a Christian The pilgrim in the story. And he is trying to get out of his town because it's a city of destruction, and destruction will fall upon at any moment. And he's just anxious to get out of his city And even so it is with every child of God, whom God the Holy Spirit has awakened, an awakened sinner, and they realize, I'm in big trouble. There's an avenger blood after me. I've got to get to a refuge. I've got to find a refuge. And it's a now thing. Furthermore, the guilty one, um, if the uh if if the the one who had inadvertently killed somebody If you got to the walls of the city and you discovered right outside there was a nice creek and a little green area, I'll pitch my tent out here. Was that good enough? I mean after all he's close to the city. Is that good enough? You gotta be in the city. You have the guilty one has to be within the city to be safe He can't say, oh, well, I have a relative that lives in there, that's good enough for me. He couldn't say, well, I'll pitch my tent close to it. I'll just hang Hebron, you know, Hebron city limits over my little tent That wouldn't work. He had to be in the city to be safe. There was no safety anywhere else. He could imagine any vain thing he wanted to, but if he wasn't in the city. Even so, Christian You can't just be near Jesus. You have to be in him. You have to be found in him. Not near him. I had a friend of mine I asked years ago. He was a college buddy of mine. You know, I suppose if some asked was he a Christian, they would say yes. And if you asked him, he would say yes. He was a pleasant spirited fellow, always happy, upbeat, kind of a uh a little bit of a joking, humorous side to him, not vile. And um I asked him one time, so so Haley, do you you know, do you Do you know you do you know God? Are you saved? And his answer was, well my sister, dot dot dot dot dot. He would talk about all the nice things that she had done. And uh, you know, she was active in these things. And so he was near the city, he wasn't in it He knew somebody in the city, but he himself wasn't in it. That's not good enough. That won't work. You can't be near Jesus. You have to be in him. Christ says if about In John 15, 6. If a man abide not in me, he is cast forth as a branch and is withered. And men gather them, cast them in the fire, and they're burned. And the exhortation of 1 John 2. 28 is this, and now little children, abide, dwell in him. You have to dwell in him. There is a dwelling place, that refuge that God gives you. And furthermore, as we mentioned, as we were discussing about the one inside that city of refuge, that it really ultimately wasn't his home that that that alien city there, it really ultimately wasn't his home. And if he left it to say go back home, what risk did he face? Death, yes. Even so, for a Christian, to leave Jesus is death. You can't leave him If you do, you can be assured the Avenger of blood will be all over you. Colossians 1. 21. You that were sometime alienated and enemies in your mind by wicked works, yet now has he reconciled of the body in his flesh through death. to present you holy, unblameable, unreprovable in his sight, if you continue in the faith, grounded and settled. And be not moved away from the hope of the gospel. You can't be moved away from hope. That's why there's so many You could say walls in that city of Christ that seeks to hedge the believer in. Don't be moved away from the hope of the gospel. Don't be deceived into not believing in Christ. All that is a form of moving away from your hope in Christ. Moving outside of him. You have to dwell in him. That's what it means to dwell in him. He's not a physical thing we're in. Dwelling in him means abiding in him and his teachings. uh continuing in him, believing in him, laying hold of the promises. That's all that is part of this. And in Hebrews 10, 38, the just shall live by faith, but if any man draw back, my soul shall have no pleasure in him. Uh-oh. Because inside Christ, God is love, God is peace, God is safety. Outside of Christ, God is wrath. You have a real avenger of blood who will find you. Now, Hebrews 10 goes on to say, but we are not of them who draw back into perdition. God's sheep are those that are the believers, not the believed. They didn't believe once and it's done. They're believers. They keep believing. And they endure to the end. God keeps them there. But this is just an aspect. Again, you don't see all the facets, but this is a very fascinating one from these cities of refuge. Fifth point I find here as I wrap this up. Those who entered the city before the Avenger overtook them. We're completely safe and delivered from death. He's hot on your heels. You're running, and it looks like you're going to make it into the gates where you can declare your cause, and if your cause is just And the elders of the city will keep you in. If your cause is not just, they will deliver you to the Avenger of blood. But you had to enter that city before the Avenger overtook you. Even so You have got to get into Christ before you die. If the Avenger of blood overtakes you There's no second chance. The Catholics have this vain notion that there's a second, third, fourth, fifth chance. That if you simply pay them enough money, That just because dear old Uncle so-and-so died, and yeah, he was a drunk and he was a wife beater and he was a child abuser and you name all the evil things, or even if he was a nice, fine man, but he wasn't in Christ It doesn't matter. The avenger of blood has overtaken him. The wages of sin is death. And his fate, as it were, is sealed. The sentence has been proclaimed. I use the word fate with quote marks. Even so, you've got to get into Christ before you die. You cannot push it off. It's a now thing. It's an immediate thing. And if you're in Christ before you die, then you're safe. You're very safe. You're absolutely protected. There's no the law, evil men may pervert it, as you pointed out, but the law The righteous law of God will not go and get you. You're safe. You're in that city. There is therefore now no condemnation. Right now. Right now. There's no condemnation to them which are in Christ Jesus. In the city, you're there with a bunch of Other inadvertent murderers and manslayers. Manslayers, not uh murderers You're in there with them of like company. There's therefore now no condemnation to them which are in Christ Jesus, who walk not after the flesh, but after the Spirit. For the law of the Spirit of Life in Christ Jesus set me free from the lost sin of death. Oh, what a blessed refuge. Last point. As long as that man was in that city, there was still a tinge. There was still a bit of a concern. Because he really ultimately wasn't free. He was in a place of refuge, he was in a shelter, kind of like The road stops when you are long trips you look for little um rest stops is what the word I was looking for, and you can pull off and you can take a break for a season, but you gotta Get back on the road to get to your destination. And even so, this man really ultimately wasn't in his final home, and he didn't know how long he was going to stay there because no one could predict when that high priest, which was a lifetime office, when that high priest would die And if he was a fit man, he wasn't really in any type of difficult physical labor, the high priest could live a good long while. And you may end up dying in that city yourself. And you may spend your whole time there. But your freedom, your ultimate freedom, complete freedom, you are safe there in the city of refuge. But your complete freedom was tied to one event that you had no control over. That was the death, the high priest. Even so. You and I, our complete freedom was tied to the event of the death of the high priest, our Lord Jesus Christ. He had to die. And when he died, You were totally free. And that's what we have. We're totally free in Him. We were held under the law until Christ came. That was our trap. That was our restraint. Before faith came, we were kept under the law, shut up under the faith which would afterwards be revealed. We're in bondage, but we're set free from the fear of death by his death. We're set free from our fear of death by his death. When the fullness of time was come, Galatians 4 says, God sent forth his son made of a woman, made under the law, to redeem them that were under the law. And now this last verse I like, which is nice. is uh in Hebrews 2. 14. For as much then as the children are partakers of flesh and blood, he also himself likewise took part of the same, that through death he might destroy him that had the power of death that is the devil. Now watch this. And deliver them who through fear of death were all their lifetime subject to bondage. Why do men go to such extremes in our day? When a virus, okay, a nasty one, pops up, that they will encroach upon civil liberties That they will shut down churches, businesses, that they will wreck an economy. Why would men do such things? One of the big reasons is they're afraid to die. Their fear of death. Those of you who work in the medical business see it all the time. People are afraid to die. There's a genuine fear of death. And they're in bondage to it. They're in absolute bondage. The child of God is not. Because he has a refuge. And his high priest has died And he has no condemnation. And he knows that this ultimately isn't his home. But there is a time coming when I'll be brought into my eternal home. And so to me, to live is Christ, but to die is tremendous gain. The believer is not trapped in the fear of death. He's delivered from it He's absolutely delivered from him. And to that point, there's actually uh uh some ways in which this metaphor of the cities of refuge reflecting a picture of Christ and salvation breaks down. I heard a Baptist preacher one time say, you can't take a parable, make it stand up and walk on all four legs And that's a trite way of saying that you can't strain at every aspect and try to make something out of it. There are some ways in which this analogy does break down, and there's four of them. Now there were six cities, but in fact there's only one Savior. It's not like we've got choices. We can't go to the Orthodox uh the church or the Catholic Church or maybe the Mormons over here and you know there's all roads lead to God. No, they don't. There's only one Savior and you gotta go to Him and you've got to be found in Him. And that's where you can't run with the six cities and try to expand that into six different gospels. That won't work. The second is the cities protected you from physical death. That's the most that they would do. But in fact, Christ protects us from spiritual death. You know, we're not guaranteed physical protection to our body. In fact, Christ almost assumes the opposite when he says, fear not them which might No, fear them which fear not them which kill the body, but afterward can do nothing with the soul. Rather, I tell you, fear him who is able to destroy body and soul in hell. You've got a bigger problem on your hands to worry with And that's the Lord God. You've got to flee to Christ. Third way that the type breaks down is the cities did require physical exertion. to reach safety. You had to do something. You had to hustle it. You had to run. You had to move. You had to, you know, pack up a handful of belongings and get out of there. You had to go, go, go, run, run, run. There was sweat and I'm sure that guy showing up the city was a mess because he was booking it to get there as fast as he could. But we are saved by grace, not by works. It's the grace of God that saves us The city comes to get us. Yeah, in a way the city came to God US, right? And that would not work. You couldn't make that analogy. Move the city to the slayer of blood, lest it should be said, my own hand had saved me. That wouldn't fly, right? Good point. And the last point I want to make is that the type breaks down in that the cities were for those who killed by accident. But Christ is a refuge for willful sinners. We willfully committed sin. We desired to do it. We longed to do it. We hungered and and and uh all the horrible language that you find. And so there's those aspects in which it does break down. Other comments or observations about the interesting cities of refuge? I hope that piques your interest to maybe go look at that a little bit more. Reflect upon what great salvation God has. Um just following up on that that urgency to flee to the city. Yes. Uh it said because the way is long. Uh So it was it was a long way to get there. So not only is he playing but he's got that added obstacle of this long way to get there because the Avenger of Blood is gonna be hot on his heels. So I I just thought that was interesting. Yes, it's uh pointing out that um you had to prepare this way and um uh and and and so the distance played into this. Yeah. Very good. Well let's close in prayer and then we'll uh prepare for worship this morning. Yvonne, would you mind closing this? Sure. Thank you. Dear Heavenly Father, we praise thee, Lord, that we uh have a city of refuge in thee, Lord. Uh run to from from uh the punishment of our sin, Lord, for uh we all are willful willful sinners and uh all deserving of uh your judgment. But Father, uh, you've made a way in which uh we can be sheltered from your wrath, oh Father, how uh How good it is to know that and to rest in thee, Lord. Um we pray that you would uh help us to go and preach this gospel to all the world so that those that still are in their sin that don't know of this city might flee to it. We praise them and we ask this in Jesus Christ's name. Amen.