Turn your Bibles to Exodus chapter 17. Exodus chapter 17. We will look at rocks today. Rocks. Something really exciting. You're here for really exciting stuff. I guess the older you get, the the more mundane topics become really exciting. We're going to read the first seven verses of Exodus seventeen and I'm going to ask you some questions such as how did God given that how God has provided for the people of Israel so far, what should have been their response? And I'm going to also ask about what it says about the tendency of the human heart. So let's see if we can think about that as we read through these first seven verses of Exodus 17. Hear now the word of the Lord. And all the congregation of the children of Israel journeyed from the wilderness of sin after their journeys, according to the commandment of the Lord, and pitched in Rephedim. So this would have been the tenth encampment. They're very shortly out of the land of Egypt. It's pretty early in the sojourn going through the wilderness. And it says there was no water for the people to drink. Wherefore, the people did chide or contend with Moses and said, give us water that we may drink. Sounds like a reasonable request. And Moses said unto them, Why chide ye with me? Wherefore do ye tempt the Lord? And the people thirsted there for water. And the people murmured against Moses and said, Wherefore is this that thou hast brought us up out of Egypt to kill us and our children and our cattle with thirst? And Moses cried unto Lord, saying, What shall I do unto this people? They be almost ready to stone me. And the Lord said unto Moses Go on before the people, and take with thee of the elders of Israel, and thy rod, wherewith thou smoatest the river, take in thine hand and go. Behold. I will stand before thee there upon the rock in Horeb. And thou shalt smite the rock, or strike it. You're going to take your rod, you're going to strike the rock, and there shall come water out of it, that the people may drink. And Moses did so in the sight of the elders of Israel. And he called the name of the place Masah, and Meribah, Masah means temptation. And Meribah means contention. He called the place Masah and Meribah because of the chiding of the children of Israel, and because they tempted the Lord, saying, Is the Lord among us or not? So that's the end of our passage for this morning. An amazing passage if you think about it just historically, good morning, how things uh played out. So, you know, as I said, this is the tenth encampment. These are Israelites. They came out of what superpower nation of the time? Egypt with all of its might and its iron chariots and its captains and its great wealth and its power, insomuch that they could seek to commit genocide against a particular people group and almost do it successfully had not the Lord himself intervened. And here he brings them out and he absolutely obliterates and destroys Egypt through a Red Sea. Moses holds his rod out. Whoof! There's uh a parting in it. Pharaoh's Egyptian army is drowned. There's a pillar of cloud by day, fire by night. Excellent resource not only for guidance, but if you've ever been in a desert, it's very hot during the day and it gets very cold at night. So God providing for their needs there. And he also feeds them with the manna and even brings in quail. They're fed. This is a miraculous provision every step of the way. Given that God has provided for them so far in this manner, what should have been their response? This isn't something that's in too terribly distant to the memory Gratitude and what else? But you're thirsty. Let's face it, you're in a desert, you're walking, and you're thirsty. And it's kinda getting long and hard. They shouldn't say, Oh, I'm thirsty, that's great, I'll just die with joy to the Lord. I don't really expect that to be the response. Well that's what they did do. They certainly knew how to do that and they weren't taught how to do that. They used to kind of figure that out. You would think they would have learned to trust. Because if God called water to stand up in walls, certainly he can provide it for 'em. Trust. Uh what might there have petitioned what would have been a better petition Joey you look like you're contemplating here. What would have been a better p a petition of the people to have confidence? Joey's got some interesting new voices. Not complimenting when waking up. Oh, okay, waking up. Well, they should have woken up to the fact that God Almighty was the one who's provided for them. And therefore they should have asked the Lord, Oh Lord God, could you provide for us? Oh Lord, can you direct us to water? Oh Lord, could you do these things for us? Why didn't why God self give it to them before they asked That's a really interesting question. That's a good question. Why didn't he give it to them before they asked? Is that how God operates with us? Sometimes he does. Sometimes he doesn't. He's he's testing. And we're gonna see a little bit more in this. That's what I was about to say. I'm sorry, I stole your thunder. We had uh Pastor taught a little while back in Deuteronomy, and he said, I led you this way. To try you and to test you. That's right. Yeah. Yeah, Deuteronomy six, Miss Salva will give you your answer. He says, I I proved you, I suffered you to hunger, that you may learn and know that man does not live by every word of God. Man does not live by Excuse me, that's my signal that says start Sunday school on time and I hit the snooze button. The snooze button is big yellow and the stop button is this tiny little thing down here Somebody from China designed that part, I think. Um Deuteronomy six says, I suffered you to hunger in the wilderness, that you may know that man does not live by bread alone, but by every word that proceeds from the mouth of God. So God was intentionally teaching these people something. God takes his people through tough times to intentionally teach them something. And what is one lesson that comes out of this is the tendency of the human heart. The tendency of the human heart is to complain, is to murmur, is to look at present circumstances, and to focus more on that rather than how has God provided for me in the past. It's the fact that they're actually alive and in the wilderness at that point is in and of itself a miracle. Frankly, they should still be enslaved in Egypt. They should still be under the heavy rod of the taskmasters, and yet they're not. Well, the thing that makes this event so special, and we can spend all day long beating up on the children of Israel, and you know, uh I can pull the m the the mirror out from the pulpit and say, Oh, you're beating on yourself and then turn it back to me. Oh, that's me too. Uh but there's another reason why this event is so special and I want you to turn now to First Corinthians chapter ten, because our series is on pictures of Christ. And this insight comes to us from the Apostle Paul in 1 Corinthians chapter ten, and we're going to read the first four verses. And again, I said we're going to talk about rocks today, and so the focus is going to be on one rock, this rock that Moses struck. And in 1 Corinthians 10, the Apostle Paul says this. Moreover, brethren, I would not that ye should be ignorant how that all our fathers were under the cloud, and all passed through the sea. He's obviously referring to the Exodus, the children of Israel coming out of Egypt. And were all baptized unto Moses in the cloud in the sea. Or Baptist brethren don't like to talk about that passage because none of them got wet. They were all going through You know little sprinkles of water from the sides of the wall came upon them. That's how they were all baptized. If you're talking about immersion, that was Pharaoh's army. They got submerged. They they got the full baptistic treatment there. And did all eat the same spiritual meat, and did all drink the same spiritual drink, for they drank of that spiritual rock that followed them. And that rock was Christ. Well, isn't that interesting? He talks about that they did all drink the same spiritual drink. Now, it's interesting that he mentions that about drinking from a rock, because actually, physically, they did drink from a rock, and we just read one of two accounts. There's another one in the book of numbers uh at the thirty-eighth year of their sojourning when God told Moses. Same scenario, they're thirsty, they're they're complaining. God tells Moses, Take your rod But speak to the rock, and Moses didn't speak to the rock. He was really bent out of shape with the people. At this point, he took his rod, he hit the rock twice. Water came out as before, but God says, because you didn't do what I told you to, you're not going to go into the promised land. You'll see it with your eyes, but you can't go in. But anyway, so those are two events that are recorded when God brought forth water out of a rock. And the Apostle Paul, under divine inspiration, is going to teach us something about Rocks as a spiritual picture of Christ. In particular, a rock that is struck with Moses' rod in order to bring forth water. You know, this reference to a rock and using that to typify the Lord our God shows up 44 different times in the Bible, most frequently through the Psalms. We even sing in some of our songs. The Lord is my rock, my fortress, my high tower. That's one that David has. The last words of David, he said, The Spirit of the Lord spake by me. His word was in my tongue, the God of Israel said, the rock of Israel spake to me. So David himself refers to the Lord God as his rock. And of course we tend to think of rock in that context. As what? Strength. Strength? Now why is it strong? Because rocks are strong. Rocks are strong uh I can pick up a rock in the field and throw it as I was talking about. It's still strong when you throw it at something it's gonna hurt. It's gonna hurt, yep. Ask Goliath. Right. We tend to think about large rocks, right? In in the parable uh building the house, the Lord talked about one who dug deep and founded it on a Rock. Of course, and we understand that parable to mean that one whose life is founded on the Lord Jesus Christ and your principles are firmly anchored in that, and then when tough times come, and come they will that you won't be swept or moved away. Psalm 18, the Lord is my rock and my fortress, my deliverer, my God, my strength, and whom I will trust. Who is God, save the Lord? Who is a rock? Save our God. And the song that many children will sing at Bible camps, The Lord liveth, and blessed be my rock, and let the God of my salvation be exalted. It's a nice little song. I'm sure Penny and others know how to do the piano tunes to that. Well, um I want to go back to our uh passage in Exodus just for consideration, and I've got five observations I'd like to take us through about this passage and about the rock. The first one is I think pretty rudimentary, but again I'm trying to drop it in first gear so we can develop and build on this, is that the people really thought that they were going to die of thirst. Now, you may have been really thirsty. I one time went behind the fence that's next to my property. It's a nine-foot-tall fence, and you have to do a lot of walking to get around it And I was doing it to clear out a bunch of creeping weeds that were starting to encroach and make their way over to me. Vines were climbing up the trees. It was a summer day. And I was just going, going, going like a madman, and then I finally stopped and realized I was really hot and thirsty. In fact, I was so thirsty I couldn't make my way back around. And I'm calling out for somebody in the house to hear me. You can't hear anything inside of this house when it's locked up. You can't even hear somebody yelling at the front doorstep The postman shows up, praise God, and I said, Hey, could you go inside my garage and give me a bottle of water? And he did. He was kind enough to him to step out. I'm his last stop on the journey, so it wasn't holding him up But have you ever been so thirsty that you thought you're gonna die? You know that's that's pretty pretty extreme thirst. They they were really at the point Where in their mind they're thinking, this is this is looking pretty serious here. If if I don't get something, I'm dead. You know, it says the people murmured, Wherefore is this that thou hast brought us up out of Egypt to kill us? And our children, you know, mothers with babies can certainly understand and empathize and appreciate that not only when you're thirsty, but your child is thirsty. that this would be a very difficult situation. Well frankly, that is a wonderful picture of the soul of man. Turn to Psalm 63. Psalm chapter 63. This ought to be the recognition of man that he has a great need. Psalm 63, the first two verses, this spiritual thirst to the point of death Is a starting place for many of God's children. I would submit that's a starting place for all of God's children. Psalm 63, verse 1, O God, Thou art my God Early, meaning diligently, will I seek thee. My soul thirsteth for thee, my flesh longeth for thee, in a dry and thirsty land where no water is To see thy power and thy glory, so as I have seen in my sanctuary. Here he says his soul is thirsting for God, and David also has that uh statement in Psalm 42, as the heart panteth after the water brook, so panteth my soul after thee, O God. My soul thirsteth for God, for the living God. Have you ever come to that point when your soul is truly thirsting for God? I need true water. And see that's a wonderful picture of people crying out in need, a spiritual need. Now, there are some who, like me, were laboring hard away and we're just going, going, going, working hard, and they're actually quite thirsty, but it hasn't occurred to them yet that they really need water. You're in a world surrounded with people who truly have a need. And don't realize it. They haven't there's Pastor Mahan gives an illustration of a little boy, a different metaphor, but a little boy wandering in the woods and And he's just chasing rabbits and butterflies and he's just on an exploration. It's wonderful. And he's getting further and further from the trail, further and further from his landmarks, until finally grows to be evening and the little coolness sets in and he realizes, Okay, well I gotta go home and he turns around and was it this way? He goes this way for a little while and he gets into something different. No. I'm glad. It wasn't that way, and then he goes another direction. And then the question is, I'm lost. You see, that's how some people are. They're actually lost, but they don't know it. You're actually thirsty, but you don't know it. Have you ever really become spiritually thirsty for your you know you have a great need. You know, I would also comment that people try to fill and satisfy that thirst with everything but that which satisfies. And Ephesians says, let no man deceive you with vain words. Because of these things the wrath of God comes upon the children of disobedience. Colossians, beware lest any man spoil you through philosophy. And vain deceit. In Pilgrim's Progress, he's searching for a way to get this burden off his back, and he comes to a worldly wise man who puffs himself up and says, You have to go. To the law, become a moral person, and as he approaches, there's this ominous mountain with thunderings and lightnings, and he can't do it You see, we can't merit something. We can't find that water in and of ourselves. It's not there. 2 Peter 2. 17, if you'd like, you can turn there. Peter's describing false prophets who come, and he says, his description of them is, these are wells without water, clouds that are carried about with a tempest. To whom the mist of darkness is reserved forever. There's nothing worse for a farmer than when a storm cloud comes overhead and doesn't drop one ounce of rain on the property. Or to come up to a well in a desert have you been crawling along and you get to that well and it's dry. That's what a false prophet is. It's a mirage. It's a it's a it's a it's fake. There's nothing there. They promise them liberty. They themselves are servant of corruption corruption. So the first thing I would point out is that these people were about to die. They thought they would die of thirst. And spiritually, that's got to be the condition of your heart. You've got to recognize that there's a deep need before you'll ask the Lord for the right thing. Second thing is this, is that this is a rock unlike any other rocks. I mean they pass by a lot of rocks in the wilderness. The rock over here, a rock over there, tripped over a rock yesterday, we're by these rocks over here. There are rocks everywhere. What was different about Moses rock? Who was different about his rock? God was there. Yeah. God was there. That's a real short. That's what we miss. Yes. He's near, he's there, but we blind to him. Well it was also the true rock. Right. In other words when you're talking talking about rock, like you just said, there's rocks everywhere. But they had they moves at the true rock. And you have to know that. Yeah. And and I think that's part of where we live at today that Unfortunately enough, it even people evangelicals don't know the true and living God. So if Moses had to have a rendition of a God But it's not the God of the Bible. So if Moses had struck a different rock, would water have come out of it? No. No. Right. Because God told him I'm going to stand a certain place and you strike this rock. It's the rock that God ordained. It's the rock that God pointed out. But that rock prior to that announcement looked just like any other rock out there Just any old other rock out there. And um even so it is with the Lord Jesus Christ. He was a man. And I like the fact that I can compare men to rocks here. When I was an engineering supervisor and I was on time we were ramping ramping up a program and we needed to hire twenty people right away and I was doing a lot of interviewing and it's a very long process to hire people. Sometimes you'd have people come in and they'd pretend that they were engineers. They really weren't. They just slapped the word. You know, their their grandmother said, Oh, you're so smart with all that computer stuff and they thought, man, I'm qualified. They come in to interview and they really didn't know what they're talking about. And after the interview we said, what do you think about it? We say, box of rocks. This person ain't gonna cut it. They're a box of rocks. They just don't have the the wherewithal. They can't cut it. A lot of rocks out there Even so, Jesus Christ came in so far as everybody else was concerned. He was just yet another rock, yet another person. He was an average, ordinary-looking Jew. He looked the same as everybody else, but he was radically different. And he disclosed that to a woman using some of this metaphor that we read here in Exodus, and you'll turn to John chapter 4. John chapter 4, where you'll see this metaphor that Jesus uses in speaking with this woman at a well. It was Jacob's well. He was wearied. Came to it. John 4, verse 7. There cometh a woman of Samaria to draw water. Jesus saith unto her, Give me to drink. I point out this woman coming is totally the opposite of Nicodemus. She's in the daytime, he's at night, she's a woman, he's a man. She's a pagan, he's a religious person. Totally. You couldn't get more opposite about two people coming to Christ. Woman of Samaria. Jesus saith unto her, give me to drink. He didn't show any social or racial barriers whatsoever. For his disciples were gone away into the city to buy meat. Then saith the woman of Samaria unto him, How is it that thou, being a Jew Ask us drink of me, which am a woman of Samaria, for the Jews have no dealings with the Samaritans. Jesus answered and said unto her, If thou knewest the gift of God and who it is that saith to thee, Give me to drink, thou wouldest have asked of him, and he would have given thee living water. The woman saith unto him, Sir, thou hast nothing to draw with, the well is deep, from whence then hast thou that living water? Art thou greater than our father Jacob, which gave us the well and drank thereof, and his children and his cattle? Jesus answered and said unto her, Whosoever drinketh of this water, this water in the well, you drink of that water, you will, not might, you will thirst again. He says, But whosoever drinketh of the water that I shall give unto him shall never thirst. But the water that I shall give him shall be in him a well of water springing up. And to everlasting life. Very different. Very different. What is this woman thinking of when she's talking with Christ? What is she thinking about? She's thinking about physical H2O, physical water. That's all she's got in mind. She's not Thirsty yet, you could say. She hasn't seen her need. Verse 13, Jesus said, Whosoever drinks of this water will thirst again. He's going to point out something to her. There's a different kind of water that you need, and you can't get it, but I can give it. You know, Jesus looks like a man, but in fact is God Almighty. There's a lot of rocks in that desert, as I mentioned, but there's only one rock that water came out of. And you don't expect water to come out of rocks. kind of hard they're impermeable is the technical term. They're impenetrable. They're solid. You just You don't store things in rocks. It may be rock-lined, but that's because it's a very good barrier and a strength. Philip said unto Jesus, Lord, show us the Father, and it suffices us. And Jesus saith unto him, Have I been so long time with you, and yet hast thou not known me, Philip? He that has seen me has seen the Father. Jesus was very different. He looked like other men, but he was very different. Very, very different. 2 Corinthians says, God was in Christ. reconciling the world unto himself, not imputing their trespasses unto him. Jesus was a very was a man, fully God and fully man, and we appreciate the Trinity We rejoice in the incarnation and celebrate it, but he's a very different baby, a very different man. Mary has nothing on Christ. He was actually the uh the anthropos, God man. Yes. And that's most people don't look at him as hundred percent God understand man. But he is that he output is the God man. Yes. You know there's no changing in that. Yep, yep, absolutely. Now the third point is kind of interesting here, and I've got uh uh two more, is that when did Well, let me ask a question. How how would you get water out of a rock if I told you, Jim, your job today is to go get water out of a rock? What would be your approach? Well up no I couldn't do it. You couldn't do it? No really. Right. Don't send me waving your time. Well Um you're you're correct. Um I happen to have a degree in geophysics which has to do with uh finding oil in the earth. And so if you were to ask an oil man how would you find water out of a rock, they would say, well you start drilling and you would drill into this rock. deep and maybe do some fracking and then you have to do a desalinization because most of the water under the ground is a mixture of salt and plant blah blah blah blah so you'd drill you'd have to do something damaging you have to go down but you wouldn't bother with anything on the surface. That just wouldn't happen. So you're correct. On the surface, this is not gonna happen. They're gonna say you gotta you you gotta you're gonna have to go to someplace else. They ain't gonna cover the rock. There you go. God told Moses to take his rod. The rod in the scriptures oftentimes is a picture of the law of God. Thy rod and thy staff, they comfort me. Oh, how I love thy law, David said. The law of God is often a picture, is typified by this rod. It talks about the righteousness of thy scepter. We would understand that to be the righteousness of God's rule, his laws. And until that law, that rod, hits Christ, the rock. You're not going to get water. He has to be smitten for us. You're not going to live, folks, until the Christ is struck. with the law of God. He has to be smitten. There has to be an atonement. There has to be a payment for sins. There has to be a substitute, a sacrifice. The Paschal Lamb has to come. Now I know I'm working a lot with the different metaphors here, but again, when you're looking at pictures of Christ, you can only look at one sliver at a time. Some of you ladies have beautiful jewelry, diamonds that are just incredible in how they're cut. And you can hold that to the light and you turn it. And if you have a really special diamond If you know that if you turn it a certain way, that light will hit that occlusion or that imperfection in there and there's a beautiful radiance of different color light that comes out. Diamonds are really interesting under the magnifying glass. They truly are. They're very radiant. And so it is with this picture. It shows a certain dimension, a certain direction An aspect of God and His plan of salvation. In order for you to get living water, if God Almighty does not strike Christ down with the law of God, you will not live. He's got to be smitten, he's got to be struck. And I can remember years ago when that concept of a of a penal substitute finally grasped my mind. That Christ is not only, and I'm trying to be careful here, but I'm also trying to make my point. So bear with me if I kind of screw up theologically here in a flagrant way. Christ is not so high and holy that God would say, oh, let nothing bad happen to him. Or nothing bad will ever happen to him. Everything will always be wonderful and rosy. He is our substitute. The penalty that you rightly deserve. Because of God's unfathomable love, because of this divine plan of election, because of how he chose to carry things out, said, No, let that penalty fall on my son. And I will then be satisfied. And then I can give life to these who ought to die. Matthew sixteen twenty-one. This concept of Christ being the substitute Is, by nature, such an alien thought to us that even the very disciples, the apostles The foundational elements of the New Testament church, they, along with the prophets, didn't quite get it, really beyond them. In Matthew 16, 21 it says, From that time forth began Jesus to show unto his disciples how that he must go into Jerusalem and suffer many things of the elders and the chief priests and scribes and be killed and be raised again the third day. That's pretty plain language. He's not being mysterious or veiled about all this stuff It's not like we says in Matthew 12, go tell that fox, Hera, today and tomorrow I do cures, and third days I shall be perfected. It's not that kind of veiled language He's very plainly telling him, look, I'm going in Jerusalem. These people are going to prosecute me and kill me. That's pretty plain language Verse 22, Peter took him and began to rebuke him, saying, Far, be it far from thee, Lord, for this shall not be unto thee. Peter's trying to get in the way of God's plan. Peter's trying to say, oh don't let that happen. Oh, oh, you're a good man. We like you. You're going to be our great king. You're going to rescue us. You're going to do wonderful things. Now Peter's Holy Ghost saved as ever there could be. But he doesn't get it. Christ rebukes him. Verse 23, turn and said unto him, said unto Peter, get thee behind me, Satan. Thou art an offense unto me, for thou savourest not the things that be of God, but those that be of men. It's not that Satan filled Peter, but that Peter's mouth at that moment was in complete unison with the doctrine of Satan. That's what Satan wants to say. Far be it from thee that Christ should go to the cross. Because if Christ doesn't go to the cross, there won't be salvation. There won't be any redemption. God's people would be lost. Satan would be ecstatic. The rod's got to hit the rock. And also the Father wouldn't be assued. from the death of Christ. If he just did if that if he did not go through because that's the Father's plan. He's following the Father's plan. Yes. And I just be I always makes me think about It's not the church we were at. That we went a group similar to this. And uh the pastor said, Well, Jesus would have died on that cross regardless He needed no motivation. He had no other reason to do it but but you you were the only motivation. I said no you gotta remember one thing. He did that at the father's behest. He first wanted to please the Father. Right. Then we get the benefit of him pleasing the Father. Right. Well no, no. He would have done it. Correct. If it comes out from what the father has already ordained for him to do, he's a role. Very good. Excellent observation. Excellent observation. Yeah. There was a determined plan in the Godhead known only to him from eternity past. We see it played out like a scroll just rolling out. So we're going to divide, in other words, he's dividing the Godhead Jesus can do what he chooses to do when he chooses. And the Bible distinctly says, I only do what the Father tells me to or chose me to do. He consistently and repeatedly talks about The father's will, you actually hear very little about man's will influencing Christ. Right. So it's backwards. We were so important to him that he don't care who what the father said. I'm doing this regardless of the Lord. I'm saving him. Right. Kind of like the renegade sounding. Right But I wasn't the main I wasn't the cause of him going in that sense. Right. John twelve says this, Verily, verily I say unto you, except the corn of wheat fall into the ground and die, it abideth alone. But if it die, it bringeth forth much fruit. We understand this even in the garden. A grain of corn is pretty hard, almost like a rock you could say. But when it falls on the ground and dies and it's irrigated, you know the process Fourth point, the rock was struck for a rebellious people. Moses just didn't go into the Canaanite camp and Hey fellas, you let me pass through. Hey, watch this. Ding, there, now you get a new weld. Can we pass through? He wasn't wheeling it about like a random Uh gift to be dis dispensed willy-nilly to whoever. It was a rock struck for rebellious people. Isaiah says, surely he has borne our griefs and carried our sorrows, yet we did esteem him stricken, smitten of God And afflicted. But he was wounded for our transgressions. He was bruised for our iniquities. The chastisement of our peace was upon him, and with his stripes we are healed. The Lord hath laid on him the iniquity of the soul. He was oppressed, he was afflicted, yet he opened not his mouth. He is brought as a lamb to the slaughter, as a sheep before her shears is dumb, so open heath not his mouth. And so all of this language makes it very plain for the transgression of God's people was Christ-stricken. And that's what you have with that rock. They were clear clearly in rebellion against God. I was thinking when you um when Peter when Christ rebuked him, it's on it kinda reminds me of maybe um wrong. But it kinda reminds me that we know I I know Christ had to go to the cross and die. This terrible, terrible death. But it still breaks my heart that he had to go that way. It makes me feel really safe. But that's what the father wanted. It couldn't be any other way. But yet it's like Peter, no, I don't want you to suffer like that. Right. You know, why does he have to suffer like that? But he had to. Yes. Yeah too. Brings to my room in the five eight, and I think this is what the Lord really used to bring me to himself in that while we were yet centers. God commended his love toward us in that while we were yet centers. Christ died for the ungodly that I was that rebellious person. Christ died, he loved me in spite of my sins. Yes. Yeah, I Romans 5. 8 has had a powerful impact on me as well. You know, the whole package deal that comes with the atonement. Also the fact that he got for the ungodly, not for every single human being on the face of the planet Just ask somebody, are you ungodly? Oh no. I mean I'd be perfect, but you know Christ didn't die for you. He died for the ungodly. Last point. Last point is um The rock followed them. We read about that in 1 Corinthians 10 Uh it says they drank of that spiritual rock that followed them. There's a rock that followed them. It's kind of strange language. You don't see that rock getting up on two legs and walking. But the fact of the matter is, the rock followed them. Physically, not the rocks, but the streams from multiple split rocks. Now, walk with me on this. I'm going to deal with you physically in a moment because he's making a spiritual application from a physical historical truth. There were actually several rocks that were split in the wilderness that gave the people water to drink. This was done on more than one occasion. I mentioned Exodus and I mentioned Numbers. Numbers 20 is the other account. I'll skip over that. But look at Psalm 7815. Psalm 78, 15. This is kind of interesting. Psalm 7815. You'll notice this language here. This is why I love being able to teach from a translation of the Bible based on the Textus Receptus because I'm very convinced that they got every letter, shot, and tittle correct. Psalm 78, 15, it says, He claved the rocks, plural, in the wilderness, and gave them drink as out of great deaths. Verse 20, behold he smote the rock, that the waters gushed out and the streams overflowed. Again, that's there's a couple of places in the Psalms where it says this he opened the rock, waters gushed out, they ran in dry places like a river. Another place it talked about standing water, the flint, into a fountain of waters. It wasn't a small trickle, folks, it was a flood. It was a real gusher. Uh he he quote unquote struck gold. It was water, not uh the oily stuff. You know, Jesus gives his people living water, and he gives that through his people. Go to John chapter 7. This will be our last couple of passages before I wrap it up here, John 7. And verse 37. John seven and verse thirty-seven says this the last day, that great day of the feast Jesus stood and cried, saying, If any man thirst, let him come unto me and drink. Now listen to this language in verse 38 That's a great one, and people will stop there, but the part he says after that is very interesting. He says, He that believeth on me as the scripture hath said Notice that phrase, as the Scripture hath said, Jesus is pointing back to something from Scripture, the Old Testament. As the Scripture hath said, out of this belly shall flow rivers of living water. Isn't that interesting? God feeds his people through Christ, through the Word of God, but that does come through his people. In the book of the Proverbs it says the liberal soul, meaning the giving soul, and that's not talking political spectrum here, the liberal soul shall be made fat. And he that watereth Shall be watered also himself. Apostle says, I planted Apollos, watered, but God gave the increase. And I can testify to you that it's a true statement, that the first blessing that someone gets, that the Bible teacher gets, the first blessing to come from a passage will go to the Bible teacher. Because as you spend time looking at the Word of God, all of a sudden you say, Wow, that's interesting. I never noticed that. I can't wait to share it. I look like a genius. And you're just ready to share these interesting things you come across The first blessing does come to the teacher, so there's profit in that. If God's moving you in a way where you might find yourself in a position to be able to teach the Word of God someday, don't give that up. It's a tremendous blessing. uh it is a great benefit uh time spent in the study. Well I have two questions to close us with and uh uh bear in mind that we're running a little tight on time so uh cons concision of answer is valued. What are some practical ways to deal with our natural tendency to want to murmur and complain against God? Well I think the main thing would be to get a deep understanding of who God is. Okay. Once you get understanding, at least um I know it's not an exhaustive You understand, don't get me wrong. But to be I guess I put it this way. The more you get full the more you fill up with the words of this book the better chance you had to know that God is in your is going to look out for you, being your the right thing concerning you. That's good. Mm-hmm. Other thoughts? Amen. I agree with that. Turn it to praise and thanksgiving. Ooh, well that sounds good, Penny. Put some legs on that for me. I'm tough. I'm in a situation here where I'm sick with COVID and I've got a broken elbow and I don't know what else is going on in life. How do I start to praise about that? Turn and ask God to show me all the ways that He's been good to me, all the things He's blessed me with, and focus on His goodness. and his truth and his character and who he is and what he has done and make that my focus. Right. And then trust him to take care of the things that are so away in what he has problems. Mm-hmm. She does that. No, praise God. And I am a pessimist by nature and God bless me with a wife that's not. Yes, praise God. But it's a um uh uh I I like both of what you're saying because it gets down, I think, to some practical ways. And certainly don't think for a moment that I've um Uh I'm speaking to you from a position of uh this this one I've got mastered, I've got this in the backpack, no problem folks. I can't figure out why you don't have it yet, right? Because I'm not in I'm not sure I'm in the stadium yet for this for for this race. But it does cause us, it does encourage us to stop and consider, well, who am I? Well, I'm a Christian. Okay. Well, what is a Christian? Well, someone who trusts. Trust in what? Trust in the promises of God. Well, what has God promised me? He says, He's promised me that in the world you'll have tribulation, but be of good cheer, have overcome the world. He's promised you a new heaven and a new earth, wherein dwelleth righteousness. He's promised you resurrection from the dead. It's called the resurrection of the just. Resurrection unto life. There is a resurrection for the wicked, it's called a resurrection and a damnation. You don't want that one. But he's promised you a resurrection unto life of the just. Hey, start to reflect on the promises of God And and then to think about, okay, well, how has God dealt with me in the past? Oh, it's been very hard. Okay, but did something good come from it at the end of the day? You know, going forward, as I drive down the road, I'll close with this simple analogy I use, and I hope it's helpful to you. Try to put some in perspective. Everybody's at an automobile. At least you've been in an automobile, you know something about cars. You may or may not have a driver's license, but as you go down the road You look out the front mirror. I mean the front windshield. That's how you go down the road. You gotta have eyes on the road looking forward. As a front windshield, you look through that. And then you had a rear view mirror Well we see the providence of God and the sovereignty of God in the rearview mirror. That's where you see it. You never see it up in advance. What you see going ahead This has to come through the lens of the Word of God. You have to just simply go and trust with what you see from the Bible going forward. So a lot of times people ask me, what do you think I should do in this? And what do you think I should do in that? And I say, well, what have you found from the scriptures? Maybe they just don't know and they want some advice from some passage of scripture, but that's all I can give them. Do you think God is doing this or do you think God is doing that? I said, wow, I don't know. You'll see in time to come you can look in the rearview mirror, then you'll see wow, look at what he's done. Well let me just say this too that and I agree with everything you just said is also God says He chastises all that he loves. Yeah. Uh scourges either. Scourges and yeah. To to to up the gain a bit. What does scourging mean? Well a Roman scourge is a leather whip with uh strings on and bone and glass, everything tear to it, and it rips your head As a brethren at the Berean Bible Church would say tearing my head. And I only add that to say because This day in time you only see that God got everything that comes your way is going to be something just great He's just a big lovable teddy bear Santa Claus. And I think that's a little bit going too far with the analogy. That's a well without water. Right. Exactly. That's a well without water. If you belong to him. Yeah. Right. Mm-hmm. And so you have to ask sometimes when hard times come, all right, well the Lord must be teaching me something here. What's he trying to teach me? God will use the enemies of his people. To chastise the enemy. But then he will always chastise the enemy when he chastises on. That's right. All right, well let's uh wrap up uh this uh this time here and get prepared for worship. Father, we thank you for this hour. Bless it to us, Lord. Help us to be more Obedient people and uh less to grumble and murmur less, for though we know we shall, yet we don't like it, and the scriptures condemn it, and Father, we ought not to do these things. Uh remind us again and again of the great promises you've given to your people, let us not forsake them in Jesus' name, Amen