Chapter twenty-five this morning. First Samuel twenty five beginning of verse one and Samuel died. And all the Israelites were gathered together and lamented him and buried him in his house at Ramah. And David arose and went down to the wilderness of Paran. And there was a man in Maon, whose possessions were in Carmel. And the man was very great, and he had 3,000 sheep, 1,000 goats, and he was shearing his sheep in Carmel. Now the name of the man was Nabal, and the name of his wife Abigail. And she was a woman of good understanding and of a beautiful countenance, but the man was churlish, that is, wicked or evil. evil in his doings, and he was of the house of Caleb. And David heard in the wilderness that Nabal did shear his sheep And David went out or sent out ten young men, and David said unto the young men, Get you up to Carmel and go to Nabal and greet him in my name. And thus shall you say to him that liveth in prosperity, 3,000 sheep, that's pretty prosperous. Peace be both to thee, and peace be to thine house, and peace be unto all that thou hast. And now I have heard that thou hast shearers. Now thy shepherds which were with us, David says, we hurt them not. Neither was there aught missing unto them, all the while we were in Carmel. So David says that my men were there out in Carmel, around your sheep. We never hurt your shepherds. In fact, you never lost any sheep while we were there. Verse 8, ask thy young men, that is ask your shepherds, Nabel, they'll tell you, and they will show thee. Wherefore let the young men find favor in thine eyes, for we have come in a good day, and the sheep shearing was a day of festivity and celebration. And we've come in a good day, so give, I pray thee, whatsoever cometh to thine hand unto thy servants and to thy son David. And when David's young men came, they spake to Nabal according to all those words in the name of David, and they ceased. And Nabel answered David's servants and said, Who is David? And who is the son of Jesse? There may be many servants nowadays that break away every man from his master. Shall I then take my bread and my water and my flesh that I have killed from my shears, and give it unto men whom I know not whence they be? So David's young men turned their way, and they went again and came and told him that is David all these sayings. And David said unto his men, Gird ye on every man his sword, and they girded on every man his sword, and David also girded on his sword, and there went up after David about four hundred men. And 200 abode by the stuff. So 200 of his 600 men arbies stayed back by the stuff, but 400 girded on the swords, and they're with David. And they're heading, of course, for the house of Nabal. But one of the young men that is in the house of Nabal, one of the young men told Abigail, Nabal's wife, saying, Behold, David sent messengers out of the wilderness to salute our master. And he railed on them. The men were very good onto us, and we were not hurt, neither missed we anything as long as we were conversing with them when we were in the fields. They were a wall unto us both by day and night, all the while we were with them, keeping the sheep. Now therefore, know and consider what thou wilt do. He's saying this to Abigail, the servant. For evil is for evil is determined against our master and against all his household, for he is such a son of belial, or he is such a son of evil, or such a son of wickedness, that a man can't even speak to him. Titled message this morning, The Fool. It starts out with, it almost seemed like this verse is tacked on in the beginning, verse 1, but it's trying to give you an idea of the state of affairs in Israel. It says Samuel died And all the Israelites gathered together and they lamented him. That's a shame because when he was alive they wanted a king. They didn't want Samuel anymore. prophet, they wanted a king. But now that he's dead, they lament. Maybe crocodile tears or maybe they finally realize what they had lost So Samuel dies, and it's at a time when the Philistines are pillaging Israel, it's at a time when Saul is out of control, it's at a time when David, a man of God, is in hiding, and now Samuel's dead. It just doesn't get any worse than that. America ought to weep this morning, for we've lost some godly men in the world. the last few years. We've lost some Christ-centered men of whom the world was not worthy. Hebrews eleven and thirty-eight. You younger folks don't know what we've lost because we've lost most of them And you probably weren't aware of them, but I remember Lester Roloff. He had that Christian school and how the media and the government came after him because he believed in disciplining the children and spanking the children in the school when they did something wrong And so the media and the government sent in all their agents and they were gonna put this man away and shut down the school and he got himself s some good Christian lawyers and And he went after the media and he went after the government and by the time it was all said and done the government goes, whoa, whoa, okay, wait a minute. How about we settle out of court? And they gave me over a million dollars and they just shut up There was an apology on TV. I don't know if it's 20, 20, 60 minutes, it was one of those shows. There was a time when this country feared the men of God Say more about Dr. Jerry Falwell and his silent majority that stood up and spoke up and voted, and we cast out more liberals you can count I mean it was that was a wonderful time when they when they feared a godly man, a man of God, a Christ-centered ministry. Dr. Bob Jones, some of you might remember Dr. Bob Jones I wish I had this the prayer he prayed. It was it was read one time, but I think it came from Psalm fifty eight because as my memory serves me, it sounds an awful lot like Psalm fifty eight But they they sent in agents from the IRS and from the government and they were they went down there as an Inquisition. They were sent down to his office to read him the Riot Act and put the the fear of Uncle Sam in him And Dr. Bob Jones says, before you even begin your questions, we must begin with prayer. And Dr. Bob prayed something like this, Oh God If these men have come to do us any harm, break their teeth, O God. Psalm 58, that's what's I'm reading Psalm 58, but this is what you pray. Break their teeth, O God. Let them melt away as snails. May they not see the sun again. Wash your feet in their blood. That's Psalm 58, but that's the way Dr. Bob Jones prayed. And these IRS agents, he looked up and he said they were just they didn't have any questions that day and they left. That's the America that I grew up in, and many of the adults grew up. We knew the day when a man of God was feared. And when a man of God died, he was lamented. And here Samuel dies. It was a discouraging time for David. Do you find these times are discouraging today? Well, let me give you the good news right in the beginning, alright? Christ is not dead. God is still on his throne. And though the world presently seems to be run by a lot of fools, Christ is not dead. But there are fools running the world and different nations. And here in verses 2 and 3 it says there was a man And he's a fool. There was a man. He had three thousand sheep and his name was Nabal. Now that word Nabal, that's a Hebrew name. And the word Nabal means foolish or fool. What kind of a parent would name their child fool? You know, you look around in Hollywood and you find some pretty weird names that the parents give their kids, don't you? I I was just going through some of my memory and names and and I just can imagine people will would name their kids Delilah I mean this is the woman that had Simpson tied up and bound and his eyes burned out of his sockets. I mean why would you name your daughter Delilah? Someone has actually named their daughter Jezebel. She's a nurse here in Baltimore Jezebel, why would you name your daughter Jezebel? She's the one who was persecuting and putting to death the prophets of God in her day And then there's the family that named their son Cain, the first murderer in scripture. Why would anyone what is wrong with these people? We got a lot of fools naming their children, I suspect. That word Nabal means fool. In fact, uh someone quoted the verse this morning from Psalm 14 and 1. The fool is said in his heart Let me give it to you in the Hebrew. I'm only giving you one word. The Nabal has said in his heart. That's what it says in the Hebrew. The Nabal has said in his heart, there is no God. The fool, we we say it in the English, but that word there for fool is Nabal. And he had a wife named Abigail. Abigail means the joy of her father. Wow. Abigail means the joy of her father. And it says here in verses 2 and 3, she was a woman of good understanding. But she's married to a fool. How does a woman of good understanding become married to a fool? Probably in those days the marriages were arranged, and the father wanted his daughter to marry someone who was very prosperous and very rich. Or maybe she had a a woman of good understanding, but she just didn't check him out Young people, you you check out the ones you're dating. In fact, check out their checkbook. That's a good place to check out something about them I mean we said this morning y you you can look at them in the mirror and they look pretty good sometimes, you know, and and then you get an x-ray from the doctors and they don't look so good in the x-ray and And then you look in your checkbook and you find out wow they don't look good at all. She she was a woman of good understanding, but m maybe she got this good understanding after she was married But she was married to the fool. And it says here in the verses 2 and 3, he was a churlish man. And I looked at the Hebrew, and the word churlish has a lot of different meanings, and you can pick anyone you want. I don't think any of us would want to be called churlish. But it means stiff-necked. Stubborn, dense, a blockhead, hard-hearted, agitated easily, cruel, disrespectful, snarling I couldn't find one word for the meaning of surlish that that I would want or I would want to pick for myself. This was Nabal. And he says he was, oh, and on top of all of that, it says in verse 2 and 3 that Nabal was also evil. He was evil. And of the house of Caleb. Now, if you know anything about the Old Testament, to come from the house of Caleb, wow. I mean that would have been a that would have been a real feather in your hat Cable, Caleb rather, was he was one of the twelve spies that went out and came back and brought the good reporting. Caleb. Caleb and Joseph. And Caleb was great. Great man. And and this fool came from the house of Caleb. A noble family line. Actually, it was of the family line. Caleb was of the tribe of Judah. And so Caleb was a akin to David. In fact, Nabal, maybe one of the reasons David David sent him there, maybe one of the reasons that David Maybe the reason they sat out there around these 3,000 sheep at night was because David knew Nabal by name And David knew that he was of the tribe of Judah and of the line of Caleb. And so they were they were akin of sorts. And he said, if I'm going to protect anybody's sheep, let me protect the sheep of someone from the tribe of Judah and of the line of Caleb, like myself. It's unlikely that Nabal didn't know David, and it certainly seems that David knew Nabal. And so it says here that David in verses four through seven he he heard that Nabal was shearing his sheep. That was a very festive time. It was a it was a time when they when they would cook out on the uh you know they'd have cookouts and meals and maybe bring in some of the neighbors. It was a real festival time. He talked You know, this is a great time. They're shearing the sheep. It's you're getting all this wool and it's a time where you just you just see the m the money in the bank practically, you know, and and uh and you're just uh it's it's a time where you're you're you're very uh inviting and and open to uh invite neighbors in and and to cheer over the the prosperity or the it's not just the grains out there weaving and the uh the wind blowing to the grain, but the grain is now in the bins, you know, it's in the grain rays. It's it's just a great time And so he thought, what a good time to send my men there and say to Nabel, uh, best of time, I wouldn't you just give my ten men a you know a little sustenance And it says here that uh they came. He sent ten young men and say he said, Say the Nabal and I I can't read the whole thing to you, but they're very respectful when you look at it. I mean they're just Uh almost a bowing your knee before him and genuflecting the whole bit. And they they said come to him and they and he said, Uh uh thy shepherds were were your shepherds are with us out in this field and and we heard them not and neither will you find any of your sheep missing. I mean you you're excited you got three thousand sheep. This is probably the largest number of sheep you've ever had at the end of a season that you could shear And you're just wondering, not one lamb died, not one lamb was stolen by a bear or a lion. The Philistines didn't come in and grab half of the flock. I mean, you're probably saying, what a great year this has been. Well, the reason it's such a great year is we've been standing around the flock day and night. And so we're just wondering here, and if you want you to check this out, you can ask your own shepherds, they'll tell you, yes, this is true. Wherefore, verse 8, I give, I pray thee, whatsoever unto thy servants. It couldn't be any other thought to Nabal than that, wow, yeah, I haven't lost any sheep and things have really been good. No reports of wolves or lions or bears. It's been great. That's been great. In fact, David, when he appeals to it, he says and and Satan, we pray, what can we do for the son of David? So David even kind of bing, you know, kind of hit a little little shot into Nabal's brain. I'm the son of David. Can you do something? Or your son rather, he said can you do something for your son, David Not that David was really Nabal's son, but they were both of the tribe of Judah, both of the line of Caleb. You know, we're kin. Can you help me out here a little bit? We're in need of some bread and water It was a small favor to ask of some of who you've been protecting for a a whole season, day and night, protecting all three thousand sheep. Let me tell you something. And those fifty or hundred sheep would would cover an area, oh my, five or six times bigger than this entire parking lot for just for fifty sheep. I mean, it takes a lot To keep track of them and kinda keep them in the same group. Three thousand sheep uh to me y you'd be covering maybe twelve hundred acres. That's a lot. That's a big area to cover and and to move the sheep from pasture to pasture. I mean they've done a lot of work here and hadn't lost any. Kept out all the wolves and the bears, and you know, it's just a little bread and water. I mean, we've protected this large flock from so many dangers for such a considerable time, and it's such a small favor David had some expectations of how people would treat him. Have you ever had your expectations fall short? Because Dave is about to see his expectations shattered, isn't he? I mean we have we have a certain level of expectation. That's our expectation We don't expect to happen which does something. Don't show up that door for me. I'm strong enough. I don't need your help of any man. I mean, I run that sometimes. You know. I mean you've got expectations of the way people can respond to the things you say to them and the things you do for them. Remember the fellow saying he saw someone's car broke down the road and and he stopped and he helped them. It's just a flat tire and he went back to his car and his car wouldn't start. He said, Can you give me a ride into town? Or can I use your cell phone to call? No, you can't do that. And they walked, you know, get in the car and he drove away. You have expectations of people. And David had expectations, I'm sure we've all uh had our expectations fall short sometimes of the way people have treated us or talked about us. And here David did. David's men they spoke to Nabal. And Nabal answered, who is David? Now come on. Who is David? You're both of the tribe of Judah. Who's David? You're both of the Lion and Caleb. Who's David? Come on. Even the Philistines know who David is. The Philistines they know the songs about David. The Philistines say David the king of the land. He slew his ten thousands and Saul when he slew his thousands First Samuel twenty one and eleven. I mean he knows who David is. What a liar. We already know he's evil. We already know he's cherless, we already know he's a blockhead You know, we know all this other stuff about him, but he's a liar on top of that. What an obvious liar. Who is David? He is ungrateful. And he's just you know what he is? He's selfish. I want you to see how selfish he is. Look at look at verse 11. Verse 11 of chapter 25. And I want you to see this. If we didn't see it while we're reading it, he says, Shall I take my bread and my water and my flesh and have killed for my shears? My, my, my, my. My my my you know I mean it's all he's it's all about him isn't it? My water, my bread, my shears, my meat. I mean he is just plain selfish Four times the words used, my in just verse 11. Pilgrim, how selfish are you? I'm delighted that we helped out Pastor Carlson. He may need more help before all the dental work is done, but how selfish are you? Maybe you don't think you're selfish. Maybe you're not. Listen to the verse in Deuteronomy. Deuteronomy 15, verse 7 through 11. If there be among you a poor man of the brethren, believers, okay. If there be a poor man among you of the brethren, thou shalt not harden thine heart. Nor shut thy hand from thy poor brother. Okay, I can see that. Thou shalt open thy hand wide unto him. Boo I could see helping a little bit. It says, open thy hand wide unto him for his need, and thou shalt surely give him. That's Deuteronomy Chapter 15, verses 7 through 10. Oh, but I didn't read the rest of it. There's more. You're gonna open wide your hand to the brother who's in need. Thou shalt surely give him, for this thing the Lord thy God shall bless thee. God will bless you if you open up and help others among believers. I the Lord thy God will bless thee in all thy works and in all that thou puttest thy hand onto. Now don't you want to have a blessing Wouldn't you like to have God bless you? I mean, if nothing else you can make that twelve-year-old car run for another twelve years. He can do that. Or you can make that twenty-year uh shingled roof you got last for another ten years I mean God has ways of blessing that we don't recognize, we don't notice. You get an x-ray and it looks terrible, and the doctor says, let's come back in three months, look at it again, you come back in three months, and it's gone. Wow I mean God can bless you. He said, open up your hands wide to the brethren. And that's to the sister and not sister. We know the sister. To the sisters, right? To the believers. But Nabal wouldn't give David and his men anything. And when I say he wouldn't give me anything, you look at those verses, you can read them again. Chapter 25 and verse 11. Nabal wouldn't even give him water. Water. He didn't have enough water for 3,000 sheep. He said, This is my water. This is my meat. Wouldn't even give them wouldn't even let 'em fill up their canteens or their s their s their wineskins with water. I mean this guy is He's a fool. I mean if God will bless those who help the brethren, bless thee in all thy works, what are you guys going to do for Nabel? He wouldn't even give a cup of water in Christ's name. Christ talks about giving a cup of water in his name. He wouldn't even give him a cup of water. Our willingness to help and to give to a needy brother or sister tells much about our relationship with Christ. It tells much about our spirituality as to whether we're willing to help the believers or not. And so Davis and then they you know what could they do? I guess they're gonna pull out their swords and chop the guy up. There was ten of them, and I mean they're soldiers, they're warriors, but they just you know backed away. And so they turned away and they went and they told David everything that happened. And David said, Gurge you and every man is sword. 400 men. 200 stay behind and watch the stuff. The others were going down to Nabal. And if you look at verse 22, he says, we're going to kill all the men in the household. Only one offended David, but David is so angered, he is he is he's just so uh he just can't believe what he's just been confronted with. He's going to go down and kill Nabal and Nabal's sons and Nabal's grandchildren and whatever's any any disturbance, he's going to kill them all, kill all the men, says in verse 22. How is it that Nabal he's just a farmer A shepherd at that. How is it the Nabal could get David's goat? How is it he could just he could just irritate David so much he'd grab a sword and want to go out and hack him to pieces and and uh and his whole family and his whole house? I mean, how is it that that he could that this this why does Davis patience run out with this guy Nabal when King Saul is you know all he said you can't have any water I'm not going to give you anything to eat. But King Saul is actually out trying to kill David. Throws spears and javelins at David, sends armies after David, wants them dead, tells everybody the rewards they'll have to kill David. David's got patience with King Saul. You would think he'd have patience with Shepherd down there in Carmel, you know. Just one of my relatives. I got relatives like that. We all got relatives like that, maybe. Why does he lose his patience here You ever been to a major problem and you you tough it out and and then later on you come unglued over some petty irritation? That's what we've got here. I mean, you get laid off, you're unemployed. Oh man, I gotta pray and I gotta talk to someone, I gotta get another resume, and you know you go on and on like that, and and and you handle pretty good. And then An hour or two later you spill a cup of coffee in your lap. Oh, you really throw the coffee cup across the room, you kick the coffee, and you know something about spilled coffee or spilt milk But you weren't that upset when you got laid off. You said, oh, I just got to start out some resumes. Why is it we let these petty things irritate us and the big things we seem to Handle all right. Tree falls on your roof. Oh man. Hopefully insurance covers that. It doesn't look too bad. At least it's you know uh up in the attic and you know a little bit of water coming in, but yeah, we'll get it fixed. I'll make some phone calls and you know you tree on your roof. But then you're walking out, there's ants in my kitchen. There are ants everywhere. Oh you need to lose number ants. You know? What's with these little things that bother us and the big things we seem to We've seen the handle. How about Peter? Peter's in the garden. The soldiers come in to arrest the Lord Jesus Christ. And they got their stabs and they got their torches and they got their swords. And Peter jumps up and he pulls out a sword and whacks the ear up and one guy, you know, and the Lord says, Put away your sword, Peter, that's okay. You know, and and Peter, he's right there. He's right there. I'll take them all on I mean if they stab me or anything else, the Lord can just heal me and I'll get back up and keep on swinging. They stab me, I'll lure the heal back. I mean I'm ready to take them all along. Peter, he's not over outnumbered or over outgunned or over You know, we didn't expect Peter's just fine in a in a major confrontation. And within the hour, some little maid comes by and says, Aren't you one of those Galileans, the followers of Jesus Christ? Oh Ravi! Ravi! Why is it? We panic over the little things. See how it works that way. Song of Solomon chapter 2 and verse 15 explains it this way. It's the little foxes that spoil the vines. You know, there's big problems out there in our vineyards. And we handle the big problems. We build a wall up around the vineyard. And we're out there and we're we're trimming away the maybe there's worms in the branches or something like that. But it's the little foxes that just spoil our day Well, I think part of the reason was that Saul was from the tribe of Benjamin and he was a king. And he mistreated David. You know, if we're mistreated by someone of great authority and power, we say, well, you know, I'm I'm just Just David. But when we're mistreated by some low life, it really hurts, doesn't it? When we're mistreated by someone that's just he's a nobody, that's Nabal. He's a nobody, he's a fool. It's one thing to be mistreated by someone in authority and power. But they'd be so mistreated by this shepherd. And he's kin, he's family. I'm with the tribe of Judah. He's the tribe of in fact he's not only the line of Caleb, he's not only the tribe of Judah, he's not only kin to David He's of the line of the Lord Jesus Christ. You just don't expect that. I would suspect that we could take more when we're out there in our daily lives uh in a store somewhere, on a job somewhere, if some ungodly person is really nasty to us You know, we can just, no problem. But when a professing Christian is nasty to us, boy, that just gets us, we get stuck on that, don't we? We're just not going to put up with that. They call themselves a Christian. You go on and on, right? And this is what we have here. King Saul, he loves Benjamin. The Benjamites are noted for being a difficult tribe to deal with, but man, my own tribe, my own pin? There are fools in the line of Judah. There are fools in the line of Judah. There are fools that Christ came out of Judah. And here is a fool that came out of Judah as Not being appreciated is a big trial You ever not been appreciated? You ever been overlooked for a promotion? And you you knew you'd done a better job than the guy that got it or you'd been there longer? That you had the company's interests at heart? Have you ever been out appreciated? Maybe not compensated for something he's done. Came up with a new widget or gadget. You know, uh that the fella that came up with the snap on tools, somebody don't know that, or the how about the track two razor They didn't get a penny for that idea because they were working for a company and their job was to try to invent ideas and the company owned every idea they had And of course you you join a company like that and you sign the the papers and you that's okay. If I have an idea of what's it gonna be worth anyway, well they one guy came up the snap on tools, the other guy came up with the track two razor And they said, whoa, this is great. And the company loves it. We're going to produce millions and millions of all this. What I'm going to be rich. And the company said, Are you signed here that all your ideas are ours? They weren't compensated. They weren't appreciated How about recognition of an idea that's yours and somebody else who works runs the ball? That's a great idea, Bob. Oh I think, yeah, maybe we'll do something like that. Oh, it's lunchtime now, and everybody says the guy runs off and tells the boy, hey, I got a great idea. Wait to hear this. He steals your idea. You get no recognition for your idea. Does that ever happen? Not appreciated? David's men are out there at night. You know, the wolves are coming in at night, and they're risking their lives against wolves to protect these sheep, or lions are coming in. And the Philistines and their band of Philistines are raiding in and out of Israel all the time. I mean they put their life on the line numerous times. And these men are 600 men spread out to cover 3,000 sheep. That's that's some job. He said that they were there were a wall between us and them day and night. These guys don't appreciate. Can't have a cup of water When you're not appreciated. Bitterness can grow pretty quickly, can't it? When we're short changed, oh, it doesn't take long before the needle pegs right around 9 or 10 on a scale of 10. Maybe it pegs a 13 on a scale of one to ten. The gauge, not appreciated, short changed, not compensated, no promotion, bitterness. And David was bitter. It wasn't just for him, it was for his men and their families. And I want you this morning to think about you've got struggles, maybe you've been shortchanged, maybe uh you're bitter, you've been you haven't been compensated, you haven't gotten that promotion, you haven't gotten any recognition. You're so disappointed. I want you to look for God's hand in it. I mean, if you're if you're short-changed, if you're not appreciated, the Lord knows, and the Lord's involved with all that. And this is a trial that God thinks you need to go through. Not being appreciated, not being compensated. Remember when Christ was about to be crucified, he said, The cup my father hath given me, shall I not drink of it? And so sometimes you're not appreciated And you're not in your short change, this is the cup that your Father in heaven has given you. Your everlasting, ever loving Father. He thinks this is a moment that will be a learning experience for you, a growing experience for you, and we have to see God's hand in it and get rid of the bitterness in our life and and get rid of that the struggling over the disappointments in life. This is a cup that God has given you. Shall you not drink of it? The Apostle Paul in 2 Corinthians 11 he writes that though he'd been in, and I can't give you all the stuff, but there's a lot more, but he writes this in chapter 11 of 2 Corinthians Of all the prisons he'd been in, and all the lashings he'd had, and the beatings he'd had, and how he was stoned, and he'd been among false brethren, he'd been betrayed in pain and hunger and thirst and shipwreck I mean he's got a long list of things that the Heavenly Father, the loving Father, has put him through, that he might grow in grace and knowledge of the Lord, and that he might not be bitter, that he might recognize that these things are of the Lord. In fact, Paul says when he writes in Romans 11, 36, that everything that happened to him, it was of him, it was through him, and it was to him Are all things and Paul said, I've got to see God's hand in being shipwrecked and beaten and imprisoned and not be bitter against God or bitter against anybody else Disappointed? Sure he was. Unappreciated? Apostle Paul? Absolutely. The Lord Jesus Christ. Never was there anyone more unappreciated than Christ. The Lord Jesus Christ, He heals people, He feeds the thousands, He raises people from the dead, and then they say, Crucify Him, crucify Him, Crucify. Talk about not being appreciated Talk about expectations? Of course he was God, he knew it was coming, so maybe expectations weren't what we'd expect. Verses 14 through 17, one of the young men told Abigail, there were a lot of shepherds with the 3,000 sheep that Nabal had, and there were a lot of servants in that large household. But one, one, one. You know what? You're only one. Don't think you can make a difference? You can 300 million people in this country, but it only takes one. Right place, the right time, God's hand on you, blessing you to do the right thing at a difficult time. And only one, but this one servant, one of the young men, told Abigail the wife of the fool Nabal, he said, Our master railed on them, on David's men. He railed on them, they didn't know him, didn't know who he was, what he could do. Who did he have a glass of water? But the men were, he says here in verse 40, he said, the men were really very good to us, he tells Abigail. He said, we never missed anything. We didn't lose one lamb that whole season. We didn't lose one lamb Yeah, we didn't have a sheep to even die of old age. I mean we didn't lose anything. These guys were fantastic. They were with us. He said They were a wall onto us night and day, keeping the sheep with us. He said they didn't leave the in the daytime and go off on excursions. They were with us all the time. Against wild beasts and robbers and the Philistines So he tells Abigail this thing said now consider evil is determined against our master. Boy he had that right. I don't he must have seen the expression on the men's faces They backed away from Nabel, okay, fine. As it went away, they may be a mumbling something and the servant heard it and he knew that it wasn't going to end there, that there was going to be repercussions. He had great discernment Uh maybe maybe like Abigail, he was a man of understanding, though he was a servant, and though he's only one, and none of the others came forward to tell her this. But if he tells her all of this, he says, Consider evils determined against our master and all his household. According to David in verse 22, he's only going to kill all the men and the men, children, and so forth. But he said, he's determined against our master and all this household. He is such he says, this Nabal, he said, I didn't go and tell Nabal Why are you telling me? Because your husband, he is such a belial. He is such he's a son of wickedness. He won't listen You can't, he says, it's a man you cannot speak to him, he says in verse 17. You just can't talk to him. He's not only a fool, he's not only selfish, he's unreasonable And he is so wicked. He's a son of Belial. He is a snarly individual. The servants don't like to approach him. They have a difficult time talking with him. He's just so condescending, so nasty. So I've come to you. I dare not tell him the truth. Wow. How can I tell him the horrendous truth that's about to befall him? Do you have trouble telling people the horrendous truth that's going to befall them if they don't repent of their sins? sins. We need one like this in every neighborhood. We need one like this in every family. We need one like this in every church. We need someone that who recognizes the horrendous truth. What is going to befall people who don't repent of their sins? What is going to befall people who don't worship the Lord Jesus Christ? And praise his name for shedding his blood on the cross for our sins. We've got the good news, but of course the good news also incorporates the idea that there's a hell for those who don't love the good news And I know there's some people difficult to approach. They're fools. They're snarly. They're crotchety. So he goes to the wife. He talks to her. He says, I I can he's a man you can't speak to. And this household's in great danger. This household's in great danger of perishing. And we need to talk to people like that. You're a difficult person to talk to, but can I talk to you about something that's really, really important? You're in horrendous danger. You are about to perish if you don't repent of your sins. Have you ever told anyone, pilgrim? Have you ever told anyone they were in danger of perishing because of sin? I can't tell them that. Why not? Well, let somebody else do it. There was only one servant that was going to do it. And you can't sit and wait for somebody else to tell someone: a father, a mother, an uncle, a brother, a sister, whatever, a neighbor. You're the one, friend. You're the one. If you will, if you'll go to someone and tell them that your household's about to perish Some will listen, some will hear you And someday the Lord Jesus Christ will say to you, Well done, thou good and faithful servant. Enter into the joy of the Lord that's prepared for you. Matthew 25 and 21. Maybe this week we can all be the one that talks to someone. And some will listen. Not everyone out there is a fool. And nobody really wants to perish. Let's pray. Father, we thank you for this day. Oh Lord, there's so many characters in this book, and we'll learn more about Abigail as we proceed and what a wonderful woman she was. We'll never know that servant's name. But Abigail does. And I'm sure he got a promotion. And she appreciates so much of what he told her. Hard things to tell her, confront her with That your husband's a fool, but I gotta tell you, so Lord, may we may we have it in our hearts to be the one to speak to someone we've never spoken to before Just waiting for someone else to do it. Lord, may we be the one. Give us that courage to speak up, to stand out. And it's incredible. In Christ's name we pray. Amen. Jerry, would you close us with prayer today, please?