Turn with me this morning to Second Samuel in chapter ten. Second Samuel chapter ten. The bulletin says verses one through fourteen. We'll be doing verses one through twelve. And the remainder chapters, a lot of battle details. I won't be preaching on that, but you'll need to read that to find out what happens in the battle that we'll be looking at today. Verse 1 of chapter 10. And it came to pass after this that the king of the children of Amon died, and Hanan his son reigned in his stead. And then said David, I will show kindness unto Hanan, the son of Nahash, as his father showed kindness unto me. And David sent to comfort him by the hand of his servants for his father, or his ambassadors. And David's ambassadors came into the land of the children of Ammon. And the princess of the children of Ammon said unto Hanan, their lord, Thinkest thou that David doth honor thy father, that he has sent comforters unto thee? Hath not David rather sent his servants or his ambassadors unto thee to search out the city and to spy it out and to overthrow it? And wherefore Hanan took David's servants or his ambassadors, and he saved off one half of their beards, and he cut off their garments in the middle, even to their buttocks, and sent them away. And when they were told it unto David, he sent to meet them, because the men were greatly ashamed, and the king said, Tarry at Jericho until your beards be grown, and then return. Return, that is, to Jerusalem. And when the children of Ammon saw that they sank before David, the children of Ammon sent and hired the Syrians of Bethrahab. And the Syrians of Zobah, twenty thousand footmen, and of the king of Mahakah, a thousand men, and of Ishtab, twelve thousand men And when David heard of it, he sent Joab and all the hosts of the mighty men. And the children of Ammon came out, and they put the battle in array at the entering into the gate. And the Syrians of Zobah and of Rohab and of Ishtab and of Mahaka were by themselves in the field. And when Joab saw that the front of the battle was against him before and behind, he chose all of the choicemen of Israel and put them in array against the Syrians. And the rest of the people he delivered in the hand of Abishai his brother, that he might put them in array against the children of Ammon. And he said, If the Syrians be too strong for me, then thou shalt help me. But if the children of Ammon be too strong for thee, then I will come and help thee. Be of good courage, and let us play the men of our people, and for the cities of our God, and the Lord do that which seemeth good. The king of Ammon had died. We read in verses 1 through 3, and David had sent to comfort the son of the king, who was now the new king. And he said his servants are his ambassadors. But the princes of the Ammonites said to the new king, Thinkest thou that David doth honor thy father? David has sent these ambassadors to search out the city, to spy it out, and to overthrow it. Overthrow it. This was a funeral. We all attended funerals. And if we attend them, it's because we have some compassion for the family that's lost a loved one. And we we sometimes, as we we are preparing to go to the funeral, we we talk about what we should say. I don't want to say something stupid. I I want to say something that will bring them comfort And we've always struggled perhaps with that, that we would say something that would give some comfort. A message of sympathy, we would call it So David had done this and his intentions were good, but they were misinterpreted. Have you ever had good intentions and you tried to do something right and it was Misinterpreted. These men must have thought, what do we say wrong? We worked on the message. We talked about it among ourselves. David gave us a good clue as what we could say. He knew the father and Nahash What it what's gone wrong here? Well, what has gone wrong here is charity or love thinketh no evil, first Corinthians thirteen four. But these Ammonites were an evil bunch of people. They were wicked, and wicked people are often very suspicious when someone is kind to them. They just, why is he being so nice? Why is he being so kind? Why is he being so sympathetic? The nicer you are sometimes, the less people trust you. That's what happened with the Lord Jesus Christ. Every time he healed someone, there was more suspicion by the Pharisees and by the Sadducees and by the priests of Israel. What's he up to? He's casting out devils through Elzebad, they started to say in Luke 11 or verse 15. The more Christ did for them, it seemed that the more they cast dispersions upon him And did not Christ teach us to expect just that? As we go through the world as Christians, giving love even to our enemies? And drink to those who are thirsting, and food to those who are hungry. Did he not tell us that as they have persecuted me, they will also persecute you? John fifteen and twenty. Christ told us to expect to not be so well received by the world, by the wicked, by the evil. He did that we are to extend ourselves to them, we are to try to love them into the kingdom. But expect some pretty ill treatment at times. When we share the gospel of Christ, don't be surprised to hear, yeah, you're just after our money. I know why you want me to come to your church. You're after the money. I I've heard that so many times I was prepared. The next time somebody said to me, I knew what I was going to say, and I did. The next time I was talking to somebody, I work when I was working in construction, they said, You're just after my money I said, no, I'm just after your soul. That bothered him even more, you know. Jikes. And this is the guy that didn't believe in having souls. Didn't believe in angels and spirit. We don't have souls, but once he found out I wasn't after his money, I was after his soul. He was even more repulsed. I wouldn't suggest he used that one Have you ever failed to explain what your motive was when people think you have a ill motive or a bad motive? You give somebody a present that you think they would just love, and you find out they're allergic to wool, and you didn't know that when you gave them the wool scarf. or you you bought them maybe you you bought a a girl uh perfume and you found out it was the same stuff her grandmother wears and she's insulted that you you know I mean we we try to some kinds of things we do just they They never go right. And so it was here. They had come with a message of compassion and sympathy, and they weren't believed. And it says here in verse 4 that Hanan, he's the new king, he shaved off half their beards and cut off their garments, even to their buttocks. You know, we can read that pretty fast without think much about it, but you know, in the old he these men had left David They got their Sunday go to church meeting best garments on. They're well dressed, w probably the the the best that they have. And y and you know back then the the robes or the skirts that they wore them down to the ground just barely uh covering their their sandals or their shoes. But it wasn't just any robe they wore that day. They were dressed to the nines. They were representing the king of Israel. They were his servants, his ambassadors, and they were well dressed as they came before them And to just cut the the garment that they were wearing to cut it off up to the buttocks, I mean to destroy a a a beautiful, expensive garment was in itself uh rather crazy, rather nasty. But I still don't think we quite comprehend what an insult this was, so let me take it back to a culture we'd understand. Say you were an Amishman, and this happened recently up there in the Lancaster area. You're an Amishman and you're doing business and you're you you're you're going in an area you're not familiar with uh to sell your wares as a carpenter, an Amish carpenter. And this Amishman up there, he was jumped by four or five guys, and they held him down and they cut off his beard Now so an omniscient of beard is not just something he can grow because he can grow it. He grows it. It's a part of his faith. It's a part of his statement of his religion. It you know, w when he is married he must grow the beard. It means something. It'd be like ripping your wedding ring off your finger to cut off this beard. That that beard says he's married and he's happily married and he's an Amishman who who who is is is a faithful Amishman And to cut off his beard is it's such an insult. And that's what it was like in the days of David. These men grew these beards. They were respectable things that they grew and for someone to attack and and to cut the beard off was like insulting an Amishman up in Lancaster. And then to cut the garment off up to the buttocks You know, when you all the movies you ever seen, everything you ever read in scripture, you realize that for the most part, you could live in Israel for 4,000 years and you would never see the legs of an Israelite. They wore long garments, except in battle when they would gird them up with a belt. But you didn't see an Israelite's legs The man of an Israelite, he didn't see his legs. And now they cut the garments off and you see even his buttocks That's a horrible thing that they had done to them. Actually when it comes this this is what the Ammonites had done, but when you when you consider the Ammonites what they were like This wasn't this was mild actually from what they did. If you go back in the scripture in 1 Samuel 11, uh the Ammonites wanted to gouge out or scoop out the right eye of every Israelite And have them serve them. And then another place for you in Amos 113, the Ammonites, they would rip open the belly of the pregnant women and kill their children. the the uh the Old Testament abortion doctors, I guess, of their day And so here in this Prince Hannah he chose to humiliate them, and he knew by cutting off their beards, he knew by cutting off their garments, that that would be humiliating. Extremely humiliating. And John 19, 23, what did do the Lord Jesus Christ when they crucified him? They took his garments off of his body and hung him on a tree and made a spectacle of him. It wasn't enough to slap him And spit on him and scourge him and nail him to a tree and see that he died. But in the in the midst of all that, take away his garments and let him hang in shame before the nation of Israel. And that's what was happening with these men. They were ashamed. They were being made a spectacle as they would be walking back to Jerusalem, half unclothed. In fact, it says in verse 5, the men were greatly ashamed. And they had done this to David's ambassadors. When David heard about it, it said the men were greatly ashamed. And David said When he heard what they'd done to his ambassadors, he said, what difference does it make anyway? Oh no, I'm sorry, that was somebody else that said that when their ambassador was killed in Benghazi Hmm. What difference does it make? David said, Tarry at Jericho until your beards be glowing. And most likely clothing was brought to them as well. They were embarrassed if you had seen these men. marching down to Jericho before they got the replacement clothing and the beards missing. You would have seen men that you'd never seen before blushing. Blushing When's the last time you saw somebody blush? I'll make it even more difficult for you. When's the last time you saw somebody in the news media blush at a story they were reading. Or the sometime if you would see someone who was in a movie and they did a particular scene and they asked them about the scene and they blush. Or some government official. When's the last time you seen somebody in the media or in the movies or in government blushing at the things that they are proposing or talking about or doing. There is apparently nothing today that would cause them to be greatly ashamed. And that is said, nothing it appears that caused them to be greatly ashamed in Hollywood. In the news and media. You don't see people blush very often And now recently our presence is promoting the transvestite lifestyle contrary to the holy scriptures that Christ endorsed. You see, Deuteronomy 22, 5 says, A woman shall not wear that which pertaineth unto a man. Neither shall a man put on women's garments, for all that do are an abomination unto the Lord. Deuteronomy twenty-two five. And Christ said, if you believe not Moses, and Moses wrote Deuteronomy twenty-two five, you believe not if one are raised from the dead. So Christ endorses this verse that it's wrong for a man to put on women's garments. So the idea of putting on women's garments, it's an abomination before he even speaks Steps into the girl's bathroom before he even steps into a girl's locker room, before he even goes into a girl's shower room, it's an abomination. And a nation that cannot blush over something like this is spiritually and morally bankrupt. Thus, King David grasping the importance of maintaining the dignity of his ambassadors He instructed them to tarry at Jericho. Don't come back to Jerusalem looking like that. We'll get you some clothing. We'll let you stay there till the beards can grow out. We don't want you to be found that way in public. We don't want you to be embarrassed or ashamed. It's it's that's you say it Jericho. Why Jericho? There's nothing in scripture that doesn't have a reason You go back and look to the scriptures before 2 Samuel and 1 Samuel, go all the way back. And Jericho had been destroyed. Jericho had been destroyed, and Joshua, after he destroyed Jericho, he prophesied. He prophesied in uh Joshua 6 and 26, let no one rebuild Jericho ever. For if they do the man that rebuilds Jericho, he'll lay the foundation on the death of his son. In fact, he'll lay the foundation on the death of his oldest, his firstborn son. And if that doesn't teach him a lesson, if he continues to rebuild Jericho, he will see as he sets the gates that his younger son will then die also. And you know something that happened? The Ammonites and the Moabites and the Jebusites and the Canaanites and all these ungodly heathens out there, they knew about that prophecy from Joshua And they knew that Joshua was fake, as holy men are moved by the God they spake. And they they took those words of Scripture, and though they weren't saved, though they hated the Israelites, they trembled to think of what would happen. They believed those little details. I mean that's not a big verse. And it's just talking about setting a gate and building a wall. I mean what's the big deal? But even the ungodly in the days of Joshua and in the days of King David They believe that verse to the point that for over 500 years nobody built the city of Jericho. Nobody dared. Because they believed the word of God. Saved or not. And our country was like that for a long time. We may not have been Christians, many of us in this country, over the last two hundred years, but we knew that To murder was wrong. To kill little babies in the womb was wrong. To kill the babies after kill them out of the womb was wrong. We knew the commuting adultery was wrong. We knew the breaking of the Sabbath was wrong. We knew the stealing from our company was wrong. Or stealing from our neighbor was wrong We knew that coveting our neighbor's wife, our neighbor's manservant, we knew you didn't have to be saved to know that stuff. You didn't have to be saved to believe that stuff. You didn't have to be saved to say, well, if I do that, God's going to get me. Whether you were saved or not, you believe these things. And so for 500 plus years Nobody built Jericho. So David says, tarry at Jericho. It's a desolate place. It's a little village. No one's going to even spot you down there. You can hide out down there until your beards grow out. Because Jericho was desolate. It finally got built, you know What kind of a people who would build up Jericho? What kind of a people would take the chance? Where was there a body of people that said, oh, I don't believe this stuff? It was in the days of King Ahab and Jezebel. My how wickedness filters down through a society and the wickedness of Ahab and Jezehua filtered down in the area of Jericho and the inhabitants of Jericho and the surrounding area they said, you know something? It's been over five hundred years. Let's see if Joshua six. You know, in in verse twenty uh verse twenty-six. Let's just see if it's really true. We want to rebuild this. Jericho, by the way, is a city of palms, palm tree. It's a beautiful place. It's like a resort area. But nobody did. Until Ahab and Jezebel came along. And this ungodly pair, they said, Oh, yeah, go ahead. You want the building permits? We'll give them to you. Go ahead, Jericho. That's fine with me And they went down there and they rebuilt Jericho. And as he was laying the foundations around the for the walls, his oldest son died. Wow. Well, I guess that can happen. He was my oldest son. I mean he was getting up there. He was over 30 or whatever. I mean, you know, but uh and he went forward and he set the gates And his youngest son died. When you look in scripture, friend, and you see some things and verses of the Bible that were written 2,000 years ago. Three thousand years ago and said, Well, that's a long time ago. God's not gonna enforce this anymore. I mean that that's the way God felt on that day when he was a little upset with With the people of Jericho. But 500 years later, we'll be all right. 600 years later, we'll be. In fact, it was about 600 years later when they rebuilt Jericho. And guess what? God was still not alright with Jericho being rebuilt. And there's verses in the Bible you think aren't so important. And that's why thou shalt not kill Doctors who perform abortions, that was a long time ago when that verse was written. Remember the Sabbath day and keep it holy? Oh well now. I mean really that was been a couple thousand years ago when that was written. What people need today is a healthy fear of God's Word. You know, you think we need a stronger army, stronger Marine Corps, stronger navy, you know, to fight the enemies of God You think we need better education, a support more morning in education? I mean we we've got all these things. What America needs is a healthy dose, a healthy fear of the Word of God. God, and then read it and follow it and be blessed by it. People think nothing today of taking the Lord's name in vain, of lying, coveting, stealing. But David, he thought a lot about the things in society that were wrong, and so he sent his men. to Jericho. His ambassador was there and they would be isolated from the prying eyes of those who would laugh and point fingers at them. But the men in Jericho were also isolated from the fellowship. The tabernacle was in Jerusalem. Jerusalem, the worship service, the Levites, the sacrifices. It takes a long time to grow a beard back out. And these men were isolated from the fellowship and the services in Jerusalem for many, many years. Many, many months. Have the circumstance of your life ever isolated you from the fellowship? It's tough for Greg. He goes away two, three, sometimes six months at a time and has to find a church. That's not easy. You know he looks for fellowship and he's often found it. There's been times when he couldn't find it. It's tough. You pray for Greg while he's out there, isolated from not just from this fellowship, but trying to find Some place it was the last time he was up in Mormon Country in Utah. Wow, Mormon Country. We're gonna find fellowship there. And Greg did. Found a little Baptist church, but I guess the thing's about half the size of this church He had great fellowship there. But these men in Jericho, they didn't have fellowship. The circumstances had isolated them from the fellowship. You know, Moses was isolated. He was on the backside of the desert, Exodus 3 and verse 1. isolated from the fellowship. He had just gotten his his his uh uh heritage back. He just discovered that he wanted to be an Israelite. He wanted to be with the Jews and and then the circumstances he ended up the backside of the desert for forty years. Jeremiah was isolated, 38 and 6, where he was sunk in the mire. There was no fellowship down inside that prison hole And Christ knew what isolation was like in Matthew twenty-six and fifty-six. When all the disciples forsook him. He stood alone before the guard that night in the garden with the torches and the spheres and Judas kissing him on the jail cheek and he was alone. Isolation is a severe trial These men in Jericho, it was a severe trial for them. Our world has learned that. They put men in solitary confinement for weeks and months at a time. They never hear a human voice And they know what a trial that is. And what a severe trial it is not to be able to spend time with those of like precious faith. 2 Peter 1. 1. But I want you to rest in this. If you're going through periods of isolation, maybe you're being isolated from your family, isolated from co-workers. Isolated from the people in your neighborhood. There's there's different ways to be isolated. Maybe sometimes your your children will cut you out, your grandchildren, uh your your grandparents, someone will cut you out and set you aside, will have nothing to do with you. And that hurts But loneliness are the times that have been designed in your life by a loving God. Moses' time in the desert was designed by God. Jeremiah's time skunk in the mire was designed of God to make him a better preacher. And whatever you might be going through today, it's for your good. For your betterment. For the church's betterment when you come out of that isolation In verse six, when the children of Amon saw what they had done and how it how it it well it says here that when the children of Ammon saw that they stank before David, oh what did they expect? That David would find that a a a a lovely odor to hear what they'd done. There was a stench in his nostrils what they had done. When the children of Ammon saw that they stank before David, they repented. That's not what it says. It says they hired the Syrians. We as Christians, uh and those of us who aren't yet Christians, we ought to realize that we stink in the nostrils of God when God looks down and sees the things that we're doing As sinners, when God looks down and sees the things we're doing, even as Christians, even as saved people, we often do things that are a stench in the nostril of God. And we need to repent We shouldn't just put our fists up and fight against God and say, Well, I didn't like that commandment. That was a little rigid. You ought to be able to drop one or two out of ten after four or five thousand years. I mean, we have to adhere to all of them? Weren't some of those just cultural regulations and we should have to abide by some of this. Hayan had learned abusing the ambassador of a country will create a big stink. Well, it should. And so David Was upset with him. It was a stench in his nostrils, just as the King of Kings, the Lord of Lords, the Lord Jesus Christ takes her personal when his ambassadors, those who represent Christ here on earth, when we are abused And Christ says in Luke 14 and 14, I know, I see, and you will be recompensed at the resurrection. There's a coming day when Christ will make it all up to us if we are abused, if we are persecuted. He promises us that. And sometimes that's all we got to hang on. We say, Why why the wicked uh rule and why the wicked prosper and and live a long time and and look what's going on down here with the rest of us. It seems like God treats the wicked better than he treats the Christians. Well, that's a at the judgment day God can say to the wicked, I treated you better than my own sheep. What's your excuse? But God will make it up to us. Don't expect it to be made up in the here and now. It sometimes is, but more than likely, not in the here or now, but in the hereafter God will recompense us. Christ said, I will recompense you at the resurrection. And so we find that they're arrayed in battle. The King Hanan has brought in the Syrians. He's hired the Syrians. And they're gonna have a fight, it's gonna be a battle here if you read the rest of the chapter. You know, this could have all s been just the brakes could have been put on this. All Hannon had to do when he realized that he stunk in the nostrils of The king of Israel was to appeal to the king of Israel, to ask for pardon, to repent before the king of Israel. And David was a compassionate guy. He would have forgiven him You apologize to someone and you take the fight out of them I remember years ago my wife and I you know we everybody said we have fights in your marriage. I can't remember anything we've ever thought about. Must have been really important stuff, you know But I remember one time we had a fight and I I realized I was wrong. Actually I realized I was wrong a lot, but I didn't always admit it. But but she came that morning, boy, she was ready for bearer. And she had done this before. She'd get Bible verses together And she lay them out in front of me and because we would fight with Bible verses. It wasn't good enough to f you you know, well I think this and I think that my mother did this and my father said that. No, I said, bring me Bible verses and I'll listen to you Not realizing that she's home eight hours a day with the Christian radio on and boy she's learning some Bible. And I started losing some discussions that we would have. And so I was really prepared this one day and I I realized that I'm dead meat. She's gonna she I'm gonna come home right and I I even know the version she's gonna use to put me in my place. So I walk in the door and she comes walking up. She got a little postcard with me. She says, okay. And I said, I apologize You're right. And she says, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, wait a minute, wait a minute. I've been working this all day long. I want to read these verses to you. I said, apologize. Just forgive me. It takes it takes the fight out of people if you apologize. And this king hated it, he's going to apologize to David. And David's got a wonderful heart. He's a man after God's own heart. He would have forgiven him, but no If the pride gets in the way and Hayan chooses to fight the king and and and and Davis he chose rather to fight the the king And the king's armed ambassadors, not a good thing to do. The first ambassadors weren't armed, but these are unarmed And so he hires the Syrians. This is bad. The Syrians are like, you know Every country had warriors, but the Syrians were noted. They were mercenaries. You could hire them out. It was like hiring out the French uh uh French Foreign Legion. Or it was like hiring out Soldier of Fortune, you know, get out of Soldier of Fortune magazine. It was like it was like grabbing all these ex-green berets and the these ex-Navy SEALs and and uh uh army rangers and and uh marine recon and and they they had built this fantastic mercenary army. They were the best of the best. They were the elite of the elite But it doesn't matter. You've shamed the people of Israel. And they hear that the Ammonites have hired the Syrians And then we read how here that David said in verse 7, well, I'm going to send Joab and the host of our mighty men to. And in verses 8 and 9, the children of Ammon came out, and the Syrians were in the field, and Joab saw that the front of the battle was against him before and behind. He he arrived outside the city of the Ammonites And he said, Well, we'll take the city and he sees them coming out of the city. He says, Good, this is going to be the fight. We're going to fight the Ammonites. And then there's a noise behind him and there's Assyrians behind him. They're before him and they're behind him. He is surrounded. He has walked into a trap. He is totally surrounded. And so he says to his brother Abishai, and he loved his brother Abishai and he was younger. And not near the the warrior. He was a great warrior by the way, as we'll find out, but but but Joab was the warrior's warrior. And Joab said to Abashai, Take your men up the front, you go after the Ammonites. I will go after the special forces I'll go after the mercenaries. I'll go after the Syrians. If I have a problem, come to my rescue. If you have a problem, I'll come to your rescue. We're going to bear one another's burdens. That's what God's people do. They bear one another's burdens And so he is surrounded here. If you don't know it this morning, you're surrounded by the enemy too. And it's not all flesh and blood. The Bible tells in Ephesians 6 we wrestle not with flesh and blood, but what? Against principalities. And powers and the rulers of the darkness and spiritual wickedness in the white high up in high places I gotta tell ya, I am not a prophet nor the son of a prophet, but I look at the eyes of some people and I hear they things come out of their mouth, and I think they are just satanic. I I don't think the problem is that someone's dumb or someone's mischievous or someone just doesn't understand what they're doing. I think some people maybe unbeknownst to them, they've been taken over by an evil spirit. I really believe that I don't think anyone would say that that wasn't true of Adolf Hitler. That was a man satanic. Charles Manson, so you don't know. Satanic. And we've got people in our own government. I think they're just satanic. The only weapon that we can use against them is prayer. Pray to get saved. Oh, oh, would I love to see that happen. I mean God did it with Nebuchadnezzar. I would just love to see Harry Reid stand up on the floor tomorrow and in the Senate and say, oh dear friends, I have been so wrong. And I wanna I wanna put an amendment up this morning that w wipe out Roe vs. Wade and abortion Some people maybe they don't get saved, but they realize that they are wrong. Do you know what our governor, our ex-governor, that doesn't that sound good? Ex-governor Martin O'Malley, I think that sounds good Martin O'Malley came out last week and he said he's moving to Delaware. You know why? He said the taxes in Maryland are too high Well, praise God as I wrote, because he's the one that raised all the taxes. And he's not the first governor that moved out of Maryland once he was no longer the governor. And for the same reason, the taxes here are too high. Well. The children of Ammon came out in the field and Joab saw the front of the battle. We ought to realize that our battle too, we're surrounded. It's a spiritual warfare more than a fleshy one, but we are surrounded and we are in Oh, we need a plan. That's what we need. We need a plan. Where are we going to get a plan? The Bible says whatsoever things were written aforetime were written for our learning, that we do the patience and comfort the scriptures might have hope. The Bible tells us that our hope is in the scriptures. Our Bible tells us if you got an enemy out there, love them, evangelize them, get him saved. And that's the way this country worked for a couple of hundred years. We didn't mind people coming in. Most of us have come into this country. You know, if you're German, your ancestors came here from Germany. If you're Norwegian, they came from Norway Uh if if you're from the Philippines or from China, you you know you came or from Taiwan, you came. We're all almost all of us except me, I'm American Indian. But we let you in. But but the but the fact of the matter is that as they came in we assimilated them. We preached the gospel to them. We witnessed to them. We evangelized to them. But now we're being told we must bring in people from these other countries and we can't witness them. We can't evangelize to them. We must let them come in with the we're not going to stimulate them anymore And the Muslims coming in this country, they love that because that's their whole idea. They want to take over a country, they immigrate, they infiltrate, and then they annihilate. That's the way it works. And if we are not allowed to assimilate and evangelize them This country is finished. So that's our battle plan. Do we have a plan? I think this country's plan is all wrong. I don't think this fun country has a plan. Because the plan is needs to be spiritually based. I think in some ways God is sending there's two thoughts I have here. God is sending in the jihadists, the the Islamic terrorists He's sending him in the country to judge America for aborting babies, to judge America for legalizing gay marriage, to judge America for saying that transvestites can go in my daughter's locker room and bathroom. I think he's sending her to judge us Or maybe send them here that we might witness to them and get them saved. There's many a Muslim who's gotten saved who are Christians in this country. Well I shouldn't say many, but there are there's a it's a good number of them We have to have a plan. Joab had a plan. And and he he what he does here, he must have known from the scriptures. He must have known the scriptures. Being around King David, he'd have to know some of the scriptures. And so he wants to encourage his men. And he says in verses 10 through 12, Job said, be of good courage, play the men. He didn't say play the men and uh you ladies too. There were no ladies in the military. Boy, we just dropped the ball everywhere. Play them in for our people and our cities. Isaiah 54, 17 says, No weapon is formed against us shall prosper. Not if us are Christian, not if us who are following God's word, not if us are those who want to emulate Christ and be disciples of Christ and be Christ-like. But when a nation no longer wants to be Christ-like, then there are weapons that have been formed that will prosper against us. Job said, I want you to fight. Be of good courage. Play the men for our people and for the cities of our God. We're not fighting for the spoils of war. We're not fighting for fame. We're not fighting for promotion. We're fighting for our people and the cities of our God. It was a God and country message that he used to stimulate them to fight They were going to fight for what belongs to God, the people of Israel, and for the cities of Israel. Jerusalem is called the mountain of the Lord, Zechariah 8 and verse 3. We were fighting for the cities of God. For that light on the hill that would stay lit. And then Job says a very unique and theologically correct thing. He leaves the consequences of the battle of the Lord. He says, and fight, fight, equip yourself like men, play them in, fight for our cities, fight for the people of God. He said, and let the Lord do what he seemeth good to him. We may win, we may lose. But Joab says, make a conscious effort to do God's work. And that's what we have to do. That's our plan, each and every one of us here. We don't have to run for Senator or Congress or President to do. We just have to do the work of the Lord and leave the outcome to Him. The outcome may be that this country's going down the tubes. But do the work of the Lord. If we got a battle-hardened man like Joab, in fact Joab, we read through it. Joab's not only battle-hardened But he's a murderer. He's always looking out for number one. But he can spout some good theology and tell his men to find comfort in it. Pilgrim, can you do your best? Just do your best. Can you and trust Christ to do what is best for you. Do your best and then trust Christ to do what is best for you. And it may not be to save America, but He'll do what is best for you. Can you trust Christ to do that? Let's pray. Father, we thank you this day for the words written. Almost 3,000 years ago, still a comfort, still accurate, still reliable, still dependable, still so encouraging. Oh Lord, we pray this day that you would put it in the heart of everyone here to do right. Do what is right. Though the stars fall from heaven, do right, do right, do right And God will do good by us as well. We pray this now in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, our great God and Savior. Amen.