First Samuel chapter nine and verses eleven through twenty-seven. Just to refresh your memory where we were a couple of weeks ago. Saul had been sent by his father, and in obedience he had done as his father had said. To go out and look for some of the asses that had strayed off the property and they couldn't find them. He'd been searching for three days and they they they never found him. So we pick up at verse 11 uh because what had happened is the servant had said to Saul, may we go to the city where the the prophet, the seer is, uh Samuel, and maybe he could help us to find what we have lost. So in verse eleven of chapter nine, and they went up the hill to the city. And they found young maidens going out to draw water, and they said unto them, Is the seer, or that is, is the prophet here And they answered them and said, He is. Behold, he is before you. Make haste now. For he came today to the city, for there is a sacrifice to the people today in the high place. As soon as he come into the city, he shall straightway, that is Samuel, he shall straightway you shall find him, before he go up the high place to eat. For the people will not eat until he comes, because he doth bless the sacrifice. So he said, hurry up, get up there in the city. Samuel is up there, but he's getting ready to bless the sacrifice, so you better hurry if you want to talk to him And he will bless the sacrifice, and afterwards they eat that he bidden, or those he invites to eat with him. Now therefore get you up for about the time you shall find him. And they went up into the city, and when they were come unto the city, behold, Samuel came out against them. So they practically bumped into each other. For to go up to the high place. Now the Lord had told Samuel in his ear a day before Saul came, saying, Tomorrow about this time I will send thee a man out of the land of the Benjamites And thou shalt anoint him to be captain over my people Israel, that he may save my people out of the hand of the Philistines. For I have looked upon my people, because their cry is come unto me. So here, Saul was looking for Samuel, and Samuel's looking for Saul, and they bumped in each other just outside the gate of the city. In verse 17, and when Samuel saw Saul The Lord said unto him, Behold the man whom I spake to thee of, this same shall reign or be king over my people. And then Saul drew near to Samuel in the gate, and he said, Tell me, I pray thee, where is the seer's house? And Samuel answered Saul and said, I am the seer. Go up before me out of the high place, for ye shall eat with me today. And tomorrow I will tell thee, go, and will tell thee all that is in thine heart And as for thine asses that were lost three days ago, set not thy mind on them, for they are found. And on whom is the desire of Israel? Is it not on the and we learned a few weeks back that the desire of Israel was to have a king, and they were looking for that king. And so he says here to Saul, Samuel says On whom is all the desire of Israel? And he knew what he meant by that, whether the desiring a king. He says, Is it not on thee all thy father's house? And Saul answered and said, Am not I a Benjamite of the smallest of the tribes of Israel, and my family the least of all the families of the tribe of Benjamin? Wherefore then speakest thou so to me And Samuel took Saul and his servant and brought them into the parlor and made them sit in the cheapest place among them that were bidden or invited, which were about thirty people. This might have been councilmen and other priests of the city, and very, very important dignitaries, but Saul is seated with them along with his servant. And Samuel said unto the cook, Bring the portion which I gave thee, of which I said unto thee, set it by thee, or set it aside. And the cook took up the shoulder, and that which was upon it. And set it before Saul. And Samuel said, Behold that which is left. That is, it's the left shoulder. The left shoulder was to go to the high priest of Israel. The one who ruled Israel, the theocracy, if you want to call it that. It always went to Samuel. He was the ruler, the judge of Israel. It was the left shoulder that the priest always received of the sacrifice. And he says, give it to Saul. That spoke a lot to the people. Why would this young lad and his slave or his servant get the left shoulder? Set it before thee and eat, for unto this time hath it been kept for thee Since I said, I've invited the people. So Saul did eat with Samuel that day. And when they were come down from the high place in the city, Samuel communed with Saul upon the top of the house And you can imagine the 30 people inside that parlor in that house, the buzz, what it must have been. Why'd he give him the left shoulder? Who's he? What's so special about him? No priest ever gave away the left shoulder before. What's going on here? Is there a transference of power or something? What is this? Verse 26, and they arose early, and it came to pass about the spring of the day that Samuel called Saul to the top of the house, saying, Up that I may send thee away. And Saul arose, and they went out, both of them, he and Samuel, abroad. And as they were going down to the end of the city, heading out towards the gate, Samuel said to Saul, Bid your servant pass on before us And he passed on. But stand thou still awhile, Saul, that I may show thee the Word of God. We begin this part of the story this morning with the young maids as they're coming out of the city gates, and Saul is coming approaching the gates, and he sees them and he says, Is the sear here? And it's of good fortune, perhaps, or perhaps everyone knew this here, knew the prophet Samuel, but they said, He is. As soon as you come into the city, you shall find him, you'll stumble right across him. And I would just say this morning, I wonder if you're prepared to direct others to where they may find the true prophet of God or the true prophets of God. If someone were to say to you I'm looking for the Word of God and I I look and I see the Book of Buddha and I see the Quran and and I see the Jehovah's Witness Bible and and and I see the the the the Hara Kurshnas and I I see all this all this religious and all these books and where do I turn to hear what God has to say? Would you be able to defend and would you be able to point them to the prophets of God? the Holy Bible, and say to them, Why this is truly God's word and not any other book. Could you point them to the prophet or the prophets of God? Matthew, Mark, if they want to know a particular prophet If they want to know where Isaiah was, could you find it in here? If they want to know where where uh uh Deuteronomy was, if they want to know where Philippians was, could you point them to the prophets of God? These maids could. They were able to do that. In fact, they knew a whole lot more about the seer, the prophet, than he'd even asked for. They said the people, in fact, today there's a sacrifice going on. The people will not eat until he, Samuel, blesses the sacrifice. And how often it is that when we eat in our own homes, we say a blessing first, do we not? We bless God that He has provided for us so well in this country. We bless God that He's provided so well that we can have three Full meals a day if we want. healthy, that there'll be good vitamins and nutrients and and so forth. We ask without the blessing of God you can eat the finest of food and you can talk to some people who are very, very sickly. The food goes in and it goes out and the body doesn't assimilate it and they just continue to lose weight. and they die. And so we need to bless the food. And in fact, we find that blessing not only in the Old Testament, but we find it in the New Testament Where it says that for he that eateth and drinketh unwortily, not so certain the Lord's body, for many are weak and sickly and asleep. Second Corinthians eleven. There we are partaking of the communion table or the Lord's Supper, and there too we are to have the blessing of sought, that we might assimilate the communion supper in such a manner that it would give us spiritual strength. We need to bless our food as they did in the days of Samuel. We need especially absent blessing upon a communion table when we're having it. It is so important that we ask God to bless everything that we eat. In fact, not only what we eat, but the scripture tells us in 1 Corinthians 10, and again we read, whether therefore you eat or you drink, or whatsoever you do Whatsoever you do, whether it's eating or drinking, whatsoever you do, do all for the glory of God. And so I would say this morning, are you able to ask Christ? To bless everything you're doing. I mean, can you sit down in front of that TV show and maybe it's when your parents don't want you to watch and they're not home and so I say, oh Lord bless me while I watch this show that my parents don't want. Can can you do that? Or you slip out and you tell your parents you're going to see a movie but and they say what movie? And you tell them the movie and they go, Yeah, okay that's okay. But when you get out there you go to a different movie and then you sit down in the theater and you say, well my parents don't know I'm here, but oh Lord, would you please bless what I'm about to do? Can you ask God to bless you? For everything that you do. Because if you can't, don't do it. Are you able to ask Christ to bless you? Now at this time Samuel is going to be coming out, and he was going to be blessing the meal. And we see in verses 15 and 16, the Lord told Samuel, Tomorrow I will send thee a man. And I I just have to stop here and rehearse a little bit here, what's going on. He says, send him a man. Saul hasn't set out looking for Samuel. In fact, we were going to find in this reading and elsewhere that Saul's not a religious guy. Saul's not born again. Saul's not saved. He has no interest in spending the afternoon with some prophet or seer of God. And yet Saul is doing what he wants to do. His father is asking to go looking for these asses that are lost, and he does it. And I want you to see there's a chain of events that takes place. And it it is it is so unique that any part of the chain was broken, this story would would not happen. But God is so in control that that first off, who do you think saw to it that the asses got loose and broke loose out in the pasture and took off somewhere? Well, God is in control of all the creatures. He doeth the armies in heaven, he inhabits the earth as he so pleaseth. And so these asses, these donkeys, they break loose, they scatter, and they go someplace they'd never gone before, and nobody can find them. But without that, without those lost donkeys, how on earth would Saul ever end up in the presence of Samuel? And then his father has servants he could have sent, but he decides to send his son. What a humdrum, boring job. But he picks his son to go. And his son doesn't say, I don't want to go out and chase a bunch of stupid donkeys who are lost in the woods and can't. Are there more important jobs to do? But he doesn't. He's obedient to his father. What a boring job it must have been. Three days up and down the hills in the hot sun and look You ever had a rotten job? I won't go into great detail about it. I'll tell you my second worst job. was cleaning out a urinal trough that was about a hundred yards long and about foot and a half wide on a construction site job and by the time I got down to hundred yards it was time to turn on and come back the other way. Because the men would throw cigarette packs, wire nuts, nuts, bolt screws, plastic paper wrappers, and I had to reach into this hundred yard long urnal and I for a week cleaning it out. Humdrum, boring, stinky, rotten job. That's not the worst job I ever did. Some of you know what the worst job was. Another time for that But this is the kind of job Saul had. It was a boring job. But he does it, a part of the chain of events. And they spend three days, they don't find him. And so it you know it's like, let's turn around and go back home. Maybe somebody else has found the donkeys. Uh maybe my father said that by now they've been eaten by wild lions or or a pack of wolves. You know, don't worry about it. We've got other things to do back here on the farm. You know, let's just turn go back. But the servant says, you know what While we go up to Rama, there's a prophet of God up there, a seer. We can ask him where the donkeys might be found. Now my response that would have been, what does a man of God care about a bunch of lost donkeys? We're gonna interrupt this man who's out there sacrificing and praying and and preaching to people and and preparing messages and he's he's a missionary man and he's a real godly man. What if he care about a bunch of donkeys? But Saul says, hey, great idea, let's go. I mean, do you see the chain of events that, and yet what does the Bible say? God said, I will send you a man, Samuel. But to Saul, he's not being sent by God to go see Manuel. And Samuel, and it's just like you in your life, you're moving about your life all the time, and you don't see God's hand in it. You don't see that God is moving you and directing you and guiding you I mean, yeah, maybe you don't see the Lord Jesus Christ in your life, and and you should. You should see God in your life and everything that goes on. I mean, take for instance You can't find your car in the parking lot, you know? Has that ever happened to it? Probably never happened to anybody here. But you're on the big mall somewhere and you come out of the wrong door, the wrong on the wrong side of Macy's or Bosco's or something And you're in the wrong section of the park, and you can't find your car, and you're looking around up and down the aisles, and you bump into somebody that God meant you to see. and talk to. Maybe about the Lord, or maybe the myth talk to you about the Lord. But when we can't find our car in the parking lot. Do we ever stop thinking that God is in this? That God is God is sending me somewhere that I would not have gone otherwise, that I might get closer to Christ or closer to another Christian Or how about when you can't find your dog or your cat? You're up and down the neighborhood, shouting to your cat by name, your dog by name, and how can God be in that? And you bump into neighbors and you bump into people you haven't talked to in months That maybe you should be more friendly towards and a conversation ensues and you're able to reduce to them something about the church you attend or the Bible you read Or you find out they're a Christian. I mean, do you ever realize that no matter what is going on in your life, as mundane, as boring as it might be, God is always sending you somewhere There is nothing trivial in life. There's nothing accidental in life. God may appear, your whole life may be appear to be filled with trivial events. But to God, there are no trivial events in his destining you for where you will end up someday in life There is no job insignificant. There is no event in your life insignificant. Every event in your life, God has set it up in His universe. Every if He has created you, He has certainly created every episode, every instance every every problem, every lost set of keys, every lost car, every lost cat and dog. Everything in your life God is in control of. To bring you to your destiny. Saul had obeyed his father, sent on a dreary humdrum search. Saul's obedience to his father, and think about this: how many times have we not been obedient to our parents? How many times we've not been obedient to our mother or father? How many times we've not been obedient to an uncle or an older brother or sister? How many times have not been obedient to a boss at work and done something we shouldn't do? How many times have we been disobedient? But Saul was obedient. And his obedience resulted in his, think of this, his obedience to his father for a humdrum, boring, rotten job. His obedience to his father resulted in his reigning as king over Israel. Wow. Be faithful, friend, in the little things you have to do. And God will bless you. Christ said it, Christ taught it, because thou hast been faithful in a very little, you will have authority over ten cities. Luke 19 and 7. Be faithful in the things that God lays in your path today. And He will bless you in ways you can't imagine. So Samuel's told that I'm going to send you a man. You should be looking for him, verses 15 and 16. In fact, in verse 16, he says, Samuel, you will anoint him. Captain over my people Israel. You will anoint him as captain of the host of Israel, that he may save my people out of the hand of the Philistines. Because her cry has come up unto me. And in verse 17 he says, You will reign over them. I'm going to anoint you as captain of the host of Israel, but anointing you will make you the one who will reign over them. You will be their king the first king Israel will ever have. And he said, I'm going to do this because they've been they're my people and they've been crying out the that the people are saved my people are the hand of the Philistines. That's what this this new king's gonna do. He's gonna save them on the hands of the Philistines. If the people are crying out, save us, save us from these Philistines, these oppressors we can't stand it. Their crying unto God was heard. You pray to God, you ask God to hear your prayers, you ask God to answer your prayers. I don't know how long they've been crying out to God, maybe for ten years, maybe for twenty years. The Philistines were a nasty bunch They've been around for a long time, and so you cry out to God and you don't get your prayer answered within 35 minutes, right? And so you give up on God. You get mad at God. He doesn't answer. But God chooses the exact perfect time Saul the king is going to wipe out these Philistines. He was too young when they first started praying, and God had to wait until Saul was old enough. And so we pray, and these people pray, and they cried out, and they cried out fervently, and they cried out frequently, and finally, many, many, many years later, God answers their prayer. And her four words says, save us from our oppressors who hate us, save us from the Philistines. That sounds good. Hey, why wouldn't you want to pray that? But notice After all the years of oppression by the Philistines and harassment by the Philistines and being murdered by the Philistines, they did not say, save us from our sins. No mention of the sins that have brought their sins that they had they were worshiping other gods. That's idolatry They'd given up on Jehovah for the most part. They were worshiping other gods and idolatry. That was a horrible sin. That was spiritual adultery. And they weren't asking God to save them from their sins And the consequences of their sins and the power of their sins. You know, I think that We're praying the same way in America today. Oh God, save us from this ungodly government we got. Oh God, save us from these oppressors. Oh God, we're crying out And we have this desire also that God would take care of us. Oh God, save us, that our economy is tanking. Oh God, save us. Our constitution is being shredded. Oh God, save us. We're losing our freedoms But there's no national cry of repentance for the sins of this nation. We are a nation that's allowed all kinds of people to come in and to bring in their gods and we've got Buddhists and Muslims and Hindus and and and now that we have all those we've forsaken for the most part, America is no longer thought of as a Christian nation? We've abandoned the God of the Bible And so we should be out there praying as a nation a national cry of repentance or to be, oh God, save us from our idolatry, from our spiritual adultery, from committing adultery and pornography and sodomy and baby slaughtering. in the womb. Her cry ought to be a cry of repentance For the sins that our nation allows to continue. I'm not saying that you're guilty of abortion, and then if you are, you can ask God to forgive you of it, and he washes you white as snow Cleanses you and makes you as white as snow and white as wool. I mean God can forgive you for anything. But how about praying that the nation itself would repent? of the legalization of the pornography, the legalization of the idolatry, the legalization of adultery, the legalization Of the killing of babies. Until there's a national cry of repentance, there will be a national stench of sin in the nostrils of God. And as long as there's that national stench of sin in the nostrils of God, we can expect the sinful consequences that follow a nation that doesn't repent of their sins. Tell our nation fills the ears of our Savior Jesus Christ with weeping and repentance unto God. He'll just keep sending us tall, walking, but shallow spiritual souls to govern us. Saul was tall. You know, the average president of the United States is a very tall man compared to the general population. We got tall men in office. But spiritually they're very shallow. And that's all God's going to send a nation that doesn't repent. And that's what He sent Israel. And Samuel knew this. As Saul approached him, as we're going to find out today, he understood the shallow spirituality of Saul. In verses 18 and 20 it says Saul drew near to Samuel and said, Tell me, where's the Seer's house? Do you know that most of the people of Israel knew who Samuel was? They would recognize him anywhere on the street I mean, Israel's not that big a nation. And Samuel went up and down the nation preaching and teaching and prophesying. And, you know, everyone knew Samuel well. Well not everyone. Saul didn't. And here comes Samuel out towards the gate. Must have been a crowd following him. He's going to bless the sacrifice. And and Saul stops Samuel and says, Excuse me, can you tell me where the seer's house is? Wow. He says, I am the seer And I'll tell thee all that is in thy heart. That's what a prophet of God could do, that's what a man of God in those days could do. That's what Christ can do, can't he? Christ says he will judge us not just by what we do, because sometimes what we do there's a reason for it. And so that's we're not judging us harshly for having a reason to do some things that may not seem right, but he will judge us by the thoughts of our heart Christ knows the thoughts of your heart. It's great that you haven't cheated on your wife or your husband, but what has your mind done? Has it ever cheated on your wife or your husband? Bam! Gotcha. Christ said, if you even look upon a woman with lust, you've already committed adultery. Christ said, if you if you hate your brother, you're already guilty of murder. I didn't kill him. No, but you wished he was dead. To take care of all your problems. We are judged by our thoughts, even our thoughts. No wonder we need a Savior No wonder we need a cleansing of the blood of Christ because who here, not me, who here, not anyone, who here does not need a cleansing of the blood of Christ just for our thoughts Christians aren't perfect. But Christians are forgiven. All you have to do is ask God to forgive you. It doesn't matter what you ask Him to forgive you. Forgive you. Four. Doesn't matter how many times you ask him to forgive. God never says, you know, this is the umptienth time you come to me about this sin. God doesn't ever do that. You come to him in in in in prayer and and And cheerful and repentant saying, Oh, I'm sorry I did it again. I'm sorry, I'm sorry I did it again. I forgive you. And so here's the seer, and he said, I will tell you, I will tell you what is in your heart, Saul. First off, he said, thy asses are found. I know you're thinking about them. Whoa, how do he know that I didn't know who he was. How do you even know who I am? How does he know what I'm here for? And he even knows that it's not chickens, it's not it's not camels, it's not goats, he knows that they how does he know this stuff? You know, there's no bulletin board out here, there's no ex there's no Baltimore Sun paper, not he could trust that anyway, but how does he know these things? He said, I'll tell you all that's in your heart. And also, he says, and all the desire of Israel. And he knew what that was. They wanted a king. They've been going on for some time. They want a king. The desire of Israel, they want a king. All the desire of Israel is on the Some of you might wonder why he didn't at least notice that Samuel was dressed differently. You know, he looked in a crowd and maybe he'd never seen the seer of the prophet before, but he should have looked different, shouldn't he? Had the long You know, steak maybe, a shepherd's crook in his hand, a long white beard and great big white hair, maybe he did, I don't know. And and maybe some sort of a f flowing white gown like we always see painted you know, the paints of Jesus, the long white flowing. Didn't he kind of stand out some way? No, he didn't. He didn't stand out. The Pharisees loved to stand out. Remember how the Lord Jesus Christ talked about the Pharisees? They loved to be seen of men. They made these broad their phylacteries, these phylacteries that look like boxes, you know, something like this, and they would glue them to their heads or wrapped with leather their head and inside the Bible verses, and the other phylacteries hanging off their sleeves and and they could be little small boxes or great big boxes, you know. And they'd have them on their foreheads and and and then it says the the that the the garments that they wore, they had these big hems that were all braided and purple and pretty colors and that hem around the The skirts and oh men, I mean the Pharisees, they just you knew a Pharisee. You knew that. You knew he was even if you were a Jew, your first time in Jerusalem, you saw somebody, you knew he was somebody special Well at least you knew he was somebody who thought he was somebody special. And they just stood out twice, and they let me see them in. They made broad their phylacteries, you know, and they enlarge the borders of their garments. Whereas John the Baptist just wore a raiment of camel's hair and a leather girdle, Matthew 3 and 4. Elijah was, he was just girdled with a girdle of leather. You know, God's prophets, uh God's prophets were not out there to be fashionable, you know. You wouldn't have you wouldn't have selected you wouldn't have selected Peter, Matthew, Mark, Luke, John, you know, you wouldn't have grabbed any of these men and put them on the front cover of GQ magazine, you know, the latest. three-piece suit or I mean they weren't keeping up with fashion it didn't matter that much with that people weren't attracted to them because they were so fashionably dressed They weren't attracted to the reflection in the mirror. They were attracted to their message from their mouth. And so he didn't recognize Samuel because Samuel is just like the rest of the folks, on the way to church, on the way to a sacrifice. Do you spend more time grooming the outside of yourself, the physical, rather than spiritual, well-being throughout the week? week? What gets the most attention throughout the week? Your inner spiritual being or your outer physical being? I I know people that They'll go to the gym five days a week. Work out an hour, hour and a half every day, you know. Do they give the Bible an hour a day? Yeah, they Samuel just was dressed pretty much like the rest of the folks on the way to the sacrifice We also think of the Lord Jesus Christ, another great example. It says Christ hath no form or calmness. There is no beauty that we should desire him. Isaiah 53 and 2. They just fit in with the average folks It wasn't the reflection in the mirror that got the attention of Christ. It wasn't Christ's reflection. It was Christ's message. And we note here that Samuel's message it was more than just about the asses. That did get Saul's attention I mean he had to say, whoa, this guy is a sear, this guy is around, this guy does know what's in my heart. This guy must know everything. I I better listen carefully because I bet everything else he had to say is true also and worth noting and worth remembering and not forgetting And so it did prepare Saul to believe everything else that Samuel was going to tell him. And dear friend, this Bible is full of prophecies that have come true. That the Messiah, the Savior, the King of Kings, would come in the city of Bethlehem where he'd be born. It was true, he'd be born of a virgin. It was true of the tribe of And you can go through about three hundred prophecies that were fulfilled, and they're all fulfilled so that in our day We may say beyond a shadow of a doubt. This is the word of God and it is reliable and is infallible, and I can trust it. It's been right 300 times in a row. Well, that was hundreds of years ago. Yeah, thousands of years ago. 1948, the Bible said that Israel would come back into their homeland. And in 1948, I was born in 47. Israel came back in their homeland. You say, well. That's just uh you s you wait long or bringing something like that will happen. No it won't. You know the Hittites has never come back into their homeland The Hittites have never come back in their homeland. The Philistines never come back to their homeland. They don't even exist anymore. You go through the Bible and look at all the nations, all the Canaanites and the Philistines. Like of all the of all the nations mentioned in the Bible. I mean all we got left is like Egypt and Syria. So there's a prophecy fulfilled in our own lifetime. And they are fulfilled that we might know, believe, and trust the reliability and the accuracy. Other scriptures, and then we may know it truly is the Word of God. What about all the other books? Fine, I'm glad you asked. The Book of Mormon, no prophecies They don't attempt to make any prophecies, so they're none fulfilled. Book of Quran, no prophecies. Don't even attempt to make there is no other book called the holy book that has prophecies that are then fulfilled a hundred or thousand years. They don't even attempt to make any prophecies. The Bible says, hey, we'll make prophecies. We won't make one or two and hope they come true. They make hundreds and hundreds of them, and then hundreds and hundreds of them come true. There's no other holy book that does that. Don't talk to me about other religions. They have nothing to offer. And God's word has the truth and fulfilled prophecy and so much more. It was known throughout all of Israel that they desired a king. 1 Samuel 8 verse 5, 1 Samuel 8, verse 19. Now we're in 1 Samuel Chapter nine. So it's just a chapter back where they're talking about they want a king, they want a king, they want a king. That's the desire of Israel. Someone will reign over us Now I want you to stop and think for some moment. Samuel the prophet of God, he has been ruling Israel. He is the judge of Israel. Before him there was Samson, and before him there was Gideon, but for for many, many decades, for centuries Israel was being ruled by judges. Men of power. Many could call down the wrath of God like Gideon did and like Samson did, had the super strength. And Samuel has also been one of the judges. He's a Levite, he's a priest. But he's a judge of Israel. And all of a sudden God says, Samuel, see if this sounds familiar to you. You must decrease, and Saul must increase. Isn't what the John the Baptist was told I mean John the Baptist had a great run talking about a revival, people getting saved, centurion soldiers getting saved, Gentiles getting saved, Jews getting saved John the baptism baptizing people in the Jordan. I mean there's a re there's a great awakening, there's a revival taking place, and all of a sudden John's told by God, You must decrease. And the Lamb of God, the Lord Jesus Christ, he shall increase. How well did John take that? We never read it. John understood that. He said, Behold the Lamb of God, follow him. John took it pretty well. We don't know how Samuel took it. But he was about to be set aside by this shallow, spiritually shallow individual named Saul. Where Israel had a godly man, this Levite priest, this prophet, this seer named Samuel, leading them faithfully and righteously and preaching the word to them, they were now going to get a secular Long walking, strong tall talking, you know. Saul. But he wasn't saved. I don't think it was Samuel's desire that Saul lead Israel, but it was God's desire. It was God's plan. And Saul, well Samuel's older man. That would listen to God and follow his word and follow his spirit. And I have no doubt, although it's not recorded here, that when he said that I'm setting you aside, and soul's taken over, that Samuel said, Speak, Lord, for thy servant heareth. That's what he said from the day he was a little boy, and God called him that night. Little Samuel said, Speak, Lord, thy servant heareth. To his dying day, Samuel would do whatever God said, and if it meant setting his own ministry aside, he He said he will do it. He'd made a promise on the day that God touched his heart that he would do whatever God wanted him to do. Have you done that? Was there a day in your life when God touched your heart and you saved you? And you were so grateful, oh God, I'm so grateful for my salvation. Wherever you want me to go, whatever you want me to do, whatever you want me to say, I will do anything Have you kept that promise? Samuel did. Okay, maybe that wasn't your promise to God that you'd do anything and everything God wanted you, but it wasn't a time when you you said before God that you would honor, cherish, love, and obey that man Is your wedding vowels for honest, cherished, and obeyed, love that woman. Have you kept that vowel? I won't ask for a show of hands, but I wonder how many women here feel like they are cherished by their spouses. I wonder if as for a raise of hand, some of here would feel like they are obeying their husbands. That's the vow you took. Have you kept your promise that you may be made to God to educate your children in a Christ-centered environment? Did you ever promise the tithe that you started to and then you quit? Have you ever broken your promise to God? It is difficult to keep promises to God, and I know every one of us here is broken from time to time. But here was Samuel And I believe it as difficult as it was for him when he said, Saul must increase and reign and be king, and you must be set aside. And Samuel said Speak, Lord, thy servant heareth. Oh, good Samuel, you hear, because while we're at it, I want you to anoint your predecessor. Oh, not only do I have to get set aside, but I have to anoint my predecessor. And he does. We'll see that in the next chapter. Samuel took Saul in verses 21 and 22 and his servant and made them sit in the cheapest of the place that would have had the sacrifice that day. Samuel not only honors Saul because he knows he's going to be the king, but he honors the servant of Saul who will soon be king. Can you imagine how much honor the servants of the King of Kings, the Lord Jesus Christ, how much honor will be sowed upon us in heaven someday? Can you imagine how much honor the servants of the King of King ought to be bestowed upon the servants of Christ even today, and yet instead in Sudan they're butchering Christians, in Syria they're killing Christians, they're burning the churches Is that any way to treat the servants of Christ? No. How should they treat the servants of the King and King, the Lord Jesus Christ? They ought to honor them even more than Samuel did the servant of Saul Who is just a king of Israel? Whereas Christ is Lord of Lords and King of Kings of the whole universe, and how are his servants treated in this day and age? I could give you a whole litany of ways they are treated. Samuel Would have Saul to be a spiritual leader, but he wasn't. And so it is in verses 25 and 27. Samuel takes the opportunity. Samuel communed with Saul. He said, Saul! Stand thou still that I may show thee the word of God. I may never get another chance. And I'll bet you he got one long sermon, longer than this one this morning. I'll bet you he really got it. I'll bet you he covered anything from Genesis to 1 Samuel Salvation of Israel was a serious matter, but how much more serious is the salvation of Saul? And if the salvation of Saul is a serious thing, How much of the salvation of all the souls here this morning that through the blood of Christ you might be saved. It is a serious message. We talk about the good news, we talk about the gospel, but the good news is a serious message. Yet far too many today are out there on the evangelical trail, and they introduce the gospel with what's called heavy metal Christian music. Oh, don't let me get started, but let me just get started a little bit. One of the one of the top heavy metal Christian music, I don't even see I I looked, I picked all these guys, they've all got hair. The young lady in the back there, their hair is about as long as hers, these guys, and tattoos from the wrists up to the shoulders. Where is the discernment of our young people that these probably, probably may not be Christians at all? And so the lead singer and founder of a group called As I Lay Dying, some of you may know who the group is. His name is Timmy Levisus. He's in jail right now because he tried to kill his wife. Tried to hire a policeman to kill his wife And so in the in the interview of Tommy, oh by the way, he's been up for uh his records have been on the number top ten chart for Christian music, you know And and he's he's one of the top big albums. He's got about eight albums out there, top Christian metal heavy metal Christian music guy. Hey, he hired a police officer to kill his wife Oh, but that's not the all of it. As they're interviewing him and questioning him why he did it, he said, look, he said, this is let me just drop all the facades, right for Jacob. I'm not a Christian. I never was a Christian. I'm an atheist. Couldn't you tell by the words of my music? Didn't anybody ever listen to lyrics? Didn't anybody were they just listening to bango drums and electric guitar? Didn't you ever listen to words? I'm an atheist. Most of my band is too. And by the way, I've got eight great albums out there all over the country. And he said we couldn't tell these young people following us if we went Christians? That's a lot of money. It comes in from the Christian group Well we get the heavy metal side, they give us the money too, but we got a lot of Christians too. Well we can't tell them enough. But I've been traveling all the United States the last ten years with all the old bands out there, and I gotta tell you It's maybe one in ten of the Christian rock bands are really Christians. Most of them are not. We talk 'em all the time. We laugh about it. We dread the day some kid catches out that for autograph Can ask us to play with him because we don't know how to play And yet, out on the evangelical tour, a serious message, the gospel, it's being introduced with heavy Christian metal bands and bebop music and hip hop music and rap music And they saturate the message with mirth and humor, and they close with gospel-like invitations that never mention hell, never mention repentance, just a given freeze to heaven ticket, you know The gospel is a serious message. It needs to be dealt with reverence in an urgent tone, so lacking today in so many other evangelical gospel approaches. Caution is needed that we're not just following some tall, good, dark-looking individual who is as shallow as Saul and make them our spiritual guide Do you really desire to know where your life is headed this morning, Pilgrim? Do you really want to know where your life is headed this morning, Pilgrim? If you really want to know Search the scriptures. Don't just listen to me or some other pastor. You want to know where you're really heading into eternity? Search the scriptures. The scriptures will tell you, these things are written that ye may know. Your eternal destiny. First John 5 and 13. Let's pray. Father, we do thank you this day. That you have given us a Bible with hundreds of pages that will answer all our needs and all our struggles and all our problems and all our temptations. Oh God, we're so grateful that the Bible is as strict as it is, and as definitive as it is, and as infallible as it is, and as errant as it is, and as available as it is. Oh Lord, we thank you so much this morning for the Word of God. That we can be confident will lead us right. We thank you for Samuel who tried to lead Saul. We thank you for the book of Samuel today that now leads us. Praise you, Lord. We praise you in Christ's name, our Savior, that we have so much has been left for us to guide us into our destiny, our eternity. May there not be one here today to not be found at the knees of Christ in eternity. Hearing those words, well done, thou good and faithful servant, and it's in Christ's name we pray.