And the uh uh topic is broad enough that it warrants uh additional attention to it. Let's just get into the clearest statement that Mr. Burkhoff is able to come up with since we're using his book systematic theology summarized in summary of Christian doctrine. He puts it this way. He says the Bible teaches that while God is one, he exists in three persons called Father, Son, and Holy Spirit. And that's the best succinct way that men have been able to put it. And that's a reasonable description. Not three persons like people. This is where our language starts to fall apart. We're just really getting generally close. They can't enter into personal relations among themselves, father speaking to the son, son praying to the father the spirit descending like a dove. But the mystery is that each one of these persons possesses the whole of the divine essence. Each one does. And there is no existence outside of or apart from each of the persons. This is the part that really begins to twist her head. There is a sequence that's revealed in Scripture. You predominantly see the role of the Father, God Almighty, the Father Almighty. And then you begin to see more about the Son. Jehovah is mentioned a lot. Not much about the Holy Spirit until you get to Pentecost when you have him appear in a very big way. Christ says, if I don't leave and go to the Father, then the Spirit, the Comforter, won't come. So there was an indication on Christ's part that there was a necessity for his departure to heaven That God the Holy Spirit would be sent. They're not subordinate to each other. And I want to ask a question about that. What would be the big deal about subordination? You know what I mean by subordination? You've all seen organizational charts. There's somebody at the top and there's people that answer down below. What's the big deal about subordination? So what if we say the father is over the son or is greater than the son? What's the big deal about that? What problem might that cause? They won't be equal. Number one, they wouldn't be equal. All right. Yeah. That's true. Any other problems we see with that? There's actually quite a few problems. That's a big one. Well, I always think of them as really kind of different but the same. Jesus is more approachable. think. Mm-hmm. Mm-hmm. And the Holy Spirit's just here. Yeah. And of course God is not more important. He's just less reachable in The Father, sure. Yeah. Yeah, the uh I think you've got a nice description of that, you know, where you're touching on it and punching the buttons and beyond that it's very difficult to connect. I I I would not disagree with what you said. I think that's that's a fair statement. The issue with subordination, for instance, if we subordinate the sun to the Father, if we make God the Son a lesser individual than the Father, would mean that your very salvation hangs in the balance. because you have to have none other than a God man to pay for sins. If you don't have a God man as a substitute, man has to be the substitute. Can't be an angel paying for sins. The book of Hebrews makes that clear the first chapter. And yet no mere man could do everything Jesus Christ has done. And so we would have an insufficient atonement. We would not have someone who could endure the eternal wrath of God for sins on our behalf. No mere man could do that. The God man can and did. And so we see that without the shedding of blood, there's no remission of sins. There has to be blood that is shed. Angels, as we discussed last week, don't have blood And it's not possible that the blood of bulls and goats can take away sins either. So that is the big deal about subordination, and so that's why the Mormons, Jehovah's Witnesses, and others who try to subordinate the Son have inherently a faulty doctrine. It's faulty. It rests on a bankrupt or a broken or a corrupt foundation. It won't stand. Let's look at some scripture proof of the Trinity, and I have the handout for you because I'd like to go through this. There's actually quite a lot, but I want to look at those passages that are the clearest. those that stand out. The opening chapters of Genesis 1, God said, Let us make man in our image after our likeness. So God, Elohim speaking in the plural. Right out the gate, the very first chapter of the book of Genesis, we have God announcing his plurality. In Genesis 11 and verse 7, this is the account of the Tower of Babel. where God said, Go to, let us go down and can dare confound their language. God, not being pleased with the construction of the Tower of Babel, they were attempting to build a tower, to reach unto heaven and to make themselves a name when God said, Go abroad across the face of the earth the face of the earth, be fruitful and multiply. No, they all want to hang out in big cities. So this is the first big city that you have. And that should be a hint to us that big, dense cities are a problem Nothing's new under the sun. You also have in Genesis three, I should have put that as a reference before Genesis eleven. Behold, the man is become as one of us to know good and evil. This is after the fall. God looks and speaks of the fallen creature. He's be Behold, he's become as one of us to know good and evil. What do you think is going on by that statement? What does God mean when he says the man, Adam, has become as one of us? First of all, which one do you think he's become and why? Did man become like the Father, become like the Son, or become like the Spirit? He says he's become as one of us. Any thoughts? Okay, the sun, yeah, he's become like us. Now why is that? What's the stated reason for taking your handout? It says to know good and evil. Isn't that interesting? How is it that the sun knew or would know good and evil? Well Good and evil in the scriptures, to the furthest extent, good refers to salvation, and evil refers to damnation, to the fullest extent You can see that in Mark 3 verse 4, when Christ asks, is it good to heal a man on the Sabbath, to save life or to kill, to do good or to do evil? Here he uses an analogy, a simile, doing good, saving life, letting someone die, evil. So now the man has become as one of us to know good and evil. Meaning, Adam, had he not sinned, never would have known salvation because he didn't need to be saved. Neither would he have known eternal damnation, because he would not have been sinful. But because now Adam had become a sinful creature, he would now know, he would experience the human race would experience some eternal damnation and some everlasting life. Isn't that interesting? So you already see an interesting veiled snapshot into the nature of the difference of the role of God the Holy uh God the Son and uh the nature of Adam before the fall. He didn't know good or evil in the sense that It was all just and righteous. There wasn't any salvation needed. He was in a perfectly good, happy, content state. There was nothing wrong. But Adam is the one that blew that. In the New Testament, we have the Lord Jesus speaking to the woman at the well, and I'll never forget the first time I encountered this verse, because it raised the hair on the back of my head. Bag of my neck. Jesus speaks to her and says, Verily, verily, I say unto thee, this is Jesus speaking to the woman We speak that we do know and testify that we have seen, and ye receive not our witness. He speaks to her in the plural He says, we are telling you and witnessing to something, and we are giving you some information here. And that's an astounding statement he makes. He says we, he's referring to the plurality of the Godhead in that passage there In Hebrews 1. 8, it says, But unto the Son he saith, Thy throne, O God, is forever. A clear reference there that the Son is on the throne, and his name is God. The Son is God. There's no question that he is there. So there's a short handle of the plurality of God, just a handful of verses. We will look at at more proof texts for the Trinity. It's interesting because other places of Scripture you more plainly see this proof of the plurality when God appears in the form of an angel. Many a time you'll see this reference to the angel of the Lord. One is in uh there's three accounts, all of them are in the book of Genesis, and so I direct your attention to the handout here. Genesis 16 is one. This is when Hagar is cast out by Abraham from the tent. She was causing a bit of a ruckus with her son, uh, and the promised s the son of promise, Isaac, was getting uh a little bit of mockery which didn't set well with Sarai, and so she said, Cast out the bondwoman and her son. Galatians 4 comments on that marvelous historical parable. Now Genesis 16, 17, the angel of the Lord now finds Hagar by a fountain of water in the wilderness. In verse 11, the angel of the Lord said unto her, Behold, thou art with child, shall bear a son, shall call his name Ishmael. goes on to prophesy, to give her some insight in terms of what's about to happen. And she called the name of the Lord that spake to her, thou God that seest me. For she said, have I also here looked after him that seeth me? Her assessment of the situation was, I have been talking with God. Look, I have spoken to one who sees me. And this angel come giving her a prophetic vision and declaring these things to her. That was her take on the situation. Well you say, okay, well maybe We would do the same thing, but it might have just been an angel. Well, the angel didn't reprove her for that. Normally, angels would do that if they were referenced as divinity The Apostle John in Revelation fell down at the feet of the angel. The angel said, See that you don't do that. Do it not. I am one of your fellow servants. Worship God. They would reject that. But when the angel would not reject that, you begin to get a sense that there's a different kind of individual you're speaking with here, God manifesting himself as an angel. There's an interesting one In the account of Genesis 18 and 19, and this is the account where God is going to come to Abraham and tell him what's about to come to pass, particularly concerning Sodom and Gomorrah. And you know the account. It says at the beginning of Genesis 18, the Lord appeared unto Abraham, him, in the plains of Mamre. He sat in the tent door in the heat of the day, and he lifted up his eyes and looked, and behold, three men stood by him. Isn't that interesting? It said, The Lord Jehovah appeared to him, but what does he see? Three men. He sees three men So here, these are angels that appear in the form of men, but they're really God Himself. Isn't that interesting? The appearance, the epiphany, what we perceive. And the last verse of Genesis 18, the Lord went his way as soon as he had left communing with Abraham. So Genesis 18 makes it clear that these three individuals communing with Abraham Was Jehovah its Lord all capital letters? This is God the Savior speaking to them. Alright Then you get to Genesis 19. So how many people was Abraham talking with? Three. Three men, that's what he perceived. And then in Genesis 19, verse 1, the very next verse And there came two angels to Sodom at Eden, and Lot sat in the gate to Sodom. So there's three that come and discuss something with Abraham. And they let him know that they're going to go and destroy Sodom and Gomorrah because their sins are grievous and the cry of them is reached up into heaven. And they are on a mission to terminate Sodom and Gomorrah permanently, as an example, Jude says. Jude or 2 Peter 2, one of those two makes it very clear. But, in Genesis 19 it says there came two angels to Sodom at Eden. So let me ask you the question, why do you suppose three are there talking with Abraham, but only two show up at Sodom and Gomorrah? One person of the Godhead appears to be missing. Which one do you think might be missing? Thoughts? Jehovah's too righteous to Uh well all three are Jehovah. Correct. They are. So we're talking Father, Son, or Spirit. Which one do you think didn't make an appearance? Father. You think the Father? Okay. You think the Father? I'm tending to thank the sun because he's the savior. There was no savior. There was no savior. Good and evil judgment. Yeah. And the Father has committed all judgment at the hand of the Son. So it's interesting. Whatever the salvation aspect, that aspect of God that's that's or the the that who would behold evil. There's only two that show up. And out of the mouth of two or three witnesses every matter is established. Two is sufficient to get the job done. I just find it interesting. There's no clear indication from scripture as to which one it is, and it's speculation somewhat on our part But it's not coincidental that the Bible only records two members of the Godhead going to destroy Sodom. Yeah, I was just going to say that the secret things belong to God but the things revealed to us are children. You could have made an argument that the spirit was not there because the spirit is not a physical Uh spirit hath not flesh and blood. So you say, well the two, the Father who has physical personality and Christ has physical personality. So you could argue all three Yeah, yeah, but but one of them is not there and the one that's missing is clearly not involved or does not it does not want to have anything to do with the rescue of these people And yet the entire Godhead is involved in your salvation. All three are in full agreement. Spare such a one. Let this one be saved. That's a Well, let's look at again now at uh a place where we find all three persons of the Godhead are mentioned in a single verse. Versification came later in the scriptures. This is not anything special that could have been mentioned over a passage, but it's nice and concise when God does put it into a single passage, I guess you could say, because there is some uh places uh like in Corinthians where it spans several verses. The first of course is Matthew 28, 19. We looked at that last week Uh the Great Commission, which these days seems to be the Great O Mission. We seem to have forgotten what missions is about. Go ye therefore and teach all nations, baptizing them in the name, singular name, not plural, name Father and the Son of the Holy Ghost. The close of 2 Corinthians 13 uses this doxology: the grace of the Lord Jesus Christ, the love of God, and the communion of the Holy Ghost be with you all. Amen. Uh similar to the uh uh priestly d uh uh d uh uh doxology found in the book of Numbers, number six, has a very similar type of language there We have in Luke 3, the baptism of Christ, when all the people were baptized, it came to pass that Jesus also being baptized and praying, the heaven was open. And the Holy Ghost descended in bodily shape like a dove upon him, and a voice came from heaven, which said, Thou art my beloved son, in thee I am well pleased. So here you see all three of them mentioned there Now the Muslims will point to that passage and attempt to discredit the concept of the Trinity. But of course, every heretic has this verse, or every heretic will attack a single verse, but the Bible stands together as an integrated whole. You can't pick and choose which verses you want to deal with. You have to tackle the whole Bible as you deal with it because a passage is in a local context as well as the larger context of scriptures. And just because God chooses to illustrate himself that way does not mean that there's three separate individuals who are not all God. You see it in 1 Corinthians 12, 4 through 6. Notice this language here. Now there are diversities of gifts but the same spirit. There are diversities of administrations or ministries or services. uh but the same Lord. That's that's a great passage to speak about for a church plant because We can't think of service in the Church of God as limited to that of pastor. That's not the only service in a church. Yes, it's a predominant speaking role, but it's not the only And there are diversities of operations, but it is the same God which worketh all in all. The apostles' point through all of that is that the role of the Father, the Son, and the Spirit work in the church, and it works in diverse ways, but it's that same God. There's a diversity but a unity there. Alright? So that's his point that he's trying to make here. 1 Peter says, elect according to the foreknowledge of God the Father, through sanctification of the Spirit, unto obedience and sprinkling of the blood of Jesus Christ. Grace unto you and peace be multiplied. What's nice about that passage is it somewhat illustrates a bit of the roles that appear to be uh self-described and assigned within the Godhead, we often hear of the electing work of the Father, God from uh uh Eternity past, known only to him, according to his counsel and the pleasure of his good will, elected a people for himself who would be saved as he looked down the brass Um expanse of time. Uh the Lord looked down from heaven to see if there were any that did understand, if there were any that did seek after God. The answer from heaven was there's none uh that understandeth, no not one, there's none that seek after God. And so God saw that none would actually, in and of themselves, ever raise their hand for Jesus, that was God's assessment. Therefore his own right hand brought forth salvation. He elected a people for himself And in due time, he would send the Spirit of God based on the sprinkling in the blood of Jesus Christ. to atone for their sins, to give them an interest in the things of the Lord. I'm amazed anybody seeks after God because it's a blood-bought, divine Miracle. It's nothing shy of a miracle that anybody seeks God. And that's just simply how salvation works. And so Peter gives us a little insight into the operation of the Trinity of God in your salvation. The father's got to elect, the son's got to pay for sins, and the spirit has got to call. Those don't work at odds against each other For if the father elected a certain group, but the son decided to pay for the sins of the entire human race without exception, well that's at odds because the Spirit's only going to call those whom God has elected. They would be working out of sync and out of purposes with each other, and they don't do that. In 1 John 5 7, we have the heavenly witnesses. There are three that bear record in heaven, the Father, the Word, and the Holy Ghost, and these three are of one. This verse in particular is in the crosshairs of many Bible translations. It's in the crosshairs of many Bible translations because it's based on a faulty Greek text. I learned something very interesting this week. I've been replaying the uh messages from the Kept Pure conference, which our brother uh Pastor Joe attended uh earlier in the year. And one of the sessions, uh Dr. uh uh Jeffrey Riddle uh was disclosing some of the support for the uh text of 1 John 5. 7 And it turns out that this passage has ample support in ancient manuscripts. And linguistically, grammatically, it would make no sense whatsoever. In the Greek it would be a huge grammatical error to remove verse seven because six to eight uh because of the tenths of the Greek and one is masculine and then eight ends up in neuter because it's speaking of the spirit. The spirit, by the way, in Greek is never male or female, it's neuter. You can almost render it it or thing. I think spirit and Holy Ghost is a good rendering, but it's not listed as male or female. It's neutral, which I think is quite interesting But you would be in tremendous error grammatically in the Greek without verse 7 there. It just would not flow correctly. So there's some very interesting support for 1 John 5. 7. I've also got some tracks out there to support that. We're going to talk a little bit now about the difficulties of trying to describe, trying to express this doctrine succinctly. We refer to it as the Trinity. But the problem by just saying Trinity in and of itself implies something. It's somewhat to the uninitiate or to the hostile. To them it would imply three gods, right? Trinity, three. You think of three gods. That's a thought that comes to mind. Some would talk about the triune God That's a little better, but then you've got issues with that. That's not perfect. What does triune mean? That's not a word that we commonly use. Does that mean a three-headed god? You know, do we serve a hydra? What is that? That's not helpful. Some in the Reform camp have some have said it this way, the Trinity and Unity and the Unity and Trinity. That's better. That's starting to get at it. It's not exactly succinct. It almost sounds like double talk. So there's a little bit of a struggle with that Um God is one substance consisting of three persons. That's better. That was what um uh Uh oh who was the fellow I said last week I forgot my own bulletin notes. Who was the fellow that we mentioned? Was it Tertullian? Thank you, yes. Um boy memory's a great thing when you have it Tertullian is the one that came up with this concept and he uses that word persons, persona, meaning claimant, and substance was a was a was a a Roman legal term of the same substance. But in our day we would say, what is substance? You know, w there's some substance on the driveway. You know, I mean what is that? You know we We we don't know quite what it is. It it doesn't carry the same legal term. Um you could say what's the substance of the matter, or what what's we would say what's the thrust of the matter. It's now been replaced with a different concept. Another has attempted to say, while God is one, he exists in three persons, co-Father, Son, and Holy Spirit. Again, this might sound like three gods to some. And then here's one. In the unity of the Godhead there be three persons of one substance, power, and eternity. God the Father, God the Son, God the Holy Spirit. Well that's better, but it's not exactly succinct. It's not a quick handle. Do you believe in the doctrine of the unity of God had there be three pre I mean you'd have to rattle that whole thing off and it's a little longer. So it does give a nice balance of this concept and it repeats God to underscore the singularity. But again we're struggling with a succinct way to say it Burkhov uh mentions this. Actually, before I read that, I just want to get your input. You know, what are the strengths and weaknesses of the following analogies that some have tried to use to describe God. Alright, I'm going to give you some analogies here. You're going to tell me the strength and the weakness of it Water, it's solid, liquid, and a vapor. It has three different forms you know about. Or a tree, it has root and a trunk and branches Sounds like a nice way. It's still a tree, but there's the branches, there's the trunk, there's the roots. What are the problems with those analogies? Anybody? Sense anything wrong with those or do you think they're fantastic? Well essentially there's still just one. But I think of the of God, Jesus, and the Holy Spirit is three. I know that they are the same in some ways. I guess they are the same, they know the same. But they are different Okay. Okay. Uh Victoria? The problem with the water one I think is that it It has the the three separate ones but water can't be all of those at one time. Correct. Yep, you can't have water as both ice and vapor at the same time. It's it's modal. Okay. There's another major defect with these two illustrations here. What other problems do we find? Maybe with the tree, a lethal Yep. Part of it. They're part of the same thing, but they are not. Branches is not a tree. If I have a bunch of cut branches, I don't have a tree. There's another problem with this too. Do you hug a tree? Yeah. No. The personality aspect is missing. There's no personality there, right? There's no it's it's just a dumb thing that you can cut down at your leisure. It's it's it's it's There's no personality to it. It's just a raw chemical property. It's just a very base form. Some have argued that living things are things that have blood and trees and plants don't have blood, therefore technically they're not living, but they're they have I don't know what you call it, we would call it alive. Joe? It can rightly be argued that even though that expression, Father, Son of the Spirit, is difficult to understand, there could be no better way to describe God. It it fully describes it, even though it's beyond our understanding. We try to find another way to express it. Yes. And we can't come up with one. Because God chose the best way to describe Himself. Yep, uh that that's a very good point. Yep. So trying to even use something like, you know, water, uh vapor or a solid in in itself could be faulty. All right, here's another one How about man? Because man's an image bearer of God, is he not? Let us make man in our own image. Alright, so there might be something in man that we could make an analogy to. And some have attempted I I gave an illustration last week uh of a man can be a father and then a son and and and and have a job at the same time. And that that wasn't the illustration. This was the illustration that I'd forgotten about. Man has intellect He has affections and he has a will. Intellect, affections, and a will. Alright? And so some have said, well, that is a way to represent the Godhead, that could be the the reflection of it. Now what's wrong with that? Or do you see any problems with that? Intellect, affections, and will. You're still just one person. Characteristics, if you will, but you're still just one person whereas God is like you have the Father who has intellect and you know, all those three in those three in himself separately. And then you have the Son which has all those three in himself And the spirit is in I don't think the the the the try the tri unity expressed very well in just It still falls short in terms of the uh uh the the you you can't have excuse you can't have just uh a man with intellect but without affections and will showing up. Uh that that just I can't imagine how that would work. Carol? And I feel like it makes a lot more sense than my test has. I just don't know how to express it. But in my mind I see it like Like as Father, Son, Holy Spirit, and they're one, but I just don't know how to describe it. But I've always known that there are three They'll want to unify it. But I just I wouldn't know how to express that or explain it to someone and they don't understand it, but it to me it makes perfect sense Yes. Amen. So I don't know how you would give an example of that. Yeah, and that kind of gets back to Joe's point earlier, you know, God has chosen the best way to describe it. Father, Son, Holy Spirit. We don't really need to fix that. And uh it might take nothing less than a miracle of grace to actually start to apprehend that and say, yes, this is uh the way I want to go with it. No, it's not easy to understand. You can see why the you can see why the church struggled with it for 300 years Yeah, it's a very big struggle. Another problem with intellect, will, and emotion is that our will is subject to our intellect. I may want to put my handle on the stove, but my intellect tells me that's not a good idea, and therefore the not to equal. Yep. There is some dependency in there, right? And uh that that that's a problem as well. Very good. A gentleman named uh Henry Edward Pickerstep. Well that sounds like the name of a battleship, doesn't it? He um did a mighty work in uh pulling together a a book concerning the Trinity with that title. Uh it's on Amazon, it's not too much. I um uh have gone through that and pulled out the succinct essence of all of his proof text. He has twelve points of the Trinity. And I've got a track on that and I'll distribute it. I don't I didn't have enough to for it to go everywhere, but I think we can get uh one from the McKnight family back here and uh If somebody could uh Victory, if you could help distribute the rest, maybe. We'll have to have a little bit of sharing. Your handout has the summary of it, but these are more of the full range of verses that you've got in it. You'll see for instance that The Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit all share certain characteristics and attributes The first point is they are all eternal. And that's a pretty you can stop right there. If they're all eternal, you can't have three separate eternal instances. You can only have one The Father is eternal, the Son and the Holy Spirit. And there's proof texts there for that out of Romans in your handout. I've color-coded it to try to illustrate that. You've also got that all three are involved in creation. They're all creators. So we have the Father who created all things. You have the Son who creates, and then you have the creative aspect of God the Holy Spirit as well. I'd say it's And that's an interesting point about God the Holy Spirit, because it actually gets into the Catholic doctrine of Mary and her alleged divinity. Because she is allegedly the quote unquote mother of God. She's the mother of the body of Jesus, but she is not God's mother because God doesn't have a mother. The Spirit of God contributes the soul aspect of a human being. Mommy and Daddy don't have half souls And those two half souls come together. There's not a set of Y chromosomes for the mommy's soul and daddy's soul. That doesn't work, right? God the Holy Spirit is the one who gives life. He's the one that grants that that comes together. And so he is the one that gives that soul. He gives the soul and the spirit, and he takes the soul and the spirit back. All souls belong to me, God says. So it's very easy for us thus to see, as the creative role of God the Holy Spirit is involved, how that thing that was born in Mary, that Spirit, would have come from God. That was the contribution from God, and it was therefore divine, as opposed to a mere man's uh uh uh uh essence, uh just uh uh uh uh a a the the the soul uh that god creates this is the life giving soul that filled Mary. Very big difference. They're both omnipresent You see this in Jeremiah, Matthew, as well as in the Psalms. They are present everywhere. Whither shall I flee from their spirit? That comes from the Psalms. You see that in Jeremiah's language as well. All three are omniscient Uh they they all know all things, so that's pretty big if they share those characteristics and aspects. If this Member of the Godhead knows everything, so does this one, so does this one. They are in complete unity, so there's a interesting union of mentality and of mind. That's Yeah, head twister. How do you share that out? I mean from a computer perspective, we talk about shared memory in the computer. Um this is a united disparate I don't I don't even know how to describe that Fifth point, all are true and holy and good. They're all described as such. They're all described as having a self-regulating will. Which is interesting because the son voluntarily submits himself, voluntarily comes down, voluntarily submits himself to the divine will to be the Savior, to endure what is necessary to redeem people. It's a voluntary self regulating will. All three are the fountain of life. They are all life giving individuals, entities, substances. They all strengthen, comfort, and sanctify. They all filled the soul with divine love. They gave the divine law. They're lawgivers. God the Spirit, God the Son, God the Father. All three are lawgivers, and you have passages that support that. All three dwell in fellowship in the hearts of the believers And each are by himself the supreme Jehovah in God. Each one is listed as Jehovah. So I thought he did a spectacular job of assembling these verses that could be put together. And uh for years I've really enjoyed and appreciated that. That's my go-to passage for proof of the Trinity. So anyone who perhaps knocks at your door someday. And I am Jehovah's Witness, two of them. And they're in a white shirt with a tie. Um you uh yeah, oh yeah, with a with a little badge, Elder so-and-so, Elder Ibanez, that's who came on my door years ago Uh he was like nineteen, elder, right? Um you might hand him that track and say, gee, do you have a Bible? Why don't you go read this and then you know we can talk if you'd like to have a Bible study. study. Well all right um you know as we've been talking about here in this whole substance uh of the of the study is that It is extraordinarily difficult to try to summarize succinctly this doctrine of the Trinity, and so it deserves, you know, its own little study. God himself says, turn in your Bible to Isaiah 40 and verse 18. I do want you to look at these. We're going to look at two passages in Isaiah. And it's instructive and helpful. God recognizes that we would have this problem, and so He lets us know in advance you're going to have a problem with this. It says in Isaiah 40, 18, to whom then will ye liken God? Or what likeness will ye compare unto him? God's asking a rhetorical question. Go ahead, find something. What could you possibly produce that could be like me? Because he's the creator, not the creature. You can't create something that's even close to him, nor can you find anything in the creation. That is close to him, because God does not nor cannot create God. He is the eternal, everlasting one. Eternity can't create eternity. There can't be a subordination. It doesn't work He says again in verse twenty-five as he goes through about those who make graven images from wood and so forth, he says in twenty-five, To whom then will ye liken me, or shall I be equal? saith the Holy One. No, it's the holy one. So he underscores the fact that what you're trying to do with your idols isn't even close because you can't even get close to comparing it to me. Later in Isaiah 46, a few pages later In verse 25, he repeats this again. So this is interesting because he says this, verse 5, excuse me, Isaiah 46, 5. To whom will ye liken me, and make me equal, and compare me, that we may be like? And again he goes on. to describe all of these false prophets that the world and false gods, false idols I should say, that the world produces to attempt to say, this is God, this is the deliverer, this is my savior, this is my guide, my instructor, my comforter, all this stuff. He says you you don't you're not even close. You're really just not even close. Isn't our God marvelous? He's beyond our comprehension. If there was a God I could comprehend, would that really be worthwhile? He really wouldn't be God. So we would expect just the very nature of an eternal salvific God is one who is beyond all understanding. And yet he does disclose things of himself to us, the secret things. The things that are revealed are for us and our children. The secret things belong to the Lord, but the things that reveal belong to us and our children. Well, we are grateful that our God has given us the Holy Spirit to give us a measure of insight into these things. to believe these things and to hold on to them by faith and to be assured that God is not speaking in contradictory terms because we do see great consistency throughout scriptures when it speaks about who God is. There's not a contradiction here. All right, well I'll wrap it up there. Any other closing comments or questions? Yes, I think that uh the basis of our atheism now is that uh all of our electronics, uh going to the moon, uh all of that is the way atheists I guess, I uh pull people away from religion because they see all of these things as more than God Because they see that. Right. They don't see God. Correct. That that's a that's a a very good observation. They they look at the tangible the the oh I'm sorry? Right, the tangible thing. The tangible, right. They look at the uh uh the um mighty works of man. Indeed man has made many cunning inventions. Uh incidentally uh it was a big rustle uh uh with the first astronaut who were going to the moon. Uh they wanted to speak the heavens declare the glory of God and they wanted to read scripture up there, but NASA put a put a clamp on 'em So not let them do that. So it was a Christian that was first up there. Uh Werner Von Werner von Braun, the uh first head of NASA. uh fled Germany and came across enemy lines along with his brother and gave himself up and when they asked why did you come over he said because you have a more you have a moral cause You're you're I believe in your God. He came because of Christian principles that at the time our nation still had a strong remnant of. And it was enough for him to see. And now the very head of NASA is talking about finding life elsewhere and uh this uh to prove evolution basically. And it's a uh vain effort. Personally I think NASA's wanting to see that doesn't need to exist. I think it's a tremendous waste of time. funds, but I uh don't always camp on that because that's not the biggest battle to fight. All right, well let's uh wrap up our time in prayer. Uh Anton, would you mind closing us? Thank you. Father in heaven, Lord uh how we do praise you that you've given us your word to understand you and uh with time to grow in the grace and the knowledge of you Lord, we pray indeed you help us to uh stand firm in what you've taught and not be swayed by uh the wicked wiles of the world and the devils of uh dissuade people from believing in you. Lord help us to trust in you and please help us to continue uh to grow in this knowledge of you and in the knowledge of the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit. Lord, we ask your guidance and praise you, Lord, for your uh blessings of teaching and likening. And we ask it all in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen.