Open with me to the book of Hebrews and to the 11th chapter. Those of you who are with us in Sunday school week after week. or possibly saying Hebrews. Haven't we already been hearing Hebrews? Well I did actually consult with Brother Vince before turning to Hebrews to go this morning and I promise I try not to step over his excellent teaching in Sunday school But this morning I want to consider the faith of Hebrews. So we're going to take our text from Hebrews chapter eleven as our jumping off point, but we'll spend most of our time in the Old Testament, which is the foundational passages for what we find in Hebrews chapter 8. But if you have your place in the 11th chapter of Hebrews, I'm going to read verses 8 through 8 and following, and then down to verse 17. Hebrews chapter 11 and verse 8. By faith, Abraham, when he was called to go out into a place which he should after receive for inheritance, obeyed And went out, not knowing whither he went. By faith he sojourned in the land of promise as in a strange country Dwelling in tabernacles with Isaac and Jacob, the heirs with him of the same promise For he looked for a city which hath foundation, whose builder and maker is God. And then down to verse 17 By faith Abraham, when he was tried, offered up Isaac, and he that had received the promises offered up his only begotten son. Of whom it was said that in Isaac shall thy seed be called, accounting that God was able to raise him up, even from the dead From whence also he received him in a figure. Let us bow for prayer Committing our hearts and minds to the understanding of God's Word today. Let us pray. Gracious Father, Lord, we thank you for your word Father, we thank you for these old truths that teach us new truths each time we look into them. We thank you, Father, that these most familiar accounts of thy word still have much with which to bless thy people. And so, Father, this morning, may we look at the faith of Abraham afresh and anew. May we be encouraged by the example of this man But even more so, Father, may we pray to have like faith. Bless thy people we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. With the account briefly stated in the eleventh chapter of Hebrews, that Abraham had faith and he left his country. And Abraham had faith and he offered his son Isaac. Now let's go back to the Old Testament and consider what it was that Abraham did and how it was that he had such faith. So turn with me. Pardon me if my voice cracks there. That's unusual. I don't usually have a cracking voice, but it kind of went into falsehetto there for a moment. Turn with me to Genesis chapter 17. And the first thing I want you to see about the faith of Abraham, and the thing which I believe is a salient point we need to understand Is that Abraham's faith did not come from within inside of Abraham? His faith was sovereignly Appointed to him. And this is a great misconception in the world today, because people are taught that they need to stir up faith within them. And there is a truth that we do stir up the faith that is within us. But folks, faith comes from outside. You don't have faith because you do a lot of things. Rather, you will do these things because you have faith, and just like the creation, where man did not Evolved because some uh inanimate thing suddenly sprung into life, but rather gave God gave life and he made man fully develop. It's not that man Evolved at all, but the life has to come from somewhere. And the life of faith comes from God. And so the first thing we like to see here, beginning in Genesis 17, is that the faith of Abraham Was all of sovereign grace. If you have your place there now in Genesis 17, verse 1. And when Abraham was 90 years old and nine, The Lord appeared to Abraham and said unto him, I am the Almighty God, walk before me and be thou perfect. And I will make my covenant between me and thee, and will multiply thee exceedingly And Abraham and I will make I'm sorry and Abraham fell on his face, verse 3, and God talked with him, saying, As for me, that's as for God, God speaking. As for me, behold, my covenant is with thee. What did Abraham do to get this covenant? Nothing. But God says that's for you, Mike, my covenant is with thee. And thou shalt be a father of many nations Neither shall thou name be called Abram. Abram basically Abram basically means an exalted father. Abram, but thy name shall be called Abraham, which means the father of many, or the father of many nations. For the Father of many nations have I made thee. Verse 6, and I will make That's God acting, not Abraham acting. And I will make the exceedingly fruitful, and I will make that's God acting, not Abraham, of the kings, uh make nations of thee. And kings shall come out of thee. Verse 7. And I will establish my covenant between me and thee and thy seed after thee and their generations. for an everlasting covenant to be a God to thee and to thy seed after thee. And I will give thee Give unto thee and to thy seed after thee the land wherein thou art a stranger in all the land of Canaan for an everlasting possession. And I will be their God And Abraham, and God said unto Abraham, Thou shalt keep my covenant, therefore thou and thy seed after thee in their generations. You see the emphasis there, and forgive me for stumbling on some of it because I'm trying to emphasize the words, but folks, this wasn't Abraham being a good man. This wasn't Abraham doing a lot of things that made him faithful. Rather, it was God grabbing a hold of Abraham and saying, look, buddy, this is what I'm going to do. And folks, that is exactly what salvation is. It is God reaching to a sinner. And saying, look, I will do these things for you. For by grace are you saved through faith And that not of yourselves, faith, not of yourselves, it, faith, is the gift of God, not of works, lest any man should boast. And so what is the background here? Well folks this is where it gets really interesting and I I love these genealogies. I I mentioned that a few weeks ago, that that don't skip over the genealogies You don't need to turn, but make a note if you want to look at it later. In Genesis chapter 11, verses 9 through 26, you'll find the genealogy of Seth. of the uh sorry of genealogy of Shem of the son of Noah. Abraham, to to make it short, was born 249 years after the end of the flood. Okay, 249 years, a year after they came out of the flood, Shem has a son. Shem is the seventh great grandfather of Abram or Abraham. Noah is the eighth great. Okay? Great, great, great, great, great, great, great, great grandfather Noah, who came out of the ark. And so 249 years have taken place between the birth of Abraham And the time they came out of the ark. And so 300 years, 200 or 349 years, 350 years take place. Between the time that they come out of the ark and the birth of Isaac, who is the son of God. Isn't that beautiful That's what we learn when we study the genealogies. We begin to see this broad picture, this landscape of Scripture, and how it all fits together. In chapter 12 of Genesis, we find that Abraham is 75 years old. And that God tells him to leave the Ur of the Chaldees. And in the second verse of chapter twelve, God says, and I will make thee a great king And I will bless thee, and make thy name great, and thou shalt be a blessing. And verse 3, and I will bless them that bless thee. Again, who is acting? It is God that's acting. But folks, there's there's there's another feature of this story of Abraham and how this faith came apart that if you just read through the book without stopping and slowing down and examining it What takes place before God says to Abraham in Genesis chapter 12, I want you to leave your country. The Tower of Babel. The Tower of Babel, chapter eleven of Genesis, and verse four. And they, that's the people, said, go to. Let us build us a city and a tower whose top may reach unto heaven, and let us make a name, make us a name. Lest we be scattered abroad upon the face of the earth. Do you see a contrast there? At the Tower of Babel, they said, we're going to make us a tower that'll reach to heaven. We're going to make a name for ourselves. We're going to do all these things. We are going to fake the stairway to heaven. We're going to make a way that we can be acceptable to God We're gonna figure this thing out. Two hundred and or three hundred years after the flood In the flood, God had wiped the face of the earth clean. But eight generations later. Men are trying to figure out how they can be acceptable to God. There are four elements there in What the people said in Genesis 11, verse 4. They said, Let us build a city and a tower. Let us make our own way to reach to heaven. Let us build a tower up in the heaven. Let us make a name for ourselves, lest we be scattered on the earth. Four elements there in what they were attempting to do when God came down and confused the languages and scattered them. But consider this. God promised Abraham what A city. God promised him a city. Back in Hebrews chapter 11, verse 10, for he looked for a city which had foundations whose builder and maker is God. God's promise a city. And we just sang of Salem, Jerusalem. And we look for a city too. No, not in Palestine, not in the Middle East. We look for a heavenly city, and God has promised that for us. I go to prepare a place for you. And if I go and prepare a place for you, I will come again and receive you unto myself, that where I am, there ye may be also. Folks, how many of you have laid a brick in heaven? Now, you will find some churches that teach you that you need to be laying bricks in heaven I didn't that that phrase isn't isn't random. There are people that say, oh, you've got to do all these things to you, you've got to be building that mansion over there. No, there's nothing you can do. It's all of grace That's all simply believing, not what I am supposed to do, but what God has done for me. They tried to build a city, God said to Abraham, I'm going to give you a city God appeared to Abraham. He had no need to build a tower. Why were they trying to build the tower? Well, they couldn't needed the tower to reach up to heaven. But in chapter 17 and verse 1 of Genesis, and when Abraham was 90 and 9 years old, the Lord appeared to Abraham. Folks, how did I get saved? God revealed himself in the Word. And I've shared with many of you my testimony how the in great agony of soul I went into God's Word and I said, praise Lord. I'm not sure what the truth is But I am willing to believe the truth regardless of what it is, as long as you will confirm that truth to me through the Word of God. Not what this man says, not what that commentary says. Nothing external. Lord, convince me of truth through the word and the word only. And God transformed my life. They were trying to build a tower whose top would reach to heaven. But God appeared to Abraham. Abraham, you don't need a tower. They were trying to make a name for themselves. There again, Genesis 11, verse 4. Let us make us a name. Genesis 12, verses 2 and 3. And I will make of thee a great nation, and I will bless them that bless thee, and I will make thy name great. And thou shalt be a blessing. And I will bless in the bless thee, and curse in the curse thee, that curseth thee. And in thee shall all the families of the earth be blessed. Isn't this beautiful, folks? God was doing for Abraham what the people were trying to do for themselves. But then fourthly, the reason they wanted to build this tower and build this city was lest we be scattered across the earth. But what did God promise to Abraham? Abraham, everywhere your foot treads, I'll give it to you. You see, it doesn't matter if you're scattered across the earth because the earth is the Lord's and the fullness thereof, and I'm giving it to you. It's all yours. And the gospel of the kingdom shall be preached in all nations. Then cometh the end. And The land will be yours. In Revelation 21, verse 25, we find that the gates of the city shall not be closed by day, and there'll be no night. So talking about the New Jerusalem. So folks, what is the point here? The point here is when God destroyed the earth with a flood, he spared Noah and his family. Were Noah and his family better than the other people? Well, no. It says Noah found grace in the eyes of the Lord. God was gracious to Noah. Eight generations have passed. And we're back to the same thing. But this time, God doesn't destroy all the people of the earth But rather, God sets his grace upon Abraham and his children. And folks, we are sons of Abraham by faith. We are of all peoples, tongues, and nations. Folks, we are seeking a city. But a city whose was made without hands, whose builder and maker is God. We are seeking to know God But he reveals himself to us through his word day after day. We are seeking a name. Folks, I have a name which no man knoweth. It's written in heaven. He's given me a new name. I don't even know it yet, but he's given it to me. And God has declared that the earth is the Lord in the fullness thereof, and He will feed me, He will clothe me, He will take care of me. And though someday the dust of my body lays in his earth, he will bring that back together too. And so, folks, the first thing to see about the faith of Abraham is it was not the faith of Abraham Rather, it was the faith that God gave to Abraham. But folks, when God gave Abraham this faith, It so dramatically changed his life that it's no wonder he has a new name. Because Abraham was no longer Abram. Just as surely as Paul was no longer Saul. And so The second thing I would have us to see about this faith of Abraham is was it was a faith of obedience If you look back again to Hebrews chapter 11 and verse 8, a verse I read earlier, and I'll read it for you again. In Hebrews 11, verse 8, by faith Abraham, when he was called to go out into a place which he should receive, should after receive for an inheritance, obey. And went out, not knowing whither he went. God said, Abraham, go. And Abraham went. Now, excuse me. I don't know how your upbringing was. I had a very godly father. A very loving father, a very gentle father, and a very strict father. And my dad taught me from the time I was two and three years old when I could begin to understand. Dad said, when I say jump, you jump and ask how high after you leave the ground. That's a quote from my dad. You know, if you want to know how high, you get in the air first, and then we'll work on how high. But you simply do what I tell you to do Folks, we as God's people don't have the prerogative to understand what God's doing. It's, you know, Abraham, leave your country. Just simply go And Abraham simply went. And going back in to uh Genesis chapter 12, verse 1, God says to Abraham, get out of the country. Verse 4, so Abraham departed And so the Lord spake unto him. You see, Abraham is 75 years old. Okay, I I don't always have you raise your hand, but how many of you here are more than 75 years old? I know we have some. Yep, there's one. There's two. Okay. Are you ready to pull up states and move to another country that you've never seen before? I doubt it. It's it's young people that pack up and head for the mission field. We we tend to, you know Uh, you know, we we get to an age a lot of us where we say, okay, it's time to get your rid of the yard that has to be mowed and and move into something a bit smaller that doesn't have as much upteeth, but that's not because we're seeking a new country, that's because we're tired of mowing the yard. Right. We don't upsize when we get old, we downsize But here, Abraham is 75 years old, and he's told to get up and go. He's not a young man. And Abraham doesn't know where he's going. Folks, I don't like GPS. I like my maps. And uh when when we were younger and traveling as missionaries, we traveled all across the country. We had supporting churches in California, and so we would drive all the way across the country every so often. And on the sun visor of the vehicle, I would have a stack of about six roadmaps that were folded down to the route And weeks before I see my wife nodding, weeks before we left, I had those maps spread out all over the place. And I had taken highlighters and I had mapped out the roots And I knew that I needed to start watching the mile post because in two hundred and fifty-six miles I had to make take an exit. And there was not going to be any voice saying, Turn left at three hundred feet, you know. Folks Abraham didn't have any of that. He was told to go and he didn't have a map. He was told to go to a place and he did not know where he was going when he started out. And not only that, he had never seen it. Now today when you today when you use your map quest or whatever Uh it'll even show you a picture of the house you're going to. Or or a picture of the turn. You got, okay, when I see this, and um mine will even say, you know, 300 foot after the windy's, etc. He hasn't seen any of it. Remember the the story of the great feast that Christ gave when the people started making excuses and one says I can't come to the feast because I bought a piece of land and I have to go prove it. He hasn't seen Google Maps to know even the boundaries of where he is going. And Abraham is supposed to be a great nation, but he doesn't have a child. Folks, that's not natural. That's not human nature. Something has happened here to Abraham. And now he obeys. Now folks, if you don't obey, are you a child? You see, there's a lot of people today that say, oh yeah, I'm a Christian, but they do not obey his commands. Their life is not ordered by his law. And he chasteneth every son he receiveth, and if you be without ch chasteneth, chastisement, whereof all are partakers, ye are bastards and no sons. And folks, to be very pointed about it, the problem with the church today, not Mission Bible Church, thankfully, but the church at large today is it's full of bastards. It's full of people who are American Christians. They've grown up in a society that is a quote-unquote Christian nation. But they have never been changed from an Abram to an Abraham. And the fact that they do not obey God's commands, even the small ones, much less what Abraham obeyed. But folks, there's more to it than that. Because not only did Abraham obey, but he obeyed immediately. Turn with me to chapter seventeen of Genesis We saw there in the previous other chapters we looked at that that uh he left to go to another country. But in chapter seventeen, I'm gonna read scattered verses. I'll tell you the reference of the verse as I read it, but they're all in chapter 17. Chapter 17 and verse 1 And when Abraham was 90 years old and nine, the Lord appeared unto Abraham and said, I am the Lord God Almighty, walk before me and be thou perfect. And I will make my covenant between thee, me, and thee, and I will multiply thee exceedingly. Go down to verse 10 of chapter 17 of Genesis. This is my covenant, which ye shall keep between me and you and thy seed and thee. Every man and child among you shall be circumcised. Verse 11. And ye shall circumcise the flesh of your foreskin, and it shall be a token of the covenant betwixt me and you. Verse 23. And Abraham took Ishmael, his son, and all that were born in his house, and all that were brought with money. uh with his money, every male among them of Abraham's house, and circumcise the flesh of their foreskin In the self-same day as God had said unto him. Verse 26 In the selfsame day, Abraham circumcised Ishmael, his son was Abraham circumcised and Ishmael his son. How long did Abraham wait to obey God's command? Same thing. Same day. Did you ever put something off? You know how how many of us have had a toothache that we lived with for weeks before we finally went to the dentist? We don't like the thought of something that's going to be painful or difficult. And so we put it off. And folks, how often spiritually we put off the painful. We know that there is that which God would have us to do. But our spirit resists against it. Folks, Abraham not only obeyed God, he did it right away. And it wasn't just this matter of circumcision. Consider this, chapter 23 of, or sorry, chapter 22 and verse 3 of Genesis. Here God has told Abraham that he's to take his son of promise, Isaac, his only begotten son, and sacrifice him. And in Genesis 22 and verse 3, and Abraham rose up early in the morning. And saddled his ass, and took two the his two took two of his young men with him, and Isaac his son and claved the wood for the burnt offering, and rose up and went unto the place which God had told him. Folks, God tells Abraham, you're going to sacrifice your son, Isaac. Abraham didn't wait a week or a month or a year. He gets up early in the morning to do what God would have to do. You know, it's hard for most of us to get up early in the morning to go to church. Abraham got overly born to kill his son. To sacrifice his son. And not only that Not only was his faith a divinely ordained faith, and a faith that was an obedient, it was a per persistent faith. It was the pattern of his life. He did this Over and over again. We read there in Hebrews that he sojourned in the land of promise. He continued in the place that God would have him to be. Folks, Abraham walked for three days. To kill his son. Think about that. Now, did you ever get in your vehicle and start heading someplace And turn around, yeah, we're not doing that today. Or you you've got five stores you're gonna stop at while you're out shopping and you get the first three and yeah, some other time. We're not gonna do that You changed your mind. Did you ever have a medical procedure that you were scheduled for? And it was all set and you thought, we're not doing that. Folks, Abraham has three days to turn around. He is traveling with a bundle of wood. With his son and with a knife. It was persistent Even though the circumstances were very hard, he did not turn around. This was sovereign faith and obedient faith and persistent faith. But folks, it was also a sacrificial faith. What is too big of a sacrifice for our faith? For my faith. For your faith? What was too big of a sacrifice for Abraham's faith? Abraham sacrificed the best lamb in the flock. Okay Abraham, sacrifice these bullocks. Sure. Abraham, bring all the first fruits. No problem. Abraham, sacrifice your son. Skip early in the morning. And go. Three days to turn back, three days to make excuses, three days to find an alternative. Do you remember when God told Ezekiel? that he was to lay on one side for I think it was 190 days and lay on the other side for 190 days and he was to cook his food with human dumb, human waste And he said, Lord, I have not defiled myself from my youth up. And God says, okay, I'll give you cow dung instead. Abraham doesn't do that, does he? Folks, if it was me, I probably would have said, God, every sheep I have, but not Isaac. Every goat, every lamb, anything, anything but Isaac But his faith was truly a sacrificial faith. There was nothing held back. But then think of this. How many sacrifices has Abraham performed before? He's seen the blood before. Those of you that are hunters, I'm a hunter. I have ended the life of many animals, and it is never pretty. And deer hunting. The deer is rarely dead when you get to it. And not to gross anybody out or be too graphic. But you take a knife and you slit the throat of the deer. And while its heart is still pumping, the blood rushes out. Rushes out. I have slaughtered At least a thousand chickens and probably more multiple thousands of chickens. We killed chickens three times a year in Jamaica and usually 50 at a time You remove the head of the chicken, and then it takes a good 20-30 seconds for that chicken to flap its wings as the blood goes everywhere. Folks, Abraham knew all about that. And the death of his son was not going to be pretty. It was not going to be nice. It was not going to be pleasant. His son was not going to fall asleep. He was going to slit his son's throat with a knife. Folks, that's a faith of sacrifice We know the story that God never intended for him to sacrifice his son But God pushed him to that point to see how far the faith of Abraham would extend. And God said, now that I know, now I know that you obey me. But folks, there's yet more here. There's yet more here. Because Isaac had seen the sacrifice. Isaac had seen the blood being thrust from the heart of the sacrifice upon the altar. Isaac knew what the sacrifice was. Father, here is the wood. But where is the lamb? We don't know exactly how old Isaac was. I believe he was between twelve and fifteen. That's my estimation. And there is scriptural basis for that. We don't have time to go into all that. But he's not an infant He's not a toddler. He probably is old enough to run. Father. Hey, Dad. Daddy I see wood. I see fire. Where's the lamp? Where's the lamp? Folks, that would have grabbed my heart. That would have shaken my faith. And I pray that my faith would have stood, but I cannot claim that to you having not been in that situation. But Abraham's answer was full of faith. My son, God, will provide a lamb. Father, if it be possible Let this cup pass from me. You see, Isaac, Christ and Isaac, but yet not my will, but thy will be done. And Abraham's faithful answer was, God will provide himself a lamb. It was a sacrificial faith that Abraham had. But finally, folks, it was a faith that was rewarded. It was a faith that was rewarded. God rewards faithful faith Going back to Hebrews chapter eleven and verse twelve, therefore sprang they even of one and him as good as dead, so many as the stars of the sky in multitude, and the seeds, sands of the sea, God provided a lamb, and God declared there on Mount Moriah, the mount of sacrifice in Exodus, Genesis chapter 22, because thou hast done this thing and hast not withheld thy son, thine only son. In blessing I will bless thee, and in multiplying I will multiply thy seed as the stars of heaven and as the sandwich is upon the seashore, and thy seed shall possess the gates of their enemies And in thy seed shall all nations of the earth be blessed, because thou hast obeyed my voice. Folks Were all the nations of the earth blessed in Isaac? Indirectly, yes. All the nations of the earth were blessed in Jesus Christ. Of whom Isaac was a picture on the way to sacrifice. The only son of Abraham, the only son of God, the only son of Abraham was spared. Because the only son of God was on the way. And he would come through the seed of Abraham. Folks, by faith, Abraham, when he was called to go out, went. By faith, Abraham offered up Isaac, believing that he would receive him in the a sign and the sign is Jesus Christ. Folks, no matter how good you are, no matter how hard you work, you cannot produce saving faith. But when God ordains to save a soul in his sovereign grace, he will take an Abram and make him an Abraham. He will take a Saul and make him a Paul. And folks, the evidence of that faith is an obedient heart. Yes, Lord, when you say go, I will go And the evidence of that faith is a persistent faith that continues to walk day after day, even when you're going to the most difficult trials that you could ever imagine. It is a faith that will sacrifice. Lord, there is nothing that is too good for thee. There is nothing that belongs to me. It is all thine. Take what you will, no substitutes. And is the faith that God will reward. Folks. Do you have the faith of Abraham? Or do you have the counterfeit faith that the world offers? Let us stand for prayer. Father, we thank you, Lord, for thy word and thy truth. We thank you that the entrance to thy word giveth light Give us thy people, thy light today. In Jesus' name. Amen.