Mark chapter three this morning Changed the title of the message, I think, three times since I sent it to Rob and Bev. Title of the Message now, The Need of the Hour. I guess the knee of the hour just shut that cell phone off wherever it was. Uh but titled The Knee of the Hour. And uh starting in Mark III uh verse seven through nineteen. This is also partially recorded in Matthew ten, one through four, lists of the disciples. And again in Luke six, twelve through sixteen, lists of the disciples as well. But we're in Mark 3, chapter 7 or chapter 3 rather verses 7 through 19. Beginning of verse 7. But Jesus withdrew himself with his disciples to the sea. And a great multitude from Galilee followed him, and from Judea, and from Jerusalem, and from Edomaiah, and from beyond Jordan, and they about Tyre and Sidon, a great multitude. And when they had heard him, great things he had did, they came on to him. And he spake to his disciples that a small ship should wait on him because of the multitude, lest they should throng him or crush him. For he had healed many insomuch that they pressed upon him for to touch him, as many as had plagues or afflictions, it's recorded there. And the unclean spirits, when they saw him They fell down before him crying, saying, Thou art the Son of God. And he straightly charged them that they should not make him known. And he goeth up into a mountain, and he calleth on him whom he would. And they came unto him. And he ordained twelve that they should be with him. And that he might send them forth to preach, and have power to heal sicknesses, and to cast out devils And Simon he surnamed Peter, and James the son of Zibedee, and John the brother of James, he surnamed them Melandergus, which is the sons of thunder and Andrew and Philip and Bartholomew and Matthew and Thomas and James the son of Elphaeus and Thaddeus and Simon the Canaanite and Judas Iscariot which also betrayed him And they went into a house. Verse 7, we find that Christ withdrew himself with his disciples to the sea, to the edge of the sea. The multitudes were so great he had to do something not to be crushed by them. And so the great multitude followed him, and as he was going back to the Sea of Galilee they followed him, and they came from Judea and from Jordan and Tyre and Sidon. And uh just uh there was just a massive amount of people it says a great multitude. It's recorded in verse 7 and 8, that it was a great multitude. For they had heard the great things that he had done And they came unto him. But as you read this and as we go through the scriptures, we often find that the foremost reason they came was they wanted something. You know, people come to church because they want to get something out of it. And I understand you want a blessing, but your foremost reason for coming here is to worship the Lord God. That's your foremost. You may leave here and get nothing out of it. But you've come to give, to offer your baths as a living sacrifice, Paul says. Our purpose in coming here is to worship. It's to give, not to get. But most came and still do, even in our prayers, we often call on God because we want something, or we need something, or we receive we need something. And so these people came and the foremost reason they came was to be healed. They wanted to get something. Or they wanted to be observed the miracles of Christ. They didn't come for salvation. The same thing was going on with John the Baptist. The people came There and they came for the wrong reasons. They came for the fascination of what John the Baptist was doing crying in the wilderness. They came that their own reputations might be tied in with John the Baptist John's a holy man, he's a prophet of God, and so as a Pharisee, I'm out there in the world with John, and people will think highly of me as a Pharisee, close to John. In fact, John the Baptist, I'm going to ask him to baptize me, the Pharisees had in mind. as they went out there. So they came for fascination. They came for their own reputations. And here we find people come to Christ for their own satisfactions. All the wrong reasons. They were coming. Christ had made it clear why they should come in Matthew 4. 17. He said, come and repent. In Mark 1 and 15, Christ said, Come and repent. In Luke 13 and 3, Christ said, Come and repent. The sole need of the hour was your salvation and not your healing. I just wonder, Pilgrim, do you regret, or rather neglect, the greatest need of the hour when you pray? If you're saved, then you can move on in your prayers. But if you're not, do you neglect the greatest need of your heart? hour salvation for yourself and I might add and salvation for others that is the greatest need of the hour in this country And in fact, I will say this to you, and it's the only hope for making America great again, is the salvation of those in the pulpits across this land the salvation of those in the pews across this land and the salvation of those in the White House and in the House of Congress. That's our only that's our hope for making America great again And if we're praying for anything else, we pray amiss. We've come for the wrong reasons to our knees as we pray to God. If it's not salvation for ourselves and for others. Now in verse 9, Christ spake. He spake to his disciples. He told them we need a ship to wait for them along the shore, for the multitude is great. lest they throng us or crush us. This was like getting caught in the middle of a blue light uh special at Kmart or or like when they had these sales around Christmas and Thanksgiving time where the people are crowding the doors, and the doors open up and people are trampled. And people were being trampled, and Christ said, we may also be trampled and crushed by this throng He said, get a ship along the shoreside here, along the shoreline here. And if it gets too bad we'll we'll we'll jump uh off the shore into the boat and push off and uh and away, as he often did. I want you to note here that Christ trusted in God, of course. He was God, come in the flesh. He was teaching us that we had trust in God under any circumstance. And yet I want you to know that Christ He took precautions. I mean, he's God. He can just throw up an invisible wall to block the throngs. He could have just shouted, I am he, and they'd have all fallen down and fallen backwards. He had ways of performing miracles, but he he takes precautions that we can all take And I think sometimes we we we think that we just trust in God. We don't have to take any precautions. Some people think we can trust in God so much we don't have to pray Just trust in God. We don't have to pray for his salvation or her salvation. Just trust in God. It's all predestined anyway. God has predetermined who will be saved. Probably through your prayers or somebody's prayers. And so we we should take precautions in our life David, when he's being chased by Saul, then he said, wait a minute, I trust in God. I'm going to stand outside the walls of Jerusalem. I have no fears. God's going to take care of me It's not the way it works, is it? That's tempting the Lord thy God. David fled and he hid. He fled Jerusalem and he hid in the cave of Abedulum, 1 Samuel 22 and 1. He took some precautions And Paul was the same thing. He's in Damascus. After he makes a profession of Christ, he starts preaching about Christ being the Redeemer and the Messiah, whose blood was shed on the cross for our sins and atonement. Specifically a substitutionary atonement for our sins. Paul's preaching all this in Damascus and they close the gates at night and are waiting to guard the gates to catch him and kill him And what does Paul say? I'm saved, I'm one of God's elect, I'm chosen of God to preach the gospel, and I'm just going to walk towards those gates, and God will take care of me. No. He took precautions. He had people stick him in a basket and lower a basket over the walls outside of Damascus that he might escape. The Lord Jesus Christ teaches us here that we ought to take some precautions in life. Shouldn't Christians lock their car doors when you're driving through a bad area at night? You drive to a bad area and stop at a red light and the doors aren't locked. Come on. Don't you lock the doors of your house at night, probably in the daytime in this day and age? Do you leave your doors unlocked? Well, maybe if you live in North Dakota you can, but I mean it's it y you we take precautions. We have a fire extinguisher. We have four or five of them here in the church. You probably have them in your homes or you should have even in your cars Do you strap your children to seatbelts? Do you carry a spare tire? Do you wash your hands on occasion before you eat food? We take precautions, don't we? We don't think, well, God will take care of us. I believe in a sovereign God. I don't need to do any of this stuff. No, you take precautions. You take your prescriptions. And I hope you carry pepper spray when you go jogging somewhere. Or something even better than that. Take precautions and of all the precautions you could take. Here's the last one I left out. On this book, meditate day and night. Joshua chapter one, verse eight Psalm 1, I can just mention several places. You take precautions. Lots of people lock their doors. Lots of people carry pepper spray. But they forget to meditate on God's word. Word day and night. Oh, I'm saved. It's okay. I'm done. No, you're not. You've just started. And we find here in verse 10 that after Christ took the precautions of having a boat waiting on the side of the Sea of Galilee, it said he healed many. Insomuch that they pressed upon him. This is the concern, right? They would press upon him and crush him, nearly crushing him, just just to touch him, as many had plagues. That's what it says in verse 10. They they they they wanted to touch him. It wasn't enough that he could just he could breathe upon him or speak and they were healed. They wanted to touch him and some were healed as they touched him, and some were healed as a shadow would pass by from his body, or as he looked upon him and glanced at him. But they wanted to touch him. And it says he healed them. And they had many plagues. And the the the Greek says it says, or many afflictions. He could heal you if your heart had stopped. Raise the dead. He could heal you if your heart had stopped. Or there was something wrong with your heart. And so I say this morning, have you got a broken heart? He can heal that too. If he can fix a heart that has stopped beating, how can you think he can't heal a broken heart? Or a hardened heart, or a stony heart, or a heart of flesh I want you to notice the difference in the modern-day healers. You watch them on TV, maybe you've been to one of their healing services. I don't know. It's so different from scripture It's so different from what Christ does here. I mean, think about it really. If you watch the healing service on TV, everybody comes in orderly. And they sit down and they wait for the name to be called and they come forward one at a time and they converse with them. What's your name and where are you from? And now what is your problem If he was a real healer, they'd be thronging him, pressing him, pushing on him, touching him, they wouldn't be sitting quietly The people themselves really don't believe what they're even there for. And it doesn't happen what happened where Christ was. And the kind of things that Christ healed were obvious. He would look at a person, he'd come up covered in leprosy and Christ would touch him and he'd be white as snow. White as wool. I mean people came up and their legs would be shriveled and be carried on a stretcher and you'd see bone and skin and no muscle, no ligaments, no tendons, and Christ would touch them. And you would see the leg all of a sudden flush and filled with with tendons and blood flowing and the man would I mean The healings of Christ were something you could see. But these healing services today, oh my. They walk up and say, Oh yes, and you say you have uh a tumor on on your tummy or on your intestine. Be gone to her. Oh, praise God. He said, I think I feel it. And he walks away. You don't see anything The healing serves they are so different. And you watch closely. And you talk and you read about these healers out today and these charismatic movements. And guess what? They have false teeth because they couldn't heal their decaying teeth. And they wear contact lenses, in some cases glasses, because they couldn't heal their eyes, and some have hearing aids One has a toupee that nobody knows about. He says he raises the dead and he can't raise one hair on top of his own forehead. I mean give me a break The healing service today are so, so different You know, the fact of the matter is that most of God's creatures today would probably neglect Christ and their prayers if it wasn't for the fact that we do have some plagues and afflictions and pestilence. and personal needs that drop us to our knees. And instead of bemoaning, how could God happen? How could this happen to my family? Oh God, where are you? How could this happen? Because I want you on your knees. Praying and talking to me. Is there one here who has not sought the real need of the hour? Your salvation Forget about the other problems in your home, your life, your job, your streets, your neighborhood. This is a small church. And I haven't counted up, just as a misfamily, just thinking about it. You know we have two families here where someone has has been just dropped dead practically on their front lawn in just the last two weeks. Small church. One apparent overdose, another a bullet. I mean that's this this church, this little group here. How much time do people think you have left if you're not, though I'm streaming the unsaved today? Someone's not saved. How much time do you think you have left? It says of David, they were dropping around him by the thousands. Modern vernacular, dropping like flies all around David in combat. And that's the way I see it. When I look at the obituary columns and when I I get the phone calls and and talk to people in this little small little flock. Death is all around you, friend Have you sought the real need of the hour? Your own salvation. Talk to God. And if you won't talk to God, I'll tell you this, if you're one of God's elect. He'll send the plagues and the pestilence. He'll get you on your knees. He'll get you there. God knows how to call his children Seek him, seek Christ for forgiveness of your sins and salvation from judgment. Hellfire. It says in John 12 and 37, though Christ had done so many miracles before them, yet they believed not on him. Miracles don't get it. They don't make people believe. Isaiah 53. 1, he says, who hath believed our report? Isaiah says, I'm out there preaching. I'm telling the truth that God is sovereign that God has a has a place called heaven, a place called paradise, and there's also a place called hell. There isn't eternity out there and we're gonna be judged. Isaiah said, I'm preaching all this stuff. He said, and he said Who hath believed our report? In other words, not many. Who has believed our report? And to whom is the arm of God revealed? The arm of God is not revealed to many. How many here? Has the arm of God been revealed to you? How many here? You believe A report, the Old Testament report and the New Testament report. How many believe it's a problem with the T. We had in the responsive reading, we saying it used to be my life verse, I keep changing it, but right now, 65-4. Blessed is the man that God chooses and causes to come Unto him. I love that verse. I'm not going to get the reasons why he chose you, but boy you better be glad if you're saved, you're just glad he chose you, right? I mean I'll try to figure out why he chose you, but I'll tell you what. It says he caused you to come unto him. The only reason you're saved and the only reason you came forward or you signed a decision card or walked the dial or raised your hand or started coming to church is because he caused you to come Why'd he choose you? Well, I won't let you hang in too much. The book of Revelation is four and elsewhere tells you the reason. Good pleasure. Because none of you deserved it. I didn't deserve it. You didn't deserve it. I mean when God looked out, he said there's none that seek the other God, no, not one. You know, and God said, Well, this what are we going to do with this mess? God says, we'll choose him, sends the Holy Spirit of our own good pleasure. If I had been God 40 years ago, I'm going to tell you right now, I would Dirty, filthy, marine. I probably wouldn't have chosen Rob Young. I don't know Rob's sitting around his movies. I mean I I don't know of anyone that's saved I've ever met that I found out what their life was like before they were saved, that I would have chose But God did. For his own glory and his own good pleasure. He chose the few. That's not a Marine Corps, I know, the few the problem No, that's not. He chose the few. Many are called, few are chosen. He chose the few. He chose the remnant. He chose the residue. That doesn't sound like a lot of people, remnant and residue, but that's what the scriptures tell us. He chose his sheep Not the goats, the little flock But most don't hear it. As Isaiah says, Who hath believed the report? Most don't hear it, most don't see it. Who has re- the arm of God been revealed to? Most don't hear it, most don't see it, most just don't get it. They don't believe on him, and Christ is saying we should believe on him. Well, what is it to believe on him? You believe in God, Christ said. I mean, I can see why the Pharisees want to charge him with heresy if his statement was true. Christ says, if you believe in God, believe in me. Oh, what's he saying? I mean, all we have to do is believe in God and go to heaven, right? He said, if you believe in God, you believe in me. What a pompous statement to make by any creature, any man, unless that person is really God. Come in the flesh, you don't make a statement like that without being charged with blasphemy and heresy Christ said, you believe in God, believe also in me. John 14, 1. And then in John 5 and 23, he says As you honor God, how do we honor God? He's God. You worship him, you give him your tithes, you fall on your knees, you weep to him, you pray to him, you cry out to him. He says, Wow, what are what tremendous statements that Christ made. No wonder the Pharisees got mad. And no wonder we say to people We worship Christ. They say, oh no, no, no, no. He's a great prophet. He's a great Messiah. But we don't worship him. We worship God. I said, well, you've missed something because Christ said you ought to honor him the way you honor the Father We are to honor Christ as the Father was honored. We honor the Father as God the Father. We honor Christ as God the Son. He is God. Come in the flesh. And the cults miss that. The Mormons, Jehovah's Witnesses, the Muslims, they all miss that. We are to worship Christ as the only way. Because He's God come in the flesh. And we in verse we observe in verse 11 that even the unclean spirits, this is interesting. The unclean spirits, when they saw him, when they saw Christ, what did they do? They fell down before him before his feet. The unclean spirits fell down before him before his and they cried. Actually, it says there in the Greek, they were screaming in fear They were screaming in fear before Christ's feet, saying, Thou art the Son of God. They were petrified. But they knew the doctrine. And they believed the doctrine. The deity of Christ was believed by unclean spirits. They profess it, lying in the dirt at his feet And others came laying their sick at his feet to be healed. But neither group really believed that Christ was their Savior in a personal way, that he was the Redeemer. That he would be the substitutionary atonement for their sins. They didn't pick up on any of that. In fact, from this group, eventually we'll hear them crying Instead of laying at his feet saying, Thou art the Son of God, or laying at his feet saying, Heal me, you'll find him eventually saying, nail his feet to a cross. Crucify him. That's this crowd. Hard to believe it that what these people are there at Golgotha, just a little distance from Gethsemane. who had been healed. And when the Pharisees stirred him up and the scribes and the priests, they shouted with people who had been healed. Or loved ones healed and they shouted out, crucify him, crucify him. And they knew what that meant. That meant nail his feet. that I should be worshiping out and kissing and washing with my hair, nails, feet to the cross, and his hands too. And so Christ here in verse 12 he charges these unclean spirits to be quiet. Christ straightly charged them, they should not make him known. Why wouldn't he want and now we talked about this a little bit before, but why would he not want these unclean spirits to talk about holy things, to talk about sacred things? The same reason I tell people Ignore Hollywood. Ignore these movies that are coming out all the time about the Lord Jesus Christ. They're not faithfully portraying Christ They don't clearly portray Christ. I don't think you're going to find any movie out there that clearly projects the Christ's substitutionary atonement for our sin on the cross He is dying for sinners. His blood is washing them. He is the substitute for what we should be suffering. That doesn't come out of Hollywood. Their movies j and their movies generally they they they portray what? This long greasy-haired Jesus with the glazed, glassy eyes that stare out like some mystic hippie or something. I mean, the way they portray the Lord Jesus Christ And and what is he doing? Oh he's spouting some biblical sound bites out of context. You don't get a clear unless you know your Bible. I mean Christians watch these movies and they like them because they hear Bible verses But the unsaved people sitting there, they don't get a feel for what's being quoted. They don't even know he's quoting Bible verses. And the context is so short and it's such a little short sound bite. I mean, that's all they give you, folks And I know we don't get much out there and we're hungry for something, but don't expect it from Hollywood or TV. And and what you see of the genes in these movies He's healing, but he's not saving hearts from hell. If you notice that the message is, oh, he could heal, but he's not saving hearts from hell. Oh wow, he's dying. He's dying on the cross. But they don't project he's defeating Satan, the devil, while he's dying. And yes, they'll show you an empty tomb. But it's without a resurrection, it's without a 40-day post-presentations. He walks around preaching, and it's without an ascension into heaven. You don't get that, do you? Oh, the Jesus of Hollywood, he's a martyr, he's a magician, but he's not the Messiah. He's a revolutionary, but he's not the redeemer. He's gluttonous, we read in Matthew 11, 19. He's gluttonous, but he's not God. That's the message that we get from the ungodly television and movies. Muddy. The message is so muddy you wouldn't recognize it. You couldn't use it to present the gospel to save someone. You'd have to pull out your Bibles and start reading all kinds of verses to them and praying with them Hollywood and these TV projections, they totally neglect the need of the hour. But Christ does not in the verses we read this morning. In verse 13, he goeth up into a mountain. And the need of the hour for him and for our for this whole world was that he prayed. And it says if you go to Luke 16 and 12, the same story is being told there, it says he prayed all night in prayer Most of us think an hour-long prayer is quite a long prayer. He prayed all night long And I don't expect every prayer to be an hour long, although when you you talk about the Reformed churches back in the 1700s and 1800s in America hour-long prayer before the sermon. The sermon might be two or three hours long, and another hour-long prayer after the sermon. An hour seemed like a long time for us, but is an hour such a long time for us to talk to someone we love? We get on the phone, we call somebody we love, and we get on the phone for hours. And we tell everybody we love Jesus We love God. Hey, I'm talking to myself here. And do I call Jesus, the Lord God, on my knees and pray to him hours at a time? No. I got some going, don't I? We all do. If we really love the Lord, why aren't we talking to Him more, praying more, praying longer in our own private prayers? We should speak more than an hour to someone we love. Do we love the Lord? Christ here had these fervent, earnest prayers, and he was praying them because it says he was about to call the twelve disciples. It says he calleth onto him, I love this verse 13, he calleth onto him whom? It says he calleth onto him whom He would. Christ made the choice. That's how some of you were sitting here this morning. Christ, Triangle God, had made a choice to choose you. From among the billions of people that are out there. How thankful we ought to be. There was a split second in your life that changed your whole life, didn't it? saved. If that split second if I you know I could I can remove ten years of your marriage, I can remove uh five or six years of you raising your children, but if I remove that split second moment when God touched your heart and saved you. You you have nothing. He's sovereign It says here, he called on him whom he would. He's sovereign. His sovereign will and good pleasure prevailed in the calling of the twelve disciples. disciples of obscurity, there's not one theologian among them, and there is a devil among them. He's called for another purpose But he calls them all. He made them in his calling. He made them willing to die for him, willing to be tormented by wild beasts, willing to be beheaded, willing to be crucified. How do you make people willing to go through all of that Well, they were the disciples. They were special people and and they were willing to go through all that. You go to Somalia, you go over to Yemen, you go to these Muslim-held countries right now, Christians right now are being burned at the stakes, they are being crucified It's not just the disciples of God that called to be tormented and to die for the faith. We've got martyrs all over this world, all through the generations and all through the centuries, and some may be sitting here right now Who will be martyred? We got Judith Collins coming in in another month, and she's heading back into Kenya. Well, I'll tell you She's going back into a into a fiery furnace when she gets back there. You pray for our missionaries and for one another. Even in a small group like this, there may be someone here who will be martyred for the faith. That little girl up in Columbine named Rachel, teenage girl, martyred for the faith faith. Sticks a gun in her face, says, You still love Jesus, Rachel? She said, yes. And we blew her head off. Some of you remember this. story. People lost their children were allowed to put plaques in the walls of that school. And Rachel's father came in, had a plaque that said something like, My daughter Jesus I mean my daughter Rachel died professing Jesus. He wasn't allowed to put that flak up at school. Can't have that. Never were so men so privileged as his disciples to hear these words come out of Christ's mouth. And never has a generation been so privileged as of people in America to have Christ's words so available to read anytime, anywhere you want to, or to hear it on a a cassette or a video or recording or YouTube. I mean we are as blessed as blessed can be in this nation that we can also hear these words And fantastic words. John 15, 16, ye have not chosen me, but I have chosen you. Hang on to that, Christian. You didn't choose Jesus. I know you heard a message and you raised your hand and maybe you walked on the aisle and said, I know, but you weren't choosing him. He had already touched your heart when you raised your hand. Or you wouldn't have raised your hand. And he makes it very clear. It's not just the disciples he's speaking, you have not chosen me, but I have chosen you. John 15, 16. And we love him. Why do we love him? Because he first loved us. 1 John 4. 19. And put a love in our hearts for him who first loved us. We didn't love God. Oh, because they love me, I'm going to choose them. No, we love God because He first loved us And chose us from before the foundations of the earth. He sent his son to die for us. A lamb slaughtered for us from before the foundations of the earth. And Christ takes these twelve men we read in verse 14, or I'm sorry, back in verse 13 We say, why don't we pray more? Why don't some of us pray? Why don't some of us pray at all? Why do some not read the Bible at all? Why is that? Sin is the answer. Sin has given you a taste for that which soaks up your schedule. Let me say that again. Sin has given you a taste for the things that soak up your schedule so you don't have time to You want to watch this movie or you're too busy on the porno sites? Sin soaks up your time and you don't have any left to schedule for pray or for reading the Bible. Sin also befuddles your brain. Spoils and sours your soul for anything sacred. You hear that? Sin spoils your soul. It sours your soul for the for you don't have a taste for anything sacred. That's what sin does So if you're not praying, not reading, not meditating on the Word of God day or night, or day and night, Sin in your life is the cause. befuddles a brain and sours the soul for anything sacred. But here we have a sinless Christ whose brain is not befuddled. He's a sinless Christ who has plenty of time for prayer. He's a sinless Christ whose soul is not spoiled or soured, and he prays all night long. Christ ordained the Twelver says in verse 14 that they should be with him. And then he would send them forth to preach, verse 15, and have power to heal sickness and to cast out devils. Matthew 10:8 says, even to raise the dead. Wow. It's one thing to have the ability to do these things. You know, you could say, well, he's a he's a gifted baseball player, he's a gifted poet, or or or she's she's a gifted uh uh maybe she's an astronaut or or a pilot or something. I mean we all have gifts But can you give your gift for playing baseball? Not even your own children. Can you give your gift for writing poetry? No, not to your own daughter. You can't you may have gifts, but you can't even give them away You acknowledge that God has gifted you with a great brain or a great athletic ability, but you can't give it to anybody. But Christ had the power to heal. And Christ had the power to raise from the dead and he gives it away to his disciples. Oh my. They go forth without wealth, without learning, without education, without theological degrees, without titles. but they are empowered to heal and raise the dead. Wow. That's a heavenly power. It surpasses all the great men of history in honor and power. To the very ends of this earth, no one is going to be like these disciples. Freud, Darwin, Buddha, Muhammad, and Gandhi, they can't raise the dead. They never raised the dead. But they're famous people to some. Caesar couldn't cure anyone. Homer couldn't heal anyone. These are the men whose names are written down in heaven, Luke 10 and 20. In fact it says if you believe in the Lord Jesus Christ Thou shalt be saved, and our names are written down in heaven. But these men like Freud and Darwin and Buddha, Muhammad, and Gandhi and Caesar and Homer, their names are just lying in the dust. Their names are not written in heaven. But yours can be. Yours may be. If you're saved, we know they are. Walk the corridors of the hospitals today, travel the highways, passing accidents Look at the hurricane in Florida and Texas. Scour the obituary columns, and you know what you'll note? People younger than you are dead. Little young people? People and the hurricanes, younger than you are dead. Bituary comms, younger than you are dead. Hospitals, younger than you, are dying and dead. People that were older, younger than you, stronger than you, brighter than you, had a great future are gone, gone, gone without having first satisfied their need of the hour. Without turning to Christ. I'm not just talking about you old folks gotta get ready. It's coming close. I'm you young people may be closer to the grave in eternity than any We have often talked when Mrs. Rose Davis is with us who was gonna die next. And I mean if we've been placing vets or uh or a A church pool or something, she'd be at the top of the list. I think she outlived five or six other people in the church, younger than her, that passed away. Ask yourselves this morning, if you're not saved, why are you still here? You have not a genuine interest in Christ, why are you still here? Why hasn't God struck you with plagues? And afflictions and sickness and death. Why are you still here? Maybe because today is the last time you'll hear Come unto me. Maybe you're still here because this is your last time that you win. It's God's mercy that you haven't already been succumbed to plagues and perils and principalities and powers and spiritual wickedness in high places. Ephesians 6. 12. You perhaps you've been spared to hear the gospel one more time. So do you have a desire to be with Christ? And the likes of those recorded here in the scriptures, like Peter and James. Peter is always named first, by the way, all these lists. Do you have the life you want to be with Christ? Do you want to be at the likes of those who are like Christ, Peter and James and John and Andrew and Philip and Bartholomew and Matthew and Thomas and Thaddeus? Or do you want to spend eternity with Judas? He's always mentioned last in the list. You want to be with Judas? You know why he's mentioned last in the list? Because he's lost, lost, lost. And some of you here perhaps who is too. Like Judas, are you just a tear among the wheats? Matthew 13, 25, a goat among the sheep, Matthew 25, 32, or are you just Bemused by the devil. It says that Judas, John 6, he was a devil. Pilgrim, pilgrim, pilgrim. If Christ is in your heart, your greatest need of any hour has already been met. Think about that. Christ is in your heart. Whatever you may need in the next hour, an hour from now, a month from now, whatever your greatest need might be, it's already been met. If Christ Let's pray. Father, we thank you this day. And not just for the list of men who went out and did great and mighty works that we would be recalling them two thousand years later. But they're an example onto us of what God can do to one who comes to Christ, how he can use us, how he can bless us, how he can strengthen us for anything that lies ahead. Oh Lord, there's a tough time coming in this world. Whether you're saved or not, they will be putting to death. Christians or those in name. If you say you're a Lutheran or a Methodist or a Baptist or a Presbyterian, that'll be good enough. For the enemies of Christ to kill you. Oh, and to face that with not really being saved. Oh Lord, touch every heart here today. May this be the hour. Meet the need of their hour today, Lord. Touch every heart heart in this church that hasn't been touched, may this be the hour that they confess you, lean on you, love your word, and share it with them. Others until your return. And we ask this in Christ Jesus' name, our great God and Savior. Yes, our God, whom we worship. In His name we pray. Amen.