We continue this morning in 1 Samuel chapter 13. We left off last week where King Saul had gone against the commandments of God. He was supposed to wait seven days in Gilga for Samuel, he had not. And then of course he went forward and he decided to make a sacrifice, a peace offering, a burnt offering unto God, which he is a Benjamite was not allowed to do, only a Levite was allowed to do, and it was contrary to over fifty-three different places in Scripture that specified that no one was to make that peace offering or burnt offering but a Levite. So he violated right there fifty-four commandments And so we pick up today as Samuel has come and rebuked him, and we and we find in verse 14, Samuel continues to speak with Saul, and he says, verse 14 of chapter 13 But now thy kingdom shall not continue. The Lord has thought him a man after his own heart, and the Lord has commanded him to be captain over his people. Because thou hast not kept that which the Lord commanded thee. And Samuel arose and got him up from Gilga unto Gibeah of Benjamin. And Saul numbered the people that were present with him about 600. And Saul and Jonathan his son and the people that were present with him abode in Gibeah. Of Benjamin. That is, they must have left Gilga and followed Samuel up to Gibeah. But the Philistines encamped in Mi'kmash. And the spoilers came out of the camp of the Philistines in three companies. One company turned on the way that leadeth to Aphra, on the land of Shawal, another company turned on the way to Beth Haran, and another company turned in the way of the border that looked to the valley of Zeboam Toward the wilderness. Now there was no smith found throughout all the land of Israel, for the Philistines said, Lest the Hebrews make themselves swords or spears. That's we're not gonna let them have a blacksmith. But all the Israelites went down to the Philistines that they had to sharpen every man his share, that's the plough share, and his coulter, and his axe, and his mattock, which is kind of like a pick. They wanted to sharpen these things. They had to go to the Philistine garrisons who had blacksmiths there. Yet they had a file, how generous are the Philistines? They had a file for their maddocks and for their coulters and for their forks, like their pitchforks And for their axes and to sharpen their goads that was a s sharp pike that you'd poke your uh donkey with or your or your buffalo to to move the wagons forward And so it says in verse 22, it came to pass in the day of battle that there was neither sword nor spear found in the head of any of the people that were Saul and Jonathan. It's kind of hard to go into battle when none of your people have a sword or a spear. But with Saul and Jonathan, it says they had a sword and spear, that there was found And the garrisons of the Philistines went up out of the passage of Mikmash, though battle is about to begin, and Saul with his 600 men without sword or spear. In the verse 14, it says, Thy kingdom shall not continue. What would that be like to you if God sent a prophet to you, or God spoke to directly and said, Life as you know it is over? I mean he was royalty. He was the king. His family, his sons would be kings when he died. Oh, it'd go on for generation after generation. His his son and his son's sons and his grandsons would all be kings in royalty. And all of a sudden, like that, he's told My kingdom shall not continue. Not even your kingdom will continue, Saul. You're done. Because it was not kept what the Lord commanded. Some may think as you read this quickly that uh and Saul may have thought the same thing that Israel was finished, for they're surrounded by enemies, their infiltrated Philistine garrisons, making ready to attack. They're already sending out uh uh raiders, uh spoilers, it's the three different sections of Israel. And yet if you thought that way, as Saul may have when he's told, Your kingdom is done, it will no longer continue It must be the end of Israel. But hidden in between, thy kingdom shall not continue, because thou hast kept that which the Lord commanded thee. In between that Samuel said the Lord has sought him a man after his own heart, and the Lord has commanded him to be captain of the force of Israel. Hidden, so to speak, in that little verse there is the fact that Israel will continue. It's King Saul's kingdom that will not continue. But the kingdom of Israel will continue We uh notice that that verse has more truth even unto today. There are I don't know if a nation has more enemies than Israel today. I don't know if a nation has ever had more enemies than Israel Than Israel and today. And it still seems, as we've been reading through the scriptures, and we'll find it happening more and more through the scriptures, how miraculously God protects the land of Israel. In the last week or two I've been reading about the assault of the rockets flying into Israel. And uh there was uh one uh one report gave it that the rockets are flying into Israel, of course Israel's got this iron dome and they can just knock down all these rockets. In fact as soon as the rockets take off, they've got the iron dome, they can tell exactly where the rocket came from, so they fire back before the rockets even hit. Israel's already firing artillery back on the spot where they have fired the mortars and the rockets. They now they can tell where they took off by triangulation, but they can tell when it's not even halfway there, within 200 yards where it's going to land. And the past couple weeks they had one that they shot the Iron Dome shot and both rockets missed. And and both the missiles missed the rocket and the rocket was coming in and it was heading for what they call the Pentagon in Tel Aviv. And the men stood there in you know there was no time to fire again. There were four seconds from landing in the center of of the Pentagon in Tel Aviv And the reporter said there was a wind shear that just took the rocket and knocked it out into the ocean. And he said there was a it was a miracle of God. That's what the report said. In fact, no, I left the word out. The report said it was a miracle. What I didn't tell you is that this is a report from the Hamas and Hezbollah. These are the bad guys. And they wrote, they said it was a miracle of their God I mean, can you imagine your Hamash or Hezpalon, you want to destroy Israel, and you see this wind shear just knock the missiles out of the way, into the ocean, into the Mediterranean, and you say, it's a miracle of their God. Well we still want them dead, we're still going to wipe them out, even though their God is working with them. That was just a couple weeks ago. Some of you may remember, and again how the kingdom of Israel would continue, back in nineteen sixty-seven, the Six Days War, where Russia had given all these armored tanks you know, to the enemies so Jordan and Egypt and Syria could come come down in a pincer move three different directions and attack Israel and and uh Israel was lined up Israel had about eight hundred tanks And uh the enemy, the the Jordans and the Egyptians, they had 2,500 tanks. So they got 800 tanks to 2500 tanks. It's like, who do you think's gonna win? Israel's not going to win this time. And as they began approaching, it was a June, it was a hot June day. And they began approaching about the third day of the war, and here come the tanks rolling up, they're out numbered three to one, almost four to one And the tanks come rolling up, and all of a sudden they see the men jumping out of the tanks from Jordan, jumping out of the tanks from Egypt, jumping out of the tanks from Syria, and running away. And the the Israelites thought it was some sort of a trap, like a Trojan horse, and they they cautionally approached the tanks that were still running. There was nothing wrong with the tanks, and they fired the tanks, they still worked. What what's what's going on here In the province of God, Russia had given them tanks that they brought down from Siberia. And all the heaters were locked in the on position. And in June, it got really hot inside the tanks, and they couldn't take the heat anymore, and they jumped out of the tanks, they ran, and they fled. The war was over in six days. It's just amazing how God can intervene and do things That Israel might continue. He says, the Lord has sought him a man after his own heart, that the Lord has commanded him to be captain that the kingdom of Israel. Would continue. Israel, he says in these verses 14 here, Israel has a future that Saul, you do not. Wow. If God were to tell you that, that America has a future, but you as an individual, you have no future, you have no no destiny, no eternity, no heaven, perhaps. What a what a shocking What a difficult thing to hear. And here he's told, thy kingdom shall not continue. But Israel's wood. Israel has a future What is it that the new king will do that Saul did not? What is it that Saul did that he was not supposed to do? Deuteronomy 6 and verse 5 tells us, and Deuteronomy 10 verse 12 tells us, and Joshua 22, verse 5 tells us what King Saul didn't do. In fact, when we look at the scriptures, we find that the Lord Jesus Christ taught the same thing, it almost forbade him the exact same words. This is what King Saul did not do. Christ tells us this if you read Matthew twenty-two, thirty-seven and thirty-eight, and Mark twelve and verse thirty. This is what Saul did not do. This is what King David, the new king, would do. Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, with all thy soul, with all thy mind, and all thy strength. This is the first and the great commandment Now we recognize that none of us love the Lord that got all our heart, all our strength, all our mind, all our soul. But that is to be our objective. That is to be our target. And that wasn't Saul's target at all. Saul loved himself Saul loved his power, Saul loved his title, Saul loved the strength that he had, Saul loved the notoriety he had. His main objective was not to love the Lord with all his heart, all his soul, and all his mind And we know in the life of King David, as we proceed through Samuel, that we find out sometimes he didn't do things right either, did he? But God knew his heart. God knew that the King David, his heart was, his his objective was to always lift God up And Saul's, it was not. Saul was lifting himself up. We find that Saul did some things that people are doing wrong today. Declaring one's worship uh the same God, you know, declaring one worships the same God only in a manner contrary to scripture. We worship the same God. You you heard people tell uh of different religions We we just worship in a different manner. Well that's what Saul was doing. Saul was saying, I'm worshiping the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. It says that instead of the Levites sacrificing, I'm going to sacrifice The Apostle Paul ran the same problem to Corinthians. He said, We're having a communion service. We're breaking bread. We're just serving the wine. We're doing the communion service on everybody else. Paul says, No, you're not You're getting drunk during your communion service. You read that in Corinthians. That's not worshiping the Lord the same way. And here we have Saul. He thought, I'm worshiping the same God. I'm just worshiping in a little different way Or they haphazard use the Lord's name. And God said we're not to use their name in vain. And how was Saul using God's name? Well he's pretending he's a Levite price, say, Oh God, I want you are the sacrifice That's using God's name in vain, because God will not honor a sacrifice from a Benjamite. You have to be a Levite to bring in the sacrifice to kill the oxen And there's too often people say, well, you know, we worship the same God, maybe just by a different name. Have you heard that one? It's the same God. It's just by a different name. Well, you find out that this different God with a different name Or rather, he's supposed to be the same God, but with a different name. They worship him different. They use the name haphazardly. God has given us in scripture the name whereby we're to call him. We can call him Jehovah We can call him Yahweh. A guy can be called El Shaddai In the New Testament, we find out he gives us a very personal name. He says that we can call him and pray in the name of Christ, that Christ is the God. the creator of the heavens and the earth. So we have we have a couple of a number of wonderful names we can call the Lord. But along come these other religions, oh no we're not gonna use any of those names. We got a different name And I won't even mention the names. But the Islamics, they have a name for God. It's not recorded in the Scripture. They're going outside. Oh, we worship the same God, just with a different name. Well, that's very important because it records in Acts 4 and verse 12 That the position Luke writes, there is none other name under heaven given among men whereby we must be saved. It's the name of Christ. Right there in Acts 4. We're told, here's the name to use if we want to cry out for salvation And they say we worship the same guy with a different name. No, there's only one name given under heaven whereby we must be called. And so we find Saul is breaking all these things he's worshiping. in an inappropriate manner. He's worshiping contrary to scripture. And he's told, Thy kingdom, Saul, it shall not continue. Saul's sin. Do you realize it affected his whole family? I mean, we say something, and people tell me this all the time. Okay, maybe what I'm doing isn't right. Okay, so I get drunk, or so I use drugs, or so I cheat on my wife, or or or so I steal something from the office at work They're not going to catch me. And if they do, what's the big deal? You know, they'll slap my hand, they'll find me. Maybe I'll go to jail for a couple weeks or a month. What's the big deal? The big deal is that we cannot sin without it affecting other people If you're caught stealing from work, if you're caught speeding down the highway and they take your car away because you're driving drunk, your whole family suffers. The whole family now doesn't have a car to drive Or if you go to jail for something, some felony, now your family has no income coming in. So to say that, oh I can send it, I can do what I want with my life, it's my body, I can do what I want And here is Saul. He sins, he sins in a numerous ways here. Like I said, fifty-four verses that he goes contrary to in the scripture, and he sins and says, Thy kingdom shall not continue. In other words, Saul, what you have just done, now your son Jonathan will not be king of Israel. You have sinned and it costs Jonathan his royal position. We we've had that happen in our own modern days when we had uh I can't remember all these princes and names over there in England, but one of them uh divorced uh Princess Diana. Diana was it? Princess Di? Princess Di, they called her. And the queen said, Well he will not be king of England then for for a divorcing prince die. I mean there there are consequences. I think as I understand now maybe his sons will will take over his king someday But there are consequences when we sin. It doesn't stop. If you thought it's only going to hurt me, whatever hurts your wife. Oh, by the way, if you're cheating on your wife, it's going to hurt your wife It's not just going to hurt you, and it's going to hurt the children who may never forgive you for cheating on your husband or cheating on your wife. You cannot sin and not expect it to hurt. Now it costs more than you ever realized to hit the rest of the family. It's a heinous sin to worship it appropriately. It's a heinous sin to call God by a name that is not one he's asked us to use or to use that name in vain. A heinous sin. I'd ask you to consider what sin might really cost you. If you're contemplating it or contemplating repeating a sin, you got by with it once, twice, three times, you always get by with it, and you want to continue doing it, I want you to realize that It may cost you your wife. It may cost you your life. It may cost you your health. In Corinthians, when they're getting drunk at the communion table, falls to so many people you've abused the communion table And some of you are getting drunk and you're acting like gluttons and you're overeating. And some of you are now even now sick and asleep. Or scripture means and dead. So what does sin cost you? It can cost you your health, it can cost you your life, it can cost you your wife. Ask Samson what it cost him? It cost him his eyes. Looking upon these Philistine women and upon these uh the the whores down in Gath, it cost him his eyes. His eyes were looking upon them, and he became blind. They blinded his eyes and they tied him to a millstone where he ground grain for a long period of time. He lost his freedom. He lost his eyes. Gahazi, we read, he he was given leprosy. It cost him his health. And how about the young fellow that was brought before Christ? They broke open the hole in the roof and they lowered him down on a bed and he was paralyzed. Now we know that sometimes a person was born blind Sometimes a person was born with with some uh you know a problem and the Lord said his parents did not sin, he did not sin, it has happened that God might be glorified and then Christ would heal a blind man. But this particular fellow he's lowered down through a hole in the roof. I think you know that story. And as they lower them down, the Lord Jesus Christ looks upon this man, who obviously his friends would like to see healed, that he might rise up and carry his bed and walk. And Christ looks at him and he says, The thing that he needs most, thy sins be forgiven thee. The man was paralyzed because he had sinned sinned. Are you prepared to pay the price of sinning? You may be paralyzed. He knows the rest of that story. Oh, thy sins be forgiven. The only guy can forgive sins. And so you say sins are forgiven. That doesn't prove anything. That doesn't prove Doesn't prove you're God. Anyone could have said that. And besides that, that's blasphemy. You shouldn't have even said that. And Christ says, Well, what'd it be easy if I just said rise up and walk? Rise up and walk. And the paralyzed mind stood up carried now he stood up and walked, but he carried his bed all by himself. But so think about what sin may cost you. It may cost you your hope of heaven We talk about hidden hopes here. Well, otherwise we find where the hidden hopes are that Israel has a future. And we find also that if we sin not or repent of our sins, there's a hope of heaven. And these are the hopes that we have But Saul didn't have much hope. He's got Samuel telling him, Your kingdom is over. And as he looks around him, he's got the Philistines, they're down below, they're gathering, uh there's a large body of them. Uh they outnumber him tremendously. So Saul numbered the people that were present with him. 600. If you go back just a couple verses to chapter 13 and 2, Saul started out with 3,000. But remember last week they started to desert him? They became fearful, they began to desert him, and he's got six hundred, from three thousand, he's down to three thousand. And the Philistines, we read in verse five of last week, had thirty thousand chariots And usually there's a driver on the chariot and there's a man on the chariot with a spear or a bow and arrow or something like that. So he's probably got about sixty thousand men, the Philistines, and they've also got here it says uh uh 6,000 horsemen at 66,000, and people as the sands of the shore. I mean you just couldn't number them. I mean Saul's in a real pickle. He's in a real fix. He's in a real predicament. He's got six hundred men, against sixty-six thousand at least. And he's got Samuel telling him, your kingdom will not continue. And he must say, yeah, it must be today, too, because wow, it looks like I am finished here. Everyone's deserting me So Saul he follows Samuel up to Gibeah, and we find that the Philistines they encamp in Mikmash and the Philistines begin to send out spoilers or raiders. They're going throughout the different three different regions are mentioned here. They mentioned the Ophra, Behorin, and Zoboam, it's a valley, and they go out and they begin to spoil the area Saul has little hope here, really. He's so outnumbered. And Samuel's telling him that his kingdom is going to no longer continue. And uh you you just you just wonder what is what is really gonna happen here He had no hidden hope, did he? He just didn't have a hidden hope. And so he what we find here is he he tolerates the Philistines' presence. Is that what we're told today today? Let's just tolerate what's going on in America. Let's tolerate uh the gay programs on TV They're kind of funny. Let's just tolerate uh the gays who are having these civil unions. No, do what them do what they want. Let's just tolerate them. And all of a sudden They're allowed to get married. Oh, let's just tolerate them. All of a sudden they close your company down because you won't sell them the wedding cake or you won't sell them the wedding cards or you won't sell them the photography uh that you do for weddings. And all of a sudden those that we tolerated start destroying us. And this is where f where Saul is. He he is so petrified he just tolerates the Philistines and they begin to send spoilers or raiders. throughout Israel and he tolerates them because if we tolerate them, maybe they'll leave us alone. Maybe they'll just forget about us. Maybe they won't get so mad at us. Do you really think you can keep the devil's crowd quiet by tolerating them? People think if they just keep quiet, uh the devil's crowd will leave you alone and they'll leave you alone. Uh those who believe in the gospel of Christ, they'll leave you alone. We can we can coexist. We just want to coexist. You know, we don't want to take over. We just think that we should be allowed to exist over here, and you can be allowed to exist over there. And so when you allow them to exist over here, they start sending spoilers over to where you are Coexisting. That's only until they can annihilate our existence. This week early and I were talking about down in Tennessee in the classroom when the kids sneeze. And we can remember being in school and that happened. Everybody kind of laughed because the kid sneezes. If you ever heard me sneeze, you you probably some of you have. And one of the girls she said, well we should say Gesundheit, which is German for God bless you, but she had the audacity to say it in English. And she said, The kid, Well, God bless you. And the teacher said, That's it. We'll have none of this religion in this classroom. You will not use religion in this classroom. I I said, I was just blessing him. I mean we do that. You will not use religion. It's not allowed in this classroom. She said, it's just not allowed. You're suspended. She said, but under the Constitution, the First Amendment gives me freedom of speech and freedom of religion. That's it. You are suspended, suspended, suspended. See, we tolerate the ungodly who hate Christ and they come into our schools and they ignore our constitution or they berated and are God Right now that girl is suspended. Now there have been other kids in the classrooms of that school who would take the Lord's name in vain The teacher would laugh. The teacher would take the mother's name and back. Teachers do that. I I was like going back forty years ago in my brother's classroom. My brother used to custom swear to little third grader kids I mean I know the kind of language the teachers use. They'll take Christ's name in vain, they'll take God's name in vain. They won't take them Islamic God's name in vain. No one's that brave But they'll take the Lord's name and if you take the Lord's name and use it in an honoring, glorifying way, you're suspended. That's what happens when we tolerate the Philistines. in our borders. Or have no borders, so the Philistines can come in and we don't even know they're there immediately. And so that's what happens here. Satan spoils, begins to spoil Israel. And we find that not only is Saul told that his kingdom will no longer continue. Not only is Saul discerning the fact he's outnumbered 66,000 plus to his 600, but in verses 19 and 20 we find there is no blacksmith found throughout all of Israel. No, it says you're no smith, but that's that's a blacksmith. We go to concordance. And we find in verse 19, the reason there's no blacksmith It's that the Philistines were concerned lest they might make themselves swords and spears. So they knew why they had no blacksmith. They didn't want Israel to start making themselves swords and spears. as the old ones broke or got dull and so forth. If you want to sharpen something, you had to come to the Philistine garrisons, garrisons located throughout Israel, and they would sharpen at their pleasure what they thought needed sharpening. So you come to them with your pitchfork. Yeah, I guess so. Or your goad to poke your cattle along with? Okay. You come with your axe? Yeah, I don't think so You can use a file on that. You know, they would pick and choose what they were, and of course the exorbitant prices that must have been charged for all that too So here we have it. They're outnumbered. They have no swords. They have no spears. They have no blacksmith. They couldn't make swords. They couldn't make spears. They couldn't get The old was repaired, and he they had they must have hidden Disarming the inhabitants of Israel. That was what the Philistines had done. They basically had disarmed them. I know you thought that uh That only took place in China, or that was an idea of Cuba. Or you thought that maybe King George in 1775, he was the one that came up with the idea of disarming the colonists. Remember that Up in Lexington and Concord, six hundred of the brave soldiers come marching into Lexington and Concord, and they said, Give us all your cannons, give us all your black powder, give us all your arms. They were disarming the American colonists And then later China does it and Cuba does it and but it was done long before that. Disarming inhabitants And when you read in the scriptures here, and when you read the history of China and Cuba and the American colonies, King George did not say I'm going to disarm everybody. So is the knockdown crime in the streets of Boston That wasn't it. There was never the idea of the Philistines to disarm the Israelites so as to keep crime rates down low on the streets of of Jerusalem or the or the streets of Joppa. That wasn't it at all. It was to disarm them that they might be more despotically ruling over them. And they were concerned that they didn't disarm the Israelites, that the Israelites might What? Overthrow their rulers who are becoming despots. And it didn't just stop there. We find in 2 Kings and again in Jeremiah 14 when Nebuchadnezzar Took over Israel, Babylonian captivity. Listen to what he did. He learned from the Philistines in 2 Kings 24:14. Nebuchadnezzar, king of Babylon, carried away the king, the king of Israel, carried away the princes of Judah. Good. And the smiths. He took all the blacksmiths in Israel and took them to Babylon. Why? So that the people in Israel couldn't make themselves swords and spheres and have an uprising and overthrew the despots that were now ruling over them. What is any connection between that and our government today wanting to take away our guns? You know the Lord Jesus Christ, bringing it back up a little bit, not in the days of Babylonian captivity, not in the days of the Philistines, but in the days of Roman occupation. The Lord Jesus Christ, he had his disciples. Remember how powerful his disciples were. They could heal. Peter could walk on water And if Peter could walk on water, no doubt the other disciples could, if need be. We don't read that they did, but they had all these powers, they could throw out demons, they could raise the dead, they could heal the wounded. I mean, if you've got these kind of powers Who needs a sword or a spear, right? I mean if you get attacked by a bunch of vagabonds or they beat you up in the road and you're lying or bleeding and broken bones You can just heal yourself, right? If if Peter gets attacks or Paul and he's dead, we can just raise him. We don't need spears and swords to protect ourselves But that's not what the Lord Jesus Christ said. Boy, you ought to write this one down. It's in Luke 22 in verse 36. Came to his disciples. This is prior to Christ leaving. He knew that they'd be there on their own and there could be some rough days ahead. And this is what the Lord Jesus Christ said. He that hath a purse. Men carried purses back then, or at least that's what they called them. You know, we won't get into that today But if you have a purse, like a money purse, a little money bag does have another sort. He that hath a purse and hath no sword Sell his garment. If you have an extra coat or an extra garment, sell your garment and buy a sword. Wow. Why would the disciples need a sword? Toben with the tuna fish cans? Open at the cat food cans? Why would he need a sword? Because he knew that there were hard times coming. He knew there was tribulation coming. He knew there was persecution coming And he says to his disciples, although you can heal yourself if you're stabbed, although you can heal yourself if if you're beat up, although you can raise yourself or some of one of the other disciples can raise yourself from the dead if you if you're beat up by a mob You know, let's not tempt the Lord thy God. He tells us, get yourselves a sword and carry it with you. Peter had to remember, he cut off the ear of the high priest Melchiz Apparently the Roman government was not opposed to those that they were oppressing with at least arming themselves and protecting themselves in their day-to-day So in verse 22, we find that the battle's about to take place. They've been doing the raiding, they've been doing the spoiling. Saul is greatly outnumbered. In the day of battle, it says there was neither sword or spear found in the hand of any of the people that were with Saul and Jonathan. It's just gotten worse. I mean he's got six hundred men. He's outnumbered. They're down there. They're making the raids. They're coming up. And now we're told that among the six hundred people, none of them have swords the spheres except Saul and Jonathan. Can you imagine? You got Two swords, maybe two spears, six hundred guys, and this is the situation they're in. You know, people love to scoff at the scriptures and say how foolish the scriptures are. There's contradictions, there's errors. I mean who can believe this? And and they'll go right away to To Samuel in these stories. There's so many things here that just look so contrary and so unbelievable. I mean, in 1 Samuel 7, okay, they take on the Ammonites, right? Well, I mean rather the Philistines. They take on the Philistines in 1 Samuel 7 and they beat him. They route them. And he said, How can that be? They don't have any swords or spears. How can he take on the Philistines Well the scriptures of the Lord the great thunder just comforted them and he smote them. God smote them. Israel just ran down her and they ran behind her. The Philistines are fleeing and the thunder and the lightning and God was smiting the Philistines. It never says the Israelites smitted them. It just says that they ran down and went after them as they were fleeing And don't you think they probably picked up the swords and the spears they were dropping? Especially the ones of the dead guy. I think there were some spoils of war So why did Saul and Jonathan only have swords and spears and nobody else? And then later on we find that they fight the Ammonites in 1 Samuel 11. The people if they had no swords and spears How can they fight the Ammonites? And there it says they got into Well, we knew they had hoes, we knew they had rapes, we knew they had some things. Well how can they fight the Ammonites? Well they probably had used some of the swords and spears that they captured from the Philistines I mean, these things are not all that implausible when you when you read carefully the story and you realize that when God says there's only two swords of Saul and Jonathan Or that there's no swords and spears that were being being made because of the blacksmiths were no longer available, that there were ways that they captured some weapons, didn't they, so they could protect themselves. And and and be that as it may, let's just say they didn't capture any weapons, they didn't capture any swords, they didn't capture any spears. But the Bible said they could wipe out the Philistines, they could wipe out uh the the Ammonites in those other chapters. How do you do that? Well didn't Gideon do it with what? We read in Judges 7, 16 through 15, or 16 through 25, Gideon defeated the entire Midianite army with Trumpets and lamps under a pitcher. Came up on him late at night in the dark, and they broke the pitchers and all the lights are there And they're blowing their trumpets and they're shouting the sword of the Lord and the sword of Gideon. And the Midians jumped up and they're banging into each other in the dark. They don't have lanterns and they're bumping at each other. And they don't know if they're bumping into their enemy or their friend. And they just start slashing and they're killing each other And getting just stood back and watched the Midianites destroy themselves. That's the kind of a God we have. They can put so much confusion into the ranks of the Midianites, they start swinging and slaying themselves The kind of confusion that that sends you tapes that are set for Siberia on heat. You know, these are the kind of things that God does to give an army a victory if he wants to bless them. How about Samson? He took on and killed a thousand Philistines with what? The jawbone of an ass. I mean, come on. Give him a good sword. Give him a good sword. I can't believe with a jawbone of an ass, but God can do that. And the Word of God says he did that. And so people read these things, they go, Oh, they have no spears, they have no swords. How is Saul going to win this victory? This is just ridiculous. Only he and Jonathan have swords and spheres. That is ridiculous. That's utterly ridiculous. And then we look at Revelation 19 and 15, where it talks about the Lord Jesus Christ, and out of his mouth goeth a sharp sword, that with it he should smite the nations, the islands. ungodly nations of the world with the breath of his mouth. The Lord Jesus Christ destroys the enemies of Christianity, the enemies of the with the breath of his mouth. God doesn't need swords. And spears. So sometimes you're reading one of these Bible verses, you know, boy, that's really hard to believe. I don't know. Some of the history of that one. What am I going to say? Thus saith the Lord. Hath not God said? That's what you say. You believe it. And then you go talk to your pastor or you get good commentary and read up and find out, you know, is there any explanation for this? Sometimes there is and sometimes it's just God can do with a jawbone of an ass. God can do it with a trumpet. God can do it with a breathless mouth. I believe it. God said it. I believe it. That settles it. In fact, I believe it. God said it. Whether I believe it or not, that settles it But people, and you know some of them, they don't believe every passage in the Bible. Do you believe every passage in the Bible? Amen. I mean, there are Christians out there, they say, Well, yeah, Joan on the Whale, I don't know. Red Sea parted eh, you know, uh Oh come on. That's that's called cafeteria Christianity You know, you go through the scriptures. Remember they used to be had a long scroll. So Captain Christianity, the scrolls rolled out, you know, the Old Testament and see Genesis, you know, skip the that yeah I can't go oh Jonah yeah I'll skip that. Oh this looks good over here. I like that. I mean that's cafeteria Christianity picking and choosing what you want. Or some also call it buffet Bible believers, you know. Buffet style, just picking out the things that really appeal to you like salvation. Oh I love salvation. Let's keep that one. Hell oh my goodness no we don't want that. Get rid of that. No that's buffet. That's just buffed face style Bible believers. You know what the hardest verse for Bible to believe is? I don't know somebody heard it. It's the very first verse. In a beginning God. If you can believe that, I mean if you can believe there's a God, well then Job woman ass, no problem. Joan of the whale, no problem. Party of the Red Sea, global floor, no problem. I mean where where's the problem? If you believe verse one, everything at the problem is people Don't really believe that the God, they don't know who God really is. They don't know how immense he is, how powerful he is, what he's capable of doing. God is capable of doing anything you can think of, and then some. I mean he sent his son to die for us. Who ever thought of that? There's a hundred different religions out there. None of them ever thought of their God sending his son to die for them. That's our hidden hope. That we have a God that can do anything for us. So God has promised us salvation. The Lord is my deliverer, my strength, my salvation. Psalm 18 and 2. And if you read look at this in verse 22, it says that they did not have spears and swords, the people who were with Saul. Okay? The ones that deserted, it doesn't tell us whether they had swords and spears. There were swords and spears in the army of Saul. But the ones that were left over, that hadn't deserted Saul, that were trembling, they didn't have any. But we find out later on there was plenty of weapons. Remember King David, he's out there with Goliath. He didn't have a sword and a spear, but he had a sling and five stones, didn't he? And then later on you see King David again. He's out there with it. He's practicing with his bow and his arrow. They had some weapons. They just didn't have their complement that That the Philistines had. They didn't have all the spears, all the swords. You know, the more you look in this, the more you realize that the Bible is very believable, very acceptable. And when you can't find verses like these, you just believe it because God said it. He's our our hidden hope. They weren't totally disarmed, but the six hundred men we read had little of nothing. So I just asked this morning, have you learned to trust the scriptures? Or are you still listening to the scoffers? God's truth shall be our shield and our buckler, Psalm 91 and verse 4. We live in a day now while the world's trying to panic us. It's not the Philistines, it's not the Ammonites, but there's a there's a Hamas, it's a Hezbollah, you know, it's the Sunnis, it's the Shiites, and we're hearing all this stuff that the ISIS, we're hearing all these things. We're supposed to panic. Let's talk of global warming and the flooding of the continents, you know, as as the North Pole melts and the South Pole melts. It's going to flood the whole world and we're all going to drown. We're all going to die. That's the global warming panic But that's contrary to the Word of God. Can you get comfort if the Word of God says we're not going to be flooded and destroyed by global war? You go back to Genesis. And he he tells Noah in the Rainbow Covenant, it's called the Rainbow Covenant, he said the water shall no more become a flood to destroy all the flesh. God said there'll never be a flood like that again. The global warming people said there will be a flood like that again Well who's right? You can believe the scoppers who don't believe the Bible or you can believe the Bible. But they got us all panicking about the the worldwide the continental waters are gonna come up and flood over the continents and kill everyone Or there's there's the uh diseases out there, the disease are gonna overrun us. You know, we're talking about Ebola of late, those all Ebola's the big panic, the big fear How many here remember swine flu? When that was the big panic? How about the Asian flu? When that was the big panic. I mean they're always drumming upside. In fact, before global warming, there was winter cooling. We're all gonna freeze to death. That was back in the sixties and seventies And we and the scoffers are going to freeze, we're going to freeze to death because of carbon dioxide. There's too much carbon dioxide in the air. It's blocking out the sun. We're all going to freeze to death. Do you know what produces more carbon dioxide than anything else in the world? You do when you breathe. That's why they came up with population control. We gotta stop this carbon dioxide, it's gonna kill everybody. So what do we do? Oh, we start aborting babies, killing old folks, euthanasia. Carbonaca is actually very good for the trees and the grass and the flowers, the fruits and the vegetables. So we've got them making us some people think there's going to be a flood the whole world, you know, global warming diseases, Ebola and so forth, or the Islamic terrorists are coming our way. But we have a hidden hope that we Can we lie? We've got so much hidden hope of having a hidden hope that Israel has a future. We have a hidden hope of heaven. We have a hidden hope of salvation. We have a hidden h He shall deliver you from the pestilence. Alright? Thou shalt not be afraid for the terror by night, nor the arrow by day, nor the pestilence that walketh in darkness, nor the destruction that wasteth at noon day. For God shall give his angels charge over thee. If you believe that, don't worry about the Islamics. God's going to handle it. He's going to take care of them. That doesn't mean we get rid of our swords and our spears Yeah, there's disease out there, and there's infections out there. That doesn't mean we don't maybe we're a mess sometimes when we're in a hospital working with people like this. I mean, be reasonable, don't tempt the Lord thy God and be foolish, but don't be afraid There is a hidden hope, not to be afraid, as well as the salvation and the hope of heaven and Israel having a future. There is a hidden hope And how about the Lord our God who sent the hornets in Joshua's day to fight our enemies in Joshua twenty-four? And how about the Lord of Job he tells us in Job thirty-eight and twenty-two That God has the treasures of hail reserved against the time of trouble. God can hail down as he did the old testament. He can send down hail to wipe out our enemies. He said he's reserved against the time of trouble, against Listen to this. Against the day of battle and war God has set aside a treasure of hail. And that's in Revelation sixteen. That hasn't happened yet. God says that days you have poured out of the hail from heaven to kill off the enemy. Of God, the enemies of the Lord Jesus Christ, the enemies of the gospel of Christ, the enemies of the saved people. He said, I've got hail stored up in heaven, I'm going to rain it down in Revelation 16 and verse 21. God's people have so much to hope for in this day and age. Don't listen. Maybe we should turn off the news at night in our radio sometimes. We we've got this hope. It's hope that's hidden from the world. They don't see it. They just don't see it. But it shouldn't be hidden from us. And how about prayer? Is prayer or none of our hidden hopes? It must be a great hope because the disciples came to Christ and said, Oh Lord, teach us to pray. And the Lord Jesus Christ taught them how to pray. Prayer is another one of our hidden hopes. Blessed be the Lord which teacheth my hands My hands to war and my fingers to fight. Psalm 144. 1 And this is how we fight the things that we might be afraid of. We pray. What a hope. What a hope. Let's pray. Father, we just thank you this day that for all that's out there that could cause us a fright, for all that's out there that could cost us a night's sleep, for all that's out there that could cost us our bank accounts. And our sustenance, Lord, you have filled the Bible with hope, with promises, with scripture, with examples that you have never deserved your people. Never has a A faithful man gone starving or his seed been found begging bread. We're told, Lord, you take care of your own, your sheep, your flock, your church, your people. Oh Lord, may we understand it And may this hope that you've given all down through the ages, Old Testament, New Testament, may it be our testament as well, that we have a hope while others are so hopeless and hapless. And we ask this in the name of our great God and Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ. And old God's people said, Amen. Carl, could you close his repair today, please?