Turn in your Bibles with me this morning, please. To the gospel is recorded for us by Luke and the second chapter. The second chapter of Luke's Gospel Or I shouldn't say Luke's gospel, the gospel of Jesus Christ as recorded for us by Luke. And we'll begin our scripture reading in the 21st verse, and I'll read through verse thirty-five of the chapter. Luke chapter two, beginning with verse twenty-one. And when eight days were accomplished for the circumcising of the child, his name was called Jesus. And you'll notice in your Bible that Jesus is in all capitals there. When we find the word Lord in all capitals, it indicates for us it is a transliteration of Jehovah. Jesus' name is Jehovah is salvation. And so it's in all capitals. His name was called Jesus, which was so named of the angel before he was conceived in the womb. And when the days of her purification according to the law of Moses were accomplished, they brought him to Jerusalem to present him to the Lord. As it is written in the law of the Lord, every male that openeth a womb shall be called holy to the Lord And to offer sacrifice according to that which is said in the law of the Lord, a pair of turtle doves, or two young pigeons. And behold, there was a man in Jerusalem whose name was Simeon. And the same was a just man and devout, waiting for the consolation of Israel. And the Holy Ghost was upon him. And it was revealed unto him by the Holy Ghost that he should not see death before he had seen the Lord's Christ. And he came by the Spirit into the temple temple, and when the parents brought in the child Jesus to do for him after the custom of the law, Then took he him up in his arms and blessed God and said, Now, Lord, now let us thy servant depart in peace according to thy word For mine eyes have seen thy salvation, which thou hast prepared before the people, the before the faces of all people, a light to the Gentiles, and the glory of thy people Israel And Joseph and his mother marveled at those things which were spoken of him. And Simeon blessed him, and said unto Mary, his mother, Behold, this child is set for the fall and rising again of many in Israel, and for a sign which shall be spoken against. Yea, a sword shall pierce through thine own soul also, that the thoughts of many hearts may be revealed. Let us bow for prayer as we begin this morning. Our gracious, kind, loving Heavenly Father. We thank you that this book which is opened in our presence today is not a book of man. This is the very Word of God inspired preserved and given to us for our admonition, for our edification, for our correction. We thank you, Lord, that you have given us in your word all things that pertain to life and godliness. Father, we thank you that you have given us the Holy Spirit to be our teacher and our guide in the Word, to point us to Christ and to reveal your truth to our hearts. So, Father, as we approach this word today, may we plead with thee that thy Spirit would speak to our hearts. That thy spirit would show us thy truth, that as we study your word together, we may be edified in the word, and grow in the word, and be corrected by the word, and be strengthened by the precious word of God. Father, we thank you for life. We thank you for this Sunday on which we remember the entrance of Christ into Jerusalem. He was welcomed for a time. And then rejected, a man of sorrows and acquainted with grief. Father, we thank you for this account that we have of Jesus being brought and presented to God the Father. And the sacrifices that were made on behalf of the child, and the picture that is shown to us in this glorious New Testament passage of the eternal plan of God. To send your own son to be the Savior of the world, to send your own son for the fall and rising again of many Father, bless your truth to our hearts. Bless little Moses today, as he is brought before God the Father, in the same way that Jesus Christ as a baby was brought into the temple. Lord, to be presented unto God. Bless us this day by your word. May Jesus Christ have the preeminence in everything that is said and done. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. This is a glorious passage we have in front of us and a glorious event that we celebrate today. And I'm speaking with With Candace on the phone, I guess it was Thursday or Friday, and mentioned that this is the Lord's Day. We are here to celebrate Jesus Christ. We are here to worship him Today we celebrate little Moses as well. But this service is about Jesus Christ. And we find here in this passage the baby Jesus being carried to the temple. And beginning there in verse 21, it says, When eight days were accomplished for the circumcising of the child, his name was called Jesus, which was so named of the angel. Before he was conceived in the womb. Eight days were accomplished for the circumcising. And this points us back to the Old Testament. And to the Abrahamic covenant. In Genesis chapter 12, God told Abraham, Abraham, I will make of thee a great nation. And in thee shall all nations be blessed. And God said to Abraham, This is the mark, this is the sign, this is the symbol of the covenant that I will make with you. Every male child born, the eighth day, he is to be circumcised. My mark is to be put on that child. And so the male child that was born was circumcised, but it was not just the male child born to the children of Israel. In Genesis 17 in verse 12, Abraham was told, if you purchase a servant, he is to be circumcised. And if you bring a Gentile into your covenant, a stranger into your family, he too is to be circumcised. And remember what the covenant was, I will make of thee a great nation, and in thee all nations shall be blessed. And so the indication, the promise was there from the very beginning that it was not just those that bore the blood of Abraham. But rather, it was all the people who would be brought into the family of God that would be brought into that covenant of promise Because you see, the Abrahamic covenant that we find in Genesis 12 didn't begin in Genesis 12. It goes back to Genesis 3. For God told Adam and Eve that their child, their descendant, would crush the serpent's head. It was the promise of the Messiah. And yet it didn't begin in Genesis 3 either. Because we find very clearly in Scripture that we, God's people, are chosen in Christ. Before the foundation of the world. Before God made any of it, there was his eternal plan to redeem his people from their sin. And so this covenant that God made with Abraham, telling Abraham, every male child, every servant that is brought in, every stranger that joins with you is to be circumcised, what did that accomplish? What benefit was gained by this circumcision? Well, it was a mark. It was a picture. It was a sign of the covenant. And you see, for in order for a man to be able to enter into the worship. To be able to enter into the temple, he had to have the circumcision. We've talked in Sunday school about the court of the Gentiles and the various courts. The Gentile man could go so far, but he could not enter in to the court of the Jews. He could not enter into that worship. It was forbidden to him. But by this mark of the covenant, the children, the servants And the strangers were brought into that fellowship. They were welcomed in. They had the mark upon them. And so when eight days were fulfilled This mark was placed. And we read that his name was called Jesus. And I've referred to this already during the scripture reading. Jesus means Jehovah is salvation. This is the same Old Testament name as Joshua or Yoshia. His very name is Jesus is salvation. The seed of the woman promised there in Genesis. The one in whom all nations will be blessed, promised again in Genesis twelve, the one who would bruise the serpent's head, for the Son of Man is come to seek and to save that which is lost And neither is there salvation in any other. For there's none other name under heaven given among men whereby ye must be saved. And so before this baby Jesus was born, the angel Gabriel comes to Mary and says his name will be Jehovah is salvation. And when his father Joseph is troubled, his father earthly, you understand what I mean, is troubled over the pregnancy of Mary. The angel appears to him. That baby conceived in her womb is of the Holy Ghost. His name shall be called Jesus. Would not have that been the perfect case for abortion Joseph's trying to hide her. He doesn't want to make her a public example and hear this Mary and she's saying it was it was the Holy Ghost and who would believe her? But before, it says, before he was conceived in the womb, God had already named him. And of course Jesus Christ was the Son of God and was virgin born, but we find throughout Scripture again and again men born of a human father and a human mother, and God knew them. Jeremiah, before I formed thee in the belly, I knew thee. David, my members were known to thee as yet being imperfect. We've all seen the picture of dismembered pre-born children. God knew those members yet being a But here we find the name as a sign before he's born. And think about that. I have three sons and a daughter. And in conjunction with their mother, I picked their names. We had some disagreement over Elizabeth. But we choose our children's names, don't we? And we choose them with significance. My oldest son is named after my wife's father. We name our children, but here the father chose the name. God the Father, who had made these covenants and made these promises, said, His name shall be called Jesus. He was named before he was conceived in the womb. We find in verse 22 And when the days of her purification, according to the law of Moses, were accomplished, they brought him to Jerusalem. And look what their purpose was. To present him to the Lord. Let's get to the chronology here. Eight days he circumcised But now in verse 22, that has already taken place. There's something else that's taking place here It says the days of her purification. So at eight days the child was circumcised, and then beyond that is the purification of the mother And so you have a total of forty days. He would be forty days old when he's brought to the temple at this point. For a male child it was forty days. For a female child it was eighty days. And so now Mary is recovered enough from giving birth that she can can be out in public The baby now has recovered from the circumcision, and so at 40 days, this child is brought and presented to the to the Lord. Mary would have been forbidden to come into the temple before this time of purification had taken place. And you'll notice the purification was for Mary and not for the infant. The purification was because of the conception, it was because of the childbirth But Mary's conception was different than any other man. She was a virgin. She was impure. She was pure. We read that her husband Joseph knew her not until she brought forth her firstborn. Son. But they're following the law. They're following the pure the pattern that God has set down. Look what it says there. The days of her purification according to the law of Moses. Why is that significant? Was Jesus Christ born a lawbreaker? No. Was Mary born a lawbreaker? Yes. Was I born a lawbreaker? Yes. Were you born a lawbreaker? Yes. But here we find that they're coming to do for this child Jesus according to the law. And friends, this is glorious truth. This is exciting things that are being taught here. Because when the fullness of the time was come, God sent forth his son. And how did God send him forth? Made of a woman, made under the law. And why is that important that Jesus was made of a woman and made under the law? To redeem them that were under the law, that we might receive the adoption of sons. And so do you remember when Jesus comes to John the Baptist in Matthew 3. 15, and Jesus wants John the Baptist to baptize him, and John says, no! I shouldn't baptize you, you should baptize me. But let me read to you what Jesus answers, Matthew 3:15. And Jesus answered, said unto him, Suffer it to be so for now, for thus it becometh us to fulfill all righteousness. And what Jesus was saying when he said, I need to be baptized of you to fulfill all righteousness, it was fulfilling of the law. When the priests would enter into the priesthood, they were consecrated to the work of God. And that is the picture that is being shown us here with Jesus being brought to the temple. He had no need of these physical elements because he was above sin and beyond sin. He was not a lawbreaker, he was the law giver. And yet in obedience to the law, Jesus is brought at 40 days old to the temple to present him before the Father. And there's yet more. If you go down to verse 23, as it is written in the law of the Lord, every male that openeth the womb shall be holy unto me. Now this takes us to the Old Testament again. It points us back to the Passover, because that law was given to the children of Israel Not in the time of Abraham, but that law was given in the time of Moses. The children of Israel were in bondage in Egypt. God said, Take a lamb, sacrifice the lamb, put the blood of that lamb on the doorpost, because the death angel will pass through the land. And when I see the blood, I will pass over you. And in that ordinance, God said, All the firstborn are mine, the firstborn of the beast, the firstborn of man. When a donkey was born, the firstborn donkey, it was either to have its neck broken Or a lamb was to be sacrificed in its place. And when the firstborn child, the firstborn son was born A lamb was to be sacrificed, or if the family was poor, impoverished, they would bring two turtle doves or two pigeons, as we find here with Mary and Joseph. Now, did Christ need a lamb to be sacrificed for his remission? To redeem him from the death of the firstborn? No, he was the firstborn of God. He was ever eternal with God. He was God. And he was not a lawbreaker. But here we find Christ obedient to the law. He perfectly kept the law in every aspect on my behalf. And so, in obedience to the law of God, this child is brought And we go down to verse 24. And to offer sacrifice according to that which is saith in the law of the Lord. You see the repetition again and again and again. It's the law of the Lord. That is being fulfilled with this child. And so they bring the gift of a pulper, they bring the sacrifice of those who have very little means. To redeem this child, Mary and Joseph brought a sacrifice. Mary and Joseph brought the child to Jerusalem to present him before God, to prepare him for the worship of God. Today, we're going to baptize a child. We're going to baptize an infant. The baptism that will take place today does not save this child. It does not gain for this child a place in heaven. Except ye repent, ye shall all likewise perish And yet, what we do today is done in obedience to the law of God. It's done in obedience to his command. You see, in the Old Testament, that mark of the people of God was the circumcision. Today, the mark of the people of God is the baptism. And the newborn child was circumcised. And when a servant was brought in, he was circumcised. And when a stranger came into that covenant fellowship, he was circumcised. And so today, as we visibly bring a child into the visible church, into the church we see We do so calling upon God the Father in his perfect time, in his perfect plan, to bring this child also into the invisible church. To bring this child in God's perfect fulfillment of time to the point when Moses will find himself to be a sinner in need of salvation. And having no hope outside of Jesus Christ. And I want to show you the link here between the two because we don't get into this often. We don't talk about it often. But I want to show you this link between the Old Testament and the New Testament. So turn with me to 1 Peter chapter 3. 1 Peter chapter 3, and we're going to see how this Old Testament circumcision and New Testament baptism are linked together. We're going to see how they join. 1 Peter chapter 3, and we're going to read from verse 18 so we get the context, but it's actually verse 21 that we're heading towards. First Peter chapter three and verse eighteen. For Christ also hath once suffered for sin, the just for the unjust. That he might bring us to God, being put to death in the flesh, but quickened in the spirit. Okay, that's why he came. That's why what we're talking about here is what Jesus did. Verse 19 By which also he preached unto the spirits in prison. Now, this verse, we've got to stop there for a minute because this verse has been one of the most polluted verses of Scripture. This is not the doctrine of purgatory. Christ did not go into purgatory. We read of the rich man in Lazarus when he died in hell, not in purgatory. He lifted up his eyes, being in torment. This is talking about the anti-deluvian world that Christ preached to the spirits now imprisoned. And you'll see that in the context. And so, by which also he went and preached unto the spirits now in prison or in prison. which sometimes were disobedient, when once the long suffering of God in the days of Noah, while the earth was a pre ark was a preparing wherein few, that is, eight souls, were saved by water. And so God says there that Christ went, or Christ sent his message by the mouth of Noah is what is implied, that Noah for a hundred and twenty years he preached the gospel. He preached, except ye repent, ye shall all likewise perish. To these souls now lost, now in prison, now there with the rich man, crying out, dip your finger in water and touch my tongue, for I'm tormenting in this flame. The gospel was preached unto them 120 years, while Noah and his sons pounded together in ark. But only eight souls entered that ark, and they were saved by water. Now, did the water save them? No, not at all. The water was their greatest peril. The water was that which would snuff out their very physical life. But they were saved because they were in the ark. And the ark rode above the storm waves, and they were safe in the ark, and they survived. And so they were saved by water, because the water lifted the ark. We are saved because Jesus Christ has risen above the storms of this world, and we in him are delivered from death. And so they were saved by water. Verse 21. The like figure whereunto even baptism doth now also save us. Not the putting away of the filth of the flesh, but the answer of a good conscience toward God by the resurrection of Jesus Christ. Now what's that word there, figure? Well, a figure is a picture. How many of you have seen George Washington? I see a lot of hands. You must be very old. We've seen pictures of George Washington. But none of us have seen George Washington. We've seen the figure. Baptism is a figure. It does not save us. It's a picture. It's a type. What was the circumcision? It was a mark. It was a picture. It was a type. It showed us something visibly, which taught us something spiritually. Now, it says in like figure whereunto badness does now save us, and look at the parentheses, not the putting away the filth of the flesh. The water doesn't wash away the filth of the flesh. The water of baptism does not cleanse me. But rather, not the putting away, not the putting away the filth of the flesh, but rather the answer of a good conscience towards God. Oh, my conscience is cleaned. My soul is redeemed. I am washed in the blood of the Lamb. And so you see the same tick the the similarity here in the picture. God, throughout Scripture, has used illustrations, he's used pictures, he's used types. He has demanded of people certain physical acts, and those physical acts which he demanded did not save them. But those physical manifestations of faith. Indicated and pointed out the answer of a good conscience towards God. And how did that come about? The last part of the verse, by the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead. And so what we do today does not save, but it's an act of faith. The newborn was circumcised and brought before God in obedience to God's command by faith. The servant, the non-Israelite, was brought before God and was circumcised In an act of faith, believing in the promises of God. And today, the believer is brought into the visible church, not the spiritual church, but the visible church. Through this baptism. And so today we are going to bring a young child into the fellowship of believers. Trusting God to bring that child into the kingdom of God. But the story doesn't end there. The account doesn't end there. For we find this man, Simeon. And what a glorious example we find here. Verse 25, and behold, there was a man in Jerusalem whose name was Simeon. The same was a just man and devout, waiting for the consolation of Israel, and the Holy Ghost was upon him. This man was just. He had a testimony before man Everybody knew Simeon, and they knew that he was a man that was to be trusted. He was devout. He had a testimony before God. And as it was pointed out in Sunday school this morning, he was waiting for the consolation of Israel. What a glorious name for Christ. He was waiting for the Prince of Peace. He was waiting for the consolation of Israel. And the Holy Ghost was on him. And it was revealed to him, verse 26. And it was revealed unto him by the Holy Ghost that he should not see death before he had seen the Lord's Christ, before he'd seen the Messiah. We don't know how old Simeon was when God told him that he would not die before he saw the Christ. We kind of assume, I think, he was an old man because he was an old man when he came into the temple. Day. But he may have been a very young man. The Holy Spirit might have told him in his teens or his early twenties that he would not die before he saw the Messiah. What would you do if you knew you wouldn't die? Think about that. If you knew that you could survive a hail of bullets, would you be a superhero? If you knew that you would not die if God had made this promise to you, what mischief could you get into knowing, hey, it's not going to hurt me? But we find this man Simeon. He was a man full of the Holy Ghost. And with this knowledge, he patiently waited for the consolation of Israel. He waited for the coming of the Messiah. And knowing the Messiah was going to come, what did he do? He was just. He was developed. What a rebuke that is to us. How many of you here today believe the Lord's coming back? I want to ask you to raise your hand on this one, but how many of you live like it? You see, we've been given this promise that the Lord is coming. He may come this afternoon, and I hope he does. But are we living like it? Are we just and devout? You see, Simeon's living in a wicked time Simeon is living in a time when the people of God, the Sadducees and the Pharisees and the scribes, the ones who should be the religious leaders and setting the example for the whole nation, they're not waiting for the consolation of Israel. And then something else about Simeon. He was told he would not die until he saw the Lord's Christ. What do you think he was looking for? He was probably looking for someone who would resemble his picture, mental image of David. He was probably waiting for a warrior king. He was probably waiting for a man that was handsome and viral and strong. And the Lord tells him one morning, okay, Simeon, go to the temple today. He came by the Holy Ghost. And this poor family come in, and they're not bringing a lamb with them because they can't afford a lamb. But instead of bringing a lamb, they're bringing two turtle doves or two pigeons. And God says to Simeon, there he is. There he is. You know, I think our natural tendency would be to say, you know, I'm misunderstanding. This can't be the Christ. No, no. I'm supposed to wait for the consolation of Israel, and this is a baby. This is an infant. This isn't what I want. How like that is the world. You see, the Messiah is a man of sorrows and acquainted with grief He came unto his own. And his own received him not. But as many as received him, to them gave he power to become the sons of God. Even in the believable. And Simeon obviously was very well respected in the temple. Everybody knew who Simeon was, and Anna, the prophetess who comes along later, was very well respected. Why didn't the scribes believe? Simeon's testimony. Why didn't the scribes believe, or the Pharisees believe Simeon's testimony? Because they weren't looking for him. Jesus Christ, the consolation of Israel, the Lord's Christ, was not who they wanted. What about you, my friend? The Son of Man has come to seek and to save that which was lost. He came to give his life a ransom for many. And neither is there salvation in any other, for there's none other name under heaven given among men whereby ye must be saved. You see, in this child Jesus, who was sinless, who did not need to have the law ordinances done for him But who accepted the ordinance of the law anyway, because he was made of a woman, and he was made under the law. And the reason that he was made under the law and made of a woman is that he might redeem us from our sins To give his life a ransom for many. Do you know Jesus Christ? Is He who you're looking for? He says, Come unto me, all ye that labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. And so Simeon, in obedience to God, comes to the temple, as Mary and Joseph are bringing in the child Jesus. And Simeon takes this baby up in his arm, and it doesn't say he blesses the baby, does it? We talk about blessing a baby. It says he blessed God. Children are a heritage of the Lord. He blessed God and said, now let me depart in peace. For mine eyes have seen the Lord's Christ. Do you know him? We have the great privilege today of taking up a child in our arms. Baptizing that dear child, symbolically bringing him into the visible church, calling upon God to bring him into the invisible church And to save his soul. The baptism of a child, in many ways, in every way, is about Jesus Christ, but in many ways far more about the parents. About the child. The child is neutral, often sleeping, but sometimes screaming. But it's the parents that are following the command of God, just as Mary and Joseph. And bringing this child before God the Father, returning to him as the child, the firstborn, was redeemed there at the Passover with the Lamb, returning him to God. And calling upon God to save his eternal soul. Let's have a brief word of prayer, and then we'll call the family forward. Our gracious Father. Our great God and King, we thank you for this glorious passage, which so well explains for us the commands of God and what it is we're about today. Father, I pray that you would bless your word to our hearts. Glorify Christ in that which we're about to do. And Lord, we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.