Gracious Father, we thank you that of your mercies you have given us a day of rest. In the following of the pattern you set all the way back at creation. Father, we thank you that you gave the Sabbath to the Old Testament believers. And Lord, we gather today on the Lord's Day, celebrating the resurrection, acknowledging that though we live week by week and month by month, our days and our times are not our own. But this day belongs to thee, and this day is set apart that your people may worship and praise your holy name. And so, Father, as we assemble today, we pray, Lord, that we would be made aware of the Holy Spirit meeting with us. That our hearts would be open to thy word, that our minds would be turned off to the world and tuned to thy truth. Father, that we might today focus our minds and our hearts upon thy word. May we drink today deeply from the well of living water that springs up within the believers. In this day, may we indeed, as the Puritans used to say, may we be improved in grace. May we be made more like Christ. And less like the old man that plagues us day by day. Bless thy truth to thy people, we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. I'm reading our call to worship from 2 Peter 2 and verse 9. The Lord knoweth how to deliver the godly out of temptation. And to reserve the unjust unto the day of judgment to be punished. Amen. Good morning, everyone. Turn to our blue song book. We're going to begin our uh worship services this morning. Our opening hymn is number 19, O for a thousand tongues. We may not have a thousand in here, but we can hope for a thousand. Hope for a thousand tongues, number 19, in our blue song book. And there we will sing all five stanzas. Wo for a thousand songs to sing, my great redeemer's praise, all glories of my God and King. The triumphs of his grace. My gracious master and my God causes me to proclaim today. Spread through all the years abroad, the honours of thy name. Jesus thy name that charts are fierce. That bit of sorrow seas, is music in the sinners ears, is life and help back peace. Praise me come to lose them tongues and joy. I hold your Savior from Henry. He breaks the power of cancelled sin. He sets the Christmas free. Can make the palace clean with blood available. Please be seated if you would give you a time to find a upgrade if you'd like. We have some spare room in the first class seats. Feel free to avail yourself of that. And turn to the back of your bulletin for our confessional reading today. Still coming from the Belgian Confession, we've broken Article 14 into two parts. Last week was the introduction about the creation and fall of man, and today we read the second part of that confession. Christian! In what? Do you believe? Therefore, we reject all that is taught repugnant to this concerning the free will of man, since man is but a slave to sin. and has nothing of himself unless it is given him from heaven. For who may presume to boast that he of himself can do any good Since Christ saith, no man can come to me except the Father which has sent me, draw him Who will glory in his own will, who understands that to be carnally minded is enity against God. Who can speak of his knowledge since the natural man receiveth not the things of the Spirit of God? In short Who dares suggest any thought, since he knows that we are not sufficient of ourselves to think anything as of ourselves, but that our sufficiency is of God? And therefore what the apostles said ought justly to be held sure and firm that God worketh in us, both to will and to do of His good pleasure. For there is no will nor understanding conformable to the divine will and understanding, but what Christ hath wrought in man Which he teaches us when he saith, Without me, ye can do nothing All false gospels err at one fundamental point of doctrine We hold to the doctrines of grace, which is a shortcut, a short handle for what the ancients referred to as tulip And the first T in tulip is total depravity. Now, it's just a handle, and um you can't read the body of it in that word total depravity to mean that uh Every single human being is as wicked as he can get. I like the way a Baptist pastor put it, there's plenty of room for deep provement. But uh it does mean that in all of man's capacities he is utterly incapable of fulfilling what God requires. And the confession does a really good job of articulating these various points. Notice it says boasting of doing good. It talks about glorying in your own will, or speaking of your knowledge. So your knowledge, your will, your good. You know, the the Roman Catholics, of course, would bristle at this. They would say there's a a spark of light or a spark of life left in the individual And they hear God knocking on the door of every man's heart. And if you'll just open it up, if you just happen to hear it, if you just happen to know that that's God at the front door and not a thief, uh that in fact you'll do good And all false gospels crash completely, utterly, and entirely on this initial point of total depravity. Man is totally depraved. There's absolutely nothing From God's vantage point that he is impressed with. When it comes to unsaved human clay, he is a complete and total train wreck. His intellect, his thoughts. You know, in Genesis 6. 5, we read in Sunday school that God saw the wickedness of man and that the intentions of the thoughts of the heart were only evil continually, and I would submit But that has not changed much and probably gotten even worse in our day. Because if man's thoughts are not about God If man is not thinking about what I can do about this commission that God's given me, if man's thoughts are not pure, right. Read Psalm 15. There's a checklist of things. Who can ascend into his holy hill And none of us, if we're honest, and that's the catch, we're not honest with ourselves. But if we were honest with ourselves, we'd say Woe is me, I am undone, I am a man of unclean lips, and I dwell among the people of unclean lips. And when you can get to that point, you found the entrance door to the spaceship that will take you to heaven You can't get to that spaceship by climbing a ladder. You have to enter in at the very bottom. You have to own up to that depravity, and that's exactly what this is pointing at. Scriptures are clear on this. It's very clear. In fact, the only hero throughout scriptures is Jesus Christ, and that's it. God Almighty is the only hero throughout scriptures. And you do find some saints that were not reproved, but if you listen to the prayer, say the prayer of Daniel, or you listen to Job's testimony, They would confess openly their sinfulness so that you don't find open reproof. They already knew they were reproving themselves. And if we would reprove ourselves, we would not be condemned with the world. And so the confession anchors a very good point here in a lot of scriptures, and I'm sad to report. Unless God Almighty changes the heart, I can give you all the scripture references and all the proof pudding, proof of the pudding, and People will still believe, but I'm not an evil person. You may not be as evil as Adolf Hitler, but you're not as good as God, and that's the standard. That's the standard. Yes, thank you, brother. In the Lord's Prayer, forgive us our debts as we forgive our debtors. And um That's not talking about forgiving student loans. Forgive us our debts literally means Lord forgive me my sins against you and forgive me my sins as I forgive my others their sins against me. It's not necessarily a monetary uh description. Let's pray together, brethren. Let's pray. Gracious Father, we thank you that indeed, as one of the old gospel songs says, gone, gone, gone, gone, yes, my sins are gone. Hallelujah, what a savior. For Lord, we could not bear the debt of our sins. We could do no good, as we've read in the confession this morning. All our righteousness is as filthy rags. All the attempts we may try to make to appease the just wrath of God will fall short. Only the blood of Jesus Christ can cleanse with our sin. And without the shedding of blood, there is no remission. We thank you that Jesus Christ has paid the full price. And Lord, we rejoice in this truth. Father, we rejoice in the great privilege we have to be here together. Both those that are physically with us here in Durwood. And those in Maryland online and those across the country and even some that view us delayed across the world from time to time, we thank you for this privilege. Lord, we realize that when we gather, we have no guarantee that we will all be in the same place again another day. Boast not thyself of tomorrow, for thou knowest not what a day may bring forth. And so, Father, it is incumbent upon each of us to live this day to the glory of Jesus Christ. It is incumbent upon each of us to share that gospel message at every opportunity. For the man we meet this afternoon may stand before you this evening. And the witness that we do not give this afternoon we may give account of at the throne of grace at the throne of God. For an opportunity was afforded to us. to warn every man and teach every man that we might present every man faultless. And so, Father, may we live our lives in the light of eternity. Oh Lord, this may be the last sermon that I ever preach. Father, may you grant to me that unction from thy spirit to faithfully proclaim the Word of God. And may you grant to every hearer an open ear and a ready spirit to receive thy truth. Father, we thank you that you are indeed sovereign, as we saw so clearly in the Sunday school lesson this morning, and we see again in the confessional reading this day. We thank you, Lord, that you warn your elect to flee from the wrath to come. We thank you that all things work together for good to those that love God, to those who are called according to his purpose. For whom he did foreknow, he also did predestinate to be conformed to the image of his son. And so, Father, we thank you that both our joys and our trials both our health and our sicknesses, both our prosperity and our suffering of loss Our joys and our sorrows are all part of your plan to conform us to the image of your Son. Father, we pray for the sick. Lord, we pray that you would heal them. We pray that you would raise them up from their beds of affliction. We pray that you would give each and every one of them many more years of service for thee on this earth and many more years of fellowship with us together. And yet, Father, we pray that prayer with the constant awareness as for God, His way is perfect. The word of the Lord is tried. He is a buckler to all those that trust in him. And so, Father, may you do all things well on behalf of each of your dear saints gathered here. Lord, we pray for our children and our grandchildren, for our siblings, for our parents, for our dear friends that know not Christ. And Father, just as Lot warned his sons-in-laws, and they mocked, so often we find that even those very close to us mock at the gospel. or set it aside or show no interest therein. And O Lord, we would awaken their spirits to truth if we could. But the awakening of the Spirit must be done by thee through the work of thy Holy Spirit. And so, Father, may we be faithful to share that witness. But O Lord, may you do the eternal work that is needed. Father, we thank you. That you do supply every need according to your riches and glory. Father, you know the financial needs of this small congregation. You know those that are sole proprietors, that are self-employed, and they depend upon business. to meet their own needs, to meet the needs of their employees, to meet the needs of their families, and to have to give to the work of the Lord. And oh Lord, we are not seeking to lay up treasures in this earth, but we do seek to lay up treasures in the next world. We do seek to have the resources which may be used for your glory. And so, Father, may you work in the situations that are numerous in this congregation. To bring about the fiscal stability that is needed that we might have to provide for the work of the Lord. Father, we pray this morning in particular for our dear brother, Dr. Paul Elliott, and the Ministry of Teaching the Word. Which has at this time a great shortfall in their support because of the economic conditions. Many of his supporters are involved in the real estate market. And they have shared with him with great grief that they simply do not have the resources available to them. to provide for that ministry as they've done in the past and as their hearts would urge them to do. Father, we pray that you would would bless these donors That desire above all else to be servants of the Lord with the talents that you entrust to them, to be good stewards. Father, we do pray for our nation this day. We thank you that we currently have a government which seems to be more inclined toward the good of thy people than some we've had in the past. And yet, Lord, we trust not in princes. We do not put our faith in a government. Lord, we remember from history when a righteous king would come to the land of England. And the church would go into backsliding because the persecutions were removed. Father, may that not happen to your people in this land. But, O Lord, may we have more desire for righteousness, greater burden for souls, and more energy in evangelism. In days when we feel less persecution than others. Father, bless our nation. Give safety to our leaders. Bless them with wisdom from on high. Protect thy people in this land. And then, Lord, we thank you for Mission Bible Church. What a haven of rest. What a blessed privilege to gather on the Lord's Day, to enjoy such fellowship. What a great blessing and opportunity you have given to us to minister across the country. Lord, we thank you for those spread abroad whose faces we see on Wednesday night and enjoy such fellowship in the prayer meeting time. And those that worship with us online, Lord bless them all, save their families, meet their needs But Lord, protect Mission Bible Church. Protect this congregation from myself. Protect it from Brother Vince. Protect it from Anton. Lord, may those who are entrusted with the leadership here. Be always convicted and tremble before you at the responsibility laid upon us. And Father, may you give us wisdom to lead in the grace of God. May you lead us into green pastures, that we might lead your children, your sheep, to the same. For you have instructed your servants, commanded your servants to feed your sheep. But O Lord, if your sheep are nibbling on briars and thorns, We will give answer. And so, Father, may you bless your servants that we might be a blessing to your people. And we pray these things in Jesus' name. Amen. Please locate in your scriptures the opening chapter of the book of Isaiah. Isaiah and chapter one. We'll be reading today the first eighteen verses. of the opening chapter of Isaiah. And as you find it and are able to rise to your feet, please rise for the responsive reading of the Word of God. Isaiah chapter 1 Beginning at 1 and continuing through 18. The vision of Isaiah, the son of Amos, which he saw concerning Judah and Jerusalem in the days of Uzziah, Jotham, Ahaz, and Hezekiah, kings of Judah. Hear, O heavens, and give ear, O earth, for the Lord has spoken I have nourished and brought up children. They have rebelled against me. The ox knoweth his owner, and the ass his master's crib, but Israel doth not know. My people doth not consider. Ah, sinful nation, a people laden with iniquity, a seed of evildoers, children that are not doers. They have forsaken the Lord. They have provoked the Holy One of Israel unto anger. They have gone away backwards. Why should you be stricken anymore? Ye will revolt more and more. The whole head is sick, and the whole heart faint From the sole of the foot even to the head, there is no soundness in it, but wounds and bruises and putrefying sores They have not been closed, neither bound up, neither mullified with ointment. Your country is desolate Your cities are burned with fire. Your land? Strangers devoured in your presence. And it is desolate, as overthrown by strangers. And the daughter of Zion is left as a cottage in a vineyard, as a lodge in a garden of cucumbers, as a besieged city. Except the Lord of hosts had left unto us a very small remnant, we should have been as Sodom, and we should have been like unto Gomorrah. Hear the word of the Lord, ye rulers of Sodom. Give ear unto the law of our God, ye people of Gomorrah. To what purpose is the multitude of your sacrifices unto me, saith the Lord? I am full of the burnt offerings of rams and the fat of fed beasts, and I delight not in the blood of bullocks, or of lambs, or of eagos. When ye come to appear before me, who hath required this at your hand to tread my course? Bring no more vain oblations Incense is an abomination unto me. The new moons and the Sabbaths, the calling of assemblies, I cannot away with. It is iniquity, even the solemn meeting. Your new moons, an appointed beast, my soul hateth. They are trouble to me. I am weary to bear them. And when you spread forth your hands, I will hide mine eyes from you. Yea, when you make many prayers, I will not hear. Your hands are full of blood. Wash you, make you clean, put away the evil of your doings from before mine eyes, cease to do evil. Learn to do well, seek judgment, relieve the oppressed, judge the fatherless, plead for the widow, and altogether. Come now, and let us reason together, saith the Lord. Though your skins be as scarlet, they shall be as white as snow. Though they be red like crimson, they shall be as wool. May the Lord add a rich blessing to the reading and hearing of his holy and errant word. And turn now to our opening sermon, Psalm number 92 C. It is good to thank the Lord. 92C is our opening psalm. It is to the tune of Darwal, one that should be familiar. The tune is Rejoice, the Lord is King. 92C And there are five stanzas which we will sing. It is good to thank the Lord to praise your name most high to show your love that dots your faithful On a night the spring time with sweet voice blue t-playing heart for praise. Your death, Lord, make me glad. How joy in what you've done. How great your doings, Lord. How deep your thoughts each one Those will be shown Presumenta. Those sinners go like we're doers pause away from. Destroy my straight Gord See how your foes pain evil Our skeleton You praise my cosmet home for fresh oil on my head. Made me see the spies and care what they hold the righteous road lights. Cedars are level. Those planted by the Lord shall in God's force be seen. When old days still bear fruit of the preflation and thou sleep how ought to It is the Lord my rock the Open in your Bibles with me this morning to the book of Genesis And the 19th chapter. We've mentioned many times before that Vince and I do not particularly try to coordinate our Sunday school lessons with the morning message and yet in God's providence so often they do coordinate And our brother, if you miss Sunday school and you're online, please go back and and catch up. He very ablely expounded to us The account of Noah and the flood and the building of the ark and the entrance of the ark and God shutting the door. And what we find here with Lot this morning. uh goes hand in hand with the Sunday school lesson this morning. If you have your place now in the book of Genesis, chapter 19, and I'm going to read verse 1 through verse 29 of the chapter. And there came two angels to Sodom at even. And Lot sat in the gate of Sodom. And Lot seeing them rose to meet them and bowed himself with his face toward the ground And said, Behold now, my lords, turn in, I pray you, into your servant's house, and tarry all night. Wash your feet And ye shall rise up early and be and go on your way. And they said, nay, but we will abide in the street all night And he pressed upon them greatly, and they turned in unto him, and entered into his house, and he made them a feast, and did break unleavened bread With and did they did eat. But before they lay down, the men of the city, even the men of Sodom, compassed the house round both old and young, all the people from every quarter. And they called unto Lot and said unto him, Where are the men which came into thee this night? Bring them out unto us that we may know them. And Lot went out at the door unto them, and shut the door after him, and said, I pray you, brethren, do not so wickedly Behold, now I have two daughters which have not known man. Let me, I pray you, bring out unto them out unto you. And do ye to them as is good in your eyes, only under these men do nothing. For therefore came they under the shadow of my roof And they said, Stand back. And they said again, This one fellow came to sojourn, and he will needs be a judge. Now will we deal worse with thee than with them. And they pressed sore upon the man, even Lot, and came near to break the door. But the men put forth their hand and pulled Lot into the house to them and shut the door. And they smote the men that were at the door of the house with blindness, both small and great, so that they wearied themselves to find the door. And the men said unto Lot, Hast thou here any beside son-in-law and thy sons And thy daughters, and whatsoever thou hast in the city, bring them out of this place, for we will destroy this place. Because the cry of them is waxen great before the face of the Lord, and the Lord has sent us to destroy it. And Lot went out and spake unto his sons-in-law, which married his daughters. And said, Up, get ye out of this place, for the Lord will destroy this city. But they seemed as one that, but he seemed as one that mocked Unto his sons-in-law. And when the morning arose, then the angels hastened Lot saying, Arise, take thy wife and thy two daughters which are here, lest thou be consumed in the iniquity of the city And while he lingered, the men laid hold upon his hand, and upon the hand of his wife, and upon the hand of his two daughters. the Lord being merciful unto him, and they brought him forth and set him without the city. And it came to pass when they had brought them forth abroad that he said, Escape for thy life. Look not behind thee, neither stay thou in the plain. Escape to the mountains, lest thou be consumed. And Lot said unto them, Oh, not so, my lord. Behold, now thy servant hath found grace in thy sight. And thou hast magnified thy mercy, which thou hast shown unto me in saving my life. And I cannot escape from the mountains lest some evil take me and I die. Behold, now this city is near to flee unto, and it is a little one. Oh, let me escape thither! Is it not a little one? And my soul and my soul shall live. And he said unto him, See, I have accepted thee concerning this thing also, that I will not overthrow this city for which thou hast spoken. Hasten thee, escape thither, for I cannot do anything till thou be come thither. Therefore the name of the city was called Zora The sun was risen upon the earth when Lot entered into Zora. Then the Lord reigned upon Sodom and upon Gomorrah, brimstone, and fire from the Lord out of heaven. And he overthrew those cities and all the plain, and all the inhabitants of the cities, and all that which grew upon the ground. But his wife looked back from behind him And she became a pillar of salt. And Abraham got up early in the morning to the place where he stood before the Lord. And he looked toward Sodom and Gomorrah, toward all the land of the plain, and he beheld, and lo, the smoke of the country went up as it were the smoke of a furnace. And it came to pass when God destroyed the cities of the plain that God remembered Abraham. And sent Lot out of the midst of the overthrow when he overthrew the cities in the cities in which Lot dwelt. Let's go for prayer. Father, now I pray that your Holy Spirit indeed would be the exegete, be the expounder of thy word, be the teacher this day. Bless your word to your people. Anoint my lips with understanding from thee. Grant that the stammering tongue of man not interfere with the blessing of thy message. Lord, we pray these things in Jesus' name. Amen. I'd like to point out just a few highlights of this passage before we actually get to our outline this morning. You'll notice there that they were told to escape to the mountains lest they be consumed. You'll notice there that when Lot approached his sons-in-law, they began to mock. They did not receive the message to them. It was idle tales. But the verse I'd really like to focus on as we begin are actually two passages. In verse 22, Hasty, escape, for I can do not do anything till thou become thither God had declared judgment on Sodom, but it could not happen while one believer remained in Sodom. And that ties very closely with what our brother was sharing in Sunday school. And he used the illustration of chickens But it's very apt when the last living being, human or otherwise, that God ordained had entered into the ark, the ark was closed. And the flood could not come Handle that happen. But the other verse, just as preliminary, I would like us to note, is verse 27. And Abraham got up early in the morning to the place where he stood before the Lord. I'd never observed that phrase into this week. Abraham got up early in the morning and he went to the place where he stood before. He went to church, folks! He went to the place of worship. It was the place where Abraham went to stand before Jehovah. We come on the Lord's day. Yes, we live in the presence of the Lord day by day, but we come on the Lord's day to present ourselves before Jehovah. And that's exactly what we find Abraham doing. And Abraham came before the Lord on the day that God destroyed Sodom and stood before the Lord. Now to our outline. The first thing I would like us to see in this story of Lot is a glorious and beautiful allegory of salvation. We find here a picture of the salvation of the soul. The story begins back in chapter 18. And you remember that God tells Abraham in chapter 18 that he's going to destroy Sodom. And Abraham begins to plead with God. God, if you can find fifty righteous, will you destroy Sodom? If you look at verse 23 and 24, in verse 24 of chapter 18, the previous chapter Peradventure there be fifty righteous within the city. Wilt thou also destroy and not spare the place for fifty righteous that are therein? That be far from thee to do after this manner, to slay the righteous with the wicked, and that the righteous should be as the wicked. That be far from thee, shall not the judge of all the earth do right? And this verse twenty-six God answers, and the Lord said, If I find in Sodom fifty righteous within the city then will I spare the place for their sakes. Folks, I believe, Scripture doesn't tell us this directly, but I believe that Abraham thought Lot's family might make up 50. Maybe maybe Lot's family is enough. And then we know that Abraham says, Well, what about forty-five, and then thirty, and then twenty, and finally ten? And Jehovah says, Yes, for ten I will spare. But it wasn't ten that came out, was it? It was four. And one of them looked back. Remember the question of the disciples, are there few that be saved? Broad is the way that leadeth to destruction, and many there be that go in thereat, but straight or narrow is the way that leadeth to life, and few there be that findeth. How many, possibly millions, that dwelt in Sodom and Gomorrah in the plains around, and yet four came out and three actually escaped. The judgment It's a picture of salvation. And then we find, secondly, that the salvation of Lot was based upon covenant promises. Look at verse 29 of chapter 19. And it came to pass, this is a chapter of our reading, and it came to pass. When God destroyed the cities of the plain, that God remembered Lot? No, it says that God remembered Abraham and sent Lot out of plain. Why is it significant that it doesn't say that God remembered a lot? Remember in the account of Noah? But Noah found grace in the the eyes of the Lord, we find many times when a godly man is described as God remembering him in the midst of a great Cataclysm. But here it says God remembered Abraham and sent out Lot. Why? Because the promises, the covenant promises were not to Lot They were to Abraham and to his house. To Abraham and his house. We find here that Lot has a lot to be criticized. But Lot is in love with Sodom. We find in the New Testament that Lot vexed his righteous soul day by day and seeing and hearing. There's a lot to condemn Lot for. But God remembered the covenant promised to Abraham. And therefore God spared Lot. Folks, we're children of Abraham by faith. We find that in the New Testament as well. Why has God spared me and not my grandfather, which I told some of you in Sunday school last week a little bit about? Why did God spare my father and not my father's brother, whose greatest claim to fame and life was he started some porn web ring? Why does God spare here and not there simply because of covenant grace and nothing else? And so the salvation of lot, secondly, is a picture of covenant grace. Thirdly, God did everything necessary for the salvation of Lot. I have heard some Arminians say that God has done everything for your salvation, and now he's waiting for you to do the last part. Well, that's heresy. That's nonsense. God did everything for the salvation of Lot. God did not have to send angels to Sodom to deliver Lot. God would have been fully just to lead him there, but God sent angels. And even when God sent angels, lots dilly-dallying Lot's hanging around until the time when the angels finally take a hold of Lot's hand and Lot's wife's hand and Lot's daughter's hand and drags them out. But the sin God did everything for my soul. And if God had left one thing to my soul in order to be saved, I would be lost. Oh, but whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord, so you better call. Yes, you better. But God has declared that his people will be da be made willy in the day of his power. Why did I call upon God only because he was calling upon upon me? I did not call upon him. I answered when he called upon me. If Lot had been left to his own devices, he would never have left the city. We find I believe that these angels did not even want to spend the night in the city. They met him at the gate of the city. Uh it says in the gate. And that doesn't literally mean it was right there at the gate, but it was at the at the Court or the seat of authority in the city, which was typically right at the gate. Lot gets the angels to come in further than they probably wanted to go into such a way And then Lot says, Well, stay with me. No, we will stay in the street. We're not going to sleep in this place. And finally, Lot convinces them to come into his house and he prepares a feast for them. And we we know the rest of the story. These angels did not even want to come into the s into the city, but they were sent there by Jehovah into a wicked place to save an elect child of God who wasn't living right. Isn't that a picture of salvation? We also find that Satan and his minions did everything they could to drag Lot down. Satan and his minions did everything they could to prevent the deliverance of Lot. Look at verse 19. And they said, stand back. And they said again, this one fellow came in to sojourn, and will he needs be a judge? Now will we deal worse with thee than with them And they pressed sore upon the door of the man, even Lot, and came near to break down the door Lot we're going to do worse to you than we would do to these men that are coming to you. This is just a side track on the sodomites on the homosexuals of our day. But if you look there back to verse 7, Lot says, I pray you Brethren, do not so wickedly. Behold, now I have two daughters which have not known men. Let me, I pray you, bring them out unto you, and do ye unto them as is good in your s in your eyes, only unto these men do nothing, for they are come that for therefore came they under the shadow of my roof. What does that seem to indicate to you? I believe it indicates that homosexuality is worse than adultery. The homosexuality is viewed as God as worse than fornication. They were given the lesser evil. Okay? You want to rape these men Rape my daughters instead. And their response is, if you don't let us rape them, we'll rape you. Tell me God doesn't hate homosexuality. Tell me it is not an evil above evils. But that's not the point of our message today. The fifth thing we see about Lot, the fourth is that Satan and his minions did everything they could to get Lot. The fifth thing we see is that Lot was pulled into the house by the ministers of Jehovah. He was pulled into the house, verse 10. But the men put forth their hands and pulled Lot into the house to them and shut the door. No man can come unto me except my father which has sent me, draw him, and I will raise him up at the last day. Jude 21 verse 23, and others saved with fear, pulling them out of the fire, hating him in the garments that are polluted with the flesh. Folks No man suddenly decides, I'm going to go to Jehovah. No man can come unto me except my Father which has sent me, draw him. Folks, Lot would not have come back in the house if the angels hadn't appled him I don't care how righteous you think you are, you would not be saved if the Spirit of God had not grabbed a hold of you and pulled you in. Salvation is of the Lord. But then number six, the door was shut behind Lot. And our dear brother so clearly and eloquently this morning mentioned the closing of the door of the ark. And we have the ten virgins, five wise and five foolish, and the wise went in. And what happened to the door? It was shut. And it could not be opened after they were entered in. No one entered the ark after the door was shut. No one entered Lot's dwelling after the door was shut. The foolish virgins did not enter into the feast after the door was shut. God shuts his people in. And so we find that the door was shut. The Lord shut Noah in, we find in Genesis chapter 7, verse 16. Number 7. Those outside the door were blinded. Look at verse eleven. And they smote the men, as the angels smote the men that were at the door with blindness, both small and great. So that they wearied themselves to find the door. And that last phrase that they wearied themselves to find the door is very significant. The first time I read in a commentary that this was not literal blindness, but physical blindness, but figurative blindness, spiritual blindness, I thought, that doesn't sound right. I think they can't be. I I thought, no, no, this this must be a liberal commentator. He's wrong. But then they got to studying it. No one led them home No one took him by the hand as they took Paul after his blindness and led Paul home. Rather it says they wearied themselves to find the door. What were we here for? What were we doing What were we about? And then I got to comparing that with the New Testament on two occasions. One where the multitude wants to throw Christ over the precipice and he just walks through the midst and disappears And in another time, when they took Christ, they were going to stone him, and he just walked out of the midst. And they got to thinking about this. They wearied themselves to find the door. They just lost interest And folks, is that not a picture of the lost man who has no interest in Christ? And we find over and over again in Scripture that the rest were blinded In fact the Pharisees said to Christ, Are we blind also? You see, the man who is not elect He loses all interest in Christ. He cares nothing for the door. It means nothing to him. He will go to his own destruction because the Spirit of God is blind to the minds of them that believe not. Or actually it seems I I crossed two verses there. The God of this world hath blinded the minds of them that believe not. But we also find that Christ will send them a strong delusion that they'll believe a lie. These men who were so intent, we've got to have these men that came, God shut the door, and they just walked away. They got tired of the whole business. They wearied themselves to find the door. And folks, how often we witness to someone I mentioned in passing last week a lady that Penny and I were talking to, and five or six times we tried to turn the conversation to spiritual things, and it wasn't happening. She had no interest in it. The conversation drifted away every time. Folks, why am I inside the door and not outside the door? Why are you inside the door and not losing all interest and wearying to find the door for what do we find in Scripture I am the door. By me, if any man enter in, I am the door of the sheep. I am the door. By me, if any man enter in, he shall be saved. Number eight. Lot continued in Sodom until the time of destruction. Lot dilly dallied, as they say. And fooled around in Sodom, and bided his time, until finally the angels took his hand and drew him out, but only before the destruction. And so we are saved by grace. We are made fully righteous before the judgment of God. We are made righteous in the eyes of our Savior, and yet we still continue in this world of sin. And like Paul in moments of conviction, we pray, O wretched man that I am, who shall deliver me from the body of this death? And like Lot in times of temptation, we say, Oh, but it's a little one. Oh, this is Lord, this is just a little one. Can I keep this little sin over here? But I like this entertainment, but this this satisfies me. When rather we should be satisfied with nothing but Christ and his righteousness. And so we who have entered in through the door of Christ. Continue in this world, but God will surely deliver us from the judgment. When his time comes, he'll take us by the hand. And he'll drag us And so the first thing we see here is a beautiful, glorious picture, allegory of salvation. deliverance of lot. But the second major point I'd have you to see this morning is this passage gives us a warning of perdition. Gives us a warning that there is a judgment. And we must make sure we're in For we find in verse seventeen, and it came to pass when they had brought them forth abroad, as the angels had brought them forth abroad, that he said, escape for thy life. Run for your life. Escape for your life. Look not behind thee, neither stay thou in the plain. Escape to the mountains, lest thou be consumed. And then verse 24, then the Lord rained upon Sodom and Gomorrah brimstone and fire from the Lord out of heaven. And he overthrew those cities and all the plain and all the inhabitants of the cities and all that grew upon the which grew upon the ground. But Lot's wife looked back from behind him, and she became a pillar of salt. Folks, Lot's wife saw the angels. She had to know who they were Lot's wife probably helped prepare the feast. When Lot prepared a feast, his wife probably helped in preparing the feast for these angels. Lot's wife's hand touched the hand of an angel. For the angel grabbed her by the hand and dragged her out. We don't know her name. We do not know the name of Latois. Her name is not recorded in Scripture. Lot's name is recorded in Scripture. And Lot's name is recorded in the Lamb's Book of Life. His wife's name is not recorded in Scripture, and her name is not recorded in the Lamb's Book of Life. Folks, what a what a warning of perdition. She had blessings that no one else in Sodom had. The men that came, the men of Sodom that came didn't recognize these as angels. The men of Sodom were blinded, did not even have any more interest in it. Lot's own sons-in-law thought he was as one that mocked. But her hand touched the hand of an angel. She was given every opportunity, and she was given the final warning. Don't look back. And any man having put his hand to the plow and looking back is not fit for the kingdom of God. Hebrews 10, verse 35, and following, cast not away therefore your confidence, which hath great recompense of reward. For ye have need of patience, that after ye have done the will of God ye might receive the promise. For yet a little while, and he that shall come will come, and will not tarry Now the just shall live by faith. If any man draw back, my soul shall have no pleasure in him. But we are not of them that draw back unto perdition, but of them that believe unto the saving of the soul. Work out your own salvation with fear and trembling. Let him that thinketh that he standeth take heed. Lest he fall. Folks, we must be ever on guard. And we can find all kinds of reasons that Lot's wife may have looked back. She had at least two daughters behind her. Her family could have caused her. to look back. She had her home and her jewelry, her possessions. They could have caused her to look back. I'm sure she had friends and acquaintances. They could have caused her to look back. But folks, this world is not our home. The pleasures of this world are not our joys. The relationships of this world are not our family. That's right. There are absolutes and there are solids in the zinc battery. She may have had many things to cause her to look back, but she looked back to the destruction of her soul. Uh the book of Jude we don't necessarily have to give Jude a chapter because it only has one, but in the book of Jude the the only chapter, chapter one, verse twenty and twenty-one. But ye beloved Build up yourselves in the most holy faith. Praying in the Holy Ghost. Keep yourselves in the love of God. Looking for the mercy of the Lord Jesus Christ unto eternal life. And that word keep means preserve, it means guard, it means attend as you attend a garden. Keep yourselves in the love of God. And so this passage gives us a beautiful picture of salvation, a great warning of perdition. But finally, this passage, this account of Luke, gives us a foretaste of justification. A foretaste of justification. Our brother read from 2 Peter chapter 2 during Sunday school. I'd like you to turn back there with me again. 2 Peter chapter 2. And I'd like to read verses 4 through 9 because they relate very closely, and I had them in my notes before our brother referred to them in Sunday school, and you'll see the connection. 1 Peter chapter 2, starting in verse 4, for if God spared not the angels that sinned, but cast them down to hell and delivered them in the chains of darkness to be reserved unto judgment. And spared not the old world, but saved Noah, the eighth person, a preacher of righteousness. Bringing in the flood upon the world of the ungodly, and turning the cities of Sodom and Gomorrah into ash, condemning them with an overflow. making them an example ensample unto those that after should be live ungodly, and delivered just lot, vexed with the filthy conversation of the wicked For that righteous man, dwelling among them, and seeing and hearing, vexed his righteous soul from day to day with their unlawful deeds. The Lord knoweth how to deliver the godly out of temptation, and to reserve the unjust under the day of judgment to be punished. Oh folks, oh wretched man that I am, who shall deliver me from the body of this death? I thank God through Jesus Christ, my Lord. Lord. Folks, Lot wasn't a perfect man. I won't ask how many perfect believers there are here this morning. But Lot had a foretaste of justification. That God would not leave him to the minions of Satan. That God would not allow him to lose hold of the angel's hand. That God would not destroy the city until Lot was delivered. Lost justification was guaranteed. It was assured. Romans chapter 8. Turn there with me too. We're not late on time. Turn to Romans chapter 8. And we'll begin to wrap this up. Romans chapter 8, verse 1. There is therefore now no condemnation to them which are in Christ Jesus, who walk not after the flesh, but after the Spirit And then drop down to verse 29 of Romans chapter 1. For whom he did foreknow, he also did predestinate to be conformed to the image of his Son, that he might be the firstborn among many brethren. Moreover, whom he did predestinate, them he also called. And whom he called, them he also justified And whom he justified, them he also glorified. Everyone that was predestinated was called. Everyone that was called was justified, and everyone that was justified was glorified. No one came in that was not predestinated And therefore, because they were not predestinated, they were not called. And because they were not called, they were not justified. And because they were not justified, they were not glorified. God started the work, arranged the work, continued the work, and finished the work. What a glorious picture of justification that Lot who wanted to, no, let me go over to this city. Lot who was vexing his righteous soul because where he is living. God still predestinated him, called him, justified him, and glorified him. Two last passages in conclusion. Amos 4, verse 11 to 13. There God says, I, speaking of Israel, I have overcome some of you as God overthrew correctly. I have overthrown some of you as God overthrew Sodom and Gomorrah. And ye were as firebrands plucked out of the burning. Yet have ye not returned unto me, saith the Lord. Therefore, thus will I do unto thee, O Israel. And because I will do this unto thee, prepare to meet thy God, O Israel. For lo, he hath that for lo, he that formed the mountains, and created the wind, and declared unto man what his thoughts that maketh the morning darkness and treadeth upon the high places of the earth, the Lord of hosts Is his name. Prepare to make thy God. God warned Israel, I've overthrown some of you, just like I overthrew Sodom and Gomorrah. How many came out of Egypt following Moses and never went into the promise? And then going to the book of Jude again, verse 20 through 25. This is the benediction of the book of Jude. But ye brethren, build up yourselves in the most holy faith, praying in the Holy Ghost, keep yourselves in the love of God, looking for the mercy of our Lord Jesus Christ unto eternal life. And of some have compassion, making a difference. And of others save with fear, pulling them out of the fire, hating even the garments spotted with the flesh. Now unto him that is able to keep you from falling, and to preserve you faultless before the presence of his glory with exceeding joy. To the only wise God and our Savior be glory and majesty, dominion, and power, both now and forever. Amen. May God teach us much from the salvation of Lot. Let us stand for prayer. O Lord, we thank you for your eternal love, your eternal choosing of thy people before the foundation of the world. We thank you, Father, that you will ordain and direct every circumstance to bring us to faith in Christ. We thank you, Lord, that you will protect us from the minions of Satan who would drag us away. And Father, we thank you that when the day comes, you'll even take us by the hand and lead us to glory. Bless us, thy people, with thy truth this day. In Jesus' name. Amen. Return to our closing hymn now. It's in your blue song book. Number two hundred and seventy-six. Jesus paid it all. Two hundred and seventy-six in our blue hymn book Two seventy six, we sing all four sounds I give my Savior say I straight and green and small Nickness watch and pray finding me All to him I home in the grandson stain. He washed with white as soon as me thy bite, I car and I'm alone. And chase the leopard's boss and held the heart of so Jesus made it all all to him by Sin I've left the crimson stay Awash with white snow For nothing could have I Whereby thy grace to claim I was my garments white In the blood of Calvary's Lamp, Jesus made it all to divide all sin and after. The crimson stay in the waste is white as stone And when before the throne I stand in Jesus died my soul to save I shall still repeat Jesus painted all All through him I o Saint has that prince of state He was in white as snow. Amen. Aimed down since we see it.