Father, it is difficult for many of us to believe and comprehend that this is the last Sunday of the year. And indeed the last Sunday of the first quarter century. How quickly rushes by The children and even the young adults don't fully comprehend that. But indeed this life is a vapor. Father, we thank you and praise you that we are able today to gather for worship. O Lord, may we redeem this time, this morning. May our time of not forsaking the assembly together be used profitably. Father, today may we indeed sing unto the Lord the new song. Not particularly a number from the book that we've never sung. But indeed, Lord, the new song of Scripture is the song of the Redeemed Spirit singing in joy to the Redeemer. May we read your word afresh and anew, not with wandering minds, but with minds and hearts that are engaged by the Scripture. May you open our ears that we might hear thy truth. May we watch with you and with one another in prayer. Father, bless our assembly in this place today we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. I'm reading our call to worship this morning from the book of Revelation, the 21st chapter, verses 5 and 6. And he that sat upon the throne said, Behold, I make all things new. And he said unto me, Write, for these words are true and faithful. And he said unto me, It is done. I am Alpha and Omega, the beginning and the end. I will give to him that is a thirst of the fountain of the water of life of freedom. Amen. To drink of that fountain of water of life. What a glorious thing. Someday you will. And indeed, even now we are. Number 206, Angels from the Realms of Glory. 206 in your blue songbook. Today we close out our month with our final few Christmas songs. There's such a rich collection in the Majesty's Rejoice Hymnal that uh so it was nice to be able to sing them. 206, where we sing all four stanzas Angels from the realms of glory wing your vital ear. Story now proclaim as I worship, call them and worship. Worship Christ the New Morton Watching for your cross by night. God with man is not residing yonder shines. Call and worship, call and worship, worship Christ under. State is with your contemplations, right? Your visions be more sweet the great desire. Of nations he has seen his name common worship, common worship. Worship Christ a new born king. Saints The warly daughter standing, watching long suddenly standing. Then this temple shall up here all and worship, all and worship it. Worship Christ under born in To that end was he born a king indeed. And and the fully triumphant one shall he return. Well we thank you for uh that thank you for the violin accompaniment, uh Marissa. Trust your household is beginning to feel a little bit better, at least enough to make the trip. At this time we have a confessional reading. Please turn to the back of your bulletin. This morning we read from the 32nd article of the Belgian Confession regarding the order and the discipline of the Church. Christian, in what do you believe? Therefore, we admit only of that which tends to nourish and preserve, conquer, and unity, and to keep all men in obedience to God. For this purpose, excommunication or church discipline is requisite, with the several circumstances belonging to it, according to the Word of God. Last week, Brother Vince brought an explanation of the order of the church, that portion of the 32nd article. uh mention how the church is to be structured specifically by the word of God and some of the different things that ministers have to make a decision over. But this week we look at the church discipline that occurs in the gatherings of the saints Specifically even excommunication, what scenarios there are for excluding a person from gatherings. It's not simply supposed to happen because there's an individual in the congregation that you don't like that uh maybe isn't bringing forth enough money. or something of preference. No, but there's an actual process to it. And this morning I'll just read you a few scriptures that deal with it. I think that'll be a helpful thing for our consideration. It will consider both the process and the aim of excommunication. The first scenario that uh uh uh uh an individual should be left out of the company of the believers is is brought up in Matthew eighteen. It's when a brother trespasses against an individual and they do not repent In Matthew 18, verses 15 through 17, we read, Moreover, if thy brother trespass against thee, go and tell him his fault between thee and him alone. If he shall hear thee, thou hast gained thy brother. But if he will not hear thee, then take with thee one or two more, that in the mouth of two or three witnesses every word may be established. And if he shall neglect to hear them, tell it unto the church. But if he neglects to hear the church, let him be unto thee as an heathen man and a publican. And so if this individual does not repent, this individual that there's a process to it, first you go and approach him yourself, he's offended you. He doesn't repent, go and tell two or three others. If he still doesn't repent, go and tell the church. If he still doesn't repent, then what's the result? He becomes unto you as a heathen man and a publican. We see him at that point as an unbeliever. And at that point that individual should not be partaking of the Lord's Supper. We read in the scriptures that those that partake of the Lord's Supper should not take of it unworthily And so the aim there is to create reconciliation, to create unity within the body. And there is that process. You approach first alone, and then with a few others, and then before the congregation, before the church, there needs to be an understanding that this individual will not repent. There's another situation that's brought up in 1 Corinthians about a brother that's in an unrepentant, serious sin And I'll just read that portion to you. I think that's helpful for us to consider as well. First Corinthians five, verses one through six, we read, It is reported commonly that there is fornication among you, and such fornication as is not so much as named among the Gentiles. that one should have his father's wife. And ye are puffed up, and have not rather mourn that he that hath done this deed might be taken away from among you And we read later in verse 4, In the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, when you are gathered together, and my Spirit with the power of our Lord Jesus Christ To deliver such an one unto Satan for the destruction of the flesh, that the Spirit may be saved in the day of our Lord Jesus Your glory is not good. Know ye not that a little leaven leaveneth the whole lump. And so They're told to put this individual out of their gathering. And the aim there is to save that rebel's spirit. And of course, to prevent the church from leaven That little bit of corruption that comes in from that individual who's not repentant can ruin, can have an impact on the other members of the congregation. So there's a purpose there in keeping that individual out They're to be taken away from among you. And even as uh we read that language, to deliver such an one unto Satan for the destruction of the flesh. And the hope there is that the rebel will see the seriousness of this sin and will repent. You have a care for that individual's soul. And you know, speaking of the leaven that that is harmful to the church, it's especially harmful when churches will keep a pastor that's in an unrepentant serious sin. They'll keep him in that role there just because he's good at what he does. He might be a really good speaker. He's able to keep the money flowing. He's able to keep the uh rich members uh entertained in the church, and so they keep him I think that's the warning that the Apostle Paul is talking about. You are puffed up. You care more about keeping the glory of your church rather than weeding out and taking out the things that are bad. So it's something to be mindful of. There's a few other instances that are mentioned that require church discipline and expulsion. In 1 Corinthians 5. 11 we read, But now I have written unto you not to keep company If any man that is called a brother, be a fornicator, or covetous, or an idolater, or a railer, or a drunkard, or an extortioner, with such an one know not to eat So even when you gather, there if there's this individual that's not repenting of serious then, you should just you should y you should make it declared and known that hey, he's not gonna gather with us. He's not gonna gather in our times of fellowship. And there's those that cause division through false doctrine. In Romans 16 and verse 17 we read, Now I beseech you, brethren, mark them which cause divisions and offenses contrary to the doctrine which ye have learned, and avoid them. In 2 Thessalonians 3 and 6 we read, Now we command you, brethren, in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, that ye withdraw yourselves from every brother that walketh disorderly, and not after the tradition which he received of us. And we do have to understand this is a brother who's an open sin and they don't want to repent. This isn't to say we will only have a membership Uh in the church of those who are perfectly sinless. No, that's not gonna happen. We all still deal with the flesh and we're fighting against it But there's a question of is there somebody in an uh in an open and unrepentant sin? And if they are, they're not willing to repent of it. They say, No, I still love this thing, I'm gonna do it. I don't care what the church says, I don't care what the scripture says That member ought to be left out of the gathering. And what do these all do? All of these instances, they're removing the unrepentant trespasser from the fellowship, and it occurs to warn the disobedient individual about the seriousness of their sin This this this is a serious thing. It's it's a good thing for them to know right now that hey, I can't belong in this gathering of the saints anymore. And this is a serious thing because Um, perhaps I'm engaged in a sin that will take me directly into hell. Perhaps this is showing that I don't truly know the Lord Jesus Christ. And it also occurs to protect the church. You know, people need to think about this. It isn't just about being kind to the one individual, but you have to protect the church. That leaven can spread. And Ephesians four, verses fifteen through sixteen we read, But speaking the truth and love may grow up into him in all things, which is the head even Christ, from whom the whole body fitly joined together. and compacted by that which every joint supplieth, according to the effectual working and the measure of every part, maketh increase of the body unto the edifying of itself in love. If you truly care about the increase of the body of Christ, the church, if you care about its being edified. then you'll likewise care about keeping it pure, keeping it protected from any harm, any disease that will come and impact the minds, the other individuals that are there in the church. Thank you very much, Anton. Uh it's very difficult when he finishes not to get up here and And begin preaching. One thing I would comment on is that phrase, the increase of the body in love. Church demonstr church discipline is one of the greatest demonstrations of love He whom he loveth, he chasteneth, and scourgeth every son it receiveth. And the purpose of church discipline is always the return of the wandering. It is always the correction. And if a congregation really doesn't care about one another, and if a pastor and church leadership do not really care about the sheep They let discipline go. But where there is a true love of the brethren, there will be discipline, just like we do not let a three-year-old play around the stove and we smack their hand when they try to touch it. Because we love them. And so it is with church discipline as well. It is always designed for the return of the wanderer because we love one another. Thank you very much, brother. Um Brother Vince filled in very well last week, but we're glad to have you back. Well, let us join our hearts together in prayer this morning. Gracious Father, we thank you for your everlasting love. That you have loved us with an everlasting love. We thank you, Father, that indeed you do bring bring discipline and correction into the lives of your children. Uh Father, that we might not wander astray, yea, even we find that the good shepherd leaves the ninety-nine in the full and goes to seek that one wandering sheep And so, Father, we thank you for your great love for your people. Lord, we thank you. We thank you this morning that we can gather together. We thank you, Father, for the fellowship of the brethren. We thank you that where we gather you are in the midst. And Lord, that that presence of Christ with us even extends beyond simply our physical gathering here. Lord, when those words were inspired and written, it was in an age when they were not able to meet over the electronic means that we have today. But Father, we thank you that even though we are a congregation that is often scattered by miles, yet we are unified by Christ, our one mercy seat. And we thank you for that, and pray your blessing upon us um that we might indeed all be to one another iron that sharpens iron. That we might uh indeed all be to one another a constant witness testimony reminder. Lord even as we saw this week with the scripture verses that were shared in a a broad group over the phones. Lord, that is a very edifying and good exercise for the body of Christ to be sharing verses with one with another that have been a blessing. and an encouragement. Lord, this fellowship that we have within Mission Bible Church indeed is a gift from thee. At this season of the year, we think of giving gifts and receiving. But Lord, we have received a marvelous blessing and gift from thee, and we thank you for it. Father, we pray, Lord, that you would bless our congregation. Lord, we know that there is much sickness at this time, both the seasonal illnesses going around and various ones from the congregation and families being smitten with it. And then Lord, long-standing illnesses as well And Father, even just the deterioration of these bodies in which we live, the effects of the curse and the fall upon us that that they these bodies which were created for eternity were cursed in the fall And the word fall is apt because we know how likely we are to fall as we age. And we know that these bodies are wearing out and wearing thin. Father, we thank you that as are our days, so will thy grace be. And so, Father, strengthen your people. Lord, we pray that you would defeat the cancer which many are fighting. Father, this is the disease of our of our generation. But Father, it is naught with thee. And so, Father, we pray for the healing of your people. We pray that you would overcome the other various illnesses that that we have with with joints and backs and necks and knees and The inner workings of these bodies. Father, these things we lay before you, calling upon the great physician of the sick to be indeed our healer. Father, we pray for the emotional needs of your people. Father, there are many unspoken requests There are many burdens that are upon the hearts of your people that that are not even utterable to one another. And yet, Father, these are very real, deep, painful concerns. And Father, we lift them up before you in obedience, bearing one another's burdens, and calling upon you, Father, to work in each of these situations. Father, we um uh we know that there are very heavy concerns on the hearts of your people Father, we pray for the supply of your people. Lord, we thank you that you have promised to supply all of our needs according to the rich that your riches and glory. Father, we see the red cardinals at this time of year. They stop by the bird feeders of our houses. And Lord, we know that you provide for them. We even see the winter blooms, the winter flowers, and Lord, we know that you clothed those flowers and you clothed Solomon, and yet in all of Solomon's glory he was not arrayed like a flower. And Father, we find in your word the glorious truth that if you feed the birds and you clothe the flowers, Lord, how much more will you care for your children? So Father, we know that there are many of our fellowship lords that look towards the new year and they see bills coming due. They see retirement looming closer and closer. They see the needs of the body. And Lord, there is cause for concern. But Father, we cast all of our care upon you. Father, may you provide the employment that is needed. May you imply you provide the resources that are needed. May you provide the business that is needed. Lord, may you provide the better employment, the better situations, Father. And Lord, we thank you that we can cast these things upon you, for you care for us. Father, one of the heaviest burdens of the hearts of this congregation is the multitude of family members close to the to this congregation that simply do not know Christ Some who would claim the name of Christ, and yet their works betray their profession. Some who have made a profession of faith at one time And yet now are as are walking as far from that profession as they could. Some who were brought up within the church were catechized who member memorized massive portions of Scripture and yet today we see them walking astray. But Father, you are the God that returns the prodigal. You are the God that takes the self-righteous Saul and turns him into the repentant Paul. And so, Father, we pray for our lost children, parents, aunts and uncles, brothers and sisters, cousins. And Lord, as we often say in an obituary and other relatives, we pray for them, O God. For Lord, indeed, as the Apostle Paul said, that he would have counted himself accursed for his kinsmen. So Lord, if we could save them, we certainly would. But oh Lord, as Jonah learned in the well belly of the whale, salvation is of the Lord. And so, Father, may you save. Lord, we pray for the persecuted church abroad. Uh Lord, we see that the government of our own country has attacked ISIS in Nigeria. The excuse is because of the persecution of Christians. But Lord, I wonder if there are not other motives. But Father, we pray for those brethren, those believers, that have known such Fear of death because of their faith. Father, may you bless and protect them. And Lord, may you give great wisdom to the leaders of this nation. Lord, that they might act according to thy truth. Lord, even the heart of a wicked king is in the hand of the Lord. And so, Father, may you use wicked men for the protection of your people, we pray. Father, we do pray for our nation. Lord, as we approach unbelievably the end of another, the end of the first quarter of this century Lord, we wonder how much longer your mercy will be extended to this land. For indeed we are ripe for judgment But Lord, so was Nineveh. And O Father, rather than judgment you sent revival. And so, Father, we pray that you would send a true revival in our land, not simply a group of young people being emotionally swayed. But rather a true return to the gospel of Christ, a true confession of sin. A true acknowledging of our unworthiness before Thee, and seeking the Lord may be found. Father, may you bless to these ends we pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Please open your Bibles to Luke chapter twelve for our responsive reading this morning. Once you found Luke twelve in your Bible, please rise We'll responsibly read Luke twelve, verses fifteen through thirty-one. And he said unto them, Take heed and beware of covetousness, for a man's life consisteth not in the abundance of the things which he possesseth. And he spake a parable unto them, saying, The ground of a certain rich man brought forth plentifully. And he thought within himself, saying, What shall I do? Because I have no room where to bestow my fruits. And he said, This will I do. I will pull down my barns and I will build greater. And there will I bestow all my fruits and my goods. And I will say to my soul, soul, thou hast much goods laid up for many years. Take thine ease, eat, drink, and be merry. But God said unto him, Thou fool, this night thy soul shall be required of thee. Then who shall those things be which thou hast provided So is he that layeth up treasure for himself and is not rich toward God. And he said unto his disciples, Therefore I say unto you, take no thought for your life what ye shall leave Neither for the body what he shall put on. The life is more than meat, and the body is more than ramen. Consider the ravens, for they neither sow nor eat. Which neither have storehouse nor barn, and God feedeth them. How much more are ye better than the fowls? And which of you, with taking thought, can add to his stature one cubit? If ye then be not able to do that thing which is least, why take ye thought for the rest? Consider the lilies, how they grow, they toil not, they spin not, and yet I say unto you that Solomon And all his glory was not arrayed like one of these. If they God so clothed the grass which is today in the field and tomorrow is cast into the oven How much more will he clothe you, ye of little faith? And seek not ye what ye shall eat or what ye shall drink, neither be ye of doubtful mind For all these things do the nations of the world seek after, and your Father knoweth that ye have need of these things, and altogether seek ye the kingdom of God And all these things shall be added unto you. May the Lord add a rich blessing to the reading and hearing of his holy word. Surely is a favored passage. It's a wonderful section of scripture. Return to our sermon psalm for today. It's number 37A in your song book. Number 37A Have no disturbing thoughts. It's to the tune, O God, our help in ages past. St. Anne is the name of that platoon. Number 37a, an adaptation of the first portion of Psalm 37, all five stanzas along with the Amen. And we are envy through the work and make witness. For he led by God wing Christ, to be the doubt. Brown white black green and tender white, they also pay no way. Send thou by cross down thou take God Well now select your link for Thy food joy in the Lord military gift for which thy heart take hold. God make thy way unto the Lord cross in the whole. And like the morning writes, thy righteousness, and he thy judgment shall Now bring for him children. Thank you very much. Turn in your Bible with me this morning, please, to the book of Psalms and to the 90th Psalm. Psalm ninety in the scriptures this morning. Forgive me if my throat fills up. Uh don't worry I'm not sick. It's just the season we're in. And uh I think a lot of people get a thickness in the throat. I heard a man preaching one time and he said that uh he had a frog in his throat. And we've probably heard that expression before, but this man went on on to say it wasn't too bad that he had a throg frog in his throat. The problem was the frog kept crossing his legs. Well, if my throat Fills up on me this morning. Please pardon the clearing of my throat. If you have your place now in the 90th Psalm. Read along with me silently and give close attention to the Word of God as I read from this precious inspired book. Lord, thou hast been our dwelling place in all generations. Before the mountains were brought forth, or ever thou hast formed the earth and the world, even from everlasting to everlasting, thou art God. Thou turnest man to destruction, and sayest, Return, ye children of men. For a thousand years in thy sight are but as yesterday when it is passed, and as a watch in the night Thou carriest them away as with a flood. They are as a sleep in the morning. They are like grass which groweth up. In the morning it flourisheth and groweth up. In the evening it is cut down and withereth For we are consumed by thine anger, and by thy wrath are we troubled. Thou hast set our iniquities before thee, our secret sins in the light of thy countenance. For all our days are passed away in thy wrath. We spend our years as a tale that is told. The days of our years are three score years and ten. And if by reason of strength they be four score years, yet is their strength labor and sorrow. for it is soon cut off, and we fly away. Who knoweth the power of thine anger? Even according to thy fear, so is thy wrath So teach us to number our days, that we may apply our hearts unto wisdom. Return, O Lord, how long? And let it repent thee concerning thy servants. Oh, satisfy us early with thy mercy, that we may rejoice and be glad all our days. Make us glad, according to the days wherein thou hast afflicted us, and the years wherein we have seen evil. Let thy work appear unto thy servants, and thy glory unto their children. And let the beauty of the Lord our God be upon us. And establish thou the work of our hands upon us, yea, the work of our hands. Establish thou it. Folks, let us pray. Oh Lord, return it to us, O Father. Return early. Oh Lord, our days are few Teach us to number our days that we may apply our hearts to wisdom. Father, bless thy word to us this day. In Jesus' name. Amen. How many of you plan to wake up tomorrow morning? How many of you will? Oh, it is appointed in the man once die, and after this the judgment We find here in this passage that the days of our sojourn are short. The days of our years are three score years and ten. And if by reason of strength they be fourscore years Yet is their strength labor and sorrow, for it is soon cut off, and we fly away. Oh, some of you have already passed your expiration date. I was going through the cabinets and through the freezer this week because over the holidays I've been eating things that I don't usually eat And I found quite a few things that had expired back in November. And I ate them anyway. We tend to expand those dates, don't we? And God is gracious to some of us to expand those dates beyond 70 and even beyond 80. But folks, that 12th verse is what really brought me to the passage. So teach us to number our days. that we may apply our hearts unto wisdom. We are blessed in our congregation to have quite a few that didn't see the year 2000. They were yet a twinkle in their mother's eye, as we say. They were yet unborn. But those of us who predate the millennium, born back in the 1900s I remember as I was a child we used to think about people born in the eighteen hundreds and how old they must be, because when I was ten, twelve, thirteen years old, I walked with World War One veterans. And knew them well. And my generation are the children of World War II veterans And there were Civil War veterans that my grandfather walked with. And when we were approaching the year 2000 We were so excited about a new century, but folks it's a quarter done. We are finishing the first quarter of this century. And I remember well the bicentennial in Seven in 1776. No, I don't remember that one. I remember the Bys Nedio in 1976. And thinking of how old I would be when the 250th anniversary rolled around, but it's this summer. Folks Life is short. Life is very short. Life is rushing by Oh Lord, so teach us to number our days So the first thing I would point out to you from this psalm is that the brevity of our life should point us to the eternality of God. The brevity of our own lives should cause us to consider the eternality of God. Look at verse 1. Lord, thou hast been our dwelling place in all generations. Now that word generations Means exactly what it says. The thought is well conveyed in our English, but the Hebrew word on which it is based is a word which means Time periods. And that's what generations are. We find the generations expounded to us in the Old Testament and the New Testament as well. And so-and-so begat so-and-so, and he begat so-and-so. It was a time period. It was a parenthesis in history, if you want to call it that. Lord, thou hast been our dwelling place in all time periods. You see, God told Jeremiah, before I formed thee in the belly, I knew thee. Before thou camest forth, I ordained thee a prophet to the nations. God has been our dwelling place before we were born, folks. The babe, John the Baptist left in the womb of Elizabeth when it heard the voice of Mary. And that's so instructive that the babe in the womb hears. But folks, we are given this little parenthesis in history. You go to a cemetery and there are two dates on the tombstone. And we have no history of that individual before the first date. And that individual can add nothing after the second date. All there is is what is between those two dates But that does not exclude the fact that God has been our dwelling past before the first date. And God is the dwelling place of the elect forever after the second. And so, folks, that we only have this little parenthesis should turn our minds to the fact that before he laid the foundation of the world, verse 2. He's been our dwelling place. Oh, folks, rather than complain about the shortness of years. May we rejoice in the God who does not live by years. Who is not confined by a beginning and an end. For he declares, I am the Alpha and the Omega. And in him I have endless of endless days. I have endlessness of days. Because I am in Him. And so God is our Constant Folks, tell me one thing in this world that won't change. Okay, death. Yeah, it's appointed on the man wants to die. But folks, everything around us is changing. I love the word to the the old hymn, Abide with me, Henry Francis Light Wrote, swift to its close, ebbs out life's little day. Earth's joys grow dim, its glories pass away. Change and decay in all around I see, O thou who changest not. Abide with me. Folks, we can look at what is around us and see it falling apart by the day But folks, for the believer, the fact that we are dying turns our eyes to the glories of the God who changes not. The God who is our constant. And in Hebrews thirteen, uh verses we'll be looking at in Sunday school in a few weeks Wherefore Jesus also, that he might sanctify the people with his own blood, suffered without the gate. Let us therefore Uh let us go forth therefore unto him without the camp, bearing his reproach, for here we have no continuing city. But we seek one to come. Folks, we have no continuing city here, but we seek one to come. And again, in verse four of this psalm, for a thousand years in thy sight are but as yesterday when it has passed and as a watch in the night. Wow. How often you heard an older person say, boy, it just it just flew by Where did it go? Well, a thousand years with God is the day. There is no continuance there. Um Peter quotes that from that passage from um From Moses. Moses is the author of this psalm, by the way. But Peter quotes from him in 2 Peter 3, verse 8, But beloved, be not ignorant of this one thing, that a thousand days of the Lord uh That a day is with the Lord as a thousand years and a thousand years as a day. Folks, that our life is short. Should remind us that God's life is eternal. And so the brevity of our lives points us to the eternality of God But secondly, the brevity of our lives should drive us to repentance. It should drive us to repentance. Look at verse 3. Thou turnest man to destruction and sayest, Return, ye children of men. Folks, there's there's so much in this one verse that it should be a message all by itself. I'm often overwhelmed when I when I realized that I prepared a message and there's just just more food than we can some of you saw that at Christmas dinner. More food than we could ever eat. Folks, the word destruction there is the adjective form of the word dust. The noun form is dust. The adjective form is destruction. We can read this verse literally. Thou turnest man to dust. and says return. In other words, why did God tell Adam you came from dust and you're going back to dust? You were created from dust. You are being decreated back to dust. God turns man to dust and says, return See, the brevity of our life should urge us to repentance. When God said to man In the day you sin there sin thou eat thereof, and the day you sin thou shalt surely die? Did God do that to destroy man or to save him? God did it to destroy, not to destroy, but to save. God returns us to dust. And it is that fear of dust That drives us to repentance. You see, the brevity of life should drive us to repent. Lest we find out. Um look let me read for you uh Genesis three verse twenty-two and twenty-three And the Lord said, Behold, man has become as one of us to know good and evil. And now, lest he put forth his hand and take also the tree of life and eat thereof and live forever. Therefore the Lord sent him forth out of the garden to till the ground from whence he was taken. God said if we if we allow man access to the tree of life, he's going to reach out his own hand. He's going to try to find his own way of salvation. And so God shut the way to the tree of life and sent man out to till the ground. Go out there, Adam, every day, and deal with the dust. Because you came from dust and you're going back to dust. And you better repent. You better repent. So the fact that we are returning to dust should drive us to repentance. The wages of sin is death. But isn't that glorious? The wages of sin is dust But the gift of God is eternal life through Jesus Christ, our Lord. For despiseth thou the riches of his goodness and forbearance and long-suffering, not knowing that the goodness of God leadeth us to repentance. Look at verses 7 and 8 of our psalm. For we are consumed by thine anger, and by thy wrath are we troubled. We're consumed by his anger. God's angry with sin every day. And the wages of sin is death. It is the wrath of God on sin that causes these bodies to begin to ache and creak That brought about the curse. Thou hast set our iniquities before thee and our secret sins in the light of thy countenance. Our sins are set before God, that we might be motivated. Folks, if God were to look at our sins, are our sins set before God because He wants to examine them? Because He wants to see them? No! God doesn't want to see our sins Our sins are set before him that we might seek the Lord while we may be found. Verse 11. Who knoweth the power of thine anger? Even according to thy fear, so is thy wrath. Who knows the power of his anger? Literally what that means is who makes the connection between our sin and death? Who makes the connection between the wrath of God and the shortness of our days? Who makes the connection? That God Caus us to die in the body, that we might seek Him to live in the Spirit. So teach us to number our days that we might apply our hearts to wisdom. And so verse 13, return, O Lord, how long? Let it repent thee concerning thy servants. O, satisfy us early with thy mercy. Lord, don't let me live another day in this sin. May I repent. May I live in purity before Thee. Satisfy us early with thy mercy that we may rejoice and be glad all of our days. That the days of our sin may be gone, that the days of rejoicing in Him might come. Make us glad, according to the days when we wearin' thou so So the brevity of our life drives us to repentance. Number three, the brevity of our lives should urge us to diligence. They should urge us to diligence. Look at verse 10 and 12. The days of our lives are three score and ten years. There are three score years and ten. And if by reason of strength they be four scores, yet is their labor Sorry, let me read right. Yet is their strength labor and sorrow, for it is soon cut off, and we fly away. Let me read the verse again because I'm stumbling on it The days of our years are three-score years and ten. And if by reason of strength they, that's our days, Be fourscore years, yet is there, yet is the strength of our days, yet is their strength labor and sorrow For it, that is our days, our life, is soon cut off, and we fly away. Folks. Have you ever been doing something you enjoyed and realized it was almost done? And so you figure I better make the most of this. Wouldn't it be better if from a child we could have that same diligence for the things of the Lord. My father used to say over and over again, only one life will soon be past, only what's done for Christ will last. And I didn't understand those words when I was ten. I don't think I really got it when I was forty. But the days began to run away. The brevity of our lives should urge us to diligence. So teach us to number our days. that we may apply our hearts to wisdom. 14, O satisfy us early with thy mercies, that we may rejoice and be glad all of our days. And that phrase early with thy mercy makes us think of Ecclesiastes 12. 1 Remember now thy creator in the days of thy youth. Verse 15, make us glad according to the days wherein thou hast afflicted us. Do you want to get a whipping every day? I mean there's some kids that they just get a whipping every day. They never seem to learn. Oh Lord, make us glad according to the days wherein thou's afflicted us. May we look at the afflictions we've received from the Lord and say, Lord, thank you so much for that, because it's made everything that follows so much better. Before I was afflicted I went astray, but now I've kept thy word. It is good for me that I have been afflicted, that I might learn thy statutes. Jeremiah 31, verse 18 and 19. I have surely heard Ephraim bemoaning himself, Thou hast chastened me, and I was chastened as a bullock unaccoat custom to the yoke. Turn thou me, and I shall be turned, for thou art the Lord my God. Surely, after that I was turned, I repented And after that I was instructed, I smote upon my thigh, I was ashamed, yea, even confounded, because I did bear the reproach of my youth. Oh, may the brevity of our days urge us on to diligence in our Christian life. But look at verse 16. Let thy work appear unto thy servants, and thy glory unto their children. Oh Lord, may the brevity of life be upon me, and may thy work within my life, thy discipline thy rebuking to draw me to repentance, to urge me to diligence, to cause me to gaze upon the eternality of God. O Lord, may these things apply to thy be revealed to thy servant and to thy servant's children. May the next generation learn my lessons It's what it said. May the following generation not have to go through all that this generation's had to go through to find peace with God And righteousness with our God. These words which I command thee this day shall be in thine heart, Deuteronomy 6, and thou shalt teach them diligently. Diligently. That's what we're talking about, isn't it? The brevity of life our lives should urge us to diligence, diligently, unto thy children. Proverbs 19, 18, chasten thy son while there is hope. And let not thy soul spare for his crime. The brevity of our lives should warn us to conservation. That's number four. The brevity of our lives should warn us to conservation. The brevity of our lives should point us to the eternality of God. The brevity of our lives should drive us to repentance. The brevity of our lives should urge us to diligence. And the brevity of our lives should warn us to conservation. So teach us to number our days. You know folks when something's running out, you don't waste that drop. Someone in the desert who has a little canteen of water, boy, they don't let a drop go to waste When you're almost out of gas and you know you're ten miles to the next gas station. So you every time you go down a hill you at least I do, you pop the car in neutral and coast down the hill because you want to conserve every fume of that gas because it's almost gone. Oh folks, if we lived our lives that way. If the brevity of life would urge us to conservation of days, so teach us to number our days. Folks, that word number And again, this verse could be a message in itself. We think of numbering our days as in Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday But uh Kylan Delich commentary I would highly recommend that it's very technical and hard to read at times. But Kylan Delich pointed out actually from Ferdinand uh uh Hitzig, a commentator I'm not familiar with, but Kylan Delic quoting from and pointed out this to number our days is in itself equivalent to hourly contemplation contemplating the fleeting character and brevity of our lifetime. In other words, to to smooth that out, we think about numbering something But that term numbering our days doesn't just mean Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday. But you know how we apply numbers? This is the number one thing I need to do today And this is the number two thing I need to do today. And this is the number three thing I need today. And so what the commentators are telling us is this concept of numbering our days means to apply numbers to the hours. This is hour one. What must I do with not hour one? And this is our two. Today, between six and seven o'clock, I need to be reading scripture. And between seven and seven thirty, I need to be in prayer. And at eight, I need to be doing this. Folks, that's truly numbering our days. Putting numbers in our day, prioritizing this is the number one thing which I must do today. I must walk with God. This is the number two thing I must day. I must bear the burdens of the brethren. This is the number three thing I must do today, and so on. Folks The shortness of our days should urge us to conservation, warn us to conservation. Folks, that's redeeming the time. That is using not just okay, Tuesday's the Lord's, but no, every hour of the day belonging to our God. It gives us a whole new aspect of redeeming the time. Number five. The brevity of our lives should inspire us to gratitude. It should inspire us to gratitude. Lord, thank you for this one. Thank you for this day. If you look at the title of the psalm, it's a psalm of Moses. Moses wrote this psalm when the children of Israel were in the wilderness. And he's telling the children of Israel, God has been our dwelling place in all generations. What do we know about the children of Israel? Well, they didn't live in tents in Egypt. And we think of them as slaves in Egypt, but it wasn't a brutal slavery like we like we've heard of many times. in recent years. Or rather their slavery was a enforced servitude. But they lived in Egyptian houses. Remember in when they're out in the wilderness they look back to the leeks and garlics. They had eaten pretty well. They had had been well fed and well supplied, and they had lived in comfortable Egyptian-style houses, but now they're in the wilderness. And they have manna and quail. Folks, a lot of believers lived pretty well in the world. They lived pretty comfortably in sin. But now they've left all the pleasures of this world behind and come out into the wilderness and found God to be their dwelling place. And I know of many people who gave up very lucrative careers Because those careers were involved with some form of sin or iniquity. And he said, I can't do that anymore. I can't be involved with that. And so I will take a cut in pay, I will take a cut in lifestyle, I will sacrifice the things of this life. But folks, the brevity of our day should make us thankful for every day the Lord gives us. And thankful that He's delivered us from those things and delivered us from the destruction of days that is so common to the things of this life. Lord, thou hast been our dwelling place. The children of Israel didn't have a place. They moved all over the place. They moved all about. But Lord, thou hast been our dwelling place. We dwell in Him in all generations. Before the mountains were brought forth, Wherever thou hast formed the earth and the world from everlasting to everlasting, thou art God. The brevity of our lives points us to the eternality of God The brevity of our lives should drive us to repentance. The brevity of our lives should urge us to diligence. The brevity of our lives should warn us to conservation And the brevity of our lives should inspire us to gratitude. Folks, a few concluding thoughts, and honestly, the concluding thoughts could be a message in and of themselves, so I'm just going to read them very quickly. Boast not thyself of tomorrow, for thou knowest not what a day may bring forth. That's the passage we read for our responsive reading this morning. I began with the question, how many of you plan to get up tomorrow morning? And follow with the question, how many of you will do it? Boast not thyself of tomorrow. Doesn't matter if you are in the best of health or in very fragile health. Life has no guarantees of tomorrow. And so may we not boast. To boast of tomorrow is to claim that we have greater knowledge than God. And the boast of tomorrow is to claim that we have greater power than God. Secondly, remember now thy creator in the days of thy youth. Folks, if you're young, praise the Lord. Hallelujah. What opportunity. You will not meet many old folks that would not like to do things over again. But if you're young, don't do things that you'll regret and wish you could do over again. Remember thy Creator in the days of thy youth. Seek ye first the kingdom of God. Set the right priorities from the very, very beginning. And folks, redeem all the time because the days are truly evil. Folks, life is short. It rushes by. We are finishing out a year. We're finishing out the first quarter of a century. And there are few of us here today who will see the beginning of the next century. Father, we thank you for thy word. Lord, I I pray that this congregation, this body of thy people We'll examine this chapter further. For Lord, there is so much more that could be condensed into an hour of consideration. May we not be forgetful hearers, but Lord, may we take thy word home with us this day and study it and dig deeper into it throughout the week. Lord, may we indeed number our days and apply numbers to the hours of our days that we may apply our hearts to wisdom. In Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Amen. That's a wonderful closing tune. Let's sing 199. Joy to the world, a fitting song. to rejoice to our God for what He has taught us this morning. Without Him, Jim, there ain't no joy in this world. Without Jesus Christ and that hope, forget it. He is the joy. As his people, great reasons to rejoice. Joy to the world, number one hundred and ninety-nine. We sing all four stanzas Joy to the world the Lord is come the world. Every book one every hall prepared room And the adventures in the time of the nature sing I through the earth must make no race like man has called them More fields and flood, for skills and plays, with meatness and I'll be your coolness, I'll be joined. No more let line and sorrows growth He comes to make his blessing slow for as the curse is found. For as the curse is found, for as for as the curse is found He rose the world with my grace and makes a nation's growth. The world reason is bright chest, and wonders of his water And one love as long as one as one does of his law. Amen, amen. Please be seated. What you guessed to