You know, we have something that is rarer than a I don't know as many solar eclipses as I have seen in my life, and that's not many we actually have a baptism that will be occurring today. So I thought to take the opportunity To give the case for the uh the biblical position of household baptisms. Our land is dominated with a Baptist position of uh You have to believe before you're baptized. And indeed, if you're an adult coming from a Gentile world with no family tradition of Christianity whatsoever, Absolutely. There has to be a profession of faith before baptism. There's not any kind of uh we just don't randomly baptize individuals and adults on the street. But uh the uh The idea, though, extends unfortunately down to the household, that is, children and infants. How is that handled? The Baptist position is that, well, infants can't possibly be baptized because they can't possibly believe. uh they therefore should not be. And Reformed Baptists will understand the covenantal nature of God's dealing with his people. And they make a further argument that says that only those who know the Lord and receive forgiveness of sins are in fact part of the new covenant, and so therefore only the regenerate, those who are truly saved, are to be baptized. That's a very common, common position. This is a sophisticated, but it's a problematic argument. Because it insists that the church only consists of the regenerate. The visible church only would have to consist of the regenerate if that were the case. Others believe that baptism actually saves you. Of course, we do not hold that position, and uh there are plenty of Baptists who don't believe that either, although I've met some and seen signs of some that that do that. So I'm going to make a case today for household baptism. It is a rare teaching. It is not often spoken of, and so today is a teaching opportunity. There is a track on this subject on the back for you if you'd like to take one home with you. I spent the bulk of my time preparing that as a nice little two-page handout which If you go to Holding Fast and look under Baptism and look for the case for baptism, you'll find that track available there as well. I have six points. Six points to Make the case to prove to you the scriptural position for oiko baptism, household baptism. Oiko is the Greek word meaning house. The first point is the apostles practiced it. The second is the New Testament doesn't always speak of a person believing before he or she is baptized. Number three, all of God's covenants have included families. Number four, there is a direct inclusion of children in the New Testament. We have New Testament language that directly includes them Uh the fifth point is that until Jesus comes, all churches have a mix of regenerate and unregenerate. And the sixth point then questions what actually is the Baptist theology of children. And then I'm going to actually uh comment on the Roman Catholic and the Orthodox position concerning uh baptism of So that's a lot to cover, so I'm going to get right into it, and that's why you didn't get a question this week, because I'm just going to be in a monologue track. Uh take your Sudafed, so you can stay awake the whole time because this is coming quick and fast. Sorry, that's just how it's lined up for today. Um So there are three examples of household baptisms we have in the New Testament, two in the book of Acts. One is in Corinthians. In Acts 10, and it runs from verse 1 all the way through verse 24, we have the baptism of the house of Cornelius. He is a uh an Italian uh who is of the uh uh he was a man in Caesarea, a centurion, excuse me, called of what was known as the Italian Regiment. He was a devout man He feared God with all his household, gave alms generously. Peter has to come to him to preach. Now he gets the vision that says, there's going to be a man coming to you, and Peter gets a vision. You've got to go talk to this guy gives in insight into how God creates faith, sends the messenger with the message. Peter comes in and uh The following day they entered Caesarea. Cornelius was waiting for them, called together as relatives and close friends. Verse 44 of Acts 10 While Peter was still speaking these words, the Holy Spirit fell upon all those who heard the word, can anyone forbid water that these should be baptized who have received the Holy Spirit as we So that was the household of Cornelius. Now, my Baptist friends are jumping up and down saying, see, they heard the word, they believed. Well, that's true. There was faith that was present. And yet there are other instances where we find something a little different. So we go to Acts 16. I'd like you to turn there Acts chapter 16 and verse 14, we have a certain woman named Lydia. God the Holy Spirit prevented the Apostle Paul from venturing north to the ancient Roman Empire of uh uh Mysia. He would have gone there, the Holy Spirit prevented him. It turns out that there was a woman who lived in that area, but she wasn't home. She was over in Europe, and this is the apostle's first venture into Europe. He goes over to the city of of uh by a tyro excuse me to uh uh well wherever he goes to acts sixteen I'll have on the tip of my tongue. Acts sixteen fourteen. Now a certain woman named Lydia heard us. This is the Apostle Paul referencing and speaking. She was a feller of purple. In the city of Fiatira, who worship God. That's that region of Nysia where the Spirit forbid them. The Lord opened her heart to heed the things spoken by Paul. So there we have a great example of how faith comes. God has to open the heart. They make that ground good. The seed comes. She hears him. And when And when she and her household were baptized, she begged us, saying, If you've judged me to be faithful to the Lord, come to my house and stay, so she persuaded us. What's interesting about that is we only hear in this account of the faith of Lydia. But she says, no, baptize my household. Now, where would you come up with this idea? Well, she certainly didn't have that concept in diatira. She's a pagan, she's coming into this. This is an apostolic tradition. This is what they would do. Because this is common with what was done in the Old Testament. It was extended to families. Baptism is a covenantal sign. It's a sign of a covenant And in the New Testament, there shouldn't be any difference. In fact, you find in 1 Corinthians 1. 16 the house of Stephanas. The Apostle Paul says this. He says And I baptize also the household of Stephanus. Besides, I know not whether I baptized any others. So as he's speaking about his history of baptism, he mentions a household baptism of Stephanus. It seems to have been the norm during the apostolic period that there would be household baptism. So we have examples of the practice of the apostles for household baptism. Now certainly there had to be faith in new converts before the sign of baptism could apply. They just didn't walk in, uh force people to receive water and uh and then declare them to be Christians. That is not what's in view here at all. However, whole families were received as part of the covenant, just as in the days of Abraham. The whole family was received into the covenant. Another point here is that the New Testament does not always speak of a person believing before they're baptized. Now you may find that to be a heartstopping moment there. What do you mean? I mean you just said you just don't baptize people randomly. Well So in Lydia's baptism, for instance, there's no mention of the faith of her household. I've already talked about that, only hers. Turns out the same is true for the Philippian jailer. If you go to Acts 16, you're already there. Go to verse 30. Acts chapter 16 and verse 30, we have this famous account. Paul and Silas are in prison. Now the prison had next to it a Parsonage, I guess you could call it. I'm not quite sure what you would, but he lived there because he had to keep an eye on these prisoners around the clock. There was an earthquake, the chains were loosed, prisoners they assumed were escaped. Paul and Silas come out saying, don't harm yourselves, we're all here. He preaches to them And then the Philippian jailer, scared out of his wits, amazed at what he just saw, makes a marvelous declaration. He says he brought them out and said, Sirs, what must I do to be saved? So they said, believe on the Lord Jesus Christ, and you will be saved, you and your household. Isn't that interesting? The direction is you believe, and there's salvation coming to the household. Then they spoke the word of the Lord to him and to all who were in his house. So yes, the word of the Lord went forth to him and those in his house. Why else? Well, I mean what else would he do? Of course he's going to include them And he took them the same hour of the night and washed their stripes. This is the jailer. He's now turned from punisher and torturer to uh healer. He's going to try to help them. And immediately he and all his family were baptized. And when they brought them into his house, he stood set food before them and he rejoiced. And this is a key phrase, having believed in God with all his household. Now, you might say, ah, you see there, that's talking about the whole household believed. The whole household heard the word of God, therefore the whole household believed the word of God But Jung's literal translation in the Greek is actually very specific. It's only talking about the faith of the jailer. Literally can be rendered and he set food before them and was glad with all the household, he having believed in God Greek is very specific in terms of what part refers to what object and subject. And so the faith of the jailer in the Greek is specifically spoken of, not that of the house. And so if the new covenant discontinues the sign for an entire house, why isn't that made clear in this passage? You don't find that clarification there. Third point I want to make is that all of God's covenants have included families. First covenant God made with families Um Adam, as he speaks to him, that if he were to avoid the tree of night, he would live forever. Well that would mean he would propagate forever. And that covenantal promise would flow down to the whole human race. When God spoke to Noah It wasn't just the sum of the people in the house. Certainly not everybody in the house was saved. Ham, the father of Canaan later, was cursed because of what he did afterward. There's an unsaved person on the boat But Noah's covenant that he received from the Lord was to him and his household. You know, God said to Abram when he first called him. As he calls him out, he says, I will bless thee, and curse I will bless them that bless thee, speaking of Abram, and curse him that curseth thee, speaking of Abram, not of Israel. And in these shall all families of the earth be blessed. Oh, look at that. All families of the earth shall be blessed. God's dealing with families. It's interesting because in Galatians 3, 8 and 9, the Apostle Paul calls that That passage from Genesis 12 I just read to you, he called that the gospel. Genesis 12, 3, the Apostle Paul called that the gospel. So this is no new thing. Isaiah 59 says this in verse 21, this is my covenant with them, saith the Lord. My spirit that is upon thee, and my words which I have put in thy mouth shall not depart out of thy mouth, okay, that's good, nor out of the mouth of thy seed, that would be your children, nor out of the mouth of thy seed seed, that would be your grandchildren Saith the Lord from henceforth and forever. This is the promise of God. God normally deals with families. I love this language in Jeremiah 32, and you might want to turn to that. Jeremiah 32 and verse 38. It's in the old covenant. And I'm showing how this was speaking of a covenantal relationship God has with families. He says this, he says the prophet speaking. God's words. And they shall be my people, and I will be their God, and I will give them one heart and one way, that they may fear me forever. For the good of them and of their children after them And I will make an everlasting covenant with them, that I will not turn away from them to do them good, but I will put my fear in their hearts, that they shall not depart from me. Now what's interesting about that is that is picked up in the book of Hebrews as an Old Testament reference to the New Covenant. And there's that new covenant language in there. They shall be my people, I will be their God. Anytime you see that phrase in the Old Testament, You can just understand that. Ah, that is New Testament language. That comes fully into force when Jesus Christ arrives. That's kind of a technical code word that you can pick up on. Ezekiel says the same thing. It speaks about they shall dwell in the land that I've given to Jacob, my servant. They shall dwell therein, they and their children, their children's children forever. It's an everlasting covenant. Zechariah speaks about the streets of the city Full of boys and girls playing thereof. I will bring them, they shall be my people, I will be their God. And so on. There's a lot of references. Zechariah 12 says, I'll pour upon the house of David. Inhabitants of Jerusalem, a spirit of grace, they shall look upon me whom they have pierced, and they shall mourn for him as one that mourns for his only son. Very prophetic New Testament language. It goes on. It continues on It says, the land shall mourn in Zechariah 12, 12, every family apart, family of the house of David apart, and their wives apart, the family of the house of Nathan apart, and so on. It keeps repeating different families. Families. Families. God is family-oriented. In fact, if you consider it, when you think about the book of Exodus and the Ten Commandments, What does he do? Well, when there's violation, he says he's visiting the iniquity of the fathers upon the children into the third and fourth generation of them that hate me. If a man sins, he as that covenantal head, as the representative of his family, he is going to have a tremendous ramification sent down upon him and his descendants. God deals with families. This is consistent with God's dealings. I know these are probably hitting your ears as strange things because they're not commonly taught. They are simply ignored for the most part. You say, well, Vince, that's all Old Testament language. Yeah, we get it. Israel was all the descendants of Abraham, house of David, and so on. Yeah, we get that. Yeah, but Peter had an opportunity to preach this to the Gentiles when the Holy Spirit was poured out in Acts 2. Why don't you turn there for a moment? Go to the end of Acts chapter 2. You know, this is a scared little guy. It ducked his tail between his legs and it's for fear, but when he saw the risen Christ, he comes back, the Holy Spirit is poured out, and now he's a bold preacher. He's a bold preacher, and he gives something like a 30-some odd sentence sermon at the day of Pentecost, and he concludes As the people are asking him in verse 37, it says, When they heard this, they were pricked in their heart, and they said unto Peter and the rest of the apostles, Men and brethren, what shall we do? Here's a bunch of people who are pricked in their hearts. They were convicted by the message. Don't get me wrong. Yes, the message has got to come Then Peter said unto them, Repent and be baptized, every one of you in the name of Jesus Christ for the remission of sins. You'll receive the gift of the Holy Ghost. He's talking to an audience of adults. Absolutely, this is the requirement But notice what he says in verse 39. For the promise, he's giving a reason why you repent, and he's indicating the target of baptism. For the promise is unto you and to your children. And to all that are afar off, even as many as the Lord our God shall call. So if noble Christians in the New Testament search the scriptures daily to see whether these things were so Where would they have found warrant to stop baptizing their infants and their whole household from the Old Testament? What passage would they have turned to? It says these from Thessalonica were more noble. These in Berea were more noble than they in Thessalonica because they searched the scriptures daily to see whether these things were so. They were searching out the Apostle Paul Now, if he stopped baptizing households, where would they have found warrant for that? You don't find it. You don't see that anywhere. You see a continuity of God dealing with families, and baptism is a covenantal sign. Furthermore, when the Apostle Paul writes and others to the New Testament churches, there is a direct inclusion of children in it. This is a stunning point that someone made from years ago. You're familiar, I trust, with the book of Ephesians and Colossians. It opens up with something like this. In Ephesians, Paul, an apostle of Jesus Christ, by the will of God, to the saints, which are at Ephesus, and to the faithful in Christ Jesus Christ. He opens up his epistle that way. He does the same thing in the book of Colossians. He says, to the saints and faithful brethren in Christ which are at Colossi, grace and peace be unto you from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. Very common opening in the epistles. So he starts it. Who's the audience? So brother aptly put in a recent message for Wednesday Challenge that if you're trying to figure out Who's in view in 2 Peter 3. 10? You might want to look at 2 Peter 3. 1 and see that he's writing to the saints. Well, lo and behold, in Ephesians, when you get to the sixth chapter, as he continues to write to the saints, he writes this. Children, obey your parents in the Lord, for this is right. Honor thy father and mother, which is the first commandment with promise, that it may be well with thee and thou mayest live long in the earth. Mommy and daddy could read that to that child and say, this is what the apostle says to you as a saint in the house of God. Chapter 3 of And verse 20 of the book of Colossians. Children, obey your parents in all things, for this is well pleasing unto the Lord. So Paul is giving instruction to husbands and wives. I didn't read that part. That's in there in the earlier chapters. Because they're the basic constituents in a first century household. He also mentions servants. They would have been in a first-century household. These are called the saints. That's what he's referring to. Children are instructed to obey in the Lord because there's a covenantal connection to Jesus Christ. It doesn't mean they should only obey the Christian parent. It's referring to that covenantless structure. And the most stunning one is in 1 Corinthians 7, and if you have your Bible, you might want to look at this one because this is really an eye-opener if you're unfamiliar with this. And you might want to think and meditate on it real hard, perhaps someday when you're well caffeinated in front of your Bible and a nice steaming cup of Joe with you. 1 Corinthians 7 is There's a lot of questions the Corinthian church had about husband-wife relationships, where what do you do in this scenario? So there's a bunch of what-if cases that are addressed. One of the cases he's now addressing is you have a saved parent and you have an unsaved parent. But the unsaved spouse seems to be content to live with the other one. My mentor, Brother Bernie, had that situation God saved him. His wife testified, it's like I married a new man. He was a completely different individual. He stopped drinking, he stopped doing all of his bad habits, he stopped coming home late, he stopped doing stupid things, he started providing for his family, etc. And she was pleased to dwell with him, and the instruction of scripture is let him not put her away. Don't do that. You got into this marriage, you're there, quit, stop the divorce, don't go down that path Well, lo and behold, one of the justifications he gives is found in verse 14 for why the individual, the saved one, should not leave It says in verse 14, For the unbelieving husband is sanctified by the wife, and the unbelieving wife is sanctified by the husband. Else were your children unclean, but now they are holy. No, that's interesting. You now have a holy child. One is saved, one's unsaved. What does holy mean? What do you mean sanctified? Well the essence of baptism is a washing, a cleansing. And so you have evidence that this is a baptized child. And they're sanctified by the unbelieving, excuse me, by the believing spouse. So there is a relationship that that child has to the covenant because of the parent. You can't deny that. There is a covenantal connection. And if there's a covenantal connection, why wouldn't you apply the covenantal sign? That's always required. In fact, when Moses left Egypt, not having circumcised his own son, he's leaving Egypt to go out and I think he's at that point either leading the people out, I don't remember the exact account. But an angel met him by the way to kill him because he had not circumcised his son. God took that very seriously. And so the covenantal sign Is always applied. You know, there's another one that's brilliant in Mark chapter 10. I didn't appreciate this for many years, but turn now to Mark chapter 10 This concerns a bunch of concerned, godly parents who are bringing their children directly to the Lord Jesus. Mark 10 and verse 13 We find this, Mark 10 and verse 13. It says, And they brought young children to him, that is to Jesus, that he should touch them. And his disciples rebuked those that brought them. They're kind of acting like the Credo Baptists today. Why are you doing this? Keep the children away. Stop it. They go and I don't like this practi now I'm not trying to beat up on all my Baptist brethren. Please, I I I I I I love them. Um uh they're they're doing good work. I I I I'm not, this isn't a beat up the Baptist day, please understand. So I'm referring to theology, not to people. But here it says These disciples rebuked those that brought them, but when Jesus saw it, he was much displeased, and he said unto them, Suffer the little children to come unto me and forbid them not. For of such is the kingdom of God. Oh, that's interesting. Verily I say unto you, whosoever shall not receive the kingdom of God as a little child, notice the word as a little child, you shall not enter therein. And he took them up in his arms, put his hands upon them, and blessed them. Now, I'm not going to exegete the entire passage, but I've got three tough questions to ask you. And you've got to think about this in this passage, because this is nothing is done incidentally or accidentally. When Jesus walks by and curses a fig tree, that has a whole lot of relevance to your view of national Israel today. That is not an incidental thing just because he didn't get fruit off of the tree. In this passage, as children are brought to him, this is not an incidental matter. This is very important. Number one, if Jesus is only speaking of childlike faith, why not use an adult of such faith? He had some people come up to him and said, you know, sir, I believe, help down my unbelief. He could have used that individual, but he doesn't He uses an infant. And it's interesting when it says young children, they brought. First of all, they had to be brought. And I believe you can check me on this. I believe that word is pedion, which we get our word pediatrics, meaning These are infants, these are little babies. Second point, second question to ask. If Jesus is merely using infants as an object lesson, Why then does he go the extra step to pick them up, lay hands on them, no less, and bless them? Why would he go that extra step if he's just trying to say, you know, you need to be born again? Like Nicodemus, how can a man enter his mother's womb a second time and be born? Why didn't he just stop right there? Well he doesn't. He goes on and he does something further with them. Interesting. Number three. And by the way, Jesus didn't baptize anybody. You know that. Right. He just it wasn't just he just that wasn't his ministry. John the Baptist came and did that, not Jesus. Alright, number three, if infants do not qualify for the kingdom of God, then how can adults qualify by being like them? Hmm, that's interesting. There's no lesson for adults to learn unless Jesus welcomes the infants of believers into his kingdom. You know, years ago, Brother Mark Leakey referred to a interesting post he saw on Facebook. It was a young fellow young little boy below the age of five. He had some uh very serious disease that eventually took his life. And he and it killed the boy, I think he was four or five years of age. And the little boy, the daddy asks him, and the father is recording this, obviously, the son's not saying, hey, can you post this on Facebook? So the father records this little interaction with the child And the uh he's asking, son, do do you believe in Jesus Christ? Why yes, Daddy? Uh you believe you'll live forever? Why yes, daddy. That was the extent of it. And then shortly thereafter the boy died. Why can't heaven have a child? Why can't heaven have little children? What what what's to prevent that? You're telling me that child, that it's impossible for a child to be saved until they confess faith before a pastor. You're telling me that Well, some of the Arminian persuasion get around that problem with another way. They go and twist another doctrine of Scripture. Guess which doctrine that is Age of accountability. Right. That's the doctrine they come up with. And if you have an age of accountability, which means, oh no, that child's completely innocent until and then they vary on the age Some say age eight, says some say thirteen. The woke churches say until age thirty something. But they have a they have this alleged age of accountability where they're everything they do, they're totally sin-free Whereas David says, remember not the sins of my youth. Tell me that little boys and little little Marissa are your children sin-free? They're lovely boys. I love them. You know I what I'm talking about. You see they're little sinners. They're made in your image and so of course they're gonna do like what you do. They like to hide from mom and dad, they like to steal things, they like to be greedy. God doesn't have a juvenile justice system. He doesn't have a juvenile justice system. Right, right. Right. So doctrine of total depravity is tanked if you're trying to get around this, but if you understand that children are, in fact, if they are in a believing household, are tremendously blessed In that household, they're going to hear the word of God. They're going to hear an expectation. Mommy and Daddy, why do we do certain things? Because the Lord says. And I'm God's agent over you, and you have to do that. I really don't want to spank you, but I'm God's agent over you. I have to do this. They're blessed to be in that household. Why wouldn't they have a covenanted sign? Fifth point, really, you know, Reformed Baptists in particular will say that Presbyterians only emphasize the continuity of God's covenantal dealings, that which we would call the covenant of grace. And they would also say we don't see the discontinuities between the old and the new. For Baptists, the essential discontinuity is that in the new covenant the church is not a mixed multitude of the regenerate and the unregenerate, but rather a body of those only who are truly saved, as evidenced by repentance and faith in Jesus Christ as Lord and Savior. And so really If you kind of boil down the doctrine a bit, the issue with our Reformed Baptist brethren, and again I count them brethren, I would definitely not make this a major doctrine of division. It really ought not to be But the issue with our Baptist brethren really is more over the nature of the church than it is over the subjects of baptism. That really is the crux of it. Now, what do I mean by that? So if you insist that only those who have confessed Christ, and therefore you believe they are saved, and therefore they are baptized and made of the church You're doing so because you believe your church only consists of saved people. Alright? You tracking me? If you insist that there must be faith and repentance on the heart part of the individual, and therefore when they do that, then they're baptized. And then they're brought into the church, and therefore the conclusion is your church must only be of saved people. 100% That is an incorrect view. The church has always had a mix of regenerate and unregenerate people. There is a body known as the elect, the spiritual church of God, the spiritual body, but you and I don't know who they are. Let me help shore up that point with you by looking at some things the apostles did. So we read back in this day of Pentecost, where Peter said the promises to you and your children. It says they that gladly received his word were baptized in the same day there were added unto them about 3,000 souls. Alright, preaches one sermon. Boy, wouldn't you love to preach a sermon of 3,000 people cramming to get in the front door Right, it would be nice just to have three thousand people interested in listening. Not sure the Kluth House can handle three thousand people, Jeffrey, but uh it would be a a good problem to have, right? ceiling. Well yeah, break up my ceiling, sure why not. Lo and behold there was an individual named Ananias and Sapphira who were in apparently that initial surge of 3,000 brought into the church It says, added unto them three thousand souls. But they came in Acts 5, and it says they sold a possession. They kept back part of the price. His wife knew about it And they brought a certain part of it laid at the apostles' feet. Now the implication was, we're sacrificing everything just like everybody else is. Here's our everything, but it wasn't everything. They kept part of it back They didn't have to say it was everything. They could have said, look, we're here's part of it. Peter said, Ananias, why had Satan filled thine heart to lie to the Holy Ghost and keep back part of the price of the land? While it remained, was it not your own? After it was sold, wasn't it in your power? Why'd you conceive this in your heart? You haven't lied to men, but unto God. Ananias, hearing these words, fell down, gave up the ghost, and great fear came on all them that heard these things. Well, that's not good if Satan has filled your heart, because when God saves you, greater is he that is in you than he that is in the world. The strong man has been cast out. Satan cannot enter into your heart. He entered in the heart of Judas, not the rest of the apostles. If you've got a situation where scripture says Satan is entering into the heart of the person They're not saved. There's no safeguard there. There's no one stronger. Yet these individuals were part of the 3,000 that were baptized and brought in. They made a confession. They were not saved. They were not saved. So you can't guarantee that. It's even more uh uh uh stunning because uh you you find this kind of language in uh in in in the the uh the the the apostolic writings here it says Apostle Paul, Romans 1, because when they knew God they glorified him not were God, they glorified him not as God, neither were thankful. became vain in their imaginations, this classic passage speaking about the depravity of men. And he goes on to say, as he's listing all of their faults, that they are without understanding. And they're covenant breakers. Covenant breakers. These are people that must have some relationship to a covenant, and the covenant that the Bible talks about would be a biblical one. And if they were in that covenant, then the covenant signed undoubtedly had been applied But they're called covenant breakers. But these are people who are never saved. There's another example of Simon the Sorcerer. This is a very powerful one. It's in Acts 8, and this is the last one I'll have you turn to Simon the sorcerer was baptized, but he was hardly a regenerate man. He was baptized by Peter, no less. Acts 8. 13 says, Simon himself believed also, and when he was baptized, he continued with Philip and wondered, beholding the miracles and signs which had been done. He really likes this and he goes to Peter and he wants to pay him some money. Hey, I like this little magic show you've got going here. Show me how you do it. Teach me some of the sleight-of-hand tricks. You ever watch Penn and Teller? Some of these magicians and they have these people on stage. It looks like they're really doing magic, but it's all sleight of hand. It's amazing how crafty they can misdirect you to look over here when all the action's happening over here And so that's what Simon's thinking. This is some neat sleight of hand. No, it's not. It was a divine work of God in the apostles. He tells them in verse 21, Thou hast neither part nor lot in this matter. Your heart is not right in the sight of God. Verse 22, Repent therefore of this thy wickedness, and pray God, beg him, if perhaps the thought of your heart may be forgiven thee. I perceive thou art in the gall of bitterness and the bond of iniquity. Folks, Simon is not saved. Peter baptized him for crying out. He was baptized. So the Achilles heel of a Baptist position is that they have to prove that the visible New Testament church consists of only the regenerate. They would have to do that if in fact only the elect are to be baptized. That's a very difficult position to prove Now, at this point you say, well, Vince, uh that's wonderful. You've just slipped into Roman Catholicism. You've just moved right over into Eastern Orthodox position. Oh no, have not. Very not very much not the case Let me explain the difference here. So biblical infant baptism that's done by a faithful church cannot be compared with a Roman Catholic or an Orthodox, Eastern Orthodox, Assyrian Orthodox, you name it. What I would call a water ritual. I'm not even going to call it a baptism. They may call it a baptism, it's a water ritual. Because they have a Christ plus works religion. And as part of their framework of theology, when they baptize an infant, they are saying what that has done for this infant, for this young person, is erase all of their original sin. All of the sins That they've inherited because of their Adamic nature, that concept of original sin, they were born a sinner. Well now if you bring them to their building and to their baptistry and to their priest, then that infant is now spiritually clean. Those sins are forgiven. Well, that is a huge problem. The Lord Jesus said that only the work of Christ does this in Hebrews 9. Hebrews 9. 15, we just looked at this. See if I can get to that quickly. Hebrews 9. 15 For this cause, he, Jesus, is the mediator of the New Testament, that by means of death, for the redemption of the transgressions that were under the first testament They which are called might receive the promise of eternal inheritance. It was Jesus' blood and work that redeemed and paid for all the sins that were under that first covenant. That would be quote unquote original sin and then some. That's only the work of Jesus. The church can't do that. And so they ascribe too much capability upon them. Furthermore, that tradition grievously prepares the child to pay for their later sins through penance. Because what they believe is, okay, now if there's this plane called righteousness And and he's born in sin. He's baptized. Whoop, now he's brought up unto righteous state. Now if he sins, whoop, he's no longer righteous. He's at risk of losing heaven. Now he's got to do penance to clean up Climb his way back up. And he sins again. Oops, he falls down again. Now he's gonna climb his way back up to Penance and through Penance and so he's forever working to get back to what he got when he was allegedly baptized as an infant in the Roman Catholic or Eastern Orthodox Church. That's a heretical view. That is not a sign of the covenant. They are ascribing upon themselves the means of salvation. That's not what it does And so it forever yokes them to a false church if they wish to be saved. They're in fear of leaving it, because if they leave it, they leave the path to salvation, so they think Because it's a Christ-plus gospel. It's a Christ-plus works. It's a everything about it is just bankrupt and wrong. You can look at 1 Peter 3. 21 and Titus 3. 5 as well. There's other useful resources that I recommend to you. Sartell wrote a book, What Christian Parents Should Know About Infant Baptism. A fellow named Robert Letham wrote a book, A Christian's Pocket Guide to Baptism and Others. There's a number of good resources. Again, you can pull this track down and go digging into it further. Well, yes, comment. The the Catholic position tries to have forgiveness without repentance. Yeah, you you just come to the priest and you confess it, but there's no repentance. Yes, there the the forgiveness inevitably is tied to something the church does to you based on something you've done to check their box. Yeah, it's it's a sad thing. So no, we do not agree with that at all. Okay, well that's the case. Um you don't have to believe me This is not a uh crucial crucial point, but I believe it's a biblical warrant and those who do uh seek to uh uh commit their children to the Lord uh can take heart and joy knowing that uh in uh biblical infant baptism they're doing that. Pastor would you close this in prayer? Sure. Gracious Father, we thank you for your goodness to us. We thank you as the promises are to us and to our children. Father, we thank you that you were the God alone who brings the wanderer home. Father, we thank you that the parents who faithfully commit their children to you, who raise them up in the nurture and the admonition of the Lord, can have confidence that your your grace will reach them in your time. Father, we thank you for children. Indeed, children are an heritage of the Lord. And the fruit of the womb is his reward. Happy is he who hath this quiver full of them. Uh Father, I thank you for the teaching this morning. I thank you that your word, though, may be looked at by faithful brethren from different points of view Yet your word is is not compromised. Your word is not twained. It is one word. And um it is preserved, it is true, and it is to be believed, even when we uh may view a certain passage from different aspects, yet there is one God, there is one word, and it is authoritative. It is our rule of faith and practice. We thank you for it. In Jesus' name. Amen.