This morning, if you'll look with me to Second Samuel fourteen, as we do the second part of the message. about King David's prodigal son, Absalom. Hence we've been reading the story of the prodigal son in Luke for a responsive reading. And that turned out well in Luke. Not every prodigal son turns out as well as the story in Luke. And so here we have David's prodigal son, Absalon. Second Samuel chapter fourteen, verses twenty five to the end of the chapter. But in all Israel there was none to be so much praised as Absalom for his beauty. From the sole of his foot, even to the crown of his head, there was no blemish in him. And when he pulled his hair, or his head, that is when he cut the hair on his head. For it was at every year's end that he pulled it or cut it, because the hair was heavy on him, and therefore he pulled it or cut it, and he weighed the hair of his head at two hundred shekels after the king's weight. And on Absalom there were born three sons and one daughter, whose name was Tamar, and she was a woman of fair countenance. So life was good for Absalom, even in confinement. And so Abson dwelt two full years in Jerusalem, verse 28, and saw not the king's face. Therefore Absalom sent for Joab, that's the king's general, to have sent him to the king, but he that is Joab would not come to him. And when he sent again the second time, he that is Joab would not come again. And therefore he said unto his servants, See Joab's field is near mine. He had barley there. Go and set it on fire. And Absalom's servants set the field on fire. And then Joab arose and he came to Absalom unto his house, and he said unto him, Wherefore have thy servants set my field on fire? And Absalom answered Joab, Behold, I sent unto thee, saying, Come hither that I may send thee to the king to say, wherefore am I come from Gizer? It had been good for you to have been there still. Now therefore let me see the face, the king's face. And if there be any iniquity in me, let him kill me And so Joab came to the king and told him. And when he had called for Absalom, he came to the king and bowed himself on his face to the ground before the king. And the king kissed Absalom. Quite an introduction here to Absalom. In all of Israel there was none so much to be praised as Absalom for his beauty. From the sole of his foot, even to the crown of his head, there was no blemish in him. Absalon, he's Mr. Israel. Mr. America. He's if it was a TV show, he'd probably be the next bachelor. The show The Bachelor for all the women to vie for his hand He's the darling of the media of his day. All of Israel praised him for his good looks and the locks of his hair. Yet he was like, in reality, the description Christ gave of the leaders, the religious leaders of his day. He was likened unto a whited seplica. Appearing beautiful in the outward, but within full of dead man's bones. The Lord Jesus Christ could see through the beauty of any man. Or a woman, and look at the eternal soul. How sad is the state of a country Israel here. And the parallel of it is America today, where one's beauty is admired far more than the content of their heart. You look at chapter 16, and we'll find out about the content of David's heart, or rather, Absalom's heart. He's not unlike the beautiful people today who vie for power and political position in our nation. We had the the Kennedys and they were They were nothing but a bunch of some say alpha dogs, but they were they had the moral lifestyle of Tom Cats. And then we had President Bill Clinton, the Alpha Dog, but he had a moral lifestyle of of a Tomcat or an Ali cat as well. But when they're good looking people, they can get by with that, it seems. And Absalom, we find he has a lifestyle of a Tom Cat as well in chapter 16. People wonder today as we look around us and what we're facing elections coming up and what are we going to do I don't want Bill Clinton, that Tomcat, back in the White House again. with nothing to do but check in on the interns. I think we should protect that White House and people say, Well who are we gonna vote for? I would vote for Donald Duck before I'd vote for him. And yeah, Donald Trump, it isn't a great choice. But do you really want a Tomcat, Bill Clinton, back in the White House again Decadent society has filled our White House often with men That left much to be desired except that they were beautiful from the sole of their foot to the crown of their heads Scripture tells us not to lust after her beauty. Beauty is vain, it's passing, but a woman that feareth the Lord She shall be praised, Proverbs 6 and 25. What are we to look for in our politicians today? What are we to look for in our friends today? What are we to look for in our mentors today? What are we to look for in our spo Someone who is close to God, someone who loves the Christ of the Bible. Those charmed By beauty, more than the submission to Christ of the Bible, have been sorely disappointed. And how this society has been so charmed. By Miley Cyrus in Disneyland. Whoa, wasn't that a heart jerker? What a pretty little girl. How did that turn out for you? And how about Maryland's governor, Martin O'Malley, good-looking fellow? But how did that turn out for us? And I can go down the line and spend a lot of time when I should be talking about the Lord Jesus Christ. Here, as we look at Absalom, and you can look hard and long for Absalom, the description of him, there's no mention of his love for the Lord, his joy and peace in the Lord, his gentleness. His goodness, his faith, his piety, his wisdom, his meekness, that we find that we're to look for in Galatians 5. 22, if we're to be comfortable with those who we admire, those who we idolize. All Israel praised him for his beauty. There was no blemish in him. Oh, yes. There it was. It just wasn't on the skin. It was beneath the skin. There was a blemish soul there, folks, and they didn't seem to care. How often corruption dwells in an attractive young man or a lady. Isaiah 53, too, really tells us how different things may be when we think that there's something so special about the beautiful young lady you talked to Herod when Herodias' daughter danced Before him and what lived inside. Talk about a girl that had no blemishes. She danced before Herod. Let me tell you, it was that daughter of Herodias that asked for the head of John the Baptist on a charger, on a platter. How deceptive, how corrupt are the souls that dwell beneath the beauty that we sometimes see in those around the world. I think we always expect everything godly and everything lovely to be godly Isaiah 53, 2 prophesies and talks to us about the coming Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ. Here's his description, when we shall see him, there's no beauty that we should desire him Forbid about the I think it's John Cavizel, is that the name of the bell that played Christ in the Passion? Why would we almost pick good-looking guys to play Moses and And and good-looking guys will play the Lord Jesus Christ when the scriptures tell us that Christ, there was no beauty in him that we should desire him. What made it so special is what came out of his heart and out of his lips and rolled off his tongue The words of God and a love for the words of God. They said never a man spake as he spake. Nobody talks about the beauty of Christ. It's never a man spake as he spake. Then we also note of Absalom in verse 26 that he he pulled his head or he cut his hair every year as that he had his hair grow all year long. and then he would cut it. And the beauty of his hair and the weight of his hair, it sold for several shekels of gold. He had a beautiful head of hair. So did the Kennedys. You remember that? How everyone talked about it? And when they did the cartoon characters of JFK, John King, the beautiful head of hair he had. Yeah, and he also had Marilyn Monroe hit off in a hotel somewhere. And she had a beautiful head of hair as well And his brothers did the same. They not only shared Maryland, but there was Mary Joe Copecni and Teddy Kennedy Dumbledore Her off a bridge and she drowned. But they had a beautiful head of hair. And these are the things to talk about here. About the Kennedys. That's what we always heard about the beautiful head of hair on the Kennedys and the and the beautiful head of hair on Absalom. Some might think that maybe he had a Nazirite vow. He'd taken a Nazarite vow. There's nothing here that tells it that Abzon had taken a Nazirite vow. The Apostle Paul had taken one, and after a year Paul had cut his hair And so maybe it's just maybe Absalom wouldn't mind if people thought he'd taken a Nazarite vow. I mean, for for Absalon it's all about appearance, isn't it? And if he can appear to be as godly as his father, his father was writing the psalms and he was a sweet Psalms as of Israel. I can't write psalms, I'm not inspired by the Holy Spirit But maybe he thought, if I look like a Nazarite, you know, if I look like Samson kind of, cut the hair once a year like the Apostle Paul does, it's all about appearances here Well we know that he didn't have a Nazarite vow in reality because he got his brother Ammon drunk and Nazarites were even supposed to touch the juice of the grape It's all about appearances. Beyonce. I know I shouldn't even know who that name is. I wouldn't recognize her in a picture, not a real picture of her. I Googled her last night to see what she really looks like. Whoa! That was before the hair on her head. By the way, that's not her hair. Did you know that? She has hair extensions. And you know what she pays for that hair? $145,000 to have that stuck on her head. For $145,000, I bet you everybody here could look pretty good. Pilgrim, are you satisfied with just appearing to be a Christian? Apparently Absal was satisfied with maybe just appearing to be a Nazarite. Are you satisfied with just appearing to be a Christian? Or are you really a born-again, bloodwashed, regenerated? Christian. What are you satisfied with in life? Just how you look? Boy, we got a world today that's we get the chin lift and the eye lifts and and we get the botops and the collagen I'm sure I've missed a few things, but we are a society that's all concerned about how we look. And that's what Israel was like. They were so enamored, so in love with Absalom. And Absalom says in verse 27 and 30, he he dwelt two years in Jerusalem, but he saw not the king's face. He never saw his father's face. And therefore Absalon sent for Joab, but Joab would not come. And therefore he said unto his servants, See Joab's fields near mine. Set 'em on fire. Set the barley fields on fire. And Absalom's servants, they set the field on fire. You know, Absalom didn't really have it all that bad. Yes, he was confined to his home and maybe a few places maybe he could go to the market and get some food. We don't ever read that he ever went to the tabernacle to worship, do we? But he had servants. He didn't have it all that bad. He had servants, it says here. And he had these servants. But his mobility was limited, and so he couldn't go to Job, but he had to ask Job to come to him Maybe David had confined David to the home and kept him immobilized to a certain extent that he might be brought to repentance. I like to think that that's why David didn't welcome back with open arms for a couple of years and kept and they're confined so he couldn't be in the court and and couldn't be mosing about and creating mischief as he might do and as we find he will do Maybe if he's confined to some extent, he'll repent. Isn't that what happened to Paul on the road to Damascus? He's charging up there with his people and he's gonna go up there and he's gonna capture Christians and he's gonna torture them and torment them and put them in jail and execute them. And on the road to Damascus the Lord stops them in a spot, blinds them on the spot, and now Paul is rather confined. He can't go anywhere without someone leading him by the hand. And Paul repents and says, Lord, who art thou? What would you have me to do? Confinement. Prisons can be a good idea. Some people can find God in prison, and some have. Look about us today and we see what's going on in the world. There's few that are repenting. There's no revivals breaking out and what we see ruling the different countries Around the world today. There was a time when you could say, well, if I if I can't get along from in England, I can flee to Holland. If I can't get along in Holland, I can flee to America. If I can't get al Where do you flee today? You look around, and we feel like the psalmist in 119 and 126, and he says, Oh Lord, it's time for you to work, for they made void thy law everywhere. That's where we are today. And so Absalom, who's made void God's law, he sets fire to the barley fields of Joab. In other words, he says, you meet my request, so you'll live to regret it. You ever have people like that? This is what I want done. If you don't do it my way, it's The highway. If you don't like the way I do it, boy, if you don't meet my request, you don't live to regret it. I'll get even. If I don't get my way, I'll get even. And this was what the heart of Absalom was like And it was a wicked heart. It was only a wicked heart. It was a careless heart because he says, go out there and set fire to Joab's barley field. It's right near my barley field. What an idiot! How careless! What if the wind shifts, then Absalon's barley field burns down. Or what if the wind shifts And your barley field. You don't even know Joab. You have nothing to do with Joab. And your barley field goes. Or your barley field goes because he's wicked and he's careless. And Absalom doesn't really care about anyone else. But him. You ever meet people like that? They're so into themselves? Doesn't care about anybody else. Certainly doesn't care about and you've met people like this. They certainly don't care About the Lord Jesus Christ. They just care about themselves. They don't care about the outcome. They never consider the outcomes. They never consider how this might not go the way they thought it would. The wind might shift. Somebody might die if the wind shifts. He didn't, you know, oh he's just burning down the barley field, you know, no harm, no harm there. People die in fires We've got people fires get loose out in Glacier Park and Yosemite Park and they burn hundreds of thousands of acres, and campers die by fires set by carriers And here he is careless and wicked Absalom. He doesn't care. He doesn't even consider what other outcomes might take place. He is a careless, wicked individual. And I sometimes wonder how many times we we do things without foreseeing what the consequences might be, what the outcome might be. We don't weigh all the options to realize that maybe what we're doing will have consequences far beyond what we expected. Eve in Genesis 3, she's told that the day she eats of that tree and the fruit, she's gonna die. Oh, I d Satan says, Hath God really said? And and she probably waited on and says, What do you mean by die? Nothing dies. Everything here is beautiful and alive. And and and maybe she could have said, well, if I die, I die. But I bet she never considered that Abel, her son, would be murdered by Cain, and he would die. I bet she never considered not only would she die, but eventually all her children would die, and all her grandchildren would die, and all of you were going to die because of what Eve did And Adam, of course, came along with stamp of approval on it. He was our headship representing everybody. Did they ever reconsider Not only would they die, but the consequences of all the sin and disease and crime and wickedness and the death of all We have to consider when we sin how it may affect others And yet, what do you hear from our congressmen or senators and the liberals out there and the libertarians out there? I can do what I want to do. It's you know, I'm I'm a I'm a no man is an island, but they seem to think so. They say, look, we can just do you you can't tell me what I can do, I'm not gonna bother, it's not gonna hurt anybody else what I do. It always hurts somebody else Children, what you do, hurts your parents. Parents, what you do, hurts your parents or your children, or the neighbors, or somebody. That's why a drunk driver thinks I can drink all I want What's it to you? Well you just ran over my dog or my kid. That's what it is to me. We have to consider the consequences Moses is out there in Exodus 6 and he sees an Egyptian smiting one of his brethren. And so Moses says, I can't have that. And he goes over and he nails them one And he he kills the guy, buries him in the sand. Maybe nobody will know. But the pharaoh finds out. And what happens? What are the consequences of just taking one punch at a guy? Moses ends up fleeing and spending four 40 years on the other side of a desert. Do you ever stop and think about the consequences of life and what sin you commit in the moment of anger or in the moment of of lust where it may take you The heat of the moment. of this one. Pilate and the priests. They get together and they say, hey, we gotta seal that tomb. We gotta guard that tomb. And the results were, what were the results? It confirmed beyond a shadow of a doubt that Christ was risen and the tomb was empty and nobody stole the body. It was really dead. And then he was alive again. Boy, they didn't consider that consequence, did they? They should have just not sealed it, not guarded it, and they could have said someone stole the body. We don't know who, but they they didn't consider the consequences, and I love those consequences Well, Joe Joab's field is burning He doesn't like the consequences of not going to see Absalom. And so he goes to him and says, Why are you servants set my field on fire? What's going on here? What have I done to you? I I brought you back from Geezer. I brought you back to Israel. I got you into Jerusalem. I mean I I've been your friend. I've be I've befriended you. I I've done all this good for you. What what is with you? Set my barley fields on fire First Peter one seven and first Peter four twelve tells us that Nobody's exempt from fiery trials. Joab isn't. You aren't either. Peter wasn't. We're going to have fiery trials, Peter says, but I would have you to note this morning that whether you're an unsaved Joab or a saved David, there are going to be fiery trials in your life. Peter says there will, and we read the scriptures and we know there have been. Even if we're saved, we're going to have fiery trials. But I want you to know there isn't one particle of God's anger in the fire the saved person is enduring. Not one particle of anger in your fiery trial that God allows, that God sends, that God plans. In your life. He's always carefully determined, the Lord has, which you can bear what each soul can bear in life. He, it says in Isaiah 40 and 12, God who weighs the mountains has carefully Calculated and weighed and determined what your soul can withstand. And yes, he will bring you out to the very edge, and you're clinging by your fingernails. But it's a loving God that has sent that fiery trial We read how the saints in Numbers twenty one and six in the wilderness They've been complaining about the manna and God sent fiery serpents to them. But there was if you would look up to the fiery serpent that had been made and on the pole and and Moses lifted it up He said, if you look, you'll live. And though there were fiery servants and people dying all around for the saints, there was an antidote. Look and live, the fiery child for them. Had mercy at the end of that pole As there was mercy on the cross where our sins were nailed to Christ Quite a fiery trial. How about that fiery trial in Nebuchadnezzar's day in Daniel 3? It caused three saints to stand up and to stand out among the crowd. And God got the glory in their fiery trial, and not one particle of flame so much as left the odor of smoke upon on their garments and yet the ropes burned off their wrists and never so much as a sunburn or a cinch. God can send fiery trials And does in love, and we can take it because he knows we can, and not a particle of it is sent, but in love to our lives. Alright, so I gotta bring it down to applicable to you today. You haven't had any fiery trials. Really? Anybody's car ever catch fire? Anybody's barn or house ever burn down? That's your barley field, friend. That's your fiery trial when that car burns up. Fiery that's your barley field when your house That's your your barley field when you wake up at night with a burning fiery fever and full of sweats and you wonder what's going on. And what did you contact? A malaria or dengue fever or a zetabug or or something? What has happened? You wonder. That is your barley field that God has sent your way. Maybe you've heard some fiery sermon on the radio, scared the daylights out of you, shook you really up, you didn't like it, and you finally turned the radio off or threw the radio across the floor. That's your barley field. You're supposed to be listening to that message Our barley fields on fire are God's message to us to alert us, to get a hold of us, to turn us to Him Your barley fields, if they're on fire, they will grow the saints and they will expose the ants. They will grow the saints, expose the ants, and glorify Christ Jesus the Lord. That's why your barley fields are on fire. That's why you have fiery trials. Scripture says Psalm 199 19 and 67. Before I was afflicted, before my fiery trials, before my barley fields were burning, I went astray But now I have kept his word. Wow, what a fantastic result. If the burning of your barley fields Helps you to keep his word, helps you to walk the straight and narrow, turns your heart towards the Lord, saves you, helps you to appreciate the blood of Christ shed on the cross for your sins, not just the sins of the world, but for your sins. In particular, we ought to pray for the barley fields of everybody we know to catch a flame, to burn to the ground, if it means getting them safe, that they not burn in hell for all eternity. Fiery trials here are nothing. They're momentary. They're temporary to keep you from the eternal flames of the lake of fire. Oh, I'm not supposed to believe that hell's literally a lake of fire. Well that's what it says. Oh, that's what Jesus said. Well, who's he? Just some guy that walks on water, raises the dead, cleanses lepers. Why should we believe someone like that? You better believe death in eternity for the unsaved is not just separation from God. In fact, the wrath of God is there in hell. You're not separated from God. You now feel this total wrath, and it is aflame. It is a hot and dry and miserable tormented place. So the barley fields are a smidgen of what it might be It's a great message from God that you not go there, that you appeal to His word. Drop to your knees, bow before His Sun the barley fields they purify us like gold, Malachite three three. They purify us. Our barley fields on fire. They purify us. And they eventually they bless the sheep Joab was a retailer. He never gets it. He never sees a blessing in his barley fields being on fire. He never gets it. Have you gotten that message this morning, pilgrim? Well, I pray you will. I pray every barley field in your life is burning before weeks end until you accept Christ as your Savior Pastor's praying, I got fiery trials, that's terrible. I'm not going to that church anymore. Fine. But you know something? The fiery trials will still find you. Absalon answers Joab when he says, Why'd you do this? What's with the barley field being set on fire? I s I sent her to you, you wouldn't come. I want to see the king's face. I want to see my my dear father. I miss my daddy. I just think that David, what a wonderful father he is. I can't stand being away any longer. I'd rather be dead. If there's any iniquity in me, let him kill me, but I can't take being away from David, my father, anymore Absalom speaks as if he's done nothing wrong in killing his brother. He speaks as though he's done nothing worthy of his confinement. He speaks as though he's done nothing worthy of death. You know, I don't know about Absalom, but there's nobody sitting here who hasn't done something worthy of death in God's eyes. Do you not know how holy God is, how pure God is? When you take the Lord's name in vain, you deserve death. And I venture to say there's nobody here who hasn't done that. If you've even someone sneezes, oh God bless you, you don't really mean that. That's just something from habit that we all say here in America. That's taking the Lord's name in vain. Now on the other hand, you'll walk up to a person, are you feeling okay? Boy Lord, I'm a pray the Lord blesses you and you and that goes away. No, that wouldn't be taking the Lord's name in vain. But oh God bless you. Every time someone says total stranger, you don't know who he is And you almost run over him walking by him as you say, that's taking the Lord's name in vain. Taking the Lord's name in vain. That's the first commandment. Well, it depends whether you're Catholic or Protestant, the way they combine them. We all deserve death. But Absan, he doesn't think he's done anything worthy of death. And he's killed his brother. Wow. Nothing worthy of being confined. He differs with God's law, Genesis 9. 6. You'll have to look it up. He disagrees with the king's authority 1 Samuel 24 6 and Romans 13, disagreeing with the authority. You have to look that up. He disputes with his father's wisdom, Proverbs 13, 1 Absalom should have been grateful his life had been spared by his father and the king. He just should have been grateful that he was still alive. And wasn't dead and burning in hell. He ought to have been grateful for that space of grace that had been given him, but he's not grateful. He wasn't a grateful soul at all. Pilgrim, are you a grateful soul? We got air conditioning. We live in the twenty-first century. We can sit in our cars and be entertained on our radios while we're driving down the road to wherever we're going and we can got ice cream shops about every two or three miles. I mean if we you know and maybe we were well liked by our friends. God has been good to us He talked to some of the older people in this church who who've got health problems. And they'll tell you, God has been good. They'll tell you it's been a good run. The family's here, I think Mr. We've been married, what, sixty years? Is that about right? Been a good run, hasn't it? God God's been good. Of course, God loves fishermen, Mr. Wee's the fishermen. We know that. God's good the fishermen. Are you grateful? Pilgrim, for what God has done in your life, or is doing are you a grateful soul? Absalom is not a grateful soul You should be grateful. Psalm 103 again says, and we're talking about David, he's a great sweet psalmist. Psalm 103, we ought to be grateful souls because God had not dealt with us after our sins. Praise God, he hasn't dealt with me after my sins. I'd be a little piece of cinder sixty-some years ago. If I were God God has not dealt with us after our sins, nor rewarded us according to our iniquities. You ought to be grateful that God doesn't deal with you according to your sins. How can we not be grateful to a merciful God, forgiving God, when it takes our sins and puts them as far as the east as from the west Who under the blood of Christ can make us pure as wool and white as snow, how can you not be grateful? Unless your barley fields have ever been on fire, or you've ignored them when they were. The fiery trials made you angry instead of turning to the king of Israel? How often have we been spared by our Heavenly Father? The King of Kings, Christ Jesus. We ought to be grateful. And so in verse 33, Joab comes the king and he tells him what's been going on and absolutely misses you. It's been five long years. He doesn't want to be confined anymore. And he says, you know, he'd like to come in and throw himself before the mercy of the king and bow before you. And he wants to be near his father again. And Absalom comes in and he bows on his face to the ground before the king. Absalom comes in, he knows the decorum, he knows what goes on in a court. He comes in and he bows, he's doing what's expected of him. And the king Kisses Absalom. Do you know what it means when you come before the king? And you are a murderer, or you've done some high crime against the state of Israel. I mean, you should be executed for whatever. It doesn't have to be the son of Absalom, but you come before the king and you throw yourself before the mercy of the court And you bow down before the king, and the king kisses you, it means you have been pardoned. Absalom got what he wanted. King David no doubt was praying that Absalom was here with a prodigal son. Son's heart, broken and contrite, as Psalm 51, 17 says. And King David, I believe he noted, painfully soul. That Abson, as he got up from bowing and as David kissed him, his heart wasn't right. Now is that a big step for me to make? I don't think so. Because David kissed Absalom. Absolut, who missed his father so much, never kissed his father back. And that That must have struck King David painfully, sore, sorely so. Absalon didn't kiss his father back. Pilgrim When's the last time you kissed somebody in your family? Maybe she's talking about the fathers. Mothers are always kissing their kids, I think. Okay, mom's when's the last time you kissed dad. Walked up behind him when he was working on some project in the house and kissed him on the back of the neck, you know Give him a big hug. Maybe he apologized for something. Or maybe he apologized to you and you didn't seal it with a kiss Sheep, God's flock, King David, they're forgiving and they're affectionate. Are you an affectionate individual? When's the last time you kissed your son? Your siblings, your spouse. Save souls. Sheep are affectionate. It all starts really with kissing. Christ, the King of Kings, we read in Psalm 2, kiss the Son, lest he be angry, and you perish from the way, when his wrath is kindled but a little. If you're not kissing your wife or your children or your s or your brothers or your sisters. I realize that some people if you walk up and you give them a hug and you try to kiss them, you know I realize that But if you're saved, if you're a sheep, there should be some affection there. And it starts with the day you kiss the son, lest he be angry, and you perish in a way when his anger is his wrath is kindled but a little. Have you kissed the son of the Lord Jesus Christ? With tears on your face and words on your lips, something like this, oh thank you, thank you, thank you. Oh, you forgave me. forgave me you forgive me I'm covered I'm not going to hell you save me thank you thank you kiss kiss kiss you kiss the son lest you die And you never stop kissing. That affection grows and grows. And the Lord Jesus Christ, as King David, or he'll know if those kisses are genuine or not. Luke twenty 2214, Judas' kiss was not the kiss of love. Betrayeth me with a kiss, Judas The Lord will know if your prayers are genuine, if your crocodile tears are just crocodile tears. The Lord will know if you're sending your kisses to heaven to the Lord for what He's done for you on the cross. He will know how genuine the kisses are. How much love do you really have for the King of the Jews, friend? Pilgrim? How much love do you really have for the King of the Jews? There was a woman who kissed his feet. Is your love for Christ Christ obvious to Christ. Is your love for Christ the King obvious to others? King David knew Absalom didn't kiss him back. And Christ knows whether you really save him. Love him as well. Let's pray. Oh Lord, who would have thought we could learn so much from a sinner. But sinners can learn from other sinners. And Lord may we learn this day that Absalom still has time. Will he take it? Absalom knows from his father the words of wisdom. He knows some of the proverbs He knows some of the Psalms. He has all the information in his head, but not in his heart. Oh Lord, there's someone here today who's got it in their head. Drive it down. to their heart and make it stick that they love your son. Love him and will find themselves in eternity loving him. This flock. Oh Lord, put it in the hearts of everyone present. As their barley fields are aflame to bless you and kiss you for the fires That are only temporary. And it's in Christ Jesus' name, our great God and Savior, our King of Kings, our Redeemer. In His name we pray. Amen.