Turn with me this morning, Samuel. chapter 14. And we're only going to cover the first 14 verses. I thought we'd go further today, but it'll just be the first 14 verses of chapter 14. fourteen Now Joab the son of Zariah perceived that the king's heart was toward Absalom And Joab sent to Kolah and fetched thence a wise woman and said unto her, I pray thee, feign thyself to be a mourner. And put on now mourning apparel, and anoint not thyself with oil, but be as a woman that had a long time mourned for the dead. And come to the king and speak on this manner unto him So Joiah put the words in her mouth. And when the woman of Tokoh spake to the king, she fell on her face on the ground and did obeisance and said, Help, O king. And the king said unto her, What aileth thee? And she answered, I am deed a widow woman, and my husband is dead. And thy handmaid had two sons, and two strove together in the field, and there was none to part them, but the one smote the other, and slew him. And behold, the whole family is risen up against thine handmaid. And they said, Deliver him that smote his brother, that we may kill him for the life of his brother whom he slew. And we will destroy the heir also. And so they shall quench my coal which is left, and shall not leave to my husband neither name nor remainder upon the earth. And the king said unto the woman, Go to thine house, and I will give charge concerning thee, or I'll take care of the matter. And the woman of Torkoa said unto the king, My lord, O king The iniquity be on me and on my father's house, and the king of his throne be guiltless. And the king said, Whosoever saith aught unto thee, bring him to me, and he shall not touch thee. anymore. And then she said, I pray thee, let the king remember the Lord thy God, that thou wouldst not suffer the revengers of blood to destroy any more, lest he destroy my son And he said, As the Lord liveth, there shall not one hair of thy son fall to the earth. And then the woman said, Let thine handmaid, I pray thee, speak one word unto my Lord the King. And he said, Saeon. And the woman said, Wherefore then hast thou thought such a thing against the people of God? For the king does speak this thing as one which is faulty, in that the king doth not fetch home his own banished son. How can I trust you to take care of my son when you haven't even fetched your own? For we must die and are as water spilt on the ground which cannot be gathered up again. Neither doth God respect any person, yet doth he devise means that his banish be not expelled from him. She's saying, I'm supposed to feel confident you're going to protect my son But you're not even protecting your own son. How can I feel confident? He's banished. He's out there and there's no protection. No hedge about him. Why should I trust you, King? Of course, none of what she said was true. Joab had put these words into her mouth, titled this morning, The Message, The Deception, and that's exactly what it was. In verse 1, we read that Joab perceived that the king's heart was toward Absalom. He must have great perception. Or maybe there's more to the story than we have first read. And that's sometimes why chapter divisions can throw us off a little bit. Joab perceived that the king's heart was towards Absalom. Why? Go back to the very last verse. Of chapter 13. The verse right before chapter 14 and verse 1. And the soul of King David longed to go forth unto Absalom. For he was comforted concerning Ammon, seeing he was dead. And that's why in verse 1 we read that Joab perceived that the king's heart was towards Absalom. He saw this longing for Absalom. And that it's explained if we read those two verses together. And so it says Joab, seeing all this, he knew that David would not override the scriptures. He would not override what was required of a murderer, a premeditated murder. That he was to be put to death The only thing David had chosen to do so far is not to go out of Israel and seek out his son and arrest him and bring him back and have him executed. So how could he get David to bring his son back and pardon him? A man that had shown no repentance at all of what he had done. So Job fetches this woman. Instead he was she was a fake, herself a mourner. And come to the king, and Joab put these words in her mouth, and we've read these words here. And that way perhaps David would pardon Absalom and bring him back. There are messages so deceptive and appealing. That even the believer swallows them sometimes, at least initially. So deceptive. Because they are so appealing. We think of Abraham. God had promised him, had prophesied, Abraham, even though you're old and approaching 100, the day will come when you'll have a son And Sarah, yes, she's approaching ninety and a and she's old too, but you're gonna have a son. You you really are. And it and it didn't happen. And they'd waited and waited and we don't know how long, but probably for a couple of years. And Sarah came to Abraham and said, We need a little help in fulfilling this prophecy of God. And I submit to you, Abraham, and here was the deception. In order to fulfill God's word, that's a lofty goal, isn't it? I give you my maid Hagar. And we'll raise that son that God has promised us. The deception had some appeal. After all, we would be filled in prophecy. We'd be showing that God's word never fails. And Hagar was probably a pretty fair-looking young woman. So the whole idea, the concept, the deception was appealing to Abraham. We have to be careful of things that are appealing to us that may be contrary to the Word of God. We find the same thing happening in the life of Jacob. And his mother, when she came to him and she said, your father, Isaac is about to give out the blessing The blessing that would go with the firstborn, the blessing would go with the one who would be the priest of the household, of the family. The blessing that carries an eternal blessing for the souls of that one. And he wants He wants Esau to go out and get this venison and bring it back, and after he's eaten the venison, he's going to bless them. And of course, Jacob's mother says, I got a better idea. I know that he sold his birthright to you. I know that God intends you to have this blessing, but it doesn't look like it's going to happen. So here's the plan. And we know now she hatched the plan and And she prepared a meal and and she put the the skins around the arms of Jacob. And Jacob went before his father and the deception was that he was really Esau, coming for his blessing, and the Father Touches his arms because he says the voice is that of Jacob, but the arms are that of Esau. And it was a deception. But of course it was accomplishing But God had said that Jacob would be the one that would carry on and he would be the firstborn, he'd he'd purchase the firstborn rights and so forth. God didn't need any help for these things to be fulfilled. Jacob sinning and deceiving his father thought God needed some help. There are deceptive messages out there today But they're appealing, and we hear them. Have you heard this one? God loves everybody. I mean, God is a God of love, and He He just loves everybody. I won't do my Joel Olstein impression this morning, but God loves everybody. Is that true? That's appealing to everybody, I guess, isn't it? People out there that are sinning and and living a life of of uh reprobate and it that's a thing that no matter what happens, God loves everybody. God wouldn't send somebody he loves to hell. He doesn't send anybody he loves to hell. But if you think that God loves everybody, that that is news to the Pharaoh and Esau and Judas Iscariot, because they're in hell right now and and they they know that God doesn't love them. They know that that's not true. That's a deceptive thing to tell people that God loves everybody. Some even teach a universal salvation. Not does God love everybody, but in the end, God's going to save everybody. Everybody's going to end up in heaven eventually. They might have to go through purgatory for a while. That's a deception that the Catholic Church teaches But eventually everybody is going to be saved. Christ died for all, they tell us. So all will eventually be in heaven. All won't eventually be in heaven. In fact, Christ didn't die for all. He died for all types, all kinds. Gentile, Jew, bond, and slave, male, and female. He died for all types, all kinds. But Scripture says that he died for many. We read in Matthew 20 and 28 And not just there, but in Mark 10 and 45, and not just there, but in John 17, too, that Christ gave his life a ransom for many Not for all. The Pharaoh knows that. Judas Iscariot knows that. Esau knows that. But it's such an appealing message that many people like the thoughts that no matter what they do and how many times they do it and how often they reject God or follow some other false false God or idol, that eventually they're going to get to heaven too. And if you don't believe that people think that way, think about the last funeral you went to, and you're you're standing over the coffin of somebody's spouse or or loved one. And they they people walk up and they say, well, people you who are about atheists, agnostics, people that never stepped foot inside a church, and you'll hear them say, as they stand at their coffin, well He's at a better place now. Really? They don't even believe there's a better place. But in their hearts, it's an appealing thought that when we all die, we're all going to be in a better place place. And even the atheist agnostic will chant that at every funeral they go to. He gave his life a ransom for many. And John 10 and 11 says, the good shepherd giveth his life for all? No. It says the good shepherd giveth his life for the sheep. Well, what about the goats? He doesn't give his life for the goats. He doesn't give us life for the fallen angels that we call demons today. He gives his life for the sheep. He gives us life for, as John 3. 16 says, he gives us life for whosoever believeth. And that's it. Not the goats, not for all Have you heard there is no judgment? That's another deceptive. But appealing Doctrine. There is no judgment. We just die, and that's it. I mean, God loves us so much, He wouldn't even create a place called hell. The more appealing the deceptive message, the more readily it is received. And David found the message of this woman very appealing to him. He wanted Absalom back in Israel. Israel. He wanted Abzon back in Jerusalem. He wanted Abzon back in his arms again. He longed for him He had longed for three years ago he'd Ammon had died and he was very upset but Amon he's gone. He he mustn't have been the favorite child, that's for sure, Amnon. He's quickly forgotten him. And here's this appealing message from this widow woman weeping and crying out, a story that, why, it's just parallel to mine. Isn't this wonderful? It's so deceptive. I don't think that David realizes that her story, and I don't think Job realized either, that her story was not parallel To Absalon's. She says, Oh king, I am a widow and I had two sons. David had more than two. And they strove in the field, and there was none to part them. Absalom didn't strive in the field. He was at a banquet feast and there was plenty there to part him, except they couldn't because he didn't kill Ammon by himself. He sent a whole f parade of servants in. Whereas this woman, her son, and her other son got in a fight, probably not even intending to kill each other. But a couple blows are struck and one of them falls, strikes his head or whatever, he dies But Absalom premeditated the death of his brother. These stories aren't really all that parallel, but the message is so deceptive and David likes where it's going. I can bring Absalom back. Wow. It got David's attention. She continues as she says in verse 7, and the whole family now is upset with me because I'm protecting my son. And they said, Deliver him that we may kill him. But shall not leave me or my husband a name to carry on, or nor any remainder upon the earth. He's the last one to inherit my husband's property. If he dies, I am as a woman I'm not allowed to inherit I'll lose everything. I'll lose the inheritance. Please, can you do something? They're seeking my son's life. Nobody was seeking Absalom's life. He was living with his father-in-law in another country. He was safe. He was protected. Nobody was out there. The revenger of the blood wasn't out there looking for him. Nobody was seeking Absalom's life This was a deceptive message, but it was so appealing that David is missing that it's not all that close to what she is describing or what Job has has come up with The message is deceptive. It appeals to David's emotions. It's our scriptural devotions and not our emotions that should govern our decisions. Have you ever known someone who tends to make decisions just when their emotions are at the peak You know? I mean there's a things going on in their life and it it's getting so crazy in in the house or you're driving down the road and and their your emotions that's where road rage comes from The people let their emotions make their decision. I'm going to cut him off. He cut me off. I'm going to beep my horn at him, and I'm not letting up on the horn for the next three miles As I follow him. These are emotions that guide us at the point where our emotions are so high we make some really poor decisions sometimes I had a friend of mine that he felt that somebody had changed lanes where he wanted to, and he beeped this horn and he chased the guy and followed him off the beltway and down Rysot Town Road and I think it was right down the road and and he the guy pulls the driver, he pulls it right behind the driver. He's a big guy. He was afraid of anybody. Like like Mr. Braun, big guy. And he gets out of the car and a guy steps out of his car. He's a police officer with a badge Wrong decision. We let our emotions guide us and what can happen to us. How about Rodan at the gate? They're all back there praying for Peter. Oh God to save Peter. He's in the prison. They're going to execute him tomorrow. And Peter, the angels get Peter out of there. Other prison and Peter comes and he knocks the door and Rhoda comes out and goes, Oh, oh this is wonderful, this is wonderful, slams it over his face, goes back in. Guess who's out there? I mean her emotion, her decision is to lock the door on Peter We can make the hurried. She's opened the door and got him in off the streets before they found him. Lot's wife. She's leaving Sodom. And if she's walking out her emotions are, oh, I miss home, I miss home. It's been my home for so many years. I just want to, in the peak of her emotions, I'm just going to take a quick glance back. We make wrong decisions when we let our emotions guide us. Samson did the same thing. He told Delilah, yeah, a haircut would probably calm me down a little bit. Well it sure did But she was crying and weeping and emotions were going and sadons and mo- You make bad decisions when you let your emotions carry you. Peter denied the Lord Jesus Christ. Why? Because he's standing around a fire that night and it's kind of cold and he sees on the tree of the Lord Jesus Christ. He doesn't want to be treated that way either. His emotions are getting him. Oh my goodness, look what they're doing to my Savior Look what they're doing to the Lord. I and they would do that to me too if I had admit that I'm a Galilean. And so he lets his emotions Make his decision to deny Christ three times with cursing and swearing. Sometimes we miss that part. With cursing and swearing. Wow. Often parents make poor decisions with their children. And this is David. Absalom is his son. David is going to make a he's going to make a poor decision here. The emotions are in charge. And parents are in exasperation. We get exasperated sometimes. Our kids keep hammering us, they want to do this, they want to do that. And we get so exasperated that finally we grant our sons and our daughters uh that whim, whatever that whim is. And they find out that that worked. If I cry enough or I hassle them enough, they'll grant me my whim. And pretty soon the parents are granting every whim. They don't want the the the the static in the household. They don't want the confrontation anymore. They're just tired of all of it. They're exasperated. And so they grant them every whim and every other whim until they become worthless rascals And then they wonder what went wrong. We don't want our children to think we're old-fashioned, or that we're too strict, or we're a killjoy. We we just want them to always have a good time while they live at home with us. We just want them always to have a good time. And then we wonder why they end up serving time in prison. Because we let our emotions guide our decisions. Now David responds to this woman in verses 8 and 8 through 11. He says, As the Lord liveth, there shall not one hair of thy son fall to the earth. Now think about this for a I don't care if he is the king. I don't care if he's a President of the United States. I don't care if he's he's in charge of the Senate or the Congress Nobody can make that kind of a promise that not one hair of his head shall fall to the ground. Well, I shouldn't say no one. The Lord Jesus Christ could make that promise. The King of Israel can't, but the King of Kings can. He can make that promise. Not one hair of thy sense shall fall to the earth. Christ did it. In fact, Christ made that promise in Luke 21 and 18. There shall not a hair of your head perish. Now think about that. I saw several of my hairs go down the tub drain this morning. To me it looked like they perished. And and I I looked in the mirror and I I if they haven't perished, I don't know where they're going, but The doctor has me on a new medication, by the way. It's uh supposed to help my my aging process As you get old you have problems. I'm not going to go into what the problems are, but he said there's a side effect. I said, what's a side effect? He said, well it grows hair on your head. Okay? I hate these side effects of medicines, but I'll I'll live with that. I can live with that. But if you said that not a hair or your head shall perish, how can how can the Lord Jesus Christ, who never lies, and never deceives us How can he promise our hairs whenever the only way he can ever promise my hair because people die, they go in the grave, they turn to dust, that we find their skulls and and and maybe there's some hair on the skull but It seems to me like your hair perish uh the hair does perish. How can Christ say in Luke 21, 18, there shall not a hair on your head perish? Never perish? That can't be true. Unless there's a resurrection from the dead. Hmm. Then the hair doesn't perish. Don't know where it goes, but he resurrects us. Our bodies will be resurrected. They will not perish. And if our bodies will not perish, our hair won't either. He can only make that promise. But David makes a promise. Not a hair of his head. He can't make that promise. He could put a guard of a hundred centurions of soldiers around him day after day after day and some bacteria or virus or an uh an arrow shot in shot into the air And a lark could strike this. You just can't make that. But we have a king of kings who can make that promise, each and every one of us here. shall not perish. That being said, David's promise to protect her son was weakened. It was hard to believe even for this woman because he wasn't protecting Absalom. Another murderer. What are you doing to protect Absalom? If you're not protecting Absalom, why should I really think that you're gonna protect my son? And she says in verse 12 and 13, wherefore has the king not fetched home his banished? You know, Absalom's banished, he haven't brought him home, so he can put a guard around him and protect him. That's what they do with people running for president of the United States, right? They put a guard around their children I remember years ago when my brother was having trouble with the unions, with the company he worked with, he not only had SWAT teams living in the hallway outside his bedroom. To protect him from the death threats against his life. But his children hated it because they were they were dating, you know? They were going out on dates, and guess what? In the back seat sat one of these It wasn't Secret Service, it was special uh they were from the uh the uh San Francisco Police Department, guys that were hired out and they and every date they went on this this big bruiser was sitting in the back of the car with him As I reflect back on that, he never married neither one of those boys ever married any of those girls that were protected that way. It just didn't happen. You have to protect how do you protect your children? You're not protecting your Absalon. He should fetch him home. He should have a guard appointed to protect him. Well first point is this the woman says, Wherefore is the king not fetched home, you're banished. Absalom wasn't banished. That wasn't true. That was a deception. She throws that out there, and David should have picked up on that He says, wait a minute. I never banished Absalom. He fled to his father-in-law in another country. I didn't banish him. I haven't told him he can't come back. He's just afraid to come back because he's guilty of sin. Sin he refuses to repent of. But he let the word banish slide because he liked where the story was going. His emotions were into it. He saw an opportunity An excuse and a reason to have Absalom back in Jerusalem again. So he didn't correct the woman when she said and used the word banished. Have you ever kept quiet when somebody misrepresented a fact? Because it supported your position? You know, we're we're finding that there are people out there that they know the truth, but they have a different position from the truth. These people would hack into computers, they hacked into the United Nations and got into their global warming records, and they found out that there isn't any global warming going on. And they admitted it in their emails. And you know if the emails got released here about a year or two ago? And the United Nations you know what they said How dare you hack into our emails! You said here you don't believe that there's a global that's terrible you hack into our emails. But you said right here, it's old and right. Print, we've got to keep faking these numbers, keep doing this. It's it's just disgusting that you but see, they don't care about the facts. As long as it supports her position. And that's where David was. He was so emotionally into the fact that this could bring his son back, he didn't care if she used the word banished It supported his position. And sometimes that's what politicians do. They don't care about the facts. They just they'll ignore the truth if it'll get them elected. They'll pass the bill, though regardless of what the truth of the matter is, regardless of whether they've read it or not, they'll gain the point at any cost, even at the cost of the truth. And that's what David was doing here. He was the one to gain his son back in Israel at the cost of truth. Your son is a murderer. Your son should be put to death. He hasn't repented. He hasn't wept over. He hasn't sorrowed over his sins. He's done nothing. This woman can say, well, well, David, David. You were forgiven for killing Uriah. David wept over his sins. Read Psalm 51. He was repentant, sorrowfully repenting. But David ignores these truths. You know what else David missed? The second thing I discover here? He not only missed the fact that Absalom wasn't banished, but he also David misses Absalom so much. But here's the point he misses. You go over the scriptures and he missed this. Absalom didn't miss his father at all. He wasn't waning and pining for three years off there with his father. I wish I could be with my father. David said with my father-in-law. We don't read any of that. He wasn't pining to be with his father. David missed the fact that as much as he missed Absalom. Absalom didn't care a hoot about David. And if you aren't quite sure that's the truth, read the next chapter, chapter 15. Where Absalom comes back. And then he tries to kill David and overthrow him in the kingdom. And takes all of David's wives and abuses them. I mean, he didn't care about David Or that David being in charge of the king or David's wife, absolutely only thinks about himself. Boy, David missed that. It almost cost him his life. King David missed that Absalom hadn't repented. That Absalom would he that was an important fact to remember. He David missed the fact that Absalom didn't care about David, didn't care about his sins. David missed that point. It almost cost him his life. Pilgrim, I would say this morning, have you done something that could cost you your eternal life or or not done something that could cost I talk to people sometimes and I say, Do you love the Lord? Are you saved? Oh, you mean born again? That that born again thing. Yeah. Yeah. That's what I mean. Well, I said I've done it all. I got this checklist. He said that if I was baptized, check that one off. I walked down an aisle, checked that one off I with every head bowed and nobody looking. Shh, yeah, right. You ever been with a shirt? With every head bowed, nobody looking, just flip that hand up and let me know you want me to pray for you and what's going on. Everybody's We're all looking. Wanna see whose hand goes up? Do you know what they discover? That in the moment they're about to raise their hands, slip their hand up, they discover this church is full of a bunch of liars. Their heads are going up and they're looking around and their heads up bowed and they are looking. Well, I checked that off. I checked, I baptized, I joined the church, I'm a member, I raised my hand, I signed the decision card. Check, check, check, check, check. I prayed the sinner's prayer. Wow, I'm covered. Is Christ preeminent in your life? Colossians 1 18? Is he what? What is that? preeminent. Number one. You're Alpha and your Omega. Well no, I mean I got I got family and I got daughters and I got kids and I mean I just He said, No, I that that's going ab above and beyond the realm of what we owe Christ to make him so preeminent that everybody else is second class. Let me uh quote what the Lord Jesus Christ said If any man come to me, saith the Lord, and hate not father, mother, wife, children, brother, sister, his own life He cannot be my disciple. Luke 14 and 26. What's it mean to hate all these people? Well Christ doesn't mean you hate him, so you want to go out and kill him. What he's talking about here is that Christ must be first in our life over all the creature, over all creatures and over all your creature relationships Christ must be number one. If your father thinks you hate him because Christ is number one, so be that. If your mother, your brother, your sister, if they think that you you make them second in your line of of who has preeminence in your life, including your own spouse And they think you hate them because of that, Christ said, that's what it will take. I must be number one. I am to be the Lord of your life. I'm not just your savior. Some people say, I want, I want a savior, but I don't want a Lord and Savior I just want Savior. I don't want to be Lord in my life. I don't want to be first in my life. This woman insists on pushing Absalom to the forefront of David's life. She would have Absalom to be first in David's life. I know we all say we don't have any favorites among our grandchildren. We don't have any favorites among our children. We don't have any favorites among our nieces or our nephews. We don't have any favor Friends But do we have someone that we put before the Lord Jesus Christ? Hey, I I I struggle with that because I love my my wife so much. You know, God gave her to me and He gave me just this wonderful blessing and I just can't thank him enough every day in my life. And I have to think and I I finally come full circle on this. I think my wife is so special. She's not after today, that's why I can talk this way. I mean when she hears this later on today, she can be so embarrassed. So if she asked you about it, you didn't hear this part. No, you can't you can't do that I come full circles. You know why? Christ comes first in my life. He gave me a wonderful wife, and he has let me have her for forty-some years And now he wants her back. Can't blame him for that. If I got to spend 41 years down here without her, I'm going to want her back too. Christ wants what I have, and it's his. And this woman would have Absalom to be first in David's life. And we do that, we make that mistake with our children sometimes. We make little idols out of little gods out of them. Is that what you do with an idol? You bring it rice, you bring it water, you bring it food, you give it everything it wants, you know. You give it things it doesn't want, you clothe the idol y on, you dress the idol up. I mean you do everything with an idol. That's what we do with our children sometimes In verse 14, God yet doth he not devise, he says, a means that even the banished can be expelled, uh be not expelled from God, God has devised a plan that even the banished They don't have to be expelled, they can be brought back. I mean after all David, you killed Uriah, and God showed you mercy. And as I said before, yeah, after David wept and crawled in the dirt and his face buried in the dust in Psalm 51. You read that and try to read that as David wrote it. That's the problem. People don't repent the way David did. They say, well, I don't send away David sins. Oh, come on. Christ says, if you even look with a woman, you've already committed adultery if you look on her. You don't get caught like David gets caught. Oh, yes, excuse me. You do get caught. God sees our every glance, check Gentlemen. And ladies, God sees your every glance. He reads our thoughts. He's better than NSA or the CIA. God knows Don't tell me you're not as bad as David. So we need to get down on our knees and grovel in the dust and ask God to forgive us. Where's our Psalm 51 in our life? But he wants Absalom back. But Absalom hasn't repented. Absalom will never repent. And that might sound harsh. So look over at verse 32 and you tell me what you think it says. Look at verse 32 and chapter 14. We're going ahead to next week, but verse 32 And Absalom answered Joab, Behold, I sent unto thee, saying, Come hither that I may send thee to the king to say what for where am I come from Geezer? It had been good for me to have been there still. Now therefore let me see the king's face. And listen to what he says. And if there be any iniquity in me, let him kill me. Absalom says, if there's any iniquity in me, the king can kill me. There's no iniquity in me. I'm as clean as a s wind-driven snow. No, I was white as wool. There's no iniquity. I mean he can find, if he can find iniquity, me let him kill. This is not a repentant heart Absalom's not seeking forgiveness. Today there's an artificial forgiveness offered and applied to sinners and they aren't even seeking forgiveness. See everybody see I've talked about this before. Some guys were arrested for Raping and killing a girl, and the first thing you hear is the mother and father say, Well, we're Christians and we forgive him. He hasn't asked forgiveness. He doesn't want to be forgiven. He just wants to get out and do it again. But we offer our forgiveness to him Only God can forgive that man. But we offer forgiveness that God hasn't even extended to the honorable repentant murderer and serial killer and rapist. God hasn't forgiven the man. He hasn't repented. But we're going to do God one better. We're going to forgive him. This is an artificial forgiveness. If there isn't, if there's to be forgiveness and restoration at all in the life of Absalom or ours, the sinner must seek Forgiveness and restoration through repentance. He must reject his old sin habits. John the Baptist taught that. Bring forth fruits, meat for repentance, Matthew 3 and 8. We we can seek repentance and not even find it. We find that of Esau. He sought the blessing, and there is no place of repentance. Esau never found repentance. He said he wanted it, but his heart wasn't weeping for it. We're to seek carefully with tears. Hebrews 12, 16 and 17 says, to seek repentance carefully with tears Judas says he repented of what he had done and then he went out and hung himself. There were no tears recorded, no going to the Lord Jesus Christ and asking for his forgiveness. Matthew 27. Verses three through six. John the Baptist says, Do works meet for fruits meet for repentance And he also says again, repentance for remission of our sins, Mark 1 and 4, John the Baptist again. Peter taught, repent that your sins be blotted out, Acts 3 and 19. Repent that these sins be blotted out. Christ taught, no, now we've gone from John the Baptist to Peter. Peter, but the Lord Jesus Christ talked one must repent of their deeds or their filthy works or their evilness. Revelation two and twenty-two. Reality check. with a mere request for forgiveness. It needs to be sought sorrowing and in tears You think a mere request will get you forgiveness from God when you've been dipping your souls into Satan's cesspool for years? And now you can say, oh God, I'm not feeling too good. I might die. I've been hit by this card. I'm feeling kind of strange. Forgive me, Lord, for everything I did. Easy. Repentance? I don't see that in the scriptures. That's the superficial forgiveness that's proclaimed today. Oh, it's superficial. You you offer people the superficial forgiveness for robbing you or killing your daughter or And you say, Well, I forgive him because I'm a Christian and I'm better than him. And you offer the superficial forgiveness, and all you're doing is encouraging and nourishing them to do it again. You're just promoting the sin that they've already committed by easily forgiving them. The Apostle Paul made it clear that there is no easy laid-back, repentance, or remedy. When Paul wrote in 2 Corinthians 7:10, godly sorrow worketh repentance. So have you told him have you actually really ever repented? Godly sorrow worketh repentance. The remedy for removing the attraction of sin, the power of sin, the penalty of sin, the stain of sin, it doesn't come cheap. It costs the precious blood of Christ. Repentance and forgiveness, it doesn't come cheap. It doesn't come easy. We must seek it sorrowing. Have you ever asked yourself? I know the blood that Christ shed on the cross was there to blot out my sins. How can I know? Have you ever asked yourself, how can I know that Christ's blood has really been applied to my sins and to my soul? How can I actually know that? You can know that. You can know whether the blood of Christ has really cleansed you of your sins or not. Because when it does, it cleanses your heart. It cleanses your heart. Your heart hasn't changed, and you think that you are saved and forgiven. Your heart hasn't changed. You're still not forgiven, and you are not heaven-bound. Your heart should change if you've really repented. And that's the biggest deception of all. People think of this easy forgiveness that's offered out there. Well, I've asked God to forgive me. I'm okay. I've gone through the whole septum. I've been baptized, I've decision card, I've walked the out and asked God to forgive me. I'm covered. I got it all checked off That's easy forgiveness. Your heart hasn't changed. You're not heaven-bound. That's the biggest exception of all If that's where we are this morning, repent. Repent now. Repent with godly sorrow. Repent, repent, repent. Let's pray. Lord, we turn to you this morning. We're so grateful that you spent an enormous price. Your son's blood on the cross. And something is expected of us. When we repent, it ought to be so obvious That the world sees the changed heart. We shouldn't just notice a changed heart. It ought to be so obvious to the world. People ought to call you a born-aginner before you even tell them you are. They ought to call you a funny mentalist or a fundamentalist. And you don't even have to tell them. They won't see the change. They will know by your love for the Lord, your love for the body of Christ, for the faithful, the household of faith, they will know by your love for the scriptures. You've changed. Oh Lord, change every heart that has hasn't been changed here this morning. Make them heaven-bound. These things are written, John says, that we might know we have eternal life. If you do not know it this morning, seek God. With a sorrowful repentance. And you too will know that eternity means life forever for you before you leave this day. And we ask this in Christ's name. Amen. Greg, it's good to have you back. Would you close us with prayer this morning, please?