For those who are wondering, I think we've got about eight messages left in the life of David. We will be going into uh first Kings chapter one and two. We've got probably eight messages uh left in the life of David, and then we'll be heading back to the New Testament. This morning, if you would, turn with me to 2 Samuel chapter 23, the first seven verses. Now these be the last words of David 2 Samuel 23 and verse 1. David, the son of Jesse said, And the man who was raised up on high, the anointed of God of Jacob, and the sweet psalmist of Israel, said The Spirit of the Lord spake by me, and his word was in my tongue. The God of Israel said, The rock of Israel spake to me, He that ruleth over men must be just. This is his message. What did he speak to him or what is he saying to us? That he that ruleth over men must be just, ruling in the fear of God. And he shall be as the light of the morning when the sun riseth, this particular king. This is what he should be like. Even a morning without clouds. is the tender grass springing up out of the earth by clear shining after rain. And then David says, and these are the words that God put in his mouth to say. Although my house be not so with God. Yet he hath made with me an everlasting covenant, ordered in all things, and sure For this is all my salvation and all my desire. Although, referring again to his house, he make it not to groan. But the sons of Belial shall be all of them as thorns thrust away, because they cannot be taken with hands. But the man that shall touch them must be fenced with iron. And the staff of a spear, and they shall be utterly burned with fire in the same place. I hope we can make more sense of this than we already have in just reading it this one time. It's called here, and our title mentioned the last words of David. These are not the last words of David. These are the last words as he spoke as God moved him by the Holy Spirit. He said, these are the last words of David as God spake to me, and these words are my tongue. Alright? However, he is in his latter days. And he is approaching death. And so, in one sense, they are memorable words, if not his very last, or perhaps on his deathbed, he quotes these verses again that a ruler must be just And a ruler must fear God. We don't know. But we do know that it's in David's end times, and they are the last days, and and he knows he's approaching death, and God has honored him with one more inspired uh verse or two. And when we find death approaching us, shall we not honor God as well and and profit others with our last words as David does here, telling us that a Those who rule and reign and magistrate, they ought to be just men and men that fear God. Now, we don't know when our last words will be, do we? So maybe we should just weigh everything we say to others because it may be our last words as well. And how do you speak to people? I remember years ago a fellow and his wife were arguing and she left the house to go on an errand a lovely Christian couple and there was one of these oddities when there was some words that weren't maybe so kind as it could have been. And she didn't make it but a mile down the road and she was killed by a motorcyclist running head on his You don't know when your last words might be spoken to your spouse or your children or to a brother or a sister. I I called Becky Miller this week. Some of you don't know yet that a tornado touchdown between her house and their neighbor's house out back. Actually it landed on the neighbor's property. destroyed the barn, hopped over the neighbor's house, the barn exploded, boards flying everywhere, nails, whatnot God kept that tornado from hitting that house because the lady living in the house was a Christian as well as Becky in the house next door. And so I called Becky and I said, Oh Becky If something had happened to you. And I had not said to you one more time. That we love you. What might be your last words to someone may be the words you speak today. And so like David, we ought to be kind and gentle and wise and and God fearing of what we share with one another. For it may be our last words, and someone will surely say, I was just talking the other day, and he said, We've heard that before, haven't we? And here we find David. He's calling himself the sweet psalmist of Israel. He's not only saying that what I say here are the words of God that he's put on my tongue, but all my psalms were inspired of God. I'm the sweet psalmist of Israel. He counts God's greatest gift to him, not the crown on his head, but the harp in his hands, where he strums and sings the inspired psalms, the words of God. He counts God's greatest gift, the fact that he can sing the word of God. He can play the word of God. He counts God's greatest gift, not his crown, but his harp and his music and the prophecies that will guide the church to all eternity and how we should pray. And how we should praise God. And the revelations of his coming Christ are in the Psalms. If you read Psalms 16 and 18 and 22 and 20, they're all talking about the coming king, the coming Messiah, the anointed one. And all those words are inspired of God. He says in verse 2, the Spirit of the Lord spake by me. The Spirit of the Lord spake by me. His word was in my tongue. Here David declares: divine inspiration. He says that God not only spake to me, but his words were in my tongue. David didn't say I hope there's no errors in what I repeat to everyone. No. David says his words are on my tongue. What David is saying to us here, because it's inspired of God, it is errorless, or we call it inerrant scripture. And it comes from an eternal source who is governing what David is going to speak and what David is going to write. David didn't say, Thank you, Lord, I appreciate this inspiration, and now I'll just paraphrase it here for a moment. He didn't paraphrase it. He didn't render some eclectic thought-by-thought concept, as some translators do. He expressed not freely in his own words what God meant But he rendered it word for word. That's what he says here. The Spirit of the Lord spake by me, and his word was in my tongue. Whatever David said and wrote, it was God's word, not his commentary. Not his paraphrase, not his eclec uh concept of thought by thought or something like this. 2 Peter chapter 121 declares, holy men of God spake as they were moved by the Holy Ghost. Spake as they were moved. They didn't just off the cuff decide to say something and declare God had said it. They spake as they were moved. Their word of God was on their tongue. What we read in our hands here is the word of God. As he delivered it to Jeremiah and Isaiah and Hosea and Obadiah and on we could go I also like what he says here when David's writing is in verses 2 and 3. He says, the Spirit of the Lord, that's the Holy Spirit. The God of Israel, the God who made Israel, called Israel, the God of the maker of heaven and earth, that's the Father. And he says, and the rock of Israel, that's the Lord Jesus Christ. He's got the triune God here. The triune Godhead, right here, in these few short verses, two and three. The Spirit of the Lord, the God of Israel, the rock of Israel, spake And what did he ask me to tell you? He that ruleth over men must be just. Well, we haven't seen that yet, have we? Every man that rules over any nation, every country, he's always got his own little hidden agenda. He's always got the things that he covets. He always wants to to have control of people and do things. But there's coming a time when he that rule over men He must be just, and we haven't seen that yet. We don't even see that in David, who has Uriah Killed. He must be just ruling in the fear of God. And he goes on here and he says that now he should be rule of God. That type of king, he shall be as the light of the morning when there's no clouds, there's no darkness about his rain. As the tender grass springing up out of the earth after rain, it'll be a fruitful ministry that he will have as a reigning king. And we think of this and say, what a welcome sight indeed it would be to see a king like this, so just, fearing the Lord. Like the light of the sun in the morning, or the light of the world as it is. Truly is the sun, is truly the light of the world, and Christ is the light of the world. What he's describing here is a ruler who shall come, a king better than David, better and wiser than Solomon, a king that shall come here is beyond any that has ever ruled. It is the king of kings. It is the anointed king. Is David's an anointed king? And yea, as we go through the Psalms of David, he is the Messiah. that David is looking forward to appearing and reigning. Would you welcome today such a just ruler in America? Someone so just, someone that feared the Lord so much, someone that was impeccable. Would you welcome such a ruler like that? Well that would be the Lord Jesus Christ, the King of Kings, the Lord of Lords when He comes. And people say, Oh yes, I'm I'm a Savior, I'm saved, and and and I Jesus Christ, He's my Savior, and I would I would welcome Him Well um I couple things I want to get done first, but you know, I in in time I'd be great if he came along. You know what, if the Lord Jesus Christ came along I suspect for some of you It would really wreck your plans for the weekend, wouldn't it? I can't do that. Christ now rules on earth. He's I mean, we can't do that. We can't go there. We c we can't get involved with some of that stuff anyway. uh if Christ was really ruling on the earth today, I suspect it would wreck somebody's weekend. I suspect it would derail numerous other plans that you might be determining to do in the next couple of days, weeks, months or years. Things that Yeah, the Lord wouldn't look too kindly if on. Some people say, well, Jesus has saved me. He's my Savior. Is he Lord of your life? What do you mean by Lord? Does he sit on the throne of your heart and rule you in the fear of God? You can be saved. You have to make God Lord. I've had Christians tell me this. You don't have to make God the Lord of your life. He just has to be your Savior. What? He is the king. King's reign. King's rule. Well, I know, but he saved me. That's good enough for me. No, it's not good enough for you. He is your Savior, but He is also supposed to be your Lord. How many times did the disciples they fall their knees in front of Christ? Say, My Lord and my God, He was their Lord, He reigned in their life He is the king. If you don't think a king reigns, think of this then. He's called in Revelation 19, 16 and Revelation 17, 14 And in Timothy 6, 14 through 15, he is called the King of Kings. Now, if you don't think the King reigns and rules in your life, the King of Kings certainly would, wouldn't he? He's the king of all kings. He is not just your savior, dear friend. If you've just got Jesus as a savior and not the Lord of your life, you don't have an eternal life that you thought you had. Does he save you, but not reign over you? I would question whether you're saved. He is to be the Lord and King of your life. I realize that puts for those of you who are saved are the small Morning. For those of you who who have accepted Christ as your Savior and He is your King and He reigns over you. Oh, not that we don't still sin, not that we still don't blow it and make some mistakes. But we ask the King to forgive us Lord forgive us what I I blew it again. I I I said this in my life. I I'm totally grateful for your forgiveness and and we repent and And we pray and ask God that we not continue acting that way. But the fact is that if you're really saved, he's not just your savior, he's your king, and he's already put a crimp in your old carnal lifestyle, hasn't he? Isn't that what God does when He's Lord of your life? He puts a crimp in the old carnal lifestyle. You're no longer out there cruising and cursing and coveting and cheating others. And that's just for starters, right? I mean he's Lord of your life. Things change. And then verse five, David laments Some of you can probably say this, or you know families that can. They're saved, and maybe none of their children are walking the way they should. Knowing families like that not one child is saved at the moment. And hopefully in 20, 30 years some of them will be, or all of them, you don't know. But Even if we've got oneness not walking with the Lord, we can we can commiserate with David here, he says he says in verse five that you know we want a just king and we want a a wonderful king and and we want to fear God and and he and I hope one of my children will follow in my footsteps. And unfortunately they do. Yikes, the wrong footsteps, his early footsteps. But David says in verse 5, although my house be not so with God. And he make it not to grow in grace the knowledge of the Lord. Talk about the inspiration of the Holy Spirit. If man was writing this book, if man was writing the Psalms, if David was involved in relating the things that God had said to him, And he had no c and any but he had control over it. If David said, Well, okay, God put this word on my tongue and I'm gonna leave that verse out and I'll drop drop that one. I mean David writes such things that accept for the sin of Uriah, God is forgiving. Oh I wouldn't mention that again, but it he does. And here David says, although my house be not so with God, and he maketh it not to grow, grace the knowledge of the Lord, they're not growing. Oh man, I would if I wasn't moved by the Holy Ghost to pin these painful words about my Christeless household, I wouldn't write them. Do you understand what the inspiration of the Holy Spirit does? It controls Habakkuk. It controls Jeremiah and Isaiah. They will write word for word. What God has given to them, that's inspiring. Contrary to things they don't want to put on the paper, they will write them And so David said, My house is not so with God. He maketh it not to grow. I have a Christeless household. It is clogged with carnality and calamities and crimes and lives cut short and civil wars My children, Absalom, dead. Ammon, dead. Adonijah, I hear some rustlings in the corners that he wants to be king instead of Solomon. And Solomon Well, he's he's not a bright and shining star right now either. But they were Solomon as well imitating David's previous sins. I had a woman one time say, oh, I'm living with this guy and I got a 15-year-old daughter. I sure hope she doesn't do what I'm doing right now. I said, well why wouldn't she? Our children imitate us. They follow in our footsteps. Oh, she said, don't say that to me. It was a Bible verse about the daughter following the mother, and I shared that with her. She didn't like that. We weren't in communication after that. Though I see her frequently, but your children, they imitate you. If you don't think your children imitate you, you know when you get together with a family and the grandma and the cousin or they'll sit and say, Your son He walks just like his father. And your daughter, she laughs just like her mother. That little snort she gets sometimes when she chuckles. I mean they laugh like us, they walk like us They they they had the same appetite for the same kind of foods we like, they have the same taste, they have the same interests in particular sins that we showed an interest in. And that's what happens with Absalom. Not only did David have concubines, but Absalom had the same concubines. He took David's concubines. Yikes. And along comes Solomon, he's going to have concubines too. I mean you go through all of his children. And they had a carnal appetite for the same things that David had. Your children are watching you. People say, uh if you want this job, you need some resume, you need some people that uh can give you a good recommendation, and they often give it they ask the pastor to do that. I don't know you as well. I think the company really blows it up. A company also says we want recommendations, whether you should work or not. Uh have your children. Your children know whether they'd recommend you or not. Or your wife or your husband knows. They always want the password. I don't know. Sometimes I do. It's Adam's sin nature in us that they're going to imitate, and not the grace that is in us. They don't generally imitate the grace that is in us because they say mom and dad, they had a life before they were saved, and they they were burned a candle at both ends, they got to sow their wild seed, and I want that too Be careful of the stories you tell your children about your past before you were saved. Adam's sin nature is in us Not the grace, they follow the Adam Sin nature that is in us, not the grace that is in us, because the sin nature runs in the bloodline, but the grace of God and mercy does not run in our bloodline Pharisees thought it did. Oh, we'd be the children of Abraham. We're the tribe of Benjamin. We're an Israelite. Wasn't worth a hill of beans. Salvation is of the Lord. Now you might not know where I get that from But I get that from someone who needed to be saved. I get that from someone who's inside of a fish in the bottom of the ocean. And he realized that if he's ever going to get out of this fix If he's ever gonna if he said calling up to God to save him, not just from the belly of the fish, but he needed to be saved and have a heart for the people in Nineveh. And he says, salvation is of the Lord. How do you know that? Because the fish spit him up And he knew the salvation was of the Lord. God declares in Romans 9, I will have mercy in whom I'll have mercy. Hmm, that is of the Lord, isn't it? What if he doesn't have mercy? So somebody's sitting here right now and God hasn't had mercy on you. How do you know if God hasn't had mercy on you? You have no interest in this book You really don't like being here or in any other church for that matter as well. You don't have an appetite for his word. You don't really want to make all your friends Bible-believing, bloodwashed, goody-too-shoe type thing. You don't want that in your life. Well you want that for your spouse your husband saying yeah I want something like that when I marry somebody but right now no it's not important to me then God hasn't showed mercy to you. God says I will show mercy to whom I will have mercy And then he taxed on her verse 27, and the number of the children of Israel, they will be as the sand of the sea, but a remnant I shall save. Ouch, double ouch. He said Israel will grow to a massive nation of millions and millions of people They'll be large. The number of the sands of this on the sea is the number of the number of Israelites, but it will be but a remnant that I will show mercy on Why do you say folks sitting here this morning? Do you understand how precious and how rare your salvation is? Hey, what you had to do with it? Nothing. Salvations of the Lord, says Jonah. And so David looks around and God hasn't saved Absalom, and Absalom's now dead. Ammon, we don't know if he was saved or not, because he was killed by Absalom. We don't really know, but he'd done some horrible things, but he's dead And we got Adonijah, and well that's going to be a bad ending as well. And we got Solomon and oh my and David So David here, his last words and his last days are, though God is not with my house, although my house be not with God, he maketh not to grow. At this point, David hasn't got any of his kids saved. Where is the comfort when none of your children are saved? David had the comfort. David's comfort came in verse 5 as well, where he said, Yet, yet, he hath made with me an everlasting covenant. David was assured in this everlasting covenant that God would not neglect his seed altogether. As he looks around him, now may the daughters were saved? I don't know. But we do find one of David's children in the line of Christ, Nathan, named after the prophet who rebuked David's sin with Bathsheba. He said, My seed. He hath made me a covenant, everlasting covenant. God will not neglect his seed altogether. Somebody's going to get saved here, David. Maybe more than one, maybe two or three, David. But in your last days and your last words, you don't see it. But I made a covenant. I will not neglect your seed altogether. And that is the comfort that he had here There would come out of David's loins, out of David's seed, an everlasting king, a just king, a king that would fear God. A holy one, David writes to this individual in Psalm 1610. What kind of an everlasting king would he be? He would be a king that would n God would say his holy one would not see corruption One that would never die was coming. A holy one was coming. David's comfort was in the promises of God as he faced his latter days. Now some of us are old enough that we feel like we're facing our latter days. In fact, some of us feel like we're beyond our latter days, you know. But some of you young people, you may be in the grave before any of us old folks. You don't know when your latter days are. We've had we had twins. I didn't bury them, but twins in our family that died some years. Twins. They were what six months old, something like that? Twins We buried a young man in this church who was twenty five, I think. I forget the age. You don't know when your latter days are We need to be familiar with the scriptures to have comfort when those latter days come. You might get a little bit of notice, bleeding out in a car wreck somewhere You might get a little notice if someone breaks in your house and shoots you and you dial 911 before you pass out. You might get a little notice. You might get no notice. You might get a lot of notice. But your latter days may be soon And it was a comfort that David got from the Word of God that God would not neglect his seed also. together. And we look at the scriptures and we ought to be familiar enough with the scriptures to have comfort when we approach our latter days. Hebrews 13, 5. I will never leave thee nor forsake thee. The Lord Jesus Christ taught. He'll never leave us for though you walk through the valley of the shadow of death, thou art with me. Christ never leaves us. What do you think the shadow is? The shadows from the light. You can't have a shadow without light. Christ is the light of the world. He's there. I will never leave thee to forsake thee. If you're in your latter days, your latter hours, your latter moments, there's a comfort in knowing that Christ is there. He'll never leave thee to forsake thee. He says precious in the sight of the Lord is the death of his saints Your dying moments are precious to God, and you ought to make them precious to your loved ones who are watching and listening and observing How about Philippians 1. 21? To die is gain. You know that one. How about this one? Ecclesiastes 7. 1 To me a comfortable verse, a verse that gives me comfort. Better is the day of our death than the day of one's birth. Why would the day of your death be better than the day of your birth? Because on the day of your birth you ended up here And the day of your death, if you're saved, you end up there. That's a comfort to me if you know these verses and believe these verses. Or the one in Joshua 21, there faileth not any good thing which the Lord hath spoken. I believe that There faileth not any good thing that the Lord has spoken. The good things that He has promised to save, not one failure But the sons of Malaya, verse 6, what a change David makes here. The sons of the wicked ones, or the sons of the devil, shall be all of them as thorns. Thrust away. Nobody wants thorns in their garden. Nobody wants thorns among their flowers. They shall be as thorns thrust away. They shall be utterly burned with fire. Those who rule the just, as David talks about, are to encourage good behavior to their servants. Those who rule are to encourage good behavior and they are to suppress and purge and punish the wicked as God will ultimately do over all the earth. And so David says here, he describes the ungodly as thorns. Reproofs will not restrain the ungodly. You can you can say, Johnny, you shouldn't do that. And now, Betty, that that wasn't very nice, you hitting your sister. If you're dealing with a wicked person, if you're dealing with an ungodly person, restraintful words are not going to do any good. Thrust them away, they shall be utterly burned with fire. Thorns need to be dealt with in a violent manner. And God will do that, though we may not. Yesterday in the news, they got some guy there executing, I forget what state it's in. You know what he's being executed for? Well, he was in- he killed somebody and they put him in prison for life, and he was supposed to be executed. But while he was in prison for life, he escaped And while he was out there escaped, he kills somebody else again. Isn't it great to put somebody in prison for life? And they get out, they escape, or they let him out, some judge, you know, overrule. But here's a person in prison for life, but he's supposed to get the death sentence But he escapes. And he kills somebody. So now they give him the death sentence. I I don't think he had the death sentence the first time. He did not have the death sentence first. He was just in there for life But now he escapes, he kills somebody, now he's got the death sentence. And the ACLU and the liberal lawyers, they say, you shouldn't put him to death. Just give him life He already had life and he killed somebody else after that. You know what we are to take the thorns and destroy them. The thorns of society. And society's not doing that today. We're not dealing with the wicked as God says He will As Christ said he would. Christ thought, in the time of the harvest, when Christ returns, I will say to the reapers, gather ye first the tares, the wicked ones. We find in verse 38 is who he's talking about. Matthew 13 and 30 in verse 38. Gather ye the tares, the wicked ones, and bind them in bundles, and burn them, Christ tells his angels to do There is a destructive side to the second coming of Christ. There's a destructive side. So, pilgrim, do you do you enjoy yourself sometimes where Christ would not have you to be? Do you enjoy yourself sometimes where you would not have Christ to find you? Question your salvation. For at such an hour as you know not, as a thief in the night, he shall come. And it's not all roses and milk and honey. There's a destructive side to the second coming of Christ. And the majority of the world, they really don't want Christ the king, the Christ of righteousness. They really don't want him to return and to reign And it's not a kindness to preach about just the love of God. Boy, the Lord does love his people. And he does save them. And he is merciful. And he is gracious. He is abundantly merciful. We can't forget how Christ forgave Peter three times and how Christ overlooked the doubting tongues. I mean, preach the love of God absolutely. Maybe I preach the other side more than others because I don't hear it being preached anywhere else, but there is a destructive side of the second coming of Christ. And to preach nothing but the kindness and the love of the Lord and to suppress the judgment portions of Scripture You do a lost soul no favor. Well, you repeat that again. If you don't preach the destructive side of the second coming of Christ, you do a lost soul no favor. In fact, you may do him an eternal disfavor. The coming of Christ will be both destruction and restoration. Don't just talk about the restoration, the new heaven, the new earth. The second coming of Christ will be salvation and damnation for some. The second coming of Christ will be rejoicing But also wailing and gnashing of teeth for those cast into the furnace of fire, Christ says in Matthew 13 and 42. The destruction of the ants and the blessing and the mercy of the saints. Preach them both. The angels and the saints, they're there. Dr. Luke, writing in chapter 20, verse 27, said, We're to declare unto you all the counsel of God. The destruction and the rejoicing. The restoration and the damn. We're to declare all the counsel of God. It's our duty. It's only our duty to preach the whole council of God, but there are some people out there that tell us who don't have the whole council of God Well there's things missing. There's some things we just found. Oh we've gone for centuries without all the Word of God. Well God can't hold us accountable if we don't have His console He can't hold us accountable for preaching the whole council of God if we don't have the whole council of God. And we've always had it. I wish there was time to go into how how cons sure I am. First off, Christ said, Heaven and earth shall pass away, but my word shall not. It has not passed away There haven't been centuries in the history of mankind where we didn't have all his counsel. We've always had it. God has always preserved it. You can't expect God to preserve your soul for all eternity if he can't preserve a book. For a couple of centuries. For a millennium or two. We're to preach the all the council of God, and we have it, and we're to preach all of it It's been miraculously preserved, so it is required of us to preach it all because we are going to be accountable for all of it I know this teaching of damnation and restoration and Rejoicing but wailing in there. I know I I know that's not a trendy thing to do today, right? To preach all the counts of God, to preach the that the the uh the destructive side of the certain coming. It's not the trendy thing to do, to teach it. It's not the trend. People aren't teaching uh Because they say it's it's lacking in good taste to preach some of this stuff. Some say, Oh, you shouldn't teach those things and they tar you as being intolerant because you teach on the disruptive side of the second coming of Christ Well I'm not trendy and I guess I lack good taste some would say. I love the King James Bible. I guess that's I lack good taste. And I'm tarred as being intolerant. But ponder what Jude said in chapter 1, verses 3 and 4. When he writes to them, he's writing to the sanctified, to the saved. He says here, to the sanctified in Christ, called or saved or left, and beloved. Earnestly contend for the faith, he says, for there are certain men crept in unawares, ungodly men, denying our Lord Jesus Christ. He calls these men creeps He said they've crept in unawares. They are creeps. And some of them are pastors. And some of them are in pulpits. And some of them are Christian publishers, and some of them are seminary professors, and some of them are, as John 1012 says, hirelings. These are creeps, they are hirelings, or as John says in 3. 7, they are vipers, or as Christ said, they're like a den of thieves in Luke 19 and 46. These are creeps, and some of them are still with us today. They flourish, they reproduce, oh yes, they do. They're still with us denying, diluting, diminishing, degrading, and undermining the Lord's words And this be my last words for the moment. Let's pray. Oh Lord, we looked to you today. And we are so grateful for the answers to prayer. We're so great, Lord, that you promise us abundance of mercies. We're so grateful that you loved us while we were yet sinners. We're so grateful that you love us while we still sin from time to time. Oh God, what a merciful God, what a glorious God, what a magnificent God we have. And we fear for those who do not know your love, but we fear even more those who do not fear you. Oh Lord, touch a heart every day. Touch him with a healthy, godly fear of you and your word and the second coming of Christ. And we ask this in the name of our great God and Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ, Lord of Lords and King of kings. Oh, may He reign over every heart here today. Amen.